e's

cs :
f %. bs ig "
.. Oe)

ae - a ‘a
FM, Bi e / ¥ 3

ee ~

a”
_

ee

= > 4 -
Zo 2
v ¢.

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF ‘REGENTS OF

THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION

SHOWING THE

OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND
CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION
FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30

1928

(Publication 2981 )

UNITED STATES
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
WASHINGTON : 1929
ADDITIONAL COPIES

OF THIS PUBLICATION MAY BE PROCURED FROM
THE SUPERINTENDENT OF DOCUMENTS
U.S.GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
WASHINGTON, D. C.

AT

$2.00 PER COPY (CLOTH)
1 Bip el ed La a

FROM THE

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

SUBMITTING

THE ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE
INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1928

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, November 26, 1928.
To the Congress of the United States:

In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, I have the honor, in behalf of the Board of Regents,
to submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expendi-
tures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year
ended June 30, 1928. I have the honor to be,

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
C. G. Aspor, Secretary.

Tit
AnTtas

an mia

: ; anny ta /anmoeWenNMe a 0 F

ec , Heat inva:
ans a0 etaconee oO
BEL tie ee tea
: |. "aie ace: Sony v . ee

a (Gg ey, pa Hadise! fi an BS a Te >
o ! is erry iat ees

| nity ti. anil: Hyaiyasl acis ti Qty) Gb! allt

C+ thes 1G trcoth, adt Fodantod: bern }
| Bir ey Attn TD, 4 Bt 2
Be kM <n

CONTENTS

MEER OT (OTe CLAS ie ee crc i Nea a Re oe ae le A gE dea
ie SMIishsOnian MNShtiMOnean oo ke oe oe ee we eee
eves taOlshim ent! sae kus Fags ee Layee eek os 2 as Ps a
PUNGUBOaTC OF RePents ee oe Ck lls ge

CP eHeral CONSIGGRABIODS. 62h Sie os ede ed
NESTA SAY OS Se a eae RL Sanaa A ae ea ae

Pex plorationspamd seldc works epee ee
SmithsonignniSeientiic Series: =. oe kt ok ee ee nee
Reseanchn@orpOra Omen en sepa as ie 8 Se eae ake ae ce
Cooperative ethnological and archeological investigations between

the Smithsonian Institution and State, educational, and scientific

PMS tUGUULOM Sa teee cp ay to NCR a we eee ee ee a ea ER dae
Presentation of Langley Medal to Col. Charles A. Lindbergh, and

the deposit of the Spirit of St. Louis in the National Museum_-
Wealeott Memorial Meeting cis. ye i yoo
Presentation of portrait,of the Secretary —_...-.--_--.-.---..-=--.--
PLU ICHUIOHN tt ee ae ae ee yee A ae eee

ST CT eae a acre Se Ne 9 nee AE
ReMOnAeOISCUINS | foe eee ee eae CM ee ee ieee
ierbiom ele Gen ety 08 AT eee ee een ee ee ee
COR AeLyOleAT De on ncaa aaa ee a ee Sep ee ee
urea of American Ethnology: <2 - 22.42. - nb onfae pt onthe pease
fnitermational sxchanges = 22 a7 Ses Se eek ee ear eee
ations! Z00lovical Park. oo toe 8 ee OE eh ee
MOP AVA CAL nODSERVALOLy coe toa wales. tie afr ct ee rn Re eS
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature___.__............------
BGT ONO spe a rainfall OE ORE li es Rasa SA A Re
Appendix 1. Report on the United States National Museum___________-
. Report on the National Gallery of Art_._...._.._.__.___--_---
*.aweport on the Freer Gallery of Art... .222-...2. 2-2-5
Report on the Bureau of American Ethnology_______------
Report on the International Exchanges.___._._.._.._--.----
Report on the National Zoological Park_____.._....___----
. Report on the Astrophysical Observatory______.._-.-_----
Report on the International Catalogue of Scientific Literature -
Ua Pey Oyo amiga gl ol 6 zee] On: ee nd. Rea a a a eR ORE OR
Freport Ou! Pubuca biog ase =e Mey eae gore op etl a nas 8
. Subscribers to James Smithson Memorial Edition of the
SuuUbhsonianiscientific Seriess --.2 o.G- 20) 2 ese eo

Report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents__---_------
Frovocdings of the Board of Regents. .222 2-02 22/22. <u4- tee

HOP HNAA RW

—
VI CONTENTS
GENERAL APPENDIX

The wider aspects of cosmogony, by J. Hi. Jeans22--++--2-.-4. 25225- =
The: starssin- action, by. Alired Hy JOy. s= se oe
Island galaxies, by A: Vibert: Douglas:i2_. 922 222-3 a eee
Astronomical ‘telescopes, iby. E.G. (Reaseiiten = oan ens aoe eee ae
New results on cosmic rays, by R. A. Millikan and G. H. Cameron__----
Three centuries of natural philosophy, by W. F. G. Swann____---------
The hypothesis of continental displacement, by Charles Schuchert- -- ~~ --
On continental fragmentation and the geologic bearing of the moon’s

surficial features; by tJosepn. Barrells oe ee ae eee eee
The ‘‘craters of the moon” in Idaho, by Harold T. Stearns____________-
The oldest known petrified forest, by Winifred Goldring__-______________
Water: divining by dow e Gregory: 9. 224 en a ee se ee ee
Some problems of polar geography, by R. N. Rudmose Brown_---_---_--
Birds of the past in North America, by Alexander Wetmore_-_-_-_-_-_---_~--
Mammalogy and the Smithsonian Institution, by Gerrit S. Miller, jr___-_

What is known of the migrations of some of the whalebone whales, by

Reming tonKellog ge fi. 22 n= Seed SS Si Se ee ee ee
Ecology of the’ red squirrel; by. A; Brooker Kilughe 2225s.) =o. eae
Some adventures of a naturalist in the Ceylon jungle, by Casey A. Wood_
Communication among insects, by N. E. McIndoo__________-______-__-
Our insect instrumentalists and their musical technique, by H. A. Allard__
The Neanderthal phase of man, by AleS Hrdli¢ka__________--__2 2 __
American Indian costumes in the United States National Museum, by

HW Krieger 2 one tn ae a ae a9 ee eRe eee ee
Mounds and other ancient earthworks of the United States, by David [.

Bushnell yrs. si soso pa Ss Ss ae Eee Per ss a ee ee
Geochronology, as based on solar radiation, and its relation to archeology,

by. Gerard de Geer-2 2 ee ee eee ee
The physiology of the ductless glands, by N. B. Taylor_______________-_
Svante Arrhenius; ‘by “Sir: James: Walkers 2-22 s>>22-> SS SRE eek LAO
Theodore William Richards, by Gregory P. Baxter________________-__-
LIST OF PLATES

Cosmogony (Jeans) :

ESTER TSS ps es ae oe ea a a i ke Et
Island galaxies (Douglas) :

DEST ES fel oy eee el wg 8 Hs a enya lt Pal al
Astronomical telescopes (Pease) :

VE AIG SESS. SSC (a RN ee SP ah ra ne Ne EN Oe ee Se er ee Ye EET
Cosmic rays (Millikan and Cameron) :

VU IS Ck 5 Rael PR, Sie Pena aes A aol OE SN Ae geen pe eG ed Ogi ee en Red oe 2
Continental displacement (Schuchert) :

atest 4h Sere: Bee eee ene oS Ee ee aR 2) ds i ee
Continental fragmentation (Barrell) :

TEENS DIS 8 ah Tad TA al al ed fs ER OO ie a eS
The “Craters of the Moon” (Stearns) :

FE ee ied ee cian Se Pee ee ee ah ee OE et eee ee
Oldest petrified forest (Goldring) :

PEACE SSG RS SEE CASS Te aN EO CE EP Ce Oe Sen
Birds of the past (Wetmore) :

EST EA TUS crater ree ere en A TE tee OE Ae Ga Minted Mi eNO LL eer Coy
Mammalogy (Miller) :

PLANES Wl pike we Ee AL A CE RIN AN RE | EN
“Missing links” (Miller) :

LEAST shies yh a eee pa eeepc egeenys Day -eNeon Rosen Oe Gee eee eae, gy Mere Meee Re ete
Migrations of whales (Kellogg) :

HEPES ea Us hi 2, cl A SS Te ype I re cyt

DEAE Ws aia yep ye Dig ear Se ag ee Le al Oe Ne caiiclid a del Mi at er RUN ae eal
Red squirrel (Klugh) : °

TREES ial =p Bah ten a Rie ATA OS EN LR RTE ET SPL
Naturalist in Ceylon (Wood) :

Tal — Ger Reece Sau Le AS Ne mee Ne Pe A ON
Communication among insects (McIndoo) :

PEZE Ea TL eee ee RTE Res TRIE Neer ee eee SLO we Nees IM Re ea eee oes el
Insect instrumentalists (Allard) :

Las al llG eee bee Ae Se ents ee Ee ern he ee
Neanderthal man (Hrdlitka) :

EAT Site Sul Ae ere sea eet es ts OE ei ee Pree eRe Re ee eS as le Se
Indian costumes (Krieger) :

124 bet ref he a SE Ta lS oe ere Ped es Ba oh ee Bee Ree,

BSCS plicg eet Sel NEL Oe LCL <P IRR eee el) Ml nee wo

EEL CS pth aes O eee oe a Na dC EN a ee ee eS ee
Mounds of the United States (Bushnell) :

VEY EER SNS] I= Of kp SS la i eee ck By Vor eR UM a: Peele

EUSA Sila A AT de te ae apr SI ey ee een
Ductless glands (Taylor) :

FEAT ea GS eG irene UN ee east ae ee pd os Se
Arrhenius (Walker) :

LOTS Gey hk Ba a SE eae a RE Ry oD a eT Oe EY Sage
Richards (Baxter) :

LEMME ye) da 2 Sk eee PGE TNA Et ee ieee Peay Ung ge eS eRe eee © ROUEN Dera
iar pen pape
i Reb abril hat Dior

a5 565 8 2 =

Ata wdig's te Ath hee ae

a oe Revit ingit rine

‘\ UO va
Wek ‘an ds
poet?

ae ea, dees bitte

Meer, yh a ae ME ig

Hh Des os hiya m
Wises Sera oe Di oa ge
‘ie 7 ae Nak ty ve aor ai

iN, ie ds te dhe's plese ne idan ule hte ;
ee ae ‘Aas ty ah Wa cae nie + ta va :
ly omy de clorae pay TEN ‘sik
uy mie ANe edie, ont ¥
ue ahd

i eae

Ry i te a i

lar ap

me pea ota A Sed ‘

“Seon nsent

Yah Nien ech hahha hime hese

cee DAN | yea Aimed wee as SA Lh te ¥ her iawiy iy ne ee hes

a by vided a haere +i)
ay fe ON REY a avi Aca
. ‘a ieee
aay eo phe . . i he ee en * a

— Orne = ee er 9 Oy pas Ra 2 eae ee

pa mA ed as sy Ai aren a nia a bei ranean we hE-¥,

<> law a bemreminaee ree nthe at cyte saris

Ui

-

“=o
/
&

Ms 7

. ; bea’ | Ah ; ae at me ke
ln ally te me rete eg td so rennet thers :
| ‘ ere

er hentia pe ey hee ar eneaiheAah g1)6" Gist

se:
a
—?

'

i

+

I) gece
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1928

SUBJECTS

1. Annual report of the secretary, giving an account of the opera-
tions and condition of the Institution for the year ending June 30,
1928, with statistics of exchanges, etc.

2. Report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents,
exhibiting the financial affairs of the Institution, including a state-
ment of the Smithsonian fund, and receipts and expenditures for
the year ending June 30, 1928.

3. Proceedings of the Board of Regents for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1928.

4, General appendix, comprising a selection of miscellaneous
memoirs of interest to collaborators and correspondents of the Insti.
tution, teachers, and others engaged in the promotion of knowledge,

These memoirs relate chiefly to the calendar year 1928.
Ix
ah vic Lm a ip tiv “
a) pi a) hy iii a
whe ¥ a ne:

| | faa sian | vl = on a tae
> eyenyy: 2014 | 9 dierent deni hones | | .
Manet walfie, "dong, aah nih oH i ee

nih i) aise Gift bee andiieaibene ts
: ciaibonc agai inet nds tll
sip A ia heal ‘Sunes edegiongon biti Fae i af

er we, Pilih ditt x4 eto Ay

ais ‘war TO notietaa 2 niacin’
: teach od Vos tinghitecnpalrenens, dh rainitate
_ - 2 gata uw peo on Mi. ae ne ine hi ne

rip

ae >

wis

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

June 30, 1928

Presiding officer ex officio —CALVIN Coo.ings, President of the United States.
Chancellor.—WILLIAM Howarp Tart, Chief Justice of the United States.
Members of the Institution:
CALVIN CooLinGr, President of the United States.
CHARLES G. Dawes, Vice President of the United States.
WILLIAM Howarp Tart, Chief Justice of the United States.
FRANK B. KeExtoae, Secretary of State.
ANDREW W. MELLON, Secretary of the Treasury.
DwicuHtT FintEy Davis, Secretary of War.
JOHN G. SarGeNT, Attorney General.
Harry S. New, Postmaster General.
Curtis D. WILBUR, Secretary of the Navy.
HUBERT Work, Secretary of the Interior.
WILLIAM M. JARDINE, Secretary of Agriculture.
HeErRBertT CLARK Hoover, Secretary of Commerce.
JAMES JOHN Davis, Secretary of Labor.
Regents of the Institution:
WiLLiaAM Howarp Tart, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor.
CHARLES G. DAWES, Vice President of the United States.
REED Smoot, Member of the Senate.
JOSEPH T. Ropinson, Member of the Senate.
CLAUDE A. SwAnson, Member of the Senate. *
ALBERT JOHNSON, Member of the House of Representatives.
R. Watton Moore, Member of the House of Representatives.
WaLtrer H. Newton, Member of the House of Representatives.
RosBert 8. BRooKINGS, citizen of Missouri.
Irwin B. LAUGHLIN, citizen of Pennsylvania.
Frepreric A. DELANO, citizen of Washington, D. C.
DwicHt W. Morrow, citizen of New Jersey.
CHARLES EvAns HucHEs, citizen of New York.
JOHN C. Merriam, citizen of Washington, D. C.
Executive committee.—FREpERIC A. DELANO, R. WALTON Moorp, JoHN C.
MERRIAM.
Secretary.— CHARLES G. ABBOT.
Assistant Secretary.— ALEXANDER WETMORE.
Chief clerk.—Harry W. DorsEy.
Accounting and disbursing agent.—NicHoLAas W. Dorsey.
Hditor—WeEBSTER P. TRUE.
Tibrarian.—WiIL_iAm L. Corsin.
Appointment clerk—JAMES G. TRAYLOR.
Property clerk—JAmMrES H. Ht.
xI
XII ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

NATIONAL MUSEUM

Assistant Secretary (in charge).—ALEXANDER WETMORE.

Administrative assistant to the Secretary. WILLIAM DE C. RAVENEL,

Head curators —WaALTER HovucH, LEONHARD STEJNEGER, GEORGH P. MERRILL.

Curators —PaAuL BarrscH, Ray §. BAsster, THEoporE T. BEeLore, AUSTIN H.
CLARK, FRANK W. CLARKE, FREDERICK V. COVILLE, CHARLES W. GILMORE,
WALTER HoucH, LeLaANp O. Howarp, ALES HrpiidKa, Nem M. Jupp, HERBERT
W. Kriecer, FRepericK L. LEwron, GEorGE P, MERRILL, GERRIT S. MILLER, JF.,
Cart W. MitTMAN, Rosert Ringway, WaALbo L. ScHMITT, LEONHARD STEJNEGER.

Associate curators —JOHN M. ALpRIcH, ELLSworTH P. KILLIp, WILLIAM R.
Maxon, CHARLES E. RESSER, CHARLES W. RICHMOND, DAvip WHITE.

Chief of correspondence and documents.—HERBERT S. BRYANT.

Disbursing agent.—NICcHOLAS W. DorsEY.

Superintendent of buildings and labor.—J AMES 8S. GOLDSMITH.

Editor.—Marcus BENJAMIN.

Assistant Librarian.—IsSaBEL L. TOWNER.

Photographer.—ARTHUR J. OLMSTED.

Property clerk.—WI11LLIAM A. KNOWLES.

Engineer.—CLAYTON R. DENMARK.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART
Director.—WiL1LIiAM H. HOLMES.
FREER GALLERY OF ART

Curator.—JOHN HELLERTON LODGE.
Associate curator —CarL WHITING BISHOP.
Assistant curator—GRaAacE DUNHAM GUEST.
Associate.—_KATHARINE NASH RHOADES.
Superintendent JOHN BUNDY.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

Ethnologists—JOoHN P. HARRINGTON, JOHN N. B. Hewitt, FrRANcIS LA FLESCHE,
TRUMAN MICHELSON, JOHN R. SWANTON.

Archeologist—FRANK H. H. Roperts, Jr.

Editor.—STANLEY SEARLES.

Librarian.—BLua LEeary.

Illustrator.—Dr LANCEY GILL.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES

Secretary (in charge).—CHARLES G. ABBOT.
Chief clerk.—CoatEes W. SHOEMAKER.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Director.—WimtLIAM M. MANN.
Assistant director.—ArTHuR B. BAKER.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Director.—CHARLES G. ABBOT.
Research Assistant.—FREDERICK E. Fow ys, Jr.
Research assistant.—LoyaL B. ALDRICH.

REGIONAL BUREAU FOR THE UNITED STATES, INTERNATIONAL
‘CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE

Assistant in charge—LEONARD C, GUNNELL.
REPORT

OF THE

. SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION

C. G. ABBOT
FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1928

Vo the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

GENTLEMEN: I have the honor to submit herewith my report show-
ing the activities and condition of the Smithsonian Institution and
the Government bureaus under its administrative charge during the
fiscal year ended June 30,1928. The first 28 pages contain a summary
account of the affairs of the Institution. Appendixes 1 to 10 give
more detailed reports of the operations of the United States National
Museum, the National Gallery of Art, the Freer Gallery of Art, the
Bureau of American Ethnology, the International Exchanges, the
National Zoological Park, the Astrophysical Observatory, the United
States Regional Bureau of the International Catalogue of Scientific
Literature, the Smithsonian library, and of the publications issued
under the direction of the Institution; and Appendix 11 contains a
list of subscribers up to October 15, 1928, to the James Smithson
Memorial Edition of the Smithsonian Scientific Series.

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

THE ESTABLISHMENT

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in
1846, according to the terms of the will of James Smithson, of Eng-
land, who, in 1826, bequeathed his property to the United States of
America “to found at Washington, under the name of the Smith-
sonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of
Inowledge among men.” In receiving the property and accepting
the trust, Congress determined that the Federal Government was
without authority to administer the trust directly, and therefore con-
stituted an “ establishment ” whose statutory members are “ the Presi-
dent, the Vice President, the Chief Justice, and the heads of the
executive departments.”

1
2 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928
THE BOARD OF REGENTS

The affairs of the Institution are administered by a Board of
Regents whose membership consists of “the Vice President, the
Chief Justice, three Members of the Senate, and three Members of
the House of Representatives, together with six other persons other
than Members of Congress, two of whom shall be resident in the
city of Washington, and the other four shall be inhabitants of some,
State, but no two of them of the same State.” One of the Regents is
elected chancellor by the board; in the past the selection has fallen
upon the Vice President or the Chief Justice; and a suitable person
is chosen by the Regents as Secretary of the Institution, who is also
secretary of the Board of Regents, and the executive officer directly
in charge of the Institution’s activities.

The following changes occurred in the personnel of the board dur-
ing the year: Senator Woodbridge N. Ferris died on March 23, 1928,
and Senator Claude A. Swanson was appointed to succeed him on
March 28, 1928. The board also lost by death the Hon. Henry White
and Mr. Charles F. Choate, jr., and their places were filled by the
appointment of the Hon. Charles Evans Hughes on December 21,
1927, and Dr. John C. Merriam on December 21, 1927.

The roll of the Regents at the close of the fiscal year was as fol-
lows: William H. Taft, Chief Justice of the United States, chan-
cellor; Charles G. Dawes, Vice President'of the United States; mem-
bers from the Senate, Reed Smoot, Joseph T. Robinson, Claude A.
Swanson; members from the House of Representatives, Albert John-
son, R. Walton Moore, Walter H. Newton; citizen members, Robert
S. Br ookings, eeu Irwin B. Deer Pennsylvania; Frederic
A. Deiano, Washington, D. C.; Dwight W. Morrow, New Jersey ;
Charles Evans Hughes, New York: and John C. Merriam, Wash-
ington, D. C.

GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS

Elected on January 10, 1928, to be Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution, it became my duty to study the nature of the Institution,
its sources of strength, and the most effective ways in which it may
advance the mission of its founder, James Smithson, “ for the increase
and diffusion of knowledge among men.”

To the casual observer it may appear that the most important func-
tion of the Smithsonian is the administration of the public Museum,
art galleries, and Zoological Park confided to its direction. In these
days of easy travel the number of those who walk through the Na-
tional Museum, the Freer Gallery, and the Zoological Park reaches
several i eo each year. The educational value is great, though
doubtless the influence exercised on the minds of many visitors is
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 3

rather of the nature of the agreeable spending of a few hours. It
would be interesting to determine the geographical dispersion of the
benefits from these exhibition features of the Smithsonian. Almost
certainly, however, it would be found that chiefly the District of
Columbia, Maryland, and Virginia, after them the Eastern States,
and then, with rapidly growing sparseness of distribution, the mere
distant States and foreign countries partake of these benefits.
Contrast with this comparatively local influence the wider reach
of the International Exchange Service, as associated with the pub?i-
cations of the Institution. Its first Secretary, Joseph Henry, per-
ceiving the isolation of science in the America of 1850, created, as
one of the first Smithsonian activities, a system of exchange of its
publications, receiving in return those of the learned institutions of
the Old World. Having established at strategic points in other coun-
tries many agencies for such exchange, he offered the use of the sys-
tem freely to the learned institutions of the United States. Along
with this new departure he also inaugurated that of the free distri-
bution of numerous copies of Smithsonian publications to selected
libraries all over this country and the world. From such exchanges
came to the Institution that still-continuing steady stream of foreign
and domestic scientific literature which largely makes up the Smith-
sonian deposit of some half million volumes in the Library of Con-
gress, and the eight extensive libraries retained in the Institution
itself. This Government, and foreign governments as well, have
appreciated the merit of this world-wide interchange of ideas which
Secretary Henry inaugurated, and by treaty have built on the Smith-
sonian’s foundation the present International Exchange System.
Here, then, is a permanent and world-wide activity, originally
Smithsonian, promoting international good will at the same time that
it gives a powerful stimulus to the promotion of science and to the
initiation of good intellectual activities, wherever instituted. As
evidences of its effectiveness for good will, let me only say that owing
to it one finds the golden torch symbolic of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion shown with pride on the shelves of libraries all over the world;
that it was through the exchanges that Belgian libraries recovered
many sets of American and other publications after the Great War;
and that Japanese libraries were rehabilitated after the disastrous
earthquake.
In the west hall of the Smithsonian Building the visitor sees a
column of books four square, 23 feet high, with this legend:
Smithsonian Institution publications only. No duplicates. One thousand
five hundred copies of each distributed world-wide free.

In the last 50 years scarcely one scientific textbook has appeared which does
not owe something to these publications.

1See report on p. 85.
4 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

They include not only technical descriptions of original research
of specialists in many lines, but also timely, readable, yet authoritative
accounts of many of the principal scientific developments of our
time.

Not less world-wide in distribution and value than its activities
for its diffusion are the Smithsonian’s accomplishments for the
increase of knowledge. In consideration of our present status let
me draw attention to several unique advantages which render the
Institution responsible for the cultivation of research. The Na-
tional Museum, the Bureau of American Ethnology, the Freer collec-
tions, and, to a lesser extent, the Zoological Park, contain much of
the basis on which research in natural history and ethnology must
forever depend. What the public sees in the National Museum is not
a tithe of its national wealth. The study collections which crowd
the laboratories and corridors of the Natural History Building and
Smithsonian Building represent the fauna, flora, geology, paleontol-
ogy, and ethnology of our country and other regions. They contain
thousands of type specimens, to which the scientific world looks as
standards. They include thousands of series exhibiting the modi-
fying influences of environment. They contain specimens which
were collected many years ago, and of which the march of progress
has now forever cut off the possibility of duplication.

Extensive researches of scientific value, and not infrequently of im-
mediate practical utility, have already been based on this material.
But one who has any conception at all of the opportunity can not
but be impressed with Smithsonian responsibility. Not only must
the task of collecting and preserving specimens of the fauna, flora,
ethnological, and paleontological material at present available be dili-
gently pushed forward, lest they be forever lost, but the intensive
study of the collections must also be a major task, lest the lessons
they might teach should be lost to our generation.

Joseph Henry was not only one of America’s foremost men of
vision and of action, but a great physicist. In his time the physical
sciences, physics, chemistry, mathematics, astronomy, meteorology
were ardently cultivated by the Smithsonian. Yet for many years
past the Institution’s principal contribution to research in such lines
has been in its administration of the Astrophysical Observatory.
There has been trained there a corps of investigators whose expert
knowledge of the conditions governing the flow of radiation and of
heat is a valuable asset, and a large collection of special apparatus les
in their care. During the years that they have devoted to studies of
solar and terrestrial radiation there has at length developed a public
demand for progress in our knowledge of the relations of radiation
to climate, to the growth of plants, and to the health of human
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 5

beings. I feel that to march resolutely into these fields of investiga-
tion, which involve not only physics but chemistry, mathematics,
meteorology, and astronomy, is a policy dictated to the Smithsonian
not only by its possession of these assets of experience and apparatus
but by the traditions of its early history, by the interests of its
founder, James Smithson, who was a research chemist, and by a
proper appreciation of the salutary influence which such a rounding
out of the scope of Smithsonian researches would exercise on studies
in the other lines associated with the national collections.

Thus I am led to feel that the care of the public exhibits, educa-
tional and interesting though they are, after all is not the greatest
duty of the Smithsonian Institution. I see in the collection of new
specimens which the passage of a few more years might prevent for-
ever; in the study of existing national collections to unlock the treas-
ures of knowledge which they certainly contain; in the promotion of
researches growing out of our expert experience in the field of radia-
tion; in the publication of knowledge in both technical and popular
forms; and in the wide diffusion of knowledge through exchanges and
correspondence in all these lines, avtivities entirely suited to the
genius and situation of the Smithsonian, which in their world-wide
application and future promise, outrank in value the more local in-
fluence of the public exhibitions.

Only one thing is lacking to promote these researches. We have
the foundation equipment, we have the trained experts, but we lack
adequate means. The Government appropriations are mainly de-
voted, according to the terms of law, to expenditures incident to the
preservation of collections. But a small proportion of these annual
congressional appropriations is available to be expended on collect-
- Ing specimens or on researches. An exception occurs, it is true, in
the Bureau of American Ethnology and the Astrophysical Observa-
tory, where research is supported by Government. For research in
far eastern lands, the Freer bequest is available, but, agreeable to the
donor’s wishes, only in a restricted sense. Also the Roebling and
Canfield foundations have made possible a certain amount of collect-
ing in the field of mineralogy.

Aside from these and certain other lesser financial resources for
specified purposes, there remains the annual income of the Smith-
sonian endowment, which at present yields about $65,000 annually,
and such temporary grants for special researches as interested
friends from time to time place in the hands of the Institution.
Secretaries Henry, Baird, Langley, and Walcott all deplored the
disparity between Smithsonian endowment and Smithsonian oppor-
tunity, but until recently the outlook for increased support has been

24034—29 2

6 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

discouraging. Nor is it very adequate even yet. However, I note
with satisfaction the following items of gain or promise.

1. Gifts to the unrestricted endowment from donors mentioned last

year and this’ (approximately) 2==- "=" 202 aoe eee $60, 000
2. Prospective bequests already disclosed (approximately) ~_-________-_ 700, 000
8. Annual income set free July 1, 1928, by Government assumption of

certain, overhea@ <4. 22220 het ee eh ee 25, 000
4, Expected royalties from Smithsonian Scientific Series for the calen-

dar. year 928-2220 Unf he Se Sa ee 20, 000
5. Allotment fer radiation research from the Research Corporation of

New “Yorks 2 Be Sa 5 2h SS pe SO ee es 15, 000

We hope to enlist the interest of other donors to build up the unre-
stricted endowment of the Smithsonian to such an extent as to yield
an assured annual income of not less than $500,000.

While it has not been possible under existing financial circum-
stances to push strongly into the fields of research and publication
which I have indicated above, gratifying progress has been made
with the means we have. A fuller account of the researches will
appear from place to place below, but I note among indications of
progress the following:

1. To make space for laboratories and offices associated with the
work proposed in radiation and its applications to plant growth and
human health, improvements planned to include an elevator, lighting,
heating, and finishing, at the estimated expense of $15,000, will make
available eight rooms, each of nearly 200 square feet, in the flag tower
of the Smithsonian Building, which hitherto, being inaccessible to
humans, has been occupied mainly by owls, bats, and pigeons.

2. In cooperation with the New York Commission on Ventilation,
Mr. Aldrich, of the Astrophysical Observatory, bas done a novel,
interesting, and successful research on the cooling of the human body
by radiation and convection.

3. In cooperation with the Fixed Nitrogen Laboratory, research
has been started on relations of radiation to plant growth and on
the measurement of certain ultra-violet rays.

4. Among 30 expeditions relating to the natural-history sciences,
and reported upon in later pages by the chiefs of the National
Museum, the Bureau of American Ethnology, and the Freer Gallery,
an important group relates to the archeology, the fauna, the flora,
and the paleontology of the West Indian Archipelago. This group
of islands, so near our continent, yet separated from it for several
geological epochs, is of interest as illustrating the cumulative influence
on life of moderate changes of environment continued over a long
period of time. Other newly worked and interesting fields of recent
Smithsonian exploration lie as far apart as Alaska, Mexico, South
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

America, South Africa, China, and the East Indies.

ri

These expedi-

tions were mostly financed by small grants from interested friends

of the Institution.

FINANCES

The permanent investments of the Institution consist of the

following :
Total endowment for general or specific purposes (exclusive of
Hreentiunds)). stemizedy as) 1OllowWS= ee eee ee ee $1,594, 301. 50
4 Se eS Se SS SS
Deposited in the Treasury of the United States, as provided
Woyittl a Week EEE 2 ES Be NE Pe eee ee Se eed 1, 000, 000. 00
Deposited in the consolidated fund—
Miscellaneous securities, ete., either purchased or ac-
quired by gift; cost or value at date acquired________ 502, 969. 00
Springer, Frank, fund for researches, ete___-_____-____ 30, 000. 00
Walcott, Charles D., and Mary Vaux, fund for re-
Searches; CECHIOS Faw hak Der A SE iat aot tee | 11, 520. 00

Younger, Helen Walcott, fund (held in trust)

49, 812. 50

1, 594, 301. 50

The invested funds of the Institution are described as follows:

Fund

FIN GIN? tn (oe ee
Becone Virpinigeh urdy, fond. 2-22 = 3_ 292 oae_ 5
Baird, Lucy H., fund
@annelaiCollection {und ==. --2--2-- nena oes
assy hnomashy fund =22. 25-2 eee sean
Chamberleinjfund = -* eee el 8e 2 eset
Hindowmentiin do s28-84. 2-8 eae eo se
apelin seeteet ee eos ee ek ee noe ties eee
Hachenperprimnd- 23 =- 2S ee ao
HamilfonvunG sesso ensee eseea sow cos os ke aes
Henry; Caroline, ‘fund! 222. 5222 ie eS
Hodgkins fund:

(ren oral ene wn eee ae coe Soceseansswowees

Spechhies $£25e4 crs f 32 Sef eS SOLS
Huphess Bice fanG sons Ss. aa Sass se
Myer, Catherine W., fund
Pell, Cornelia Livingston, fund_--...-..-__-____-
Poore, Lucy T. and George W., fund_.__.._______
RG PA GCISON SD hUNG ss coc scccee sca sees eee!
HUNCES UNO sete ee ceensicaetoscccoeccccee ee reste
Reaping THis eee es. 2 ee a See
Santerd, Georzeve.; funds. ote 222) ce ck
UA BSONMNG = 2ae oa ape eee ene ao one
MHUREOE PRLANK ONG ssc 6 ass scene naccuctoccacs
Walcott, Charles D., and Mary Vaux, fund______
Younger, Helen Walcott, fund
Stock dividends not yet credited to various funds_

oe eye we ewe a we ee eee ee eee

United States] Consolidated

‘Treasury

116, 000. 00
100, 000. 00

26, 670. 00
11, 000. 00
590. 00

fund eae Total
S4s 244 60 seo $58, 244. 60
62; 20293, e22s22 Fe 62, 272. 93
L783. 88) esas a. = 1, 783. 88
465202080) |ponwoceteene 46, 232. 86
1,000: 007 PA a8 ee 1, 000. 00
35,,000:00))|22-2-=-<<5— 35, 000. 00
GY OU ee oe eee 41, 542. 80
Be A Sena seer Ce 500. 00
5;,000;100) |= Se 2 5, 000. 00
BOOS G0) |S 22s ee 3, 000. 00
154259 45)| lt. 2et 1, 425. 45
37, 275.00 |--------.--- 153, 275. 00
US SRE Bss joey. 22 Sete 100, 000. 00
V6 WL OSS72)4) sea 2 es 16, 108. 72
18,640" 43) 5.22222 o- ee 18, 649. 43
3, 000200) 5-8 22 ss 3, 000. 00
D4. S47 BO e te Ue es 51, 517. 89
9 S10 4enlcen eee oe ee 20, 810. 48
BQSSGBT ee. Saree 1,113. 38
150; OOOS00))(2=--~22e5222 150, 000. 00
SaGHIR: |S tre tees | 2, 055, 18
Li518-40) |2 6 2ecne eee 729, 156. 40
tees ve een $30, 000. 00 30, 000. 00
Socaaseumac aon 11, 520. 00 11, 520. 00
Jssbwetscasees 49, 812. 50 49, 812. 50
1280) 00) Wowcceneaseee 1, 280. 00
502, 969.00 | 91,332.50 | 1,594, 301. 50

8 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

The Institution gratefully acknowledges gifts from the following
donors:

Dr. W. L. Abbott, for archeological explorations in Dominican Republic.

Mr. William N. Beach, for expenses of naturalist in connection with African
expedition.

Estate of Frederick A. Canfield, for expenses of Canfield collection of
minerals.

Mrs. Laura Welsh Casey, for establishment of Thomas Lincoln Casey fund
to maintain Casey collection and promote research in Coleoptera.

Estate of William H. Dall, for preparation of bibliography.

Mrs. E. H. Harriman, for purchase of Dall library.

Mr. Marcus Daly, for purchase of African natural history specimens.

Mr. Childs Frick, for further exploration in vertebrate paleontology.

New York Commission on Ventilation, for study of radiation from human
body.

Mr. E. W. Marland, for Missouri Historical Society, for further studies of
language of Osage Indians.

Mrs. Cornelia Livingston Pell, for care of Pell collection.

Research Corporation, for researches in solar radiation.

Mr. Charles T. Simpson, for further work on West Indian shells,

Mr. James M, Fowler, toward expenses of installing airplane, Spirit of St.

Mr. Joe Elliott, toward expenses of installing airplane, Spirit of St. Louis.

Mr. W. Sheffield Cowles, toward expenses of installing airplane, Spirit of St.
Louis.

Mrs. Josephine M. Springer, for work in connection with Springer collection.

Mr. B. H. Swales, for purchase of specimens.

The Institution also acknowledges gifts for the endowment fund
from the following friends:

Mr. Dwight W. Morrow.

Mr. R. D. Berry.

Mr. John F. Kennefick.

The Institution has received from the estate of George P. Hachen-
berg notes to the equivalent of $5,000 as a bequest to the Institution
for general scientific purposes; also from the estate of Catherine
Walden Myer real-estate notes to the amount of $14,618, representing
final payment of bequest for purchase of works of art for use and
benefit of the National Gallery of Art.

Freer Gallery of Art.—The invested funds of the Freer bequest
are classified as follows:

Court and: crounds -fong! - - = | gee es ee ee ee ee $394, 574. 09
Court and ‘grounds, maintenance fund=_ =) ssh 81, 586. 40
GUD ROT ST Ga aes BE TN Ek Ee eee SIE CL Ot wate 330, 022. 46
MGS GMATY Flee a Cys a sei So es ie 2 er ea ee 3, 462, 061. 31

cl D0 fs aa ak SS A S| ER be ED ENON 4, 268, 244. 26

The practice of depositing on time in local trust companies and
banks such revenues as may be spared temporarily has been con-

«
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 9

tinued during the past year, and interest on these deposits has
amounted to $5,215.32. The income during the year for general
expenses, consisting of interest on permanent investments and other
miscellaneous sources, amounted to $63,186.14. Revenues and prin-
cipal of funds for specific purposes, except the Freer bequest,
amounted to $244,929.43. Cash capital from sale or call of securities
other than Freer bequest (for reinvestment) amounted to $58,350.50.
Revenues on account of Freer bequest amounted to $286,705.06;
amount received as gain from sale of stocks and bonds, Freer be-
quest, was $61,069.72; cash capital from sale or call of securities,
Freer bequest (for reinvestment), $519,416.35, aggregating a total of
$1,233,607.20.

The disbursements, described more fully in the annual report of
the executive committee, are classed as follows: General objects of
the Institution, $63,663.15; for specific purposes (except the Freer
bequest) , $283,686.87 ; cash capital (except Freer bequest) reinvested,
$59,157.75; Freer bequest, operating expenses of gallery, etc., $152,-
412.99; Freer bequest funds invested, $89,058.50; Freer bequest cash
capital reinvested, $550,086.02.

The total of balances on hand June 30, 1928, of all funds, and
mainly bearing interest on deposit, was $238,369.41.

The following appropriations were made by Congress for the
Government bureaus under the administrative charge of the Smith-
sonian Institution for the fiscal year 1928:

Mike nat On al exch am eG ee ee he ee $46, 855
PTC CATS ECLLNO | OG ya ste s Sa SEIN Fins SPS toe eae a as oe 58, 720
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature______._.___________ 7, 260
Astrophysical Observatory 222-42 Ss Se ha Ge Pa 32, 060
Additionalvassistant, Secretary =. Ses se AE eee See Fe ys Pee ae 7, 500
National Museum:
MnrNieUne wan Oe Abu res ee Ses SN es ae $26, 500
iHeatinggand lighting ates su ber nie we oe el el 79, 500
iPreservationyor collections=s 2 see oe ee 473, 510
On its Reni rs a2 as 2 ead eet Ee elt SLE 13, 000
13 f0(0) igs Reed A aE ies fs RS ee SO OE ERSTE ers oars Meroe ye eT PEM Oey 1, 500
BON baA Pe Beals Soe Se reli ee Ah eh eB pe 450
Grallory) Ae = 2 estetey bee Baal eet ee tO ae 12, 500
——— 606, 960
Nationale Gallery of cAriost® 22) Reh We ee ake ab) AI BATA ald 30, 356
Nationale Zoological T Park: 22 3 roetne es tt ete a eld igery Sage ce chee) 175, 000
National Zoological Park, building for birds_-_-__--________-________ 25, 000
Persia tla one a mn GW ee ae ce ae ee 90, 000
MOtd Sete a ee ee J Spe SBD ROLE Fier CrP BS 1, 079, 711

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD WORK

During the past year the Smithsonian conducted 30 expeditions,
a few of them financed solely from the meager funds of the Institu-
10 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

tion itself, but the majority made possible through the generosity of
friends of the Institution or through arrangements with other
agencies equally interested in the advancing of knowledge.

Besides 18 States of the United States, Smithsonian parties worked
in Alaska, the Canadian Rockies, Labrador, Mexico, Colombia,
Chile, Argentina, Brazil, the West Indies, including Hispaniola,
Cuba, and Jamaica, several countries in Europe, South West Africa,
Formosa, Sumatra, Siam, and China. The branches of the Institu-
tion interested in field exploration are the National Museum, the
Bureau of American Ethnology, the Astrophysical Observatory, and
the Freer Gallery of Art. Many of the expeditions are described in
the reports of these bureaus, which form appendixes to this report,
or in the Smithsonian Exploration Pamphlet, published annually.

SMITHSONIAN SCIENTIFIC SERIES

During the year a definite agreement became effective with the
Smithsonian Institution Series (Inc.), of New York, to publish and
distribute a series of 12 books, to be known as the Smithsonian Scien-
tific Series, under the editorship of the Secretary. The books are
intended to present an interesting picture of many of the scientific
activities of the Institution and its branches, and are to be written
in popular style, profusely illustrated. The first four volumes are
expected to appear in the autumn of 1928 and the other eight will
follow in two groups of four at intervals of several months.

The first four books were in proof at the close of the fiscal year and
the others were in various stages of preparation. The titles of the
first four books are as follows:

1. The Smithsonian Institution, by W. P. True.

2. The Sun and the Welfare of Man, by C. G. Abbot.

3. Minerals from Earth and Sky, by G. P. Merrill and W. F.
Foshag.

4, North American Indians, compiled from the source material of
the Bureau of American Ethnology by R. A. Palmer.

Two motives prompted the Institution to undertake the publica-
tion of this series: First, the desire to promote the diffusion of
knowledge, and second, the desire to add to its insufficient resources
for research and publication. It is hoped that the royalties accruing
to the Institution from the sale of these books will continue over
a long period and will contribute substantially to its available
resources for scientific work.

The list of subscribers to the James Smithson Memorial Edition
will be found* in Appendix 11.

1 Brought up to date as of Oct. 15, 1928, when the manuscript of this report went to
the printer.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY ig |
RESEARCH CORPORATION

The Research Corporation of New York, for the administration of
inventions and new industrial processes in the public interest, was
founded in 1912 through the gift by Dr. Frederick G. Cottrell and
his associates of valuable patents covering processes for the electrical
precipitation of dust, smoke, and chemical fumes. The net profits
from the commercial application of the patents are used to aid and
encourage technical and scientific research. The Smithsonian has
always been in close relationship to the Research Corporation, the
late Secretary Charles D. Walcott having served as a director since
its inception, and this year the present Secretary was elected to
membership on the board of directors.

In February, 1928, the directors of the corporation having ex-
pressed an interest in the solar radiation research program of the
Institution, a statement of the proposed work was given them, with
the result that in March a grant of $15,000 was made to the Institu-
tion to promote investigations on the relation of radiation to the
growth of plants, the effects of radiation on the health and growth of
animals and human beings, and the dependence of world weather on
solar radiation.

COOPERATIVE ETHNOLOGICAL AND ARCHEOLOGICAL INVESTIGA-
TIONS BETWEEN THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION AND STATE,
EDUCATIONAL, AND SCIENTIFIC INSTITUTIONS

At the past session of the Congress, the following act authorizing
cooperation in ethnological and archeological investigations was

enacted:
[Publiec, No. 248, Seventieth Congress]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution is hereby authorized to cooperate with any State, educational In-
stitution, or scientific organization in the United States for continuing eth-
nological researches among the American Indians and the excavation and pres-
ervation of archeological remains.

Sec. 2. That there is hereby authorized to be appropriated, out of any money
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, the sum of $20,000, which shall be
available until expended for the above purposes: Provided, That at such time
as the Smithsonian Institution is satisfied that any State, educational institu-
tion, or scientific organization in any of the United States is prepared to
contribute to such investigation and when in its judgment such investigation
shall appear meritorious, the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution may
direct that an amount from this sum equal to that contributed by such State,
educational institution or scientific organization, not to exceed $2,000, to be
expended from such sum in any one State during any calendar year, be made
available for cooperative investigation: Provided further, That all such coopera-
tive work and division of the result thereof shall be under the direction of the
Seeretary of the Smithsonian Institution: Provided further, That where lands
.

iP 4 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

are involved which are under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Indian Affairs
or the National Park Service, cooperative work thereon shall be under such
regulations and conditions as the Secretary of the Interior may provide.

Approved, April 10, 1928.

The appropriation of $20,000 authorized by the above act was
made in the deficiency act, approved May 29, 1928. The following
regulations for the carrying out of the project were promulgated by
the Institution:

1. From the above appropriation, the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution
may approve expenditure of a sum equal to that provided by any State or
educational or scientific organization, not exceeding $2,000 in any one State
in any one year, when satisfied that such State or organization is prepared to
contribute to such investigation, and when in his judgment cooperation by the
Institution in such investigation is justified.

A. Requests for cooperation should be made by the responsible officer of the
State, educational institution, or scientific organization interested.

B. Applications should be accompanied by full explanatory statements of the
work proposed, the location, purpose, and any other pertinent details, the
name of the field representative, if any, of the applicant, and should state
whether any supervisory salaries are to be paid from that portion of the joint
fund provided by the applicant; and if so, the amount thereof. It is intended
that all funds provided for such cooperative work shall be devoted strictly to
the prosecution of definite projects contemplated by the act and shall not be
used for the payment of regular salaries or other regular expenses of any
organization.

C. Applicants must present Suitable evidence of the availability of funds for
cooperative use and will present at regular intervals detailed accounts of
expenditures therefrom. Full instructions will be furnished regarding expendi-
tures from allotments by the Institution, which must be made to conform with
the accounting regulations of the United States Treasury Department.

D. A report covering each cooperative investigation, including copies of all
maps, charts, photographs, or other notes relating to the work shall be filed
with the Smithsonian Institution by the leader of the joint investigation within
a reasonable period following its completion. It is contemplated that a proper
report embodying the results obtained will be prepared for publication by the
leader or his agent within a reasonable time.

2. The act provides that “all such cooperative work and division of the
result thereof shall be under the direction of the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution.” The leader of any joint investigation must be approved or desig-
nated by the Secretary, who may at any time, if in his judgment it be desirable,
send a representative to the scene of operations to inspect the work, at the
expense of the allotment made for the particular investigation concerned.

8. Any cooperative investigation involving lands under the jurisdiction of the
Departments of the Interior, or of Agriculture, will be subject to such rules as
the secretary of the department having jurisdiction may impose.

In accordance with the terms of the act cited above, an allotment
of $500 was made on June 19 to Mr. P. E. Cox, State archeologist of
Tennessee, to be used in conducting an ethnological and archeological
survey of that portion of the proposed Great Smoky Mountains Park
lying within the State of Tennessee. As the work had not actually
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 13

been begun at the close of the fiscal year, it will be described in
my next report, together with such other cooperative projects as may
be undertaken during the coming year under the congressional appro-
priation for that purpose.

PRESENTATION OF THE LANGLEY MEDAL TO COL. CHARLES A. LIND-
BERGH AND THE DEPOSIT OF THE “SPIRIT OF ST. LOUIS” IN THE
NATIONAL MUSEUM

In my last report, announcement was made of the award on June
11, 1927, of the Langley medal to Col. Charles A. Lindbergh for his
nonstop flight from New York to Paris.

The actual presentation of the gold medal to Colonel Lindbergh
took place in the Smithsonian Building on December 8, 1927, at the
annual meeting of the Board of Regents. In presenting the medal
Chief Justice Taft, chancellor of the Institution, said in part:

Colonel LINDBERGH :

The Langley medal was established in memory of the third secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution, Samuel Pierpont Langley. During the last 15 years
of his life Doctor Langley’s primary interest was in making possible man’s
flight. In this research he conducted active experiments in the lift and drift
of planes, and the properties of curved surfaces, constructed large steam-driven
models as early as 1896, which flew long distances, and finally he attempted to
construct a man-carrying machine, which was wrecked in the two trials which
it had during his lifetime. * * * Following the advice of an eminent com-
mittee of award, the medal is now presented to you, sir, in recognition of your
daring nonstop flight from New York to Paris of May 20 and 21, 1927. I have
the honor and pleasure of presenting the medal to you on behalf of the Regents
of the Smithsonian Institution.

Permit me to add that the whole bearing and tendency of your life prior to,
during, and since your memorable flight, as the light of publicity is more and
more thrown upon it, has greatly enhanced the pleasure which my colleagues
and I take in presenting you this award. May your future work go far to
establish the dream of your desire, the wide and useful promotion of the sub-
ject of commercial aviation.

In accepting the medal, Colonel Lindbergh said:

First, I want to express my appreciation of this honor which you have just
given me, and also to thank you as the board of the Smithsonian Institution for
the interest you have taken in aeronautics. At a conference in St. Louis among
those interested in these fields it was decided that when the Spirit of St. Lowis
was taken from service it would be offered to the Smithsonian Institution for
permanent exhibition here.

The Spirit of St. Louis was piloted on its last flight from St. Louis
to Washington by Colonel Lindbergh on April 30, 1928, and turned
over to the Institution. It was placed on public exhibition in the Arts
and Industries Building of the National Museum on May 13, 1928,
where it faces the main entrance in a pose strongly suggesting actual
flight, and immediately became the mecca for thousands of visitors
14 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

daily. It promises to be for a long time to come the most popular
exhibit in the whole National Museum, and the thanks of the Nation
are due Colonel Lindbergh and his friends in St. Louis for placing
the famous plane in the national collection.

WALCOTT MEMORIAL MEETING

In accordance with resolutions adopted by the Board of Regents on
the day following the death of Charles Doolittle Walcott, Secretary
of the Institution from 1907 to 1927, a memorial meeting was held on
January 24, 1928, in the auditorium of the National Museum, which
was attended by a large number of Doctor Walcott’s friends and
official associates. Chief Justice William H. Taft, chancellor of the
Institution, presided. In his introductory remarks he reviewed very
briefly the many-sided career of Doctor Walcott in scientific research
and in public service, and concluded by saying that the meeting was
being held “in memory of a man whose work promoted real scientific
investigation and discovery in his particular field, who was a shining
example of a Government civil servant of the highest ideals and suc-
cess, and who for 20 years gave greatly of his energies and the
hardest kind of labor to expanding the usefulness of the Smithsonian
Institution.”

The first speaker was Dr. John C. Merriam, president of the
Carnegie Institution of Washington, who considered Doctor Walcott’s
scientific work, emphasizing particularly his contributions to the
study of the early life of the earth, as to the structure of ancient ani-
mals, their biological classification, their faunal grouping, or their
succession in time. “ In all these aspects of the problem,” said Doctor
Merriam, “ his accomplishments belong to the first rank of the world’s
researches.” He spoke also of Doctor Walcott’s continuous service to
the Carnegie Institution from the time of its organization until his
death. He was one of the original incorporators and a member of
the first board of trustees, and contributed largely to the accomplish-
ments of the Carnegie Institution during the 25 years of his asso-
ciation with it.

Dr. Joseph S. Ames, professor of physics at Johns Hopkins Univer-
sity and chairman of the National Advisory Committee for Aero-
nautics, spoke of Doctor Walcott’s relations with that committee.
With the coming of the World War Doctor Walcott was one of the
few who realized the importance of a national survey and study of
aeronautics, and it was he who secured the passage of an act estab-
lishing the National Advisory Committee. His relations with it
were summed up by Doctor Ames thus: “ He created it; he planned
its duties wisely; he guided and inspired it; he secured the appro-
priations for its support. Each year he took more interest and price
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 15

in its operation. ‘There can be no doubt that from all this he himself
received his reward of pleasure and satisfaction.”

Doctor Walcott’s service to the United States Geological Survey
was presented by Dr. George Otis Smith, director of the survey.
Here was shown Walcott’s exceptional capacity for the dual duties
of research and administration, and during the 13 years of his direc-
torship the Geological Survey had its greatest growth. He found
time also at this period to sponsor the development of reclamation
projects, national forests, national parks, fuel-testing plants, and
mine-safety stations. “Charles Walcott was great as the scientist,
famed the world over; he was great as the public official, honored the
length and breadth of his own country; he was also great as the
man in his home, among his friends in this community.”

Dr. Charles G. Abbot, present Secretary of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, spoke in conclusion of “ Doctor Walcott, the Smithsonian
Secretary and National Academy President.” His successful meth-
ods of administration of the Institution were touched upon, and his
long service to the National Academy outlined. In closing Doctor
Abbot said that “the Smithsonian Institution may well be proud
of its fourth secretary and the National Academy of its ninth
president.”

The full proceedings of the Walcott memorial meeting were printed
in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, the pamphlet including
a complete bibliography of Doctor Walcott’s published writings,
numbering 272 titles.

PRESENTATION OF PORTRAIT OF THE SECRETARY

Mrs. Samantha L. Huntley presented to the Institution a portrait
of Dr. C. G. Abbot, fifth secretary. In offering the portrait, Mrs.
Huntley wrote:

It has given me much pleasure to paint this portrait, and I hope you will

accept it for the Institution with my sincere wishes for your success in the
administration of its affairs.

The portrait is at present hung in the National Gallery of Art.

PUBLICATIONS

The four series issued by the Institution proper are the Smith-
sonian Annual Reports, the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowl-
edge, the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, and Smithsonian
Special Publications, while other series are published by several of
the bureaus under the direction of the Institution, including the
National Museum, the Bureau of American Ethnology, the Astro-
physical Observatory, and the National Gallery of Art. Copies of
all of these publications are distributed free to a large list of libraries.
16 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

learned societies, and specialists throughout the world, and certain of
the less technical publications, such as the Smithsonian Reports and .
Smithsonian exploration pamphlets, are widely distributed among
the general public.

In the General Appendix to the Smithsonian Report of each year
are included 25 to 30 articles selected from the periodical literature
of the world to show advances and interesting features of all branches
of science.

During the past year the Institution published 117 volumes and
pamphlets, of which there were distributed altogether 183,196 copies,
including 29,720 volumes and separates of the Smithsonian Annual
Reports, 26,099 volumes and separates of the Smithsonian Miscel-
laneous Collections, 5,878 Smithsonian Special Publications, 111,405
publications of the National Museum, and 9,126 publications of the
Bureau of American Ethnology. The titles of the papers, number
of pages, and other bibliographical information are given in the
report of the editor of the Institution, Appendix 10.

The following sentence occurs in a letter received by the editor
from the chief of the Smithsonian Division in the Library of
Congress:

The Smithsonian Report is one of the most constantly called-for publications
we have here in the Library of Congress.

The annual pamphlet issued by the Institution describing the
year’s explorations and field work covered 30 expeditions to all parts
of the world and was illustrated with 213 photographs taken by the
Smithsonian field workers. An innovation in the latest pamphlet, in
the desire to make it more attractive to the general reader, was to
present the accounts in the form of short separate articles, written in
the first person and each signed by the author, instead of as im-
personal reports as heretofore.

Allotments for printing—The congressional allotments for the
printing of the Smithsonian Report to Congress and the various
publications of the Government bureaus under the administration of
the Institution were virtually used up at the close of the year. The
appropriation for the coming year ending June 380, 1929, totals
$95,000, allotted as follows:

Annual report to the Congress of the Board of Regents of the Smith-

SOMMAMMOUNS tt ators 23 2s 2 ERA En AML a ie eR MR $11, 500
National Musewmmce so iies Fee ls. ee 46, 500
Bureau of American Hthnologye) 2b Aer ew eis abe ee 28, 300
Nationaly,Gallery ofeA tec =- — 9c 2s, ee eS Ee eee 500
International Bixchanged cif vg: 220. xo ei DUR aa 2h Syd Ee 300
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature__.__-....______ 100
National: Zoological Pay kere = Sar EE ee MS PE Pe RE a 300
Astrophysical: Observatory.) 2. Rew ee Le LD 500

Annual report of the American Historical Association_________ Wee OUne 7, 000
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 17

Committee on printing and publications—AlIl manuscripts sub-
mitted to the Institution for publication either by members of the
staff or by outside authors are referred for consideration and recom-
mendation to the Smithsonian advisory committee on printing and
publication. The committee also considers matters of publication
policy. During the past year seven meetings were held and 107 manu-
scripts were considered and acted upon. The membership at the close
of the year was as follows: Dr. Leonhard Stejneger, head curator of
biology, National Museum, chairman; Dr. George P. Merrill, head
curator of geology, National Museum; Dr. J. Walter Fewkes, Bureau
of American Ethnology; Dr. William M. Mann, director, National
Zoological Park; Mr. W. P. True, editor of the Institution, secretary ;
Dr. Marcus Benjamin, editor of the National Museum; and Mr.
Stanley Searles, editor of the Bureau of American Ethnology.

LIBRARY

The Smithsonian library comprises the Smithsonian deposit
in the Library of Congress, which is the main brary of the Insti-
tution, 8 divisional libraries relating to the work of the bureaus
under the Institution, and 36 sectional libraries maintained for use in
individual offices. The accessions for the year, exclusive of those
of the Bureau of American Ethnology, were 6,838 volumes and
16,203 pamphlets and charts, a total of 23,041 items. This brings the
estimated total of volumes, pamphlets, and charts in the Smithsonian
library to 709,584, not including the library of the Bureau of Ameri-
can Ethnology, at present administered separately by the chief of
that bureau, or the thousands of volumes awaiting completion or as
yet uncatalogued.

The staff was augmented by provision for a second position of
assistant librarian to act as chief of the accessions department—the
department which acquires publications for the library, partly by
purchase and gift, but mainly by exchange.

The two most noteworthy gifts for the year were the Chinese
library of the late William W. Rockhill, consisting of 1,100 volumes,
presented by Mrs. Rockhill, and a collection of 3,500 serial and
society publications presented by the American Association for the
Advancement of Science. A large number of the latter, including
some that were out of print and very rare, were needed to complete
sets in the various libraries of the Institution.

As usual many volumes and parts of volumes wanted for the
Smithsonian deposit in the Library of Congress were obtained, and
with the reorganization of the accessions department it is expected
that this service will soon be greatly enlarged. Notable progress
was made on the union catalogue of the Smithsonian library, espe-
18 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

cially in connection with the Smithsonian deposit, the office library,
the Langley aeronautical library, and the libraries of the National
Museum and the Astrophysical Observatory. The technological
library was reorganized, and the reference room was greatly improved
and made more attractive.

A number of special activities were undertaken during the year,
including the sorting and distribution of a large accumulation of
reprints; the making of a list, preparatory to cataloguing, of some
of the special collections, including the Casey, Dall, Gill, Henderson,
Lacoe, Roebling, Schaus, Springer, Teller, and Vaux; and work on
the reorganization of the west stacks in the Smithsonian Building.

NATIONAL MUSEUM

The appropriations for the maintenance of the National Museum
totaled $650,960, an increase of $41,640 over the preceding year. A
large part of the increase was for the purpose of providing for a
much-needed one-rate promotion for the staff, leaving a small sum
available for purchase of specimens and certain other necessary mat-
ters. A special appropriation of $12,500 permitted the construction
of a gallery in the National Herbarium, which was completed during
the year, nearly doubling the available space for plants.

The two most important needs of the Museum to enable it to func-
tion efficiently and expand normally are for additional personnel
and more adequate housing. There are several groups of collections
with no specialist in charge, and in a number of divisions there are
no assistants in training to carry on the work when the older men are
gone. The two buildings of the Museum are filled to overflowing,
both in the exhibition halls and in the study rooms. The older struc-
ture, built in 1881, is antiquated and should be replaced by a larger
and more modern one, and the newer Natural History Building
should be enlarged by the addition of two wings, as originally planned
for by the architect.

Additions to the collections during the year reached the total of
832,912 objects, more than twice the number received during the
previous year. Specimens given to schools numbered 6,267, and
more than 25,000 specimens were loaned to specialists for study. I
will mention here only a few of the outstanding accessions, and others
will be found listed in the report of the assistant secretary, Ap-
pendix 1.

In the department of anthropology there was received an excellent
series of ivory, bone, stone, pottery, and wooden objects representative
of the Eskimo culture of Nunivak Island, Alaska, collected by Messrs.
Collins and Stewart, of the Museum staff; a series of objects collected
by the Bureau of American Ethnology from a basket-maker village
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 19

site in New Mexico; and a collection of stone graters, pestles, celts,
and clay figurines collected by Assistant Secretary Wetmore in the
mountains of the Dominican Republic. In the same Republic Mr.
H. W. Krieger, working under the auspices of Dr. W. L. Abbott,
collected an excellent series of bone and stone implements and
potsherds near Samana Bay.

The department of biology received the large majority of the year’s
accessions, the total for the department being 680,350 specimens.
This great number is accounted for largely by the receipt of several
extensive private collections, among them the C. F. Baker collection
of insects of the Philippines and the East Indies generally, be-
queathed to the Museum by the late Doctor Baker; the C. G. Lloyd
mycological collection of 75,000 specimens of the larger fungi; the
Charles W. Hargitt collection of hydroids; and the George M. Greene
collection of Coleoptera. Important collections of natural history
material came from Dr. Hugh M. Smith, in Siam, and from Mr.
A. de C. Sowerby, working under the auspices of Col. R. S. Clark,
in China. Mr. W. L. Brown, of the taxidermy staff, joined an expe-
dition to the Sudan and brought back a valuable set of mammals,
birds, and fishes. Important collections from Hispaniola came to
the Museum through the work there of Assistant Secretary Wetmore,
Dr. Gerrit S. Miller, jr., and Mr. A. J. Poole. Accessions to the
division of plants included 9,000 specimens collected in Honduras by
Mr. Paul C. Standley and 3,000 from Formosa and Sumatra, col-
lected by Prof. H. H. Bartlett through cooperation of the Museum
and the University of Michigan.

In geology many rare and important minerals were acquired under
the Roebling fund established last year. Several beautiful gems and
minerals were obtained through the Chamberlain fund, including a
65-carat cut gem of alexandrite; and the Isaac Lea collection received
an unusual series of cut stones of sphene given by Miss Nina Lea,
granddaughter of the founder of the collection. Dr. W. F. Foshag, of
the Museum staff, collected a striking group of gypsum crystals and
sets of valuable ores in Mexico. The Frank Springer collection of
fossil echinoderms, a complete library on this subject, and a fund
to promote work in connection with the collection came to the
Museum through the bequest of the late Doctor Springer. In ver-
tebrate paleontology there were acquired a skeleton of the extinct
lizard Clidastes, one of the rare three-toed horses from the Miocene
of Wyoming, and a further series of fossil footprints collected by
Mr. C. W. Gilmore.

The outstanding accession in the arts and industries department
and the object of greatest popular interest to be received by the
Museum in many years is Colonel Lindbergh’s Spirit of St. Louis.
Other interesting accessions in this department include the Pan
20 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

American good-will flyer San Francisco, a White-Stanhope steam
automobile of 1901-2, a collection of ancient and modern watch and
clock movements presented by the New Haven Clock Co., an auto-
matic gingham loom of the latest type presented by the Crompton
& Knowles loom works, and the apparatus used in receiving the first
photoradiogram across the Atlantic on November 27, 1924, when a
picture of President Coolidge was sent from London and received in
New York City in the office of the Radio Corporation of America,
by whom this apparatus was deposited in the Museum. The division
of history received an interesting series of relics of Rear Admiral
Charles D. Sigsbee, given by Mrs. Nellie C. Gunther, and a number
of ancient Roman and modern European and oriental coins deposited
by the Treasury Department.

The Museum took part during the year in numerous field expedi-
tions in this country and abroad, through which large and important
collections were brought back for study and exhibition. A brief
account of these will be found in the report on the Museum appended
hereto. The auditorium and lecture rooms of the Museum were
used for 115 meetings of governmental agencies, scientific bodies,
and other associations and societies. The number of visitors to the
Museum totaled 1,413,286 for the year, an increase of 260,000 over
the previous year. There were published 10 volumes and 59 separate
papers, and 111,405 copies of Museum publications were distributed.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

The need of an adequate National Gallery building is more urgent
than ever. Present quarters occupied by the gallery in the Natural
History Building of the National Museum are grossly inadequate
and are much needed by the Museum.

At the seventh annual meeting of the National Gallery of Art
Commission, a resolution was adopted favoring the assemblage at
some future date of the purchases made from the Henry Ward
Ranger fund since its establishment, now numbering nearly 70, in
order to enable the commission to make a selection of such works as
the gallery desires to claim.

Lists of the art works offered to the gallery during the year and
accepted by the commission and of the accessions to the gallery col-
lections during the year, subject to the approval of the advisory
committee of the commission, will be found in Appendix 2.

Four special exhibits were held in the gallery during the year:
A collection of portraits by Bernard Osterman; the annual exhibit
of the Society of Washington Artists; a collection of paintings by
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY Zt

contemporary British artists; and the annual exhibition of the Wash-
ington Water Color Club. Among the withdrawals of loans to the
gallery should be mentioned 20 old masters lent by Mrs. Ralph Cross
Johnson in 1924, 14 paintings by British and Dutch masters lent by
Henry Cleveland Perkins, Esq., in 1922, and the John H. McFadden
collection of 48 British masters temporarily placed in the gallery
in 1922.

Accessions to the gallery library numbered 1,096 volumes, pam-
phlets and periodicals, and 12 water-color paintings by Doctor
Holmes, the gift of the artist. .

FREER GALLERY OF ART

Additions to the collections in the Freer Gallery during the year
include two pieces of Persian pottery, three of Chinese porcelain, and
six Persian paintings dating from the thirteenth to the seventeenth
century. The most important addition to the library was the Chinese
hbrary of the late William Woodville Rockhill, comprising 1,100
volumes.

Two hundred and twenty-four objects were submitted for expert
opinion or for translation of their oriental inscriptions, and 34 trans-
lations were made of inscriptions from photographs submitted to the
curator. In answer to a constantly increasing demand, there are now
available for purchase 1,491 photographs of objects in the gallery in
addition to 829 negatives of the Biblicai manuscripts. The gallery
sold during the year 1,089 photographs, 2,017 post cards, and 1,031
copies of gallery publications.

The total attendance for the year was 111,288; of these, 1,218 came
to the office for special information, to study the building and meth-
ods, to see objects in storage, to make drawings, or for similar pur-
poses. Thirty-three classes were given instruction, four groups were
given docent service in the galleries, and two lectures were given in
the auditorium.

The gallery’s field work in China, in charge of Mr. C. W. Bishop,
was suspended, owing in part to conditions there, and Mr. Bishop
returned to Washington temporarily, visiting en route important
archeological collections and sites in Egypt and the principal western
European countries. In Washington he has been occupied chiefly in
studying the material collected during four and a half years in China.
Dr. C. Li and Mr. K. Z. Tung, the Chinese members of the field staff,
stayed in China to maintain the contacts established there and to
prepare for future field work. Mr. Li came to Washington in the
summer of 1928 to discuss plans for future work in China.

24034—29

9
vo
22, ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

Dr. J. Walter Fewkes, chief of the bureau since March 1, 1918, re-
tired on January 15, 1928, but was continued on the staff as associate
anthropologist. °

To facilitate the appointment of Doctor Fewkes’s successor as chief
of the bureau, a special unassembled examination was arranged by
the Civil Service Commission, in consultation with the Secretary, for
the purpose of establishing a list of eligibles. The ranking of appli-
cants was done by a committee comprising a representative of the com-
mission, the secretary of the Smithsonian, and Dr. A. V. Kidder, rep-
resenting ethnological and archeological science at large. As a result,
the appointment of Mr. Matthew William Stirling was made, to take
effect August 1, 1928, just after the close of the fiscal year.

The work of the staff of the bureau has included ethnological re-
searches relating to the Indians of the Southern States, the Sauk and
Fox, the Northern Arapaho, the Mission Indians of California, the
Six Nations, the Chippewa, the Winnebago, and the Osage. Arche-
ological work by Doctor Roberts in Chaco Canyon, N. Mex., and near
Arboles, Colo., uncovered interesting village sites. Cooperating with
the bureau, Messrs. Judd, Krieger, and Collins, of the National Mu-
seum, made archeological investigations in Kentucky, in the Colum-
bia Basin of Oregon and Washington, and in western Alaska. <Ac-
counts of this ethnological and archeological work appear in the re-
ports of the bureau and the Museum.

The bureau published during the year one annual report and one
bulletin, and 9,126 copies of bureau publications were distributed.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES

A total of 542,233 packages of publications were handled during the
year, including those sent abroad and those received for distribution
in this country. The total weight of this material was 584,121 pounds,
an increase of 40,996 pounds over the previous year’s total.

Burma and Bombay were added to the list of foreign depositories
that receive sets of United States official documents, bringing the total
number of such sets sent through the exchange service to 105. Ru-
mania, which, since 1903, has received a partial set, now receives a
full set. Shipments to Turkey, suspended since the World War, were
resumed, the ministry of public instruction at Angora acting as the
depository. The daily issue of the Congressional Record is now ex-
changed for the parliamentary journals of 101 foreign governmental
bodies. Brazil, the Irish Free State, and Turkey were added to the
list during the year.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 23

The Italian Office of International Exchanges, formerly under
direction of the Victor Emanuel National Library in Rome, was
placed under the ministry of public instruction. The Dutch Central
Scientific Bureau, exchange agency fox the Netherlands, is now under
the direction of the Royal Library at 'The Hague.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Although there was no important increase in the collection of ani-
mals during the year, nevertheless a number of interesting species
new to the collection was added.

The total number of animals added was 336, while 459 were lost
through death, return of animals, and exchange, leaving the collec-
tion at 2,273 individuals of 582 different species. A considerable
number of animals was born in the park, as usual. Among the more
serious losses by death were the two giraffes, Dot and Hi-boy, secured
by the Chrysler expedition, a Kadiak bear which had lived in the
Park for over 23 years, the last cheetah in the collection, a jaguar,
and an anaconda which had been at the Park for just 28 years, a
notable record of longevity for this snake.

The attendance for the year, although somewhat smaller than last
year when the animals brought back by the Smithsonian-Chrysler
African expedition attracted great crowds of visitors, was neverthe-
less higher than for any other year in the history of the park. The
total number of visitors was 2,298,449. Classes from 445 different
schools visited the park, comprising 27,959 students. A number of
scientific societies officially visited the park, including the American
Society of Mammalogists, the American Ornithologists’ Union, and
the Society of Icthyologists and Herpetologists; the Vivarium
Society held monthly meetings at the Park.

The new bird house, mentioned in last year’s report, was com-
pleted in June, 1928, and the installation of the birds was com-
menced, so that the building will be opened to the public during the
summer. The structure has been highly praised by officials of other
zoological parks and by the public. It is divided into four rooms,
together containing 145 indoor cages, and in the center is a ereat
flight cage 58 feet long, 22 feet wide, and 32 feet high, containing
rocks, a large tree, a pool, and running water.

This new bird house is a great improvement to the park, but the
director calls attention to the fact that after 20 years of earnest
appeal for more adequate buildings to house the splendid collection
of animals, the bird house is practically the only entirely satisfactory
building in the National Zoological Park, the others being a con-
tinual source of unfavorable comment by visitors. He lists seven
24 ANNUAL. REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

urgently needed structures which would cost in the neighborhood of
$1,000,000, namely: 1. Exhibition house for reptiles, amphibians,
and invertebrates. 2. Ape, lemur, and small mammal house. 3.
Pachyderm house. 4. Remodeling of the carnivore house. 5. An-
telope, buffalo, and wild cattle house. 6. A wing to be added to the
-bird house, with open air aviaries. 7. A proper fence around the
entire park.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

The three field stations of the observatory, located at Table Moun-
tain, Calif.; Montezuma, Chile; and Mount Brukkaros, South West
Africa, have continued sending to the Smithsonian results of daily
observation of the intensity of solar radiation, and the United States
Weather Bureau published the daily values from Montezuma on the
Washington weather maps.

A statistical study of the data accumulated at the Table Mountain
station led Mr. Fowle to discover a hitherto unsuspected influence of
variability in the ozone content of the atmosphere. Regular obser-
vations of ozone are now made at Table Mountain in cooperation with
Doctor Dobson, of Oxford, England.

A new research undertaken by Mr. Aldrich under a grant from the
New York Commission on Ventilation was on the proportion of loss
of heat of the normally clothed human body which should be ascribed
to radiation rather than to convection by the air. Long series of
novel and valuable experiments were made, using the melikeron, or
honeycomb pyranometer, for observing radiation of bedies at low
temperature, and a special thermoelectric temperature tester con-
structed for the research. ‘The interesting results obtained, which
are summed up in the director’s report appended hereto, will shortly
be published.

The director undertook at Mount Wilson in the fall of 1927 and
again in the summer of 1928 to continue radiometer measurements of
the distribution of energy in the spectra of the stars. In the 1927
experiments the radiometer vanes, made of bits of house-flies’ wings,
were sealed into a glass case in hydrogen, but after many trials the
apparatus proved useless because the mechanism required to rotate
the system so stirred up the gas that wholly unexpected motions re-
sulted. In 1928 an optically figured, fuzed quartz cylindrical vessel
was used, which was mounted on a brass support rotatable in a
ground joint. With this apparatus a high degree of success was
achieved, but as the results were obtained after the dag of the year
under Cpenhinnn they will be described in next year’s report.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 25

INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC
LITERATURE

Since actual publication of the International Catalogue was sus-
pended in 1922, owing to the inability of the foreign bureaus to con-
tribute their quota of the necessary financial support, the United
States bureau has continued to compile the necessary records of cur-
rent scientific publications. As explained each year to Congress and
to the Bureau of the Budget, the expenditures for this purpose have
been kept at the lowest possible level.

An effort was made to inaugurate a practical plan for resuming
publication of the catalogue and the matter is still under negotiation.
It seems probable that the various countries previously represented
will again cooperate by furnishing the necessary bibliographical data
if the small capital fund needed to start the operation of the central
bureau and begin publication can be raised.

NECROLOGY

The Institution suffered the loss by death during the year
of three distinguished members of the Board of Regents—Senator
Woodbridge Nathan Ferris, Mr. Charles Francis Choate, jr., and the
Hon. Henry White. These three men, in serving for varying periods on
the board, have aided materially in advancing the work and reputa-
tion of the Institution, and their names will be added with gratitude
to the long roster of distinguished men who have so served since
1846.

Woodbridge Nathan Ferris, United States Senator from Michi-
gan, was born at Spencer, N. Y., January 6, 1853. He was principal
successively of several academies and colleges in Illinois until 1884,
when he founded the Ferris Institute, of which he thereafter served
as president. In 1913 he was elected Governor of Michigan, being
reelected in 1915. He was elected United States Senator from Michi-
gan for the term 1923 to 1929, but died on March 23, 1928, before the
completion of his term. Senator Ferris served on the Board of
Regents for three years.

Charles Francis Choate, jr., lawyer, of Boston, Mass., had at the
time of his death served on the Board of Regents for a longer period
than any other living member, having been first appointed on Feb-
ruary 24, 1908. He was born at Cambridge, Mass., on October 23,
1866, and was educated at Harvard University. He became presi-
dent.of the Appleton Co., and was a director of the New York, New
Haven & Hartford Railroad Co., the Merchants National Bank of
Boston, and the American Telephone & Telegraph Co. Mr. Choate
died on November 30, 1927, having therefore been a Regent -of the
Institution for nearly 20 years.
=

26 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

Henry White, diplomat, was born at Baltimore, Md., March 29,
1850. He received the degree of LL. D. from St. Andrew’s Uni-
versity of Scotland, from Johns Hopkins University, and from Har-
vard University. He held various posts in the American diplomatic
service, and was appointed secretary of the embassy at London in
1897. This office he held until 1905, when he was made American
ambassador to Italy, and two years later ambassador to France.
He represented the United States at a number of important confer-
ences, including the Fourth Pan American Conference at Buenos
Aires in 1910, when he acted as chairman of the American delega-
tion. In 1918-19 he was a member of the American commission to
negotiate peace, at Paris. Mr. White died on July 15, 1927. He
served on the Board of Regents from January 15, 1917, until the
time of his death.

JOSEPH NELSON ROSE

Joseph Nelson Rose, associate curator of botany in the National
Museum, died at his home in Washington, May 4, 1928. Born at
Liberty, Ind., in 1862, Doctor Rose received his education at Wabash
College. In 1888 he was appointed assistant botanist in the Depart-
ment of Agriculture. When the National Herbarium was trans-
ferred from that department to the Smithsonian Institution in 1895,
Doctor Rose joined the Smithsonian’s staff and here his botanical
work was done for the rest of his life.

During his 40 years of original research Doctor Rose became a
recognized authority on certain difficult families of plants. Most of
his work was done under the Smithsonian Institution, but his well-
known investigation of the cactus family was conducted under the
auspices of the Carnegie Institution of Washington. In the course
of this investigation he traveled extensively in the western United
States, Mexico, and South America, and the results were published
in four imposing volumes by the Carnegie Institution.

The gift of the private herbarium and botanical library of Capt.
John Donnell Smith, of Baltimore, one of the most important ever
received by the Institution, was brought about largely through the
efforts of Doctor Rose. His published contributions to botanical
knowledge number over 100,

IMMANUEL MOSES CASANOWICZ

Immanuel Moses Casanowicz, assistant curator of the division of
Old World archeology in the National Museum, died September 26,
1927, at the age of 74. He was born at Zholudok, Russia, July 25,
1853, and studied at the University of Basle, Switzerland. Between
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 2

1880 and 1886 he was an instructor, first at the Evangelische Predi-
gerschule at Basle, and later at the German Theological School of
Newark at Bloomfield, N. J. In 1892 he received the degree of
Ph. D. from Johns Hopkins University, and the same year entered
the service of the National Museum, where he remained for the rest
of his life.

Doctor Casanowicz was a recognized authority in the field of Old
World archeology, specializing in the subject of comparative re-
ligions. He published several papers on the various religions of
man, and at the time of his death another was left practically com-
pleted, which would have closed the series. He was a member of the
American Oriental Society and vice president of the Anthropological
Society of Washington. Doctor Casanowicz was a man of broad
culture, and his place on the Museum staff will be difficult to fill.

FRANK SPRINGER

Frank Springer, associate in paleontology in the National Museum
and a benefactor of the Institution, died September 22, 1927. He
was born June 17, 1848, at Wapello, Iowa, and received his education
at the State University of Iowa. Admitted to the bar in 1869, he
went to New Mexico, where he soon became a leader of the bar of
that State. He was instrumental in having a law passed by Congress
establishing a tribunal for the settlement of titles under Spanish and
Mexican land grants, and his greatest professional success was at-
tained as attorney for the Maxwell Land Grant Co. He retired
from active practice in 1906, and from that time on he devoted him-
self largely to the scientific work that he loved and that has placed
him among the front rank of American paleontologists.

Doctor Springer’s connection with the Smithsonian Institution
began in 1911, when he brought his collection of fossil echinoderms
to Washington and installed it in the National Museum, where office
room and storage space for the collection were assigned him. He
spent the winter and spring months of each year at the Museum
carrying on his scientific work, and many of his papers were pub-
lished by the Museum. His well-known quarto monographs, “ The
Crinoidea Flexibilia,” “American Silurian Crinoids,” and others
were issued by the Smithsonian Institution.

By a deed of gift Doctor Springer’s valuable collection and funds
provided by him for its upkeep came to the Institution immediately
after his death.

BRADSHAW HALL SWALES

Bradshaw Hall Swales, honorary assistant curator of birds in the
National Museum, died January 23, 1928, at his home in Washington.
Mr. Swales was born in Detroit, Mich., June 30, 1875, and graduated

? ? ? p] >
28 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

from the University of Michigan in 1896 with the degree of LL.B.,
receiving his LL.M. the following year. In the latter part of 1897
he was admitted to the bar of Michigan and entered the practice of
law in Detroit. In 1898 he went to Pasadena, Calif., to engage in
his profession, but was forced by ill health to return east later in the
same year.

Mr. Swales’ interest in birds began early in life, his first published
paper appearing in 1889 when he was only 14 years of age. His
complete bibliography of ornithological papers numbers just over
a hundred titles, a large proportion of them relating to the birds of
his native State of Michigan. From 1914 he was a member of the
governing board of the zoological museum at Ann Arbor, and for
some years was honorary assistant in ornithology. In 1918 he was
appointed honorary custodian of the section of birds’ eggs of the
National Museum, and in 1921 was made honorary assistant curator
of birds. He contributed to the Institution a fund known as the
Swales fund, through-which were added to the Museum’s collections
many genera and species of rare foreign birds. For several years he
studied the birds of Haiti, and at Fe time of his death, had partly
completed a work on the ornithology of that island undertaken
jointly with Dr. Alexander Wetmore.

Mr. Swales was a member of many ornithological and natural his-
tory societies, and was a founder of the Baird Ornithological Club of
Washington, D. C.

JOSEPH MACE

Joseph Mace, driver of the Smithsonian freight wagon for over
50 years, died on January 26, 1928. Mr. Mace served the Institution
faithfully and with quiet loyalty under all five of its secretaries—
Henry, Baird, Langley, Walcott, and Abbot—and his devotion to
duty merits the highest praise.

Respectfully submitted.

C. G. Aspor, Secretary.
APPENDIX 1
REPORT OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the condi-
tion and operations of the United States National Museum for the
fiscal year ended June 30, 1928:

The total appr “peusioee for the maintenance of the National
Museum for this period amounted to $650,960, an increase of $41,640
above the appropriation for the year 1927. ‘This additional amount
included an increase of $23,510 under the principal appropriation,
that for preservation of collections, which provided funds for a one-
rate promotion for the staff in accordance with efficiency attained in
the performance of duty as indicated in the annual survey and rating
of the efficiency of all employees, the total sum required for this being
$19,070. An additional $2,280 was required for additions to the
salary roll through reallocations of certain. employees to higher
grades made by the Personnel Classification Board. The remainder,
which came to $2,160, was allotted to miscellaneous purchase of speci-
mens required for the collections, to supplies, and to additional ‘ex-
penditures for freight. The small amount added for the purchase
of specimens has been especially important since it has brought to us
material of great scientific value, and has filled gaps of long standing
in our collections. An increase of $2,770 under the appropriation for
furniture and fixtures allowed $770 for new curtains in certain exhi- |
bition halls in the Natural History Building, and $2,000 for storage
cases, drawers for insect collections, and additional jars, vials, trays,
and other devices for general use in the handling and safeguarding
of our tremendous collections. The addition of $1,360 in the appro-
priation for heating and lighting permitted a one-rate increase to
employees with proper efficiency standing on the salary roll in ques-
tion. Of $1,000 added to the amount available for building repairs,
$60 was for a minor promotion to one employee, and $940 was provided
to cover, in part, replacement and repair on the concrete roadway on
the east side of the Natural History Building. The amount of $500
additional allotted to the sum for printing and binding raised this
sum to $44,000. <A special appropriation of $12,500 covered the con-
struction of a gallery over the west end of the great hall housing the
collections in the Division of Plants. Construction of this gallery,
which was completed during the year, practically doubled the avail-

29
30 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

able space for plants, and besides permitting proper expansion of the
collection, allowed for the incorporation of over 200,000 specimens,
the accumulation of a number of years that it had been impossible
to place in their proper series because of lack of space. ‘This gallery,
next to the provision for increase of salaries, has been the most im-
portant improvement that addition to appropriations has permitted
during the year.

The increase in salaries, the first promotion of the kind that has
been possible since the classification act was put into effect on July 1,
1924, has resulted in appreciably higher morale on the part of the
personnel and has reacted most advantageously to the Museum. All
promotions have been well merited.

To look ahead to a matter not properly included in this report but
one pertinent in the present connection, an additional one-rate in-
crease was provided by Congress for the fiscal year 1929, which, with
the Welch Act put in effect at the same time, has placed the staff of
the National Museum generally in greatly improved economic posi-
tion and has thus reacted in producing greater efficiency in the
performance of the work of the Museum. To carry out the full intent
of the reclassification act there is required a further general increase
in pay to place those of the staff with proper efficiency rating at the
average rates of their respective grades. It must be noted also that
there are several groups, particularly among the skilled mechanics,
where the Personnel Classification Board, recognizing that the per-
sons in question were being paid at lower rates than in other Gov-
ernment departments, has given reallocations to Iigher positions.
Promotions should be given to these persons to give them proper com-
pensation. Further additions to the appropriations, so that the vari-
ous groups of salaries may attain the averages provided by law, are
earnestly urged, as such action is eminently and properly the reward
for conscientious performance of duty on the part of the staff and
will react wholly to the advantage of the Institution.

The question of additional personnel is one of considerable impor-
tance, as there is growing necessity for further workers, both on the
scientific staff and in the clerical force. The National Museum,
through the many years of its growth, has developed along broad
lines and now maintains extensive collections. In several groups in
these collections there is now no specialist in charge, and in a number
of divisions assistants should be provided for the older men now in
charge who should be training others in proper methods to carry on
when they themselves are gone. Each year additional cataloguers,
stenographers, typists, and laborers must be employed temporarily to
assist in the work of the Museum. It is often difficult to secure em-
ployees properly equipped for this work on short notice and, further,
it is not always possible to give the considerable training that may be
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 31

required for proper performance of duty in a period of limited
employment. At the present time men of high scientific training
must take time for routine work that could properly, and with
advantage to the public welfare, be done for them by others.

Congestion in our present housing space increases annually in
spite of careful effort to select for preservation only the objects that
must be kept and to eliminate all material that is not permaneatly
desired. As an asset to the Nation the collections of the National
Museum should be made as complete as possible, since in many
instances, unless the materials are secured now, the opportunity to
obtain them will be lost. Growth in our collections is therefore
steady and must continue. In the last 10 years the exhibition halls,
particularly those devoted to arts and industries and to history, have
become increasingly more crowded. Exhibits in the Natural His-
tory Building have been curtailed to make way for historical objects,
and space designed for anthropology has been preempted for dis-
play of objects of art. All this has led, in many instances, to
decided incongruity in association of exhibits, which can not be
avoided under present conditions. Conditions are equally bad in the
laboratories. In the entire Museum the collection of plants is now
practically the only research unit that*has available the requisite
amount of floor space. To provide room in other laboratories there
has been gradual utilization of halls designed originally for passage-
ways, until now cases for the storage of study specimens line the
walls and to some extent close these passage lanes. The situation
is such that the limit of expansion is practically reached, and a
number of divisions are already urgently in need of more space to
house their valuable research collections. Though to one with casual
knowledge it might appear that one or two examples of each kind of
thing is sufficient, it is actually true that good series are imperative
for the scientific investigations of the workers to whom we look for
increase in our knowledge. It is found on close examination that
insects, birds, mammals, fossils of all kinds, plants, mollusks, or, in
fact, any other natural materials or organisms, differ from each
other individually in form, color, dimension, and structure, so that a
series of specimens is required to show the characteristics of a single
species. Such series must be assembled in our national collections,
where they will be available for the workers of the Nation, so that
inevitably our research materials, as well as our exhibitions, increase
and demand more room.

Further housing for the National Museum, as indicated in the
preceding paragraph, is imperative. The collections in arts and
industries are found at present in the old museum, a building that
when completed in 1881 was a model of its kind for the world, but
\

yy?

_.9%

~ which,

32 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928.

with modern progress is as much out of date as vehicular trans-
portation of the same period when compared with our modern
facilities. This building should be replaced now by one of modern
design, that will afford a much greater area of floor space and will
have halls properly designed for modern needs in exhibition. The
new building should occupy the site now given to the one in use, but
sho id cover considerably more ground to provide the needed space.
Modern-advances in commerce and industry are tremendous and so
overshadow their modest beginnings that these will be completely
forgotten by coming generations unless the essential steps in their
development are Leena The various stages of growth in all
branches of transportation, engineering, and commerce are of ines-
timable value in affording material stages on which further advances
may be made, to say nothing of their educational importance in their
effect. on the minds of our modern youth. They must be carefully
preserved for this purpose.

When a national gallery of art to house our wonderful art col-
lections shall be constructed the removal of these will free a certain
amount of space in the Natural History Building, but the area left
vacant will be automatically absorbed by the natural-history exhibits

“retired onl jinally to make room for art. There should be added

to the,
_one on.

ral History Building two wings, one on the east and
rest, in accordance with the original plan of the architect,
th-the same height as the present building, will give needed
space for our laboratories.and will house our tremendously valuable
research collections. In some divisions, as, for example, the rooms
assigned to the collections of insects, working conditions have become

.almost intolerable because of the increasing number of persons neces-

sarily engaged in important research, so that now in some instances
four persons must depend upon the light from a single window for
illumination in work requiring delicate examination under the micro-

scope. Additional, gpace in this building would provide for a more

fogical arrangementgef many exhibits and a remodeling of some in
a more modern form, which can not be attempted at present, and
would also give relief from present crowding, which often is tiring
and confusing to the visitor.

-The division of history, a division of the greatest importance to
every patriotic American, with its wonderful series of memorabilia
of those to whom we owe our country and our freedom, its collections
of weapons, war materials, historical objects of all kinds, its great
series of coins and stamps, at present has its exhibits distributed
through the Natural History and the Arts and Industries Buildings
in a manner which does not permit orderly display. There should
be provided for it a separate building, where its treasures may be
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 33

adequately shown for the admiration and:reverence of our people for
generations to come. Certainly all these historic objects, not to be
_ duplicated at any price, should be displayed under the best of condi-
_ tions as a monument to those whom they represent and to the earlier
generations of those who have built our Nation.

With. increase.in material wealth in the United States there has
been developed a steadily growing class of persons who turn to intel-
lectual labors for occupation and aesthetic enjoyment. Many of
these, carefully trained in some one of the sciences, make definite
contributions to knowledge. Others deeply interested care rather to
assist in the labors of others than to make definite additions through
personal efforts. Al are of tremendous assistance in carrying on
the important work of science. All have a sincere belief in the value
of scientific research in all.branches and are deeply interested in
furthering it in any way possible. When it is remembered that these
persons, through their economic situation, make large and definite
annual contribution to the support of the Federal Government
through the sums that they pay in the form of income tax, it must be
admitted that.1t is only logical to take a small part of this contribu-
tion and devote it to the maintenance, growth, and preservation of
the valuable materiais found in the National Museum.

COLLECTIONS

Additions to the collections of the National. Museum during the
fiscal year have reached the tremendous total of 832,912 separate
objects, the largest number: coming to the department of biology.
Material sent fhe examination and report amounted to 1,481 lots, in-
cluding many thousands of specimens. Gifts to schools and other
educational institutions:‘numbered 6,267 specimens, while in exchange
there were sent out 33,724 specimens, these being duplicate materials
for which other things were received in return. More than 25,000
»- specimens of all kinds, many of them highly valuable, were loaned
for study to specialists and other workers outside of Washington.

Following is a. digest of the more important accessions for the year
in the various departments and divisions of the Museum:

_ » Anthropology—During field work on Nunivak Island, ‘Mince Mr.

- Henry B. Collins, jr., and Mr. T. Dale Stewart collected an excellent
series-of ivory, bone, stones, pottery, and wooden objects that give a
_ comprehensive index to the culture of the Eskimo on this igiand. Mr.
Oscar T. Crosby presented a series of specimens, personally collected,
representing the ethnology of the African bushmen.

‘Among valuable collections which have been received through the
field work of the Bureau of American Ethnology there may be men-
. cone especially a series of materials from a basket-maker village
34 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

site and a near-by pueblo in Chaco Canyon, N. Mex. There may be
noted also a small collection of stone graters, pestles, celts, and a con-
siderable number of clay figurines collected personally by the assist-
ant secretary in the mountains of the Dominican Republic, and a
further series of earthenware vessels and stone and bone ornaments
secured by Mr. Neil M. Judd from Pueblo Bonito and presented by
the National Geographic Society.

Through work financed by Dr. W. L. Abbott, Mr. H. W. Krieger
secured an excellent series of bone and shell implements and pot-
sherds near Samana Bay, Dominican Republic. Excellent series of
prehistoric stone implements were secured by exchange with the
Indian Museum in Calcutta, and the National Museum of Australia.
Further accessions from the Old World include collections made in
France by Dr. George Grant MacCurdy and deposited by the Archee-
ological Society of Washington.

The Division of Physical Anthropology obtained a fine collection
of human skeletal material from the work of Mr. Collins and Mr.
Stewart on Nunivak Island already mentioned, and a further collec-
tion of skulls and skeletons from the west coast of Florida obtained
by Mr. Collins, in work financed by the Bureau of American Eth-
nology.

Biology.—Specimens received in the department of biology during
the fiscal year reached the enormous total of 680,350, a large increase
over the preceding year due principally to certain extensive private
collections that have come to the Museum. Chief among these is the
C. F. Baker collection of insects, formed by Doctor Baker, dean of
the College of Agriculture in Los Banos, P. I., and left by him on his
death to the Museum. In order to obtain this material it was neces-
sary to send Mr. R. A. Cushman, of the Bureau of Entomology, as-
sistant custodian of hymenoptera in the Museum, to Manila to pack
the collection and see that it was transferred safely to Washington,
an arrangement that was possible through the cooperation of the
United States Department of Agriculture. The series included is one
of the finest ever assembled of the insects of the Philippine Islands,
and is also rich in general East Indian material. The C. G. Lloyd
mycological collection, comprising 75,000 specimens of the larger
fungi, was transferred to the Smithsonian Institution during the year
by the trustees of the Lloyd estate. There are included in addition
10,000 photographic negatives of fungi, a voluminous series of notes
pertaining to the specimens, and a comprehensive card catalogue.
The whole comprises one of the largest and most important collec-
tions in the group ever brought together. Among other accessions,
the Charles W. Hargitt hydroid collection is especially important, as
't represents the lifetime work of this well-known specialist.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 35

Through Dr. Hugh M. Smith, associate curator in zoology, director
of fisheries of Siam, there came important collections of mammals,
birds, reptiles, fishes, insects, mollusks, and miscellaneous inverte-
brates. Further series came from China through the courtesy of Col.
R. 8. Clark from the work of Mr. A. de C. Sowerby, of especial im-
portance being some excellent series of fishes. Through the coopera-
tion of Mr. William N. Beach, Mr. Marcus Daly, and Mr. Osgood
Field, the Museum was able to send Mr. W. L. Brown, of the staff in
taxidermy, to the Sudan, where he obtained a valuable set of mam-
mals, birds, and fishes of importance in our collections. A group of
gazelles obtained will be mounted for the exhibition halls. Eight
female gorilla skulls were acquired by purchase.

Mr. B. H. Swales, honorary assistant curator of birds, whose death
came during the year, contributed 4 genera and 26 species of birds
new to the Museum collections. The collections of Doctor Wetmore,
assistant secretary, made last year when traveling under the Swales
fund in Hispaniola, included series of birds, reptiles, and amphibians,
and other zoological collections of a miscellaneous nature. The work
of Mr. Gerrit S. Miller, jr., curator of mammals, who visited the
Dominican Republic at his own expense, and that of Mr. A. J. Poole,
of the division of mammals, who carried on extensive explorations in
the caves of Haiti, under funds provided by Dr. W. L. Abbott,
brought important collections of bones of extinct animals and birds,
as well as excellent series of existiny reptiles and amphibians and
other specimens of value.

Among accessions in the division of insects there may be mentioned
the gift of the George M. Greene collection of coleoptera, including
nearly 50,000 specimens, and representing many years of careful and
painstaking work. Through Dr. R. C. McGregor, the Philippine
Bureau of Science has forwarded large series of Philippine insects,
while other important additions to these collections have come through
the work of the Bureau of Entomology. Prof. T. D. A. Cockerell
presented a collection of insects from Russia and Siberia.

The Amory-Bowman Labrador expedition, arranged through co-
operation with Mr. Copley S. Amory, brought collections from the
coast of Labrador, including a comprehensive set of arthropods. The
Bureau of Fisheries, United States Department of Commerce, trans-
ferred 5,467 specimens of marine invertebrates, the most important
being from the Albatross expeditions of 1907-1909, which have been
in the hands of specialists for study to this time, and a series of
crustacea procured from Harvey C. McMillan.

Through the Frances Lea Chamberlain fund the division of mol-
lusks obtained over 50,000 specimens of land shells from Jamaica,
which were collected by C. R. Orcutt. Dr. Charles de la Torre, of
36 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

Habana, Cuba, presented 185 lots of mollusks, mostly ieee of new
species.

In the division of plants important accessions have included 9,000
specimens collected in Honduras for the Museum by Mr. Paul C.
Standley; more than 5,000 specimens, mainly grasses, transferred
from the Bureau of Plant Industry; and nearly 3,000 from Formosa
and Sumatra, representing a complete set of the material ‘collected
by Prof. H. H. Bartlett, collaborator of the Museum, under the joint
auspices of the National Museum and the University of Michigan.

Geology—Under the Roebling fund, established last year, there
have been secured by purchase examples of four new species of min-
erals; some rare minerals from Franklin Furnace, N. J., now difficult
to procure; a large mass of strongly magnetic lodestone from Utah,
which attracts much attention in our exhibition halls; and a number
of beautiful minerals for the exhibition and study series. These
constitute highly important additions to our collections which other-
wise it would have been impossible to procure, illustrating the value
of special funds under the Smithsonian Institution for the purchase
of needed specimens. Fait

There may be mentioned also a 65-carat cut gem of alexandrite, one .
of the finest in existence, secured under the Chamberlain fund,
together with a fine Mexican opal, a brown diamond, and some other
beautiful minerals. Miss Nina Lea, grandaughter of Isaac Lea,
founder of the Isaac Lea collection, presented an unusual series of
cut stones of sphene. Mr. William P. Pitts, of Sunnyvale, Calif.,
presented five varieties of cut semiprecious stones, with examples of
the rough minerals from which they were derived.

iene field work in Mexico by Dr. W.. F..¥Foshag, assistant
curator of mineralogy and petrology, working in cooperation with
Harvard University, groups of gypsum crystals, sets of valuable
ores, and many other important specimens were collected.

Through the bequest of Dr. Frank Springer, late associate in
paleontology, the Museum has received the Frank Springer collection
of fossil echinoderms, together with a very complete library on this
subject. The collection, considered the most complete assemblage of
fossil echinoderms in the world, comprises upward of 75,000 speci-
mens, including many types. Ww ith it has come the Springer fund,
established by the donor to promote work in connection with his
collection.

A second gift of value is.the private collection of Paleozoic He sui:
brates from Dr. August F. Foerste, collaborator in paleontology,
containing types of many species. The field work of Mr. E. R. Pohl
in Michigan and ‘Ontario yielded important series of Ordovician,
Devonian, and Mississippian fossils.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 37

Transfers from the United States Geological Survey have included
collections of Upper Cambrian fossils secured by T. S. Lovering in
Colorado, and other important collections.

The division of vertebrate paleontology acquired by purchase the
skeleton of an extinct lizard, Clidastes, and one of the rare three-
toed horses from the Miocene of Wyoming. A further collection of
fossil footprints came through Mr. Gilmore’s third visit to the
Grand. Canyon, while work in Florida by Dr. J. W. Gidley has
brought important material from the Pleistocene deposits of that
State.

The types of five species of fossil birds described recently by
Doctor Wetmore have been deposited by the Colorado Museum of
Natural History.

Arts and industries —The single object of greatest popular interest
that has come to the National Museum in many years is Colonel
Lindbergh’s airplane, the Spirit of St. Lowis, deposited with the
Smithsonian Institution, which has drawn large crowds since the
first day of its installation... There may be mentioned also the Pan
American good-will flyer San Francisco, transferred from the War
Department, with the Army Curtiss racer airplane which won the
Pulitzer and Schneider races of 1925. A Curtiss pusher type air-
plane of the period 1909-1914 is also an important addition. For
the land transportation section there was secured a White-Stanhope
steam automobile of 1901-2. Mr. Guy M. Gest, who piloted the first
electric railway car operated in Baltimore in 1885, presented a series
of photographic enlargements of this vehicle from his original nega-
tives. The Hudson River Day Line presented two steamship models,
one of Fulton’s steamboat of 1807, and one of the Hendrich-Hudson
built in 1906 and still in service. |

The New Haven Clock Co. presented to the section of horology 75
objects illustrating ancient and modern watch and clock movements,
together with an exhibit demonstrating how standard time is ob-
tained, the whole constituting a visual history of American clock
and watch making since 1775.

The Eddystone Cement Co., through Mr. E. R. Wilmer, pre-
sented a 5-foot section of an ancient Roman aqueduct built in 86
A. D. in Germany. The structure, which resembles rough concrete,
is in a remarkable state of preservation, being apparently as strong
to-day as ever.

The division of textiles received further exhibits dealing with
rayon or artificial silk. The Crompton & Knowles Loom Works pre-
sented an automatic gingham loom of the latest type. The Bureau
of Agricultural Economics of the Department of Agriculture trans-
ferred three sets of official standards of the United States for grades

24034—29——4
38 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

of wool. A series of the new print silks, prepared by H. R. Mallin-
son & Co., was another important addition.

In the section of organic chemistry there was received an exhibit
dealing with pyrolin, manufactured by the Du Pont Viscoloid Co.,
and from the Shawinigan Products Corporation a series of chemical
specimens obtained from limestone and coke. An additional exhibit
dealing with disease-carrying insects was prepared in the Museum
during the year and added to the hygiene and sanitation collection.

In the section of wood technology arrangement was made for the
loan of a collection of walking sticks belonging to Mr. Rudolph
Block, the collection consisting of the interesting woods of the world
prepared in the form of canes, a series unique so far as is known.

In the division of graphic arts the Misses Dodge presented a set
of 24 engravings by Moseley Isaac Danforth, one of America’s fore-
most engravers. Through exchange the division obtained a copy of
a book by Dard Hunter entitled “ Primitive Paper Making,” made
entirely by hand. Mr. Wiliam Edwin Rudge donated four ex-
amples of microform printing, including a volume of Mark Twain’s
The Innocents Abroad, in which 93,000 werds are printed on 13
pages measuring 534 by 384 inches. A collection of the work of
Henry Fox Talbot was presented by a descendant, Miss M. Talbot,
O. B. E., of Lacock Abbey, Wiltshire, England. Mr. I. N. Phelps
Stokes presented a series of specimens of considerable historic impor-
tance relating to Muybridge’s work on motion pictures.

The Radio Corporation of America deposited the apparatus used
in receiving the first photoradiogram across the Atlantic—a picture
of President Coolidge sent from London and received on November
27, 1924, in the office of the company in New York City.

History —Mrs. Agnes K. Brent, through the Missouri Historical
Society, gave a silk flag presented by the ladies of Nashville, Tenn.,
to the Nashville Battalion during the Creek War in 1813. The naval
collections were increased by a series of interesting relics of Rear
Admiral Charles D. Sigsbee, given by Mrs. Nellie C. Gunther.

From the Treasury Department there was received a series of
United States gold, silver, and bronze coins struck in the mints of the
Government in 1927; also a series of ancient Roman and modern
European and oriental coins. Mr. Isaac M. Weills presented a col-
lection of American and European coins and tokens.

The philatelic collection was increased by more than 27,000 speci-
mens, in part transferred from the Post Office Department and in
part presented by Mr. Weills, with the coins mentioned above. Two
United States 5-cent stamps found in the seam folds of the mail bag
carried by Commander Byrd on his flight to France in the airplane
America were also placed in this collection.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 39

The Precancel Stamp Society, through Mr. Walter L. Gates, con-
tinued its development of the collection of precancel stamps, a series
augmented by gifts from Mr. Gates personally.

To the Loeb collection of chemical types 102 samples were added
during the year, bringing the total number of specimens to 1,092.
There is assurance of hearty cooperation in developing this collection.

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD WORK

Through explorations financed by special funds made available by
friends of the Institution, through a variety of cooperative arrange-
ments with other organizations, and to some extent from funds pro-
vided under the Museum appropriations, there have come many
valuable specimens and much new information in various fields of
science. A brief résumé of some of the important explorations and
field work under the National Museum follows:

In the Alaskan field, Mr. Henry B. Collins, jr., and Mr. T. Dale
Stewart, under funds supplied by the American Association for the
Advancement of Science, the Council of Learned Societies, and the
United States National Museum, conducted field work during the
summer of 1927 on Nunivak Island, on the Bering Sea coast of
Alaska. Explorations of several ancient village sites were carried
out and anthropological measurements of the natives and observa-
tions on their social life were made. In addition much anthropo-
logical material was gathered during landings along the coast on the
journey to the site of the season’s investigations. The material col-
lected includes an excellent series of skeletal remains and numerous
valuable objects of material culture.

Mr. Herbert W. Krieger, through a grant from the National
Academy of Sciences, and funds supplied by the Bureau of American
Ethnology, visited the old site at Bonasila, Alaska, for remains that
had attracted Doctor Hrdlicka’s attention the year before. Unfore-
seen high water in the Yukon prevented complete examination, but
important information and specimens dealing with ancient Eskimos
were obtained. He also collected ethnologica from Eskimo in several
villages on the Yukon. During this same season Mr. Krieger con-
tinued archeological investigations along the Columbia and Snake
Rivers, bringing in many specimens, some of which, from the Snake,
appear to represent an outlying site of Pueblo Indian culture.

Mr. Neil M. Judd, on detached detail, worked for the seventh field
season at Pueblo Bonito, in Chaco Canyon, N. Mex., as director of
the National Geographie Society’s archeological exploration of
that ancient pueblo. Through the interest of the society there has
been uncovered and set in order for inspection of the public one
of the largest pueblos of the prehistoric period as it stood perhaps
1,000 years ago. Mr. Judd was occupied this season principally in
40) ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

obtaining final data for incorporation in his report. The investiga-
tions as a whole have given extensive and valuable series of objects
dealing with comparatively late pueblo. culture, which through the
generous gift of the National Geographic Society have greatly en-
hanced the Museum collections in the pueblo culture of the Southwest.
At the close of the fiscal year Mr. Judd was in-the field for the
Bureau of American Ethnology, examining caves in Russell County,
Ky., where textiles and other interesting specimens had been exhumed.
Dr. Ales Hrdlicka, traveling partly under a grant from'the Smith-
sonian Institution and partly at personal expense, was in Europe

for seven weeks in the fall of 1927 for the purpose of viewing the

latest discoveries of early man. He examined sites of important
finds in southern France and then proceeded to Belgium and later
to Germany, where he visited the localities in the Neander Valley
typical for the race of Neanderthal.man. In southern Moravia
he investigated the area that had recently given important finds
in Aurignacian man, and continued then to hae for work on the
material accumula a there in the Museum of Natural Histor y and

to London for examination of the collections in*the College of Phy-'

sicians and Surgeons. -While in London he was the recipient of the
Huxley medal of the Royal Society for his extensive investigations
and researches in anthropology and delivered the Huxley lecture on
“The Neanderthal Phase of Man.”

Dr. Walter Hough in the early fall of 1927 examined for the
Bureau of American Ethnology a large burial mound at Indian
Mound, Tenn., to determine the type of slab-box burial. He also
visited near-by village sites, flint quarries, and burial grounds, obtain-
ing a considerable amount of material. In one of the village sites on
the Cumberland River there were obtained numerous shells oH mol-
lusks of a species now extinct in that stream.

Mr. H. B. Collins, jr., during January, 1928, visited for the Bureau

of American Ethnology areas near Fort Myers, Fla., where mounds of

the Calusa Indian type were reported. He atta skeletal remains."

of considerable importance with respect to the racial identity of this
people, who, though they existed within historic times, have become
extinct and are comparatively little known.
In PREP ay: 1928,,Mz. H. W. Krieger, under’ funds provid led by
Dr. W. L. Abbott, Pee to the see una Bay region of the north-
eastern coast of the Dominican Republic, and oe car ried. on
archeological investigations until April, working with Mr. G.'S.
Miller, jr., whose interest in this matter will. be discussed in a later
paragraph. Mr. Krieger visited a number ‘of caves in the San
Lorenzo Bay section, excavating extensive middens found therein, and
obtaining much information of value. The middens, composed prin-
cipally of shells and other kitchen refuse, were in places from 4 to 8

ee eee ey ne ae ele hn et Se TI Le ee re te a Oe

ee

a i
“REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 4]

feet in thickness, and contained artifacts of various kinds. Follow-
ing this, two Arawak village sites at Anadel and the mouth of the
Rio San Juan on the Samana Peninsula, whose location had been
indicated by Doctor Abbott from earlier observations, were excavated
carefully with the recovery of many articles of scientific importance.
Officials of the Dominican Republic cooperated most courteously in
furthering this work, which it is expected will be continued in the
coming year.

The travels of Gabb in the seventies of the last century brought to
Washington a few bones of curious mammals from the caves of San
Lorenzo in the Dominican Republic, to which have been added fur-
ther specimens obtained within recent years by Dr. W. L. Abbott.
In May, 1927, Assistant Secretary Wetmore in travels in this region
observed extensive midden deposits in these caves still untouched that
gave promise of further material of importance. Mr. G. 8. Miller,
jr., curator of mammals, deeply interested in the extinct mammals of
the island, visited this area at his own expense in. February and
March, 1928, accompanied by Mrs. Miller. As the excavations to be
made were also of great archeological interest, Mr. H. W. Krieger,
as already stated, was detailed to conduct that phase of the work
through funds provided by Dr. W. L. Abbott. These joint investi-
gations proved of great importance as there were obtained through
them extensive series of bones of mammals and certain birds long ex-
tinct, from which there will come fuller understanding of their form
and structure. The work was continued at the mouth of the Rio San
Juan and at Anadel on the Samana Peninsula, resulting in additional
osteological specimens of importance. The material obtained is now
being studied.

Through the further interest of Dr. W. L. Abbott, Mr. Arthur J.
Poole, of the division of mammals, was occupied from December 8,
1927, to March 21, 1928, in a thorough exploration of the well-known
caves near San Michel, Haiti, obtaining large collections of bones of
the extinct animals which occur in these deposits. It was particu-
larly important that these specimens be collected at this time, since
the earth on the cave floors was being removed for use as fertilizer,
and in a short time all material of scientific value would have been
destroyed. As incidental to this work Mr. Poole secured considerable
collections of herpetological material and other zoological specimens.
Reconnaissance of other caverns may indicate desirability of further
work in these deposits from which many bones of mammals and birds
have been obtained.

Mr. W. L. Brown, of the taxidermist staff of the Museum, was de-
tailed to accompany an expedition to the Sudan organized by Mr.
William N. Beach to secure large mammals, The original party con-
42 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

sisted of Mr. and Mrs. Beach, Mr. Marcus Daly, and Mr. Osgood
Field. Sailing from Hoboken on January 4 on the S. 8S. George
Washington, Mr. Brown and Mr. Field proceeded to Cherbourg,
France, and from there continued by rail to Marseilles, where they
joined the rest of the party and took steamer to Port Sudan, continu-
ing from there by train to Khartoum. In a chartered boat, the Lord
Oromer, they navigated as far as Malakal, about 50 miles up the
White Nile, where the sudden illness of Mr. Beach made it necessary
to return to Khartoum and prevented his continuing with the party.
The others proceeded, working the territory between Khartoum and
Rejaf. During 20 days in the field Mr. Daly, Mr. Field, and Mr.
Brown collected many scientific specimens, as well as material for
an exhibition group of gazelles, with all necessary accessories of
earth, ant hills, thorn bushes, and other vegetation. Apart from the
specimens obtained for the Museum collections, Mr. Brown observed
in a wild state, elephants, lions, antelopes, hippos, wart hogs, buffa-
loes, giraffes, zebras, several cats, monkeys, crocodiles, and birds of
many varieties, including the shoe-bill stork—experience of great
profit to a taxidermist. He returned to Washington in April. The
collections brought home included 49 mammals, 83 bird skins, 103
alcoholic birds and skeletons, and a large number of reptiles and
fishes.

In November, 1927, following a stay in this country, Dr. Hugh M.
Smith, director of fisheries of Siam and associate curator in zoology
of the National Museum, returned to Bangkok, where he resumed
active collecting of zoological materials. Word has already come of
large gatherings of specimens.

In spite of the political situation in China, Mr. A. de C. Sowerby,
under the auspices of Col. R. S. Clark, continued his researches and
collecting. A large consignment of reptiles, fishes, and marine
invertebrates has come from him during the year.

Dr. D. C. Graham, who has forwarded such splendid collections
from western Szechuan, China, returned in the late fall of 1927 to
Suifu, where he began at once his zoological studies. The first fruits
of his endeavors have been received and include interesting collec-
tions of birds, reptiles, and invertebrates.

Dr. J. M. Aldrich, associate curator of insects, who at his own
expense was in the field at the end of June, 1927, continued entomo-
logical collecting during the months of July and August at various
points in the West, eastern Nevada, the higher parts of the Sierra
Nevada in California, and the Yellowstone Park, which proved to be
localities of greatest interest. While the principal object of his work
was the collecting of Diptera, valuable material in other orders of
insects was secured.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 43

Mr. James O. Maloney, aide in the division of marine invertebrates,
while on a vacation tour at his own expense, secured many valuable
specimens of terrestrial isopods in Virginia, Tennessee, Alabama,
and Mississippi.

At the invitation of Mr. Copley Amory, of Washington, D. C.,
Mr. and Mrs. Paul Bowman of George Washington University, and
Doctor Bartsch, curator of mollusks, proceeded in June, 1927, to Mr.
Amory’s summer home on Matamek River on the north shore of the
Gulf of St. Lawrence, where Doctor Bartsch initiated plans for a
study of the local flora and fauna which were continued by Mr. and
Mrs. Bowman until September. Mr. Amory placed a laboratory pro-
vided with the needed equipment for research and other facilities
at the disposal of the party, and was ever ready to give the benefit
of his knowledge of local conditions acquired through many years
of residence, as well as personal help. In addition to marine dredg-
ing, careful collecting was done along the beaches, in the shallow
lagoons and tide pools, and in the inland pools, lakes, and streams
of the region for fresh-water organisms. Collections were secured
of the ectoparasites and endoparasites of fishes and careful analyses
of the stomach contents of fishes were made. Mr. Bowman devoted
time to the plants, covering all groups from marine and fresh-water
algae to the flowering groups. Serial cores of the peat bogs were
taken and the samples shipped to Washington for microscopic study.
A large amount of material, both animals and plants, was collected
which is to be worked up later.

In continuation of Cerion studies mentioned in previous reports,
Doctor Bartsch visited the laboratory of the Carnegie Institution
at the Tortugas from August 16 to 27, 1927. The year had been an
unusually dry one at the Tortugas, affecting adversely some of the
groups of Cerions under observation. Visits were made to all the
colonies of Cerions in the Tortugas, and material-collected for study
in Washington. <A series of specimens of Cerion viaregis from the
Tortugas and Cerion incanum from Key West, and of a hybrid
Cerion from Newfound Harbor Key, were gathered and sent to Prof.
Edward C. Jeffrey, Harvard University, for a comparative study
of their chromosomes.

Botanical field work during the year 1927-28 has been conducted
in Honduras by Mr. Paul C. Standley, associate curator; in the
islands of Formosa and Sumatra by Prof. H. H. Bartlett, col-
laborator; in Texas by the late Dr. J. N. Rose, associate curator; in
Oregon and Washington by Dr. A. S. Hitchcock, custodian of grasses;
and in California by Mr. J. R. Swallen, assistant in the grass herba-
rium. Mr. Standley’s botanical exploration in Honduras was made
possible by the generous cooperation of Prof. Oakes Ames, of Har-
vard University, and the United Fruit Co. Work began in December
44 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

and was conducted from headquarters at Tela, being mainly confined
to the lowlands.and adjacent low mountains along the north coast.
During four months upward of 9,000 specimens were collected, these
representing the largest single botanical collection ever procured in
Honduras. The material is of unusual interest, since it contains many
new specimens and others not known previously from that region.
Professor Bartlett’s field) work in Formosa and Sumatra, financed
from personal funds, was conducted under the joint auspices of the
National Museum and the University of Michigan. The period of
exploration in Formosa, though short, yielded specimens of many
endemic species, chiefly from the higher mountains, which were not
previously represented in American herbaria. In Sumatra the field
work was continued from December, 1926, to the middle of July,
1927, and resulted in the accumulation of a large collection consisting
of about 2,400 numbers, mostly represented by 5 to 10 specimens each.
The exploration included the ascent of several. volcanoes and lesser
mountains and a reconnaissance of the Asahan region. The impor-
tance of this collection can scarcely be overestimated in view of the
rapid destruction of the Sumatran jungle, whose components are
still very imperfectly known.

In connection with current investigations of native plants as
potential sources of rubber, the late Dr. J. N. Rose, associate curator
of plants, was detailed to field work in Texas during October and
November, 1927, through funds supplied by Mr. Thomas A. Edison.
From the economi¢ standpoint the results were chiefly negative, but
a considerable collection of herbarium material was obtained for use
in other current studies, chiefly an investigation of the families.
Caesalpinaceae and Mimosaceae. In this work Doctor Rose was ac-
companied by Mr. Paul G. Russell, on detail from the Bureau of
Plant Industry.

Field studies of grasses for the United States Department of Agri-
culture were conducted during the summer of 1927 in the Pacific
coast region of the United States by Dr. A. S. Hitchcock, custodian of
the section of grasses, and Mr. J. R. Swallen, assistant in the grass
herbarium. Doctor Hitchcock spent about 10 weeks in the mountains
of Oregon and Washington, in cooperation with the Forest Service,
and a similar period was spent in California by Mr. Swallen. In
both cases the object of the investigation was to determine the amount
and character of variation in the grass species due to environmental
and other factors, and to discover differential characters for the vari-
ous species. Excellent collections of illustrative material were ob-
tained. At the present time Mr. Swallen is absent on a similar field
trip in the southwestern United States.

Under an allotment from the Roebling fund, Dr. W. F. Foshag
visited several mineral localities in the State of Sonora, Mexico. The
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY  - 45

chief point of interest was the Chispas mine, near Arispe, where Doc-
tor Foshag procured a series of the magnificent silver minerals found
there. During several days spent at Bisbee, Ariz., in collecting min-
—erals and examining material offered for sale, some very interesting
specimens were added to the collections. . In cooperation with the
‘mineralogical museum of Harvard University, and accompanied by
a representative of that institution, Dector Foshag spent three months
collecting minerals and examining mineral deposits in the States of
Guanajuato, Zacatecas, Durango, and Chihuahua, Mexico. <A consid-
erable amount of excellent exhibition and study material was ob-
tained, including groups of large gypsum crystals, a fine series of
lead and zinc minerals, and complete sets of ores and rocks from all
of the important mining districts visited. These will be used as the
basis of a report on these districts.

Drs. C. E. Resser and R. S. Bassler spent two ninth in the Rocky
Mountain region in a reexamination of certain Canadian sections for
stratigraphic details necessary for the completion of Doctor Walcott’s
unfinished manuscript summarizing the knowledge gained in his
years of extensive research. The area examined was covered by
motor and the researches were at various times greatly facilitated by
the cooperation of other geologists familiar with local sections. The
territory covered included the Wasatch Mountains, Yellowstone Na-
tional Park and the mountains immediately north, and the area along -
Newland Creek, Meagher County, Mont. Stops were also made in the
Little Belt Mountains. The main objective of the summer’s work,
however, was the general region of the Bow Valley, Canadian Rocky
Mounting: north and west of Banff, Alberta, and certain other locali-
ties well en from Doctor Walcott’ s investigations.

In cooperation with the Milwaukee Public Museum, Dr. Erwin
Pohl continued a detailed study of the little known but highly im-
portant stratigraphy of the Middle Paleozoic of the mid-EKastern and
Central States. The researches of the season covered portions of
eastern Wisconsin, southern Michigan, northern Ohio, and southern
Ontario. Nearly 2 tons of selected and beautifully preserved fossils
resulted from the trip.

Dr. Joseph A. Cushman, collaborator in paleontology, spent the
greater part of the summer of 1927 in a field trip through various
countries of western Europe primarily to secure collections of fossil
foraminifera from classic areas. He was highly successful in his
work, and as a result, large numbers of types will come to the Museum
upon the completion of his studies.

Late in the fiscal year Mr. Gilmore was detailed for an expedition
in the Two Medicine formation in Montana to search for dinosaur
and other vertebrate remains, with Mr. George F. Sternberg, who
has had long and varied experience in fossil collecting, as his assist-
46 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

ant. Incomplete reports to date indicate the finding of valuable
material. As the expedition will continue into the next fiscal year,
a detailed report will be given later.

Exploratory work in the Pleistocene was again taken up by Dr.
J. W. Gidley at Melbourne and other localities in Florida. The
expedition, which covered a little more than two months, was made
possible through the generosity of Mr. Childs Frick, who furnished
half of the funds necessary for carrying on the work, the remainder
coming from the Smithsonian Institution. Doctor Gidley was as-
sisted by Mr. C. P. Singleton, of Melbourne. Two principal prob-
lems involved in this research included the further search for evidence
on the contemporaneity of man with an extinct fauna in Florida, a
much-disputed question, and the collection of additional material for
the purpose of fixing more definitely the age of this fauna. The
results in both cases are regarded as highly satisfactory.

BUILDINGS AND EQUIPMENT

Minor repairs of various kinds have been required to keep the
buildings housing the Museum in proper condition during the year.
In the Natural History Building, woodwork of windows on the
ground and third floors was repainted, and the interior woodwork
on windows on the third floor was refinished. The ceiling and
walls in the bird range were pointed up and painted, and wooden
floors in rooms occupied by the division of mammals and the Bio-
logical Survey and in the office of the assistant secretary were refin-
ished. ‘Tin-lined gutters on the roofs were given a coat of metallic
and oil paint; broken glass in various windows was replaced; wooden
ladders were installed for use in inspecting the walls supporting the
dome on the attic floor, and down pipes leading from the roof were
repaired.

In the Arts and Industries Building metal roofs were repainted,
ventilating windows were repaired and provided with screens, and
wooden window frames and sash recoated with lead and oil paint.
The southwest range was repainted, as well as the gallery, and an
iron-pipe railing installed on the latter to replace a temporary guard
rail formerly in use. The composition floor of the reading room
in the library was covered with cork carpet. A wire screen parti-
tion was built on the third floor of the northeast pavilion to pre-
vent unauthorized persons from entering the Mechanical Technology
Laboratory; a concrete floor was laid about the mine exhibit in
the southwest pavilion; and sheet-iron hoods were made for radi-
ators in the Lace Hall to protect the walls from accumulation of dirt.

In the Smithsonian Building a hot-water system was installed;
stairs leading to the comfort rooms were repaired; the doors in the
disbursing agent’s office were remodeled; the east entrance vestibule
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 47

was repaired and painted; and doors in the storage room were made
fireproof by covering with sheet iron,

The exterior of the Aircraft Building was repainted and broken
glass replaced.

The work of replacement of the main portion of the concrete
service road east of the Natural History Building was continued,
18014 linear feet being laid during the year.

The power plant was in operation from September 21, 1927, until
May 29, 1928. The consumption of coal was 3,416 tons, an amount
in excess of that used in 1927. The average cost of coal was some-
what greater than for the preceding year, being $5.87 per ton. ‘The
Steamboat Inspection Service of the United States examined the
boilers during the summer and reported them in good condition,
stating that they complied with all regulations governing steam
boilers of this type. The elevators have been regularly inspected
by the District of Columbia inspector, and are now equipped with
all necessary safeguards to protect passengers. ‘The total electric
current produced amounted to 603,343 kilowatt-hours, manufactured
at a cost of 1.89 cents per kilowatt-hour, including interest on the
plant, depreciation, labor, and material. The engineer reports a
decided increase in efficiency in the production of electric current,
due to installation of new pistons in the operating engines, an essen-
tial increase, as the demands for light and power from all the build-
ings grow larger each year. The ice plant manufactured 354.3 tons
of ice at an average cost of $2.4114 per ton, which is slightly less than
the cost for the previous year.

During the year 23 exhibition cases and bases, 226 pieces of storage,
laboratory, and office furniture, and 2,178 drawers of various kinds
were added, practically all of these being manufactured in our shops.

MEETINGS AND RECEPTIONS

The lecture rooms and auditorium of the National Museum during
the present year were used for 115 meetings, which covered a wide
range of activities. Governmental agencies that utilized these re-
sources for hearings, meetings, lectures, and exhibitions of pic-
tures included the Commission of Fine Arts, the Graduate School
of the United States Department of Agriculture, the Federal Hor-
ticultural Board, the Forest Service, the Federal Radio Commission,
the Bureau of Plant Industry, and the Extension Service of the
United States Department of Agriculture.

Members of the Forest Service held a series of meetings during
the year dealing with various phases of their work. The Smithsonian
staff was convened on February 17, 1928, for an address with motion
48 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

pictures by Mr. Matthew W. Stirling on his expedition to New
Guinea, which was carried on in cooperation with the Smithsonian
Institution.

Scientific societies that met regularly in the Buildine included the
Entomological Society of Washington, the Society for Philosophical
Inquiry, the Anthropological Society of Washington, the American
Horticultural Society, and the Wild Flower Preservation Society.
Meetings were held also by the American Society of Mechanical
Engineers, aeronautic division; the Washington Society of Engi-
neers; the Potomac Garden Club; the Washington Society of Fine
Arts; the Washington Academy of Sciences; the Seymour Club; the
District. of Columbia Federation of Music Clubs; the District of
Columbia Library Association; the American Surgical Association:
and the American Association for Thoracic Surgery.

The American Ornithologists’ Union was convened for its annual
meeting from November 15 to 17, inclusive. The American Society
of Mammalogists held its annual meeting from April 11 to 13, and
the annual meeting of the American Society of Ichthyologists and
Herpetologists was convened on April 16.

The World Unity Foundation held a meeting on February 21 for
addresses by Herbert Adams Gibbons, of Princeton University, and
Felix Valyi, of Geneva, Switzerland. The Masonic Clubs of the Dis-
trict of Colaxabid met on February 22, under Gen. Amos A. Fries,
for an address by Judge James W. Witten. The American War
Mothers, District of Columbia Chapter, met on April 27 for addresses
by Representative Royal C. Johnson, of South Dakota, and Gen.
Amos A. Fries. Music was furnished by the United States Marine
Band.

The Fifth National Oratorial Contest was held in the auditorium
on May 10. The Fourth Annual National Spelling Bee came on May
22, with 25 boys and girls entered for the contest. The first prize was
won by Miss Betty Popa Noe atom the South Bend News-
Times.

The Veterans of Foreign Wars of the United States, Federal Post,
No. 821, United States Department of Agriculture, met on May 28
for addresses by R. W. Dunlap, Assistant Secretary, United States
Department of Agriculture, and Maj. Gen. Charles P. Summerall,
United States Army. Music was furnished by the Navy Band.

Other agencies using the auditorium or lecture room included the
Washington Times, the National Association of Retired Federal
Employees, classes from George Washington University and Howard
University, the Boy Scouts, groups from the public schools of the
District of Columbia, and the Smithsonian Relief Association.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 49

On January 24, 1928, at 11 a. m., there-was held a special memorial
meeting under direction of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian
Institution to commemorate the life and work of Charles Doolittle
Walcott, fourth Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. The gath-
ering was presided over by the chancellor of the Institution, the
Hon. William Howard Taft, Chief Justice of the United States.
Addresses were delivered by Dr. John C. Merriam, representing the
Carnegie Institution of Washington; Dr. Joseph 8. Ames, for the
National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics; Dr. George Otis
Smith, for the United States Geological Survey; and Dr. Charles G.
Abbot, for the National Academy of Sciences and the Smithsonian
Institution.

Special exhibitions in connection with various meetings included
an historical exhibit dealing with ornithology arranged in connection
with the convention of the American Ornithologists’ Union during
November, and one concerned with the work of American artists
portraying mammals in connection with the annual meeting of the
American Society of Mammalogists from April 1 to 15.

On the evening of February 28 members of the Geological Society
of Washington were given a special view of the geological collections
im the National Museum. From March 1 to 3 there was a special dis-
play of the work in nature study in the fourth to the eighth grades in
the District of Columbia schools arranged under Miss Esther W.
Scott, teacher of elementary science.

On June 21 there was a special meeting in the Arts and Industries
Building of a group of 100 persons representing the Chamber of
Commerce of St. Louis and other backers of the Lindbergh flight,
who assembled for a ceremony beneath Colonel Lindbergh’s plane,
the Spirit of St. Louis, when a silver medal commemorating the first
New York-to-Paris flight was presented to the Smithsonian Insti-
tution. The Secretary responded with a brief address, in which he
expressed the thanks of the Institution to those closest to Colonel
Lindbergh in his great venture for the privilege of exhibiting the
plane in the Museum halls.

MISCELLANEOUS

The exhibition halls of the National Museum were open during
the year on week days from 9 a. m. to 4.30 p. m., while in addition
the Natural History Building and the Arts and Industries Building
were opened Sunday afternoons from 1.30 to 4.30. From January
22 to the close of the year the exhibits in the Smithsonian Building:
were also opened to the public on Sunday afternoon for the hours
indicated, All buildings were closed on Christmas Day and New
Year’s Day.
50 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

Visitors to the Museum during the year totaled 1,413,386 persons,
an increase of more than 260,000 over the previous year, an excellent
index to the number of Americans who come to visit the National
Capital. Attendance in the several buildings was recorded as fol-
lows: Smithsonian, 175,190; Arts and Industries, 517,238; Natural
History, 618,773; Aircraft, 102,185.

The average daily attendance for week days was 3,901 and for
Sundays 3,761. The public has shown great appreciation of the
privilege of entrance to our exhibits on Sunday afternoons.

During the year the Museum published 10 volumes and 59 sepa-
rate papers, while the distribution of lterature amounted to 111,405
copies of its various books and pamphlets.

Additions to the Museum library have included 3,015 volumes
and 1,165 pamphlets, obtained partly by exchange and partly by
donation. The library of the National Museum, as separate from
that of the Smithsonian Institution proper, has now 72,315 volumes
and 106,881 pamphlets. Though most of the accessions for the
present year, as usual, came through an exchange of publications,
there may be noted the donation of 595 volumes and many additional
separate papers from the American Association for the Advancement
of Science, among them many works now out of print and very rare,
which have served to complete a number of important sets on our
shelves. Mr. William K. Vanderbilt presented a copy of his pri-
vately printed work entitled “'To Galapagos on the Ava.” Mr.
Thomas A. McCaslin presented a bound manuscript entitled “A
Souvenir of Wyoming,” including a diary of a trip in Jackson Hole
and Yellowstone Park, with many remarks on early history and his-
torical geography. The Librarian of Congress transferred 68 vol-
umes and 47 parts to supplement our reference works, and about
300 volumes, chiefly on the religions of the Old World, were received
from the estate of Dr. I. M. Casanowicz, late assistant curator of the
division of Old World archeology. During the year the library
staff completed the sorting of a large accumulation of reprints, which
were placed in the hands of the curators to whose work they were
most related. A number of special collections of books, including
the Casey, Dall, Gill, Henderson, Lacoe, Roebling, Schaus, Springer,
and Teller libraries were listed in preparation for cataloguing.

Dr. Samuel W. Woodhouse, for some time associated with the
Institution in connection with the art collections presented to the
National Gallery of Art by the late Alfred Duane Pell, was given
honorary appointment as collaborator in ceramics. Mr. Robert A.
Cushman, of the Bureau of Entomology, United States Department
of Agriculture, was made assistant custodian of hymenoptera. Mr.
Arthur Cleveland Bent, of Taunton, Mass., well known for his com-
prehensive volumes on the life histories of North American birds,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY an

was appointed collaborator in the division of birds. Dr. Joseph A.
Cushman, an international authority on foraminifera, was appointed
collaborator in foraminifera in the division of marine invertebrates.
Dr. W. T. Schaller was given honorary appointment as associate in
mineralogy in the department of geology.

Mr. Ellsworth P. Killip, aide in the division of plants, was ad-
vanced on December 1 to assistant curator and, following the resigna-
tion of Mr. Paul C. Standley on May 31, to associate curator. On
June 1 Mr. Emery C. Leonard was made assistant curator in the divi-
sion of plants. Miss M. F. Willoughby was appointed senior clerk
in the division of stratigraphic paleontology on December 16. ‘The
division of Old World archeology, following the death of Dr, Casa-
nowicz, has been placed temporarily under the general supervision of
Mr. Neil M. Judd, curator of American archeology.

Turnover on the staff for the year was less than for the similar
preceding fiscal period, due to the action of Congress in making pos-
sible on July 1, 1927, the first promotions under the efficiency ratings.
The Museum force has now become more stabilized, with resultant
improvement in morale.

Three employees left the service through the operation of the re-
tirement act: Columbus M. Sorrels, watchman, after 36 years’ serv-
ice; Robert Campbell, a laborer at the Museum for 33 years; and
Thomas Hamilton, laborer, after 23 years of service.

Miss Elizabeth Ward Lamon, principal clerk-stenographer in the
administrative office, after a Government service of 30 years, was
granted an indefinite furlough to permit her to regain lost health.

The Museum lost through death a number of important members
of its scientific staff, all of whom had been long associated with its
scientific work. Dr. Immanuel Moses Casanowicz, assistant curator
of Old World archeology, died September 26, 1927. Dr. Joseph
Nelson Rose, assistant curator of plants, died May 4, 1928. Mr.
Bradshaw Hall Swales, honorary assistant curator of birds, died on
January 23, 1928. Other losses by death included Mr. Joseph Mace,
who served the Museum as teamster for over 50 years; Bernard W.
Burdine, oiler, with 40 years of service; Samuel J. Lancaster, watch-
man, with 33 years of service; Carter E. Collins, laborer for 30 years;
Edwin J. Weiskoff, electrician for 17 years; Edgar Furbush, watch-
man for 6 years; and Frank Nash, laborer for 2 years.

Respectfully submitted.

ALEXANDER WETMORE,
Assistant Secretary.
Dr. Cuartes G. Axssor,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 2
REPORT OF THE N ATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the affairs
of the National Gallery’of Art for the fiscal year ending June 30,
1928:

The urgent need of a national gallery building has been a chief
concern of the gallery staff and of the commission during the year.
The poverty of space for the installation of collections already in
hand and for the encouragement of gifts and bequests of art works,
the sources of our present riches, has interfered seriously with prog-
ress in any direction. It is to be hoped that this condition may soon
be remedied. Upward of a year ago it was announced in the public
press that, under certain suggested conditions, private funds would
become available for the erection of a building. There is naturally
less inclination in Congress to consider grants for art while the pros-
pect of private munificence for this purpose is thus definitely fore-
shadowed. Moreover, the project of a great group of buildings,
manifestly necessary to the public welfare and requiring vast ex-
penditure of the public funds, took shape about this time and is now
being carried forward with commendable vigor. It is thus apparent
that for the present the realization of the gallery’s hopes seems de-
pendent. on the generous response of public-spirited citizens to a
manifest need. Undue delay in the struggle for national art appears
as a great misfortune, since we are compelled to remain inactive
during a period of exceptional art activity and art production and
distribution, and in which the art treasures of the Old World are in
a state of unparalleled flux.

THE GALLERY COMMISSION

The art collections of the Institution, which accumulated slowly
during the last quarter of a century, and largely within the depart-
ment of anthropology of the National Museum, had, in 1920, grown
so in bulk that the Regents of the Institution found it advisable to
establish the National Gallery as a separate bureau of the Institution,
and a commission was appointed to consider its interests and promote
its welfare. This commission comprises 16 members—5 public men
interested in the fine arts, 5 experts in the fine arts, and 5 artists, the

52

eS ee ee
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY aa

Secretary of the Institution becoming a member ex officio. The
membership at present is as follows: W. K. Bixby, Joseph H. Gest,
Charles Moore, James Parmelee, Herbert L. Pratt, John E. Lodge,
Frank Jewett Mather, jr., Charles L. Borie, jr., Edward Willis Red-
field, James EK. Fraser, Edmund C. Tarbell, Daniel Chester French,
Herbert Adams, Gari Melchers, William H. Holmes, and C. G. Abbot,
ex officio.

The Regents’ plan provided for two or more meetings of the com-
mission per year, but it was soon found that a single meeting only
was necessary to look after the affairs and to consider the problems
of the gallery. Meetings were held annually beginning in 1921, and
their proceedings are recorded in the annual reports of the Smith-
sonian Institution.

The seventh annual meeting of the commission was held in the
Regents’ room of the Institution on December 6, 1927. The mem-
bers present were Gari Melchers, chairman; Frank J. Mather, jr.,
vice chairman; W. H. Holmes, secretary; Herbert Adams; James E.
Fraser; John E. Lodge; James Parmelee; E. W. Redfield; and C. G.
Abbot, Acting Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

The annual report of the secretary of the commission reviewing
the activities of the gallery for the calendar year 1927 was then
presented. There was wide discussion of various matters treated in
the report, especially (1) the question of the development of a
national portrait gallery as a separately conducted branch of the
gallery proper, and (2) the possible assemblage in the gallery at a
future date of the Ranger-fund purchases now tentatively held by
various galleries throughout the country, the National Gallery having
the privilege of claiming such of these works, now numbering up-
wards of 60, as it may choose, after the lapse of a certain period.
The purpose of the proposed assemblage is to enable the commission
to keep in touch with the growing collection and to make tentative
selection of such works as appear worthy of a place in the National
Gallery. On motion of Mr. Adams, it was resolved that in the sense
of the meeting it is desirable to hold such an exhibit of the Ranger
purchases. On motion, it was further resolved that the Secretary
of the Smithsonian Institution be invited to ask the Bureau of the
Budget to recommend an appropriation of $1,000 to meet the expenses
- of the proposed exhibition of the Ranger paintings.

The secretary presented a request of the National Press Club of
Washington for the loan of gallery paintings for the embellishment
of the club’s reception rooms and principal offices, and after discus-
sion, on motion of Mr. Mather, it was Resolved: That it is the policy
of the National Gallery of Art not to lend works of art of public
ownership to private institutions.

24034—29—_5
54 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

Following adjournment at noon the advisory committee visited the
gallery rooms in the National Museum Building to consider accept-
ance of offerings of art works for the year. The following were
accepted: (1) Seven water-color paintings of Greek Temples, by
Henry Bacon, designed to serve as a nucleus for a prospective archi-
tectural department in the gallery; (2) a three-quarters length
portrait of Admiral Samuel Francis Du Pont, by Daniel Huntington,
for the National Portrait Gallery; and (3) portrait busts of Gen.
Winfield Scott and Wiliam Cullen Bryant, by Henry Kirke Brown,
for the Portrait Gallery.

THE HENRY WARD RANGER FUND PURCHASES

The paintings purchased during the year by the council of the
National Academy of Design from the fund provided by the Henry
Ward Ranger bequest, which are under certain conditions prospective
additions to the gallery collections, are as follows, including the
names of the institutions to which they have been assigned:

Title Artist Date of purchase Assignment

682"Cypripedia.. 2222252. 2" Sergeant Kendall, N. A__.| December, 1927__--

64. The Chief’s Canoe__-_-_-_- Belmore Browne. --..-----.|.---- 6 (0 Ee re National Gallery of Art,
Washington, D. C.

65. Feeding Cattle, Winter.| Harry Leith-Ross_________|____- (o (oe Se ee see SS Montana State College,

University of Montana,
Bozeman, Mont.

66: Ice Ponds2s 2 os 2 rk eo Ee Aldro T. Hibbard, A. N. A_|__--- C6 (a3 SS DR Se A Phillips Andover Acade-
my, Andover, Mass.
67. A Long Island Garden_-.} Childe Hassam, N. A-_----|_---- (6 (rR NN The Kansas City Art Insti-

tute, Kansas City, Mo.

68. Mile. Maria Safanoff_.._| Irving R. Wiles, N. A___-- | April, 92820.

THE ALFRED DUANE PELL COLLECTION

Thirty-six pieces of porcelain were added to the Alfred Duane
Pell collection, already installed, by Mrs. Pell, Mr. Pell having died
March 6, 1924. The lot includes 10 superb pieces of pate-sur-pate
by Solon and 4 by his pupil, A. Birks; 6 pieces of charming Old
Worcester ware; 1 piece of the hitherto unrepresented New Hall
porcelain; 1 piece of Meissen from a set made for the King of Hol-
land; and examples of Capo di Monti, Doccia, and other Italian
porcelains. The pieces by Solon are of special interest in rounding
out the gallery’s exceptional representation of this great master’s
work.

THE GEORGE DUPONT PRATT GIFT

The Thomas Moran painting of the Grand Canyon of the Yellow-
stone which has been exhibited in the gallery for a number of years
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 55

as a loan, first by the artist and later by his daughter, Miss Ruth B.
Moran, has been added to the gallery’s permanent collections. In
May of the present year during a visit of Mr. Pratt to the gallery
he became deeply impressed with the national importance of this
great work, and soon after announced his willingness to contribute
$10,000 to its purchase. Miss Moran was so greatly pleased with
the prospect of having the picture become the property of the Nation,
thus retaining its place in the National Gallery, that she decided to
accept this amount. Moran may well be regarded as our. greatest
master of landscape, marvelously skilled with the pencil, the graver,
and the brush, and he was a colorist unsurpassed. After three visits
to the Yellowstone he chose this as the subject most worthy of his
crowning effort, and prepared the way for its realization by a multi-
tude of studies in pencil and water color. ‘The canvas finally chosen
was so large—8 by 14 feet—that it could not be accommodated in
his East Hampton studio and a near-by carpenter shop was utilized
for the purpose. The acquirement of this work is a triumph for the
National Gallery.

SPECIAL EXHIBITS HELD IN THE GALLERY

With the opening of the calendar year 1928 the gallery entered
upon a period of exceptiona] activity. Four important exhibits
followed one another in quick succession. The space required for
their installation was obtained by removing to storage the contents
of four of the main exhibition rooms of the gallery. This was made
less embarrassing by the withdrawal at the particular moment of the
McFadden collection of British old masters, which had occupied two
of the rooms for a number of years awaiting the completion of the
Philadelphia Museum of Art, in which institution they are destined
to find a permanent resting place.

THE OSTERMAN COLLECTION

It happened also at this time that the Henry Cleveland Perkins
collection of British and Dutch masters, exhibited for several years
in the northeast room of the gallery, was withdrawn, and in this room
the first of the series of exhibits, the remarkable collection of por-
traits with one figure subject, by Bernhard Osterman, of Stockholm,
Sweden, was installed. This exhibit, held under the patronage of
His Excellency, W. Bostrém, the Swedish minister in Washington,
was opened to the public January 11, a private view by special invi-
tation having been given on the 10th. An illustrated catalogue was
supplied by the artist, the foreword to which, by Christian Brinton,
is in part appropriately quoted in this place.
56 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

The present exhibition offers a comprehensive résumé of Mr. Bernhard
Osterman’s work. From the early likeness of the ascetic, intellectual Bishop
of Lund to the latest products of his brush you observe an increased mastery
of the approved elements of pictorial representation. For aristocratic restraint,
coupled with clearly realized individuality, special mention must be made of
the seated figure of His Majesty the King of Sweden. In sheer vigor of
characterization the standing three-quarter length of Herr von Stubenrauch,
late president of the Berlin police, occupies a position by itself in the artist’s
gallery of international celebrities.

It happened that this collection at the close of the exhibition, Janu-
ary 24, was not scheduled for exhibition elsewhere for the remainder
of the season and the artist consented to have it remain on view in
the gallery until the next exhibition season opens.

ANNUAL EXHIBITION OF THE SOCIETY OF WASHINGTON ARTISTS

Early in 1928 it became known that the Corcoran Gallery, due to
the erection of the W. A. Clark Annex and the installation of his
great collection, could not hold the accustomed annual exhibits of
the local art societies. A plea was made by the artists, who were
at a loss for accommodations, to the director of the National Gallery
who was glad to grant the request, although the granting implied
a very great crowding of the season’s exhibits. The annual exhibi-
tion of the Society of Washington Artists followed the Osterman
exhibit and was opened to the public February 4. The society
printed its usual catalogue, which listed 119 paintings and 11 works
of sculpture. The installation in the three available halls of the
gallery proved highly satisfactory to the society and the exhibit
met with marked public appreciation.

COLLECTION OF CONTEMPORARY BRITISH ART

The exhibit of the loca] society was followed by a most interesting
collection of paintings, 91 in number, by contemporary British
artists, which remained on view from March 5 through April 1.
The paintings were assembled in London by Miss Charlotte Pearson
with the approval of the president of the Royal Academy, who
named as an honorary committee the Earl of Balfour, K. G., the
Earl of Birkenhead, K. G., Sir Frederic G. Kenyon, G. B. E.,
and His Excellency the Hon. Alanson B. Houghton, ambassador
of the United States to Great Britain. The committee of selection
was composed of Robert Anning Bell, R. A., Sir D. Y. Cameron,
R. A., Sir George Clausen, R. A., Julius Olsson, R. A., and Miss Char-
lotte Pearson, secretary, who accompanied the collection to Wash-
ington, and at the close of its presentation here directed its transfer
to the Toronto Art Gallery, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

The exhibit was held under the patronage of His Excellency Sir
Esme Howard, G. C. M. G., the British ambassador to the United
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 57

States, and was opened by a public reception tendered by the Board
of Regents of the Institution. The foreword of the catalogue, by
Sir Frederic G. Kenyon, G. B. E., was introduced by the following
lines:

The object of the present exhibition is to bring to the notice of the American
people some part of the contemporary work of the artists of Great Britain.
It has the support of many of its leading painters, and it is believed that it
may fairly claim to be representative of much of the best work that is being
done there to-day. Merely as an exhibition of art it is hoped that it has
attractiveness and merit.

ANNUAL EXHIBITION OF THE WASHINGTON WATER COLOR CLUB

The annual exhibition of the Washington Water Color Club fol-
lowed the British exhibit and closed the loan exhibition program for
the season. There were 226 exhibits—i85 in water colors and 41
etchings, block prints, and drawings. The result in this case, as in
that of the local oil exhibit, was highly satisfactory. The works
were well shown and the attendance was gratifying.

It may be stated in this place that it is not a definitely authorized
privilege of the gallery, which is a Government bureau, to entertain
displays for individuals or private organizations of which an essen-
tial feature is the privilege of making sales. The admission of the
exhibits of the two local societies was, as stated above, due to a serious
emergency that had arisen, and no objection has been raised.

THE JOHN ROSS KEY COLLECTION OF PAINTINGS

In January, 1927, the gallery accepted for temporary exhibition a
large collection of paintings by John Ross Key, mainly landscapes
of the near-by States but including a number of interesting canvases
representing colonial mansions of Washington and near-by Maryland
and Virginia. These latter paintings have much sentimental inter-
est aside from the subjects represented, being the handiwork of the
grandson of Francis Scott Key, the author of our Star-Spangled
Banner. At the close of the exhibition the owner, Mrs. Ellenore
Dutcher Key, was permitted to continue the exhibition for several
months beyond the stipulated period, and the collection is still held
in reserve at the close of the fiscal year 1928.

REINSTALLATION OF COLLECTIONS

At the close of the loan exhibition season in July, reinstallation of
the gallery collections, largely in storage, was taken up and given
very careful attention, so that the appearance of the gallery to-day
is more satisfactory and the collections more fully representative than
58 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

at any previous period. Paintings of the highest order of merit were
chosen, and overcrowding was avoided. Many works are, however,
held in reserve, but all of these are hung where they may be seen to
advantage by visitors desiring to examine them.

LABELING OF COLLECTIONS

Upward of 100 metal labels have been engraved and attached
to the frames of the paintings to which they belong. Aside from
these labels, all necessarily of small size, and limited to the simplest
essentials of record, framed labels giving fuller data are attached to
the background in close proximity to the pictures.

CARE OF COLLECTIONS

Requisite care has been given to all paintings with respect to repair,
restoration, varnishing, and glazing, there remaining unglazed only
four works which are of such large size that glass can not be intro-
duced. Three paintings requiring expert treatment, Man Wearing
a Large Hat, by Rembrandt; portraits of Lord Abercorn, by Law-
rence, and of Viscount Hill, by Reynolds, were intrusted to the
expert restorer of old masters, Mr. H. E. Thompson, of the Boston
Museum of Fine Arts, and have been returned to the gallery in an
entirely satisfactory state.

ART WORKS RECEIVED DURING THE YEAR

Accessions of art works by the Smithsonian Institution, subject to
transfer to the National Gallery on approval of the advisory com-
mittee of the gallery commission, are as follows:

Portrait of Admiral Samuel Francis Du Pont (1803-1865) by
Daniel Huntington, P. N. A. (1816-1906) ; bequest of Mrs. May Du
Pont Saulsbury, for the National Portrait Gallery.

A painting entitled “Grand Canyon of the Yellowstone,” by
Thomas Moran, N. A. (1837-1926); gift of Mr. George Dupont
Pratt, of New York City.

A painting by Belmore Browne (1880-), entitled “The Chief’s
Canoe,” purchased from the Henry Ward Ranger fund by the coun-
cil of the National Academy of Design, trustees of the fund, and as-
signed to the gallery.

Thirty-six pieces of porcelain including pate-sur-pate by Solon
and his pupil, A. Birks; Old Worcester ware; Hall porcelain; Meis-
sen; and Capo di Monto, Doccia, and other Italian porcelains. Gift
of Mrs. Alfred Duane Pell as an addition to the Alfred Duane Pell
collection.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 59

Miniature painting of Mrs. Harriet Lane Johnston by John Henry
Brown (1818-1891) ; bequest of Miss May S. Kennedy, cousin of Mrs.
Johnston, as an addition to the Harriet Lane Johnston collection,
“said painting (according to the terms of acceptance) * * * to
be placed in the case beside the miniature of President Buchanan
and there permanently exhibited, and in case it shall not be so exhib-
ited, it shall revert to the members of the family of May S. Kennedy,
in accordance with the terms of her said will.”

Thirteen specimens of modern Japanese cloisonné, and a series
of nine small vases illustrating the stages of manufacture, with the
tools and materials used in the manufacture of cloisonné, all by
Yoshichika, of Tokyo, Japan; presented by Seth B., jr., and Thomas
Dudley Robinson, of New York City.

Medallion portrait in bronze of Dr. Charles W. Elliot, by W.
Clark Noble; gift of the sculptor.

A painting, entitled “The Abbess,” by Govaert Camphuysen
(1624-1674) ; bequest of Mrs. Emily H. Edrington.

LOANS ACCEPTED BY THE GALLERY

Portrait of Lady Evelyn Cook, by John Hoppner, N. A. (1758-
1810) ; lent by Mrs. Arthur Lee, of Washington, D. C.

A painting entitled “A Farnese Investiture,” attributed to Titian
(1477-1576) ; lent by Mrs. Estelle Bakewell-Green, Norwood, Pa.

A painting entitled “The Immaculate Conception with the Mir-
ror,’ by Bartolomé Estéban Murillo (1617-1682); lent by Mr. De
Witt V. Hutchins, Riverside, Calif.

Portraits of Fisher Ames, by Gilbert Stuart, and Alexander
Hamilton, by John Trumbull; lent by Mr. George Cabot Lodge, of
Washington, D. C.

A painting entitled “The Lido, Venice,” by H. Corrodi, Rome
(1844-1905) ; lent by Mr. Arthur T. Brice.

Portrait of Dr. Charles G. Abbot, Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution, 1928— , by S. L. Huntley; lent by Doctor Abbot.

Portrait of Henry, Prince of Wales (or Prince Charles), by C.
Janssens van Ceulen (1664); lent by Mr. and Mrs. Marshall Lang-
horne, Washington, D. C.

DISTRIBUTIONS

Paintings lent to the gallery have been withdrawn by their owners
as follows:

Portrait of Thomas Amory, of Boston, by Gilbert Stuart; with-
drawn by Miss Helen Amory Ernst.

Twenty old masters intrusted to the gallery in 1924 by Mrs. Ralph
Cross Johnson for temporary care and display; withdrawn by her
60 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

daughter, Mrs. Marshall Langhorne, as follows: Portrait of the
Duke of Sussex, by Sir William Beechey; View of St. Paul’s and
Black Friar’s Bridge, by Calcott; Large Landscape, Dedham Vale,
and Small Landscape, Heavy Clouds, by Constable; Portrait of
Henry, Prince of Wales (or Charles), by Janssens; Portrait of
Ruben’s Wife, by Jordaens; Self Portrait, by Lawrence; Festive
Scene, by Jan Molenaer; Portrait of a Man, by Raeburn; Portrait
of Richard Brinsley Sheridan, Portrait of Lord Lifford, Portrait of
Mrs. Lloyd, and Portrait of Lord Roth, by Reynolds; Interior of
Kings College Chapel, Oxford, by David Roberts; Marine, Ap-
proaching Storm, by Stanfield; Dutch Landscape with figures, by
Van Strij; Itahan Landscape, Classical Landscape, and Small Land-
scape, by Richard Wilson; Small Seascape, by Guardi.

Fourteen paintings by British and Dutch masters, lent by Henry
Cleveland Perkins, Esq., in 1922, withdrawn by the heirs of Mr.
Perkins, as follows: Portrait of a Man, by Sir William Beechey;
Portrait of a Boy, by John Hoppner; Cottage Scene, by Ladbrooke:
Portrait of Henry, First Earl Mulgrave, by Sir Thomas Lawrence;
Portrait of a Dutch Lady, by Michael Janson Mierevelt; Portrait of
a Girl, by John Opie; Portrait of Frances, Countess of Clermont,
by Sir Joshua Reynolds; The Windmill, by Salomon Ruysdael; two
Studies of Ruins, and a Landscape, by Richard Wilson; Landscape,
by an Unknown Artist; Madonna and Child, attributed to Van Dyck:
Portrait of Dutch Lady, by Jan Victoors.

The John H. McFadden collection of 483 British masters, received
by the gallery in July, 1922; withdrawn by the trustees of the col-
lection to be transferred to its permanent home in the Philadelphia
Museum of Art. The list follows: A Coast Scene, Normandy, by .
Richard Parks Bonington; The Lock, Hampstead Heath, Storm
Coming Up and The Dell in Helmingham Park, by John Constable;
Going to the Hayfield, 1849, by David Cox; Blacksmith Shop, near
Hingham, Norfolk, and Woody Landscape, at Colney, by John
Crome; Henrietta, Lady Rodney, and A Classical Landscape, by
Thomas Gainsborough; The Misses Leader, The Leader Children,
and Mrs. Weddell and Children, by George Henry Harlow; The
Assembly at Wanstead House and The Fountaine Family, by William
Hogarth; Mrs. Hoppner, by John Hoppner; Miss West (afterwards
Mrs. William Woodgate), by Sir Thomas Lawrence; The Refuge (or
The Storm), 1853, by John Linnell, sr.; Old Coaching Days, the
Fruits of Early Industry, and The Happy Cottagers, by George
Morland; Lady Belhaven, Master Thomas Bissland, Master John
Campbell of Saddell, Col. Charles Christie, Lady Elibank, Mr.
Lawrie, of Woodlea, Castle Douglas, Alexander Shaw, and Portrait
of a Gentleman, by Sir Henry Raeburn; Master Bunbury and The
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 61

Right Hon. Edmund P. Burke, M. P., by Sir Joshua Reynolds; Mrs.
Crouch, Mrs. De Crespigny, Mrs. Finch, Lady Grantham, Lady
Hamilton (study head), Mrs. Tickell, Rev. John Wesley, and Little
Bo-Peep, by George Romney; Landscape with Cattle, by James
Stark; Laborers—The Brick Cart, 1767, by George Stubbs; Burning
of the Houses of Parliament, by J. M. W. Turner; Sir Walter Scott,
Bart., by Sir John Watson-Gordon; View on the Thames, by Richard
Wilson.

Five paintings by French masters, withdrawn by the Hon. and
Mrs. Louis A. Frothingham; The Lake (panel) and Twilight on
the River Oise, by C. F. Daubigny; The Little Marauders (panel)
and Group of Dogs (Fox Hounds) (panel), by Narcisse Diaz; The
Setting Sun (canvas), by J. B. C. Corot.

Mention should be made here of the privilege granted by the
gallery to the sculptor Moses W. Dykaar, who has been permitted
to temporarily occupy room 29 in the National Museum, which is
assigned to the gallery as a studio and workroom.

MISCELLANEOUS

The wall coverings of the gallery, the background for the paint-
ings and other art works, are a consideration of first importance.
The burlaps applied to the walls six years ago gradually faded to a
golden brown, giving a rich effect to the halls, but later changed to a
dull brown so somber that it was removed and replaced in part by
burlaps of a light-green tone, a little too positive but contrasting
agreeably with the warm tones of the paintings.

A number of burlap-covered screens for gallery use, a prime
necessity in accommodating overflow of exhibits, were added to the
already large supply. Four easels required for the display of paint-
ings of special note were added, besides one exhibition case of the
gem type, eight mahogany settees, and four pedestals for the installa-
tion of portrait busts. The gallery to-day is not crowded as here-
tofore and presents a more finished and restful appearance than at
any previous date. Oil paintings, 337 in number, and 82 drawings
in various mediums by French artists of note are shown to good ad-
vantage on folding screens in the south room, and 70 works worthy
of a place in the gallery are held in reserve to be utilized as oppor-
tunity occurs.

LIBRARY

The gallery library has added by gift, purchase, and subscription
1,096 numbers to its upward of 1,500 volumes, pamphlets, and peri-
odicals, and 12 water-color paintings by W. H. Holmes, gift of the
artist.
62 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

It was found possible to enlist the services of Miss Helen V. Barnes,
junior librarian, for a period of two months, to assist in the Smith-
sonian library as a return for work done in that library for the
gallery.

PUBLICATIONS

HotMEs, W. H. Report on the National Gallery of Art for the year ending
June 30, 1927. Appendix 2, report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution for the year ending June 30, 1927, pp. 53-61.

The National Gallery and the Scope and Functions of an Art Museum.
No. 5 of the series under Topic 14—Arts, Topical Survey of the Government.
United States Daily, Washington, July 17, 1927, Vol. II, No. 106.

Catalogue of A Collection of Portraits by Bernhard Osterman, Member of the
Royal Swedish Academy of Arts, on view in the National Gallery, Natural
History Building, United States National Museum, January 16 to January
24, 1928. Washington, 1928, pp. 14; 6 illustrations.

Catalogue of a collection of paintings by contemporary British artists on view
in the National Gallery, Natural History Building, United States National
Museum, March 5 through April 1, 1928. Washington, 1928, pp. 1-8.

Respectfully submitted.
W. H. Hotmess, Director.
Dr. Cuartes G. Axzor,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 3
REPORT ON THE FREER GALLERY OF ART

Str: I have the honor to submit the eighth annual report on the
Freer Gallery of Art for the year ending June 30, 1928:

THE COLLECTIONS

Additions to the collections by purchase are as follows:

28.1.

28.2.

28.3.

28.4.

28.5.

28.6.
28.7.

28.8.

28.9.

POTTERY

Persian, thirteenth century. Rhages. A large jar, with bands of orna-
ment in bold relief. Dark blue glaze with traces of red painting and
gilding. A fine specimen of great significance.

Persian, twelfth-thirteenth century. Rhages. A goblet, with a painted
decoration over a white enamel glaze. The colors are red, blue, grayish-
yellow, and light green.

PORCELAIN

Chinese, early eighteenth century. A shallow bowl with a floral decora-
tion painted in enamels over a white glaze. Mark: Yung Chéng in
blue enamel. “

Chinese, early eighteenth century. A shallow bowl, covered by a white
glaze inside and a light green glaze outside. The floral decoration is
painted in enamels over glaze. Mark: Yung Chéng in blue enamel.

Chinese, early eighteenth century. A small shallow bowl, covered by a
white glaze inside and a rose pink glaze outside. The decoration of
bamboo is in two tones of green enamel, inlaid in the glaze. Mark:
Yung Chéng in blue enamel.

PAINTINGS

Persian, late thirteenth century. Abbasid School.

Two leaves from a ms. book, probably a Manafi-al-Hayawan. Each page
bears a painting of birds and foliage, rendered in water colors and
gold.

Persian, sixteenth-seventeenth century. Turkish School. <A battle scene,
with mounted warriors, foot soldiers with shields, and a phalanx of
chariots. It is rendered in pale colors and gold on a long strip
inlaid in a page of manuscript.

Persian, early sixteenth century. Bukhara School. A portrait of a
youthful prince, standing. It igs painted in opaque white and green
pigment and gold on a ground of pale green.

28.10. Persian, early seventeenth century. Riza ’Abbasi School. A youth kneel-

ing and holding out a wine cup. It is painted in black outline with
areas of color, and slight gold.

63
64 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

28.11. Persian, early fifteenth century. Timurid period. A battle scene, the
siege of a fortress, painted in colors and gold; an illustration in a page
of manuscript.

The work of the care and preservation of objects in the collec-
tion, which goes forward year by year, has this year included the
remounting of four Japanese screens, in addition to completing the
work on Japanese screen 01.173, which was begun in the spring of
1927. Twenty-two paintings in the American section have been
put in condition. Changes in exhibition during the year have
involved 168 different objects, itemized as follows:

63 Whistler etchings.

40 Whistler and other oil paintings.
11 Japanese screens.

6 Japanese lacquer and sculpture.
7 Japanese panels.

4 Chinese pottery.
28 Near Hastern paintings.

1 Indian sculpture.

6 Near Eastern pottery.

2 Siamese sculptures.

Two hundred and twenty-four objects have been submitted for an
expert opinion upon them, or for translation of their oriental inscrip-
tions. Thirty-four other translations of inscriptions have been made
from photographs submitted to the curator.

Additions to the library include 26 volumes, 28 periodicals, and 59
pamphlets. ‘The Chinese library of the eminent oriental scholar, the
late William Woodville Rockhill, which was presented by Mrs. Rock-
hill to the Smithsonian Institution in the autumn of 1927 and de-
posited in the Freer Gallery, forms an important addition to the
Chinese section of the library. The Rockhill collection comprises
1,100 volumes, ranging in date of publication from 1659 to 1913.
A list of the new accessions accompanies this report as Appendix A
(not printed).

The books of the field staff comprise a separate and movable unit
of the general reference library and are at present installed at the
gallery. The total number of volumes in this branch is 661; unbound
periodicals, 134; pamphlets, 489; catalogues, 36; and bulletins, 9.
Thirty-six volumes have been added during the current year. A
complete list of books in the field library accompanies this report
as Part II, Appendix A (not printed).

As noted in the report of last year, the demand for photographs
by special students and others is constantly increasing the store of
negatives. The total number of these is now 1,491, in addition to
829 negatives of Biblical MSS. A certain number of prints from
these negatives are always kept in stock to meet the popular demand;
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 65

others can be obtained upon order. The total number of sales of
reproductions are as follows: Photographs, 1,089; negatives, 2; a
rubbing from a Chinese stone relief, 1; lantern slides, 100; post cards,
2,017. All of the foregoing are sold at their cost prices.

The pamphlets issued by the gallery have been increased by a
“List of paintings, pastels, drawings, prints, and copper plates, by
and attributed to American and European artists, together with a
list of original Whistleriana in the Freer Gallery of Art” (Smith-
sonian Publ. No. 2968), dated March 20, 1928. Sales of gallery
publications were as follows:

WeaGo tA Pamphlets- 222.212) 8 ah 2s _ Ba See ee 319
SNODSIS Of ERIStOnys oo 22 8 See Se ee a eee to 8 eee 306
Gallery books:
Galleys Vinnie oot obra ah Pe ae ee eel Oe ee et ee 22
Gallery [ee fess ene ee te ee ee Be ee 28
Gallery ge Nie pyar er ee ee ee ee Be 20
Gallery: pect 82s SR ris Se Ce Se Ee ee eS 16
CCTM Rea ee pe pena pe per gy pl greene a Seles heh feng ap pta gee ahs eens! 173
—— 259
Outline of Study:
COCO Ags TS ee EE Se eo ere, SE eee S a Ee UL Pyne fom cert EBERT EE 28
COLOSUT STE, SU) (ES SES SO Pe Se 2 ieee sere eRe Ree penn shone Nal one Epa be | SS eee ee Fe Zac} 13
HIStPOte PAINENSS VPastels Keto s So) Se Bee ES eS ee eet 95
TESTO Yeagny) LET See ee ead ise kD Sg a a ee 11

THE BUILDING

The shop has been constantly occupied during the year with the
making of necessary stands, frames, and cases, general repair work,
and the fitting up of two additional workrooms, namely, an office for
the field staff and a room for operating the mimeograph and photo-
graph press. <A detailed report made by the superintendent is sub-
mitted herewith as Appendix C (not printed).

ATTENDANCE

The gallery has been open every day with the exception of Mon-
days, Christmas Day, and New Year’s Day, from 9 until 4.30 o’clock.
The total attendance for the year was 111,288. The aggregate Sun-
day attendance was 32,279, with an average of 620. The week-day
attendance amounted to 79,009, with an average of 305. It reached
its highest totals in the months between April and October, inclu-
sive. The total number of visitors to the office was 1.218. Of these,
171 came for general information; 48 to study the building and
museum methods; 64 to submit objects for examination ; 262 to see ob-
jects in storage; 221 to study in the library; 80 to see facsimiles of
the Washington MSS; 23 to make drawings; 4 to make photographs;
and 182 to purchase photographs. Thirty-three classes were given
66 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

instruction, four groups were given docent service in the galleries,
and two lectures were delivered in the auditorium, as follows:

February 25: Dr. Alfred Salmony, on “ Les Problémes de la Sculpture dans
les Indes Orientales.” Illustrated.

March 16: Mr. Carl W. Bishop, on “Archeological Research in China.”
Illustrated. The latter lecture was given under the combined auspices of the
Archeological Society of Washington and the Art and Archeology League.

This report marks the close of the fifth year of the Freer Gallery
as an institution open to the uses of the public. During these years

pa

4} —-BUAVEL-OR- TOTAL ME

|

repays [a
.

fc r
+4
Hi

3 any

Ficure 1

the total attendance has been fairly constant, that of the first year
reaching 111,942; that of the fifth year, 111,288. The Sunday at-
tendance has noticeably increased, being slightly more than twice as
great as week-day attendance during the past year. Figure 1 indi-
cates in graphic form the total and average attendance since the
gallery was first opened to the public.

Last winter for the space of a month a record was kept of the
average length of time spent by visitors in the exhibition galleries.
During the time that this observation was being made the longest
visit lasted 2 hours and 45 minutes; the shortest, 11 minutes. Fig-
ure 2 indicates the average stay.

While the above records give some indication of the response of the
general public to the exhibitions, another survey indicates the demand
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 67

made upon the inner resources of the gallery by that smaller section
of the public which has an especial interest in the field of art rep-
resented in the collections. It is interesting to note the steady
growth of this group with its demands analyzed in Figure 3.

FIELD WORK

Owing in part to conditions in China and in part to the large
amount of material already secured for study, Mr. C. W. Bishop, as-
sociate curator, was, as stated in the report for last year, temporarily
recalled to the gallery. He traveled by way of Egypt and the prin-
cipal western European countries, where he visited collections and
sites of importance and held discussions with a number of promi-
nent archeologists. Since his arrival in Washington he has been en-
gaged principally in working up the material collected during his
four years and a half in the field.

FIGURE 2

Dr. C. Li and Mr. K. Z. Tung, the Chinese members of the field
staff, were left in China in order to maintain the contacts already
established with various Chinese scientific bodies and to prepare the
way for further field work at an early date. In both these tasks they
have achieved gratifying success. Negotiations are at present being
conducted with the newly-founded bureau of scientific research, an
organization whose character and aims correspond somewhat closely
to those of the Smithsonian Institution, for cooperation in archeo-
logical investigation.

Karly in the present summer Doctor Li was called to the gallery
to discuss future field work and to complete, with the aid of the facil-
ities now available in Washington, his report on his excavations in
southwestern Shansi Provinee. He plans, upon his return to China,
to establish a field station as a semipermanent base of operations, thus
permitting the uninterrupted prosecution of excavation for much
longer periods.
ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

68

9
Eo

FIGUR
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 69

A detailed account of the activities of the field staff will be found
in Appendix B, herewith submitted (not printed).

PERSONNEL

Mr. Herbert E. Thompson, with his assistant, Mr. Finlayson,
worked on the preservation of 22 oil paintings.

Mr. Y. Kinoshita, of the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, worked at
the gallery from January 3 to June 16 on the preservation of oriental
paintings.

Miss Christabel E. Hill has been added to the field staff as ste-
nographer.

Mr. A. G. Wenley, field assistant, spent the year in study under
Pelliot and Elisséeff, in Paris.

Dr. Chi Li, of the field staff, reported at the gallery on May 26 for
a stay of two months.

Respectfully submitted.
J. EK. Lover,
Curator, Freer Gallery of Art.
Dr. C. G. Axsgor,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
24034—29-——6

>
APPENDIX 4
REPORT ON THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

Sir: The following report on the field researches, office work, and
other operations of the Bureau of American Ethnology during the
fiscal year ended June 30, 1928, is herewith submitted. ‘This work
was conducted in accordance with the act of Congress approved
February 11, 1927, which contains the following item:

American ethnology: For continuing ethnological researches among the Ameri-
can Indians and the natives of Hawaii, the excavation and preservation of
archeologic remains under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution, includ-
ing necessary employees, the preparation of manuscripts, drawings, and illustra-
tions, the purchase of books and periodicals, and traveling expenses, $58,720,
of which amount not to exceed $48,000 may be expended for personal services in
the District of Columbia.

Dr. J. Walter Fewkes, chief of the bureau since March 1, 1918,
continued to occupy that position until January 15, 1928, when he
retired as chief but continued on the staff of the bureau as associate
anthropologist.

The general program of the bureau for the entire year has been
similar to that of the last fiscal year.

Doctor Fewkes’s scientific work has been mainly devoted to the
preparation of a report on his excavations at Elden Pueblo, Ariz.,
made during the summer of 1926.

Dr. John R. Swanton, ethnologist, completed the proof reading
of his papers on the Social Organization and Social Usages of the
Indians of the Creek Confederacy, the Religious Beliefs and Medical
Practices of the Creek Indians, The Culture of the Southeast, and
a paper by the late William E. Myer on Trails of the Southeast, all
of which have appeared in the forty-second annual report of the
bureau, and of a short paper on the Social and Religious Usages
of the Chickasaw Indians which is to appear in the forty-fourth
annual report. He spent some time in continuing the preparation
of a tribal map of aboriginal North America north of Mexico and
the text accompanying, and assisted in the preparation for publica-
tion of James Mooney’s paper on The Aboriginal Population of
America North of Mexico, which appeared as volume 80, No. 7, of
the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections.

Work in connection with the Timucua dictionary, with the help
of Miss Tucker, was continued during most of the year. In 1926,

70
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY rah

Miss Irene Wright, in the employ of the Florida State Historical
Society, discovered a letter in the archives of the Indies at Sevilla
written in the Timucua language. Part of the work of preparing
this material for publication by the society has been done by Doctor
Swanton, and in the same volume an earlier letter, discovered and
published by Buckingham Smith is to be included. Although this
publication is being done outside, it will furnish in more convenient
and reliable form all of the known material which we have not yet
drawn upon for the dictionary, some scattered words alone excepted.
Doctor Swanton has been called upon for an unusual amount of
advisory and other special work during the past year.

From July 1 to 22 Dr. Truman Michelson, ethnologist, continued
ethnological and linguistic work among the Sauk and Fox of Iowa.
From the latter part of July to the end of August he was engaged
in work on the Northern Arapaho, devoting his time mainly to
linguistics, and was able to unravel a number of complex phonetic
shifts whereby a larger proportion of Algonquian elements in the
language were made more certain than hitherto suspected. He also
took physical measurements of a number of Arapaho and Shoshoni
Indians. As far as the latter is concerned, the cephalic index of
his series agrees closely with that obtained under the direction of
Doctor Boas more than 20 years ago. After his return to Washington,
September 1, he corrected the proofs of his notes on the buffalo-
head dance of the thunder gens of the Fox Indians, which will appear
as Bulletin 87 of the bureau.

Doctor Michelson submitted for publication a work entitled “ Ob-
servations on the Thunder Dance of the Bear Gens of the Fox
Indians,” which is to be issued as Bulletin 89 of the bureau. He has
also submitted a manuscript designated “Sketch of the Buffalo
Dance of the Bear Gens of the Fox Indians.” He worked out a
complete translation of a syllabic text supplementary to his paper in
the fortieth annual report. A number of technical papers have
been prepared by Doctor Michelson and published in various scien-
tific journals. Doctor Michelson from time to time has furnished
data to answer official correspondence.

Mr. J. P. Harrington, ethnologist, spent the year in a study of the
Mission Indians of the Santa Barbara region of California and of
the Taos Tribe of north-central New Mexico.

Leaving for the field in the fall of 1927, Mr. Harrington resumed
his field studies at Santa Barbara with great success, securing a
mass of important linguistic information from the last few aged
survivors of the proud and highly cultured people which only a few
decades ago thickly populated the islands and mainland coasts of the
Santa Barbara region. The material covered the entire range of
knowledge of the informants and included difficult translations into
72 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

the Chumashan. These translations now include an almost exhaustive
study of the earlier period of Chumashan history. The grammatical
material was all perfectly heard and reaches into every corner of
phonetic phenomena and grammatical construction. The work con-
tains a new and exhaustive study of the early voyages, proving,
among other points that will have great popular interest, that Cabrillo
was the discoverer of Monterrey. It also contains translations made
by Mr. Harrington of the diaries of the early land expeditions,
throwing new light on hitherto dark chapters of the earliest history
of Alta California, since this history is here for the first time dealt
with from the Indian viewpoint. In this work Mr. Harrington has
cooperated with Fr. Zephyrin Engelhardt, custodian of the Santa
Barbara Mission archives, and with Dr. H. E. Bolton and other
friends at the Bancroft Library of the University of California.

Returning to Washington in March, Mr. Harrington elaborated
his recent notes and prepared his Taos material for publication.
This consists of a thorough presentation of the documents of Taos
Indian history, all of them worked through afresh and provided with
new original translations by Mr. Harrington, a presentation of Taos
ethnology, and a comprehensive vocabulary of the Taos language,
which, as Mr. Harrington has recently pointed out, has close genetic
relationship with the Kiowa language.

At the beginning of the fiscal year 1928 Mr. J. N. B. Hewitt,
ethnologist, undertook a detailed study and interpretation of certain
Onondaga Iroquoian texts recorded by him in former years relating
to the wind or air gods, who are in fact disease gods of Iroquoian
mythic thought. These texts are Delphic in their brevity, and so
are most difficult to interpret and to correlate. They are only brief
myths, most of the details of which have been forgotten, and so the
mode of telling them has become oracular.

Mr. Hewitt read the galley proof of his paper in the forty-third
annual report of the bureau, Iroquoian Cosmology, Second Part.
Severe illness during the early winter delayed this work, but upon
partial recovery he completed this task and also the final reading in
page proofs.

Mr. Hewitt also edited Mr. Edwin Thompson Denig’s manuscript,
Report on the Indian Tribes of the Upper Missouri to the Hon. Isaac
H. Stevens, Governor of Washington Territory. He added an intro-
duction to the report, with a brief biography of the author.

As the representative of the Smithsonian Institution on the United
States Geographic Board, Mr. Hewitt attended the meetings of the
board and of the executive committee of that board, of which he is
also a member.

As custodian of the bureau manuscripts, Mr. Hewitt reports the
continuation of the work of recataloguing the manuscript material
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 73

and the phonograph music records belonging to the archives. Miss
M. W. Tucker typed the cards and stored the material, and also cata-
logued 250 cylinders of the Osage Indian songs and rituals. These
were verified by Doctor LaFlesche with the use of the phonograph,
and are therefore authentic. Mr. Harrington has also turned over
his collection of 100 cylinders. Miss Densmore has, to date, a total of
1,697 cylinders listed and filed.

There are now 3,079 manuscripts in the archives, and about 626
phonograph records, in addition to those of Miss Densmore.

On May 18, 1928, Mr. Hewitt left Washington to continue his
studies among the Iroquoian and Chippewa tribes in Canada. He
visited the Chippewa at Garden River to revise certain cosmic texts
acquired in 1900 from Mr. John Miscogeon, of Bay View, Mich., and
from Mr. George Gabaoosa, of Garden River, in 1921. He also
visited the Huron remnant at Loretteville, near the city of Quebec,
Canada, to ascertain whether any knowledge of an institution re-
sembling closely the League of the Five Iroquois Tribes formerly
extant among the Hurons then dwelling about Lake Simcoe still
existed among this remnant of the Hurons. But no remembrance of
it was found.

He also visited the Caughnawaga Mohawk living near Montreal,
where information regarding the league and its institutions was
sought, but he found only a jumble of ideas coming from the old
religious thought of the natives, from the so-called Handsome Lake
reformation, and from the hazy ideas instilled into them by the
missionaries. Here Mr. Hewitt also sought information tending to
identify the so-called Seven Nations of Canada, etc., who have re-
cently become a problem for the Canadian Department of Justice
and of the law department at Albany, N. Y.

Mr. Hewitt’s most fruitful field of research was among the Six
Nations of Iroquois living on the Grand River grant not far from
Brantford, Canada. Here he undertook the free translation of the
historical tradition of the founding of the League of the Five Iro-
quois Tribes in the closing decades of the sixteenth century, as related
by the Mohawk and the Onondaga, which embodies the farewell
address of Deganawide, the master mind in the work of establishing
that institution. He also revised the seven myths in native Onon-
daga texts relating to the gods of the air and the wind who control
diseases.

He also was fortunate enough to secure the emblem of official
authority of the fire keeper of the council of the league to open and
to close the sessions of the council.

Mr. Hewitt, as usual, has devoted much time to providing, through
careful research, data for replies to the many correspondents of the
bureau.
74 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

During the fiscal year ended June 30, 1928, Dr. Francis LaFlesche,
ethnologist, completed two manuscripts: Wa-sha-be A-thi*, contain-
ing 270 pages, and Wa-wa-tho", or Pipe Ceremony, containing 110
pages. Another manuscript is in the hands of the editor, entitled
“The Child-Naming Ritual.”

He started a dictionary of the Omaha language, obtaining about
7,000 words with both the Indian and the English meaning and
usage. In November he began the compilation of a dictionary of the
Osage language. About 20,000 words with their full meanings and
’ usage have been completed.

The month of July, 1927, and the first part of August were spent
by Dr. F. H. H. Roberts, jr., archeologist, in the Chaco Canyon,
N. Mex., completing the excavation of a late basket-maker site.
It was discovered that the latter had been a village consisting of 18
houses, a kiva or circular ceremonial structure; 48 storage bins; and
a court. Definite knowledge of the house type was obtained during
the progress of these excavations, as well as other information of
value concerning one of the lesser known stages in the cultural de-
velopment of the sedentary, agricultural Indians of the prehistoric
Southwest. The work in the Chaco added materially to the infor-
mation on southwestern archeology.

Two weeks of August were spent in southeastern Utah in a recon-
naissance along Montezuma Creek, one of the northern tributaries
of the San Juan. The purpose of this reconnaissance was to locate
additional late basket-maker sites which might warrant intensive
investigation. Despite heavy rains and flooded conditions of the
streams, he was able to make his way up Montezuma Creek a dis-
tance of 40 miles. Several late basket-maker sites were observed,
but in every case the remains were so eroded that it was not deemed
advisable to do any excavating. Several ruins were visited which
were of interest because they had been noted and described by W. H.
Jackson in the Hayden survey report for Colorado and adjacent ter-
ritory, 1876. Although unique from an architectural standpoint, the
ruins belong to the late Mesa Verde era, the period when the pottery
characteristic of the large Mesa Verde pueblos and cliff dwellings
was in vogue.

At the end of August Doctor Roberts went to Pecos, N. Mex.,
where he attended the conference of southwestern archeologists and
ethnologists held at the Pecos ruins, where the Andover Academy
expedition under Dr. A. V. Kidder was completing its extensive
investigations of that well-known pueblo. While at the conference
he assisted in the drafting of a new outline of the sequence of cul-
tural stages in southwestern prehistoric and early historic develop-
ment of the sedentary Indian groups.
~

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY (5,

The first week in September found him at Folsom, N. Mex., where
workmen of the Colorado Museum of Natural History, Denver, had
uncovered several projectile points in direct association with the
bones of an extinct species of bison, Bison taylori. Several days
were spent in investigating the fossil bed and the surrounding terri-
tory. Doctor Roberts was so impressed with the find that he sent for
Dr. A. V. Kidder, of the Andover Academy and the Carnegie Insti-
tution of Washington, and with him again went carefully over the
problem presented. At the conclusion of the investigations Doctor
Roberts and Doctor Kidder were convinced that the bones and the
projectile points had been deposited in the stratum contem-
poraneously. He returned to Washington early in October.

The winter was spent in the preparation of a manuscript on the
season’s work, entitled “ Shabikeshchee Village, a Late Basket-Maker
Site in the Chaco Canyon, New Mexico.” Another manuscript
entitled “ Recent Archeological Developments in the Vicinity of
El Paso, Tex.,” was also completed.

In February Doctor Roberts went to Melbourne, I'la., to view, in
situ, a projectile point which Dr. J. W. Gidley, of the United States
National Museum, had found in a stratum from which he was remoy-
ing the bones of extinct Pleistocene animals. The projectile point
and bones were from the same stratum which in previous work had
yielded the crushed skull of a human being. It is around the latter
that much anthropological and paleontological discussion has centered
during the last two years. Doctor Roberts took advantage of the
trip to Melbourne to visit a number of shell heaps and mounds left
by some of the earlier Indian inhabitants of the region.

In May, 1928, Doctor Roberts made a reconnaissance along the
San Juan River to a point about 10 miles south of Rosa, N. Mex.
Returning to Arboles, Colo., a short survey and inspection was made
of the ruins and ruin sites along the Piedra River, one of the larger
tributaries of the San Juan. As a result of the latter it was deter-
mined to excavate a site located on a bluff 100 feet above the river
on the east side of the Piedra 15 miles north of Arboles.

The month of June was spent in an intensive investigation of the
above site, which proved to be a Pueblo I village. Of the 24 houses
excavated, 21 were single-room structures. Of the remaining 3, 2
had been 2-room domiciles, while the third had contained three
cell-like rooms. It was found that the structures varied considerably
in size, some of them being but 5 to 6 feet square, while others were
25 to 30 feet in length by 6 to 9 feet in width, but all had been
constructed in the same manner. In most cases there had been a
shght excavation measuring from 6 inches to 1 foot in depth. This
pit portion of the dwelling, if the slight excavation may be so called,
76 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

was roughly rectangular in shape. At an average distance of 10
inches from each corner a large post had been set in the floor. These
four posts appear to have carried at their tops a rectangular frame-
work, which formed the support for the roof and walls.. Both the
roof and walis had had a framework of small poles, which was
covered with adobe plaster averaging 6 inches in thickness. The roof
proper seems to have been flat, while the walls had a slight slope due
to the fact that the poles which formed them had had their lower
ends embedded in the earth around the edges of the shallow pit, while
their upper ends leaned against the framework at the tops of the
large support posts. In most cases the rooms were entered by means
of a small doorway in the center of one of the side walls. One or
two of the structures gave the suggestion of a roof entrance. In all
cases the doorway seems to have had a large stone slab for a cover.

There seems to have been a definite method of grouping the houses,
from four to eight or more of them being grouped in a semicircle:
around a circular depression. ‘Two of these depressions were exca-
vated and two more were trenched in the hope that they might be
found to contain kivas or ceremonial rooms, but in all four cases
they were found to be nothing more than pits. It is quite possible
that the earth used in making the plaster to cover the wooden frame-
work of the structures was taken out of these pits; possibly the
plaster itself was mixed there, while the hole remained to serve as a
reservoir for the storing of water. In each case the lower portions
of the pits gave distinct evidence of having been filled with water.

Refuse mounds containing burials were found in most cases to lie
some distance south or southeast of the house clusters. The burials
were of the contracted form, the body being placed in the shallow
grave with the knees drawn up to the breast and the lower limbs
tightly fiexed to the upper. Accompanying each burial were two
or three pottery vessels as mortuary offerings.

A good collection of pottery and other specimens was secured
from the houses and graves.

An interesting sidelight on the village is that it was destroyed by
fire, presumably in the fall or early winter, as practically every
vessel found in the structures contained corn, beans, wild cherries,
or some other form of vegetal food. It appears that very little of
the harvest had been used when through some mischance or other the
village was devastated by flames. Two of the inhabitants were
trapped in the houses, as the findings of the skeletons on the floor
would indicate. In both instances the remaining fragments of bone
showed clearly the marks of fire, and there was every evidence to
show that the bodies had been consumed in the flames.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY Tin
SPECIAL RESEARCHES

Research in the music of the American Indians has been carried
forward during the past year by Miss Frances Densmore, a collab-
orator of the bureau. In October, 1927, Miss Densmore visited the
Winnebago in Wisconsin, recording songs and interviewing many
Indians within a radius of about 20 miles around Black River Falls.
Eighty-three songs were recorded, with data concerning their origin
and use, and the singers and their environment were photographed.
The winter feast (also known as the war-bundle feast) and the
buffalo dance received special consideration, as these are distinc-
tively Winnebago ceremonies. Twenty-five winter feast songs were
recorded, including those of the night spirit, morning star, sun,
bear, and thunderbird bundles. The songs were recorded and infor-
mation given by men who habitually attend this feast, given annually
in Wisconsin and Nebraska. The use of music in the treatment of the
sick was found to be similar to that of the Chippewa and, in some
respects, to that of other tribes. The principal informant on this
subject was John Henry, living at Trempeleau, who recorded the
songs used by his grandfather when treating the sick. Additional
old healing songs included those formerly used by a Winnebago
named Thunder and recorded by his sons. Herb remedies were
administered and songs sung to make them effective.

Among the war songs is a group composed by members of the
tribe when serving in France with the United States Army during
the recent war. These express a high patriotism and are interesting
examples of songs composed by several persons in collaboration.
This is a phase of musical composition which has been observed
among the Sioux and Makah, as well as among Indians of British
Columbia. Other classes of recorded Winnebago songs are those of
the Heroka (bow and arrow spirits), songs to calm the waves, songs
received in dreams, and songs of the moccasin game.

One purpose of the work among the Winnebago was to ascertain
whether their songs resembled those of the neighboring Chippewa
or the related Sioux. The songs show a distinct resemblance to the
Chippewa and to the Menominee. Each tribe has its own songs,
and exceedingly old songs of each tribe have been obtained, but
there is a general resemblance in the melodic trend.

The study of material obtained at Neah Bay, Wash., and in
British Columbia in 1926, as well as Menominee material obtained in
1925, was continued, together with the work on Winnebago songs.
Eight manuscripts were submitted with the following titles: “ Dance
and dream songs of the Makah and Clayoquot Indians”; ‘“ Miscel-
laneous Makah and Clayoquot songs and Makah customs”; “ Nitinat
war and dance songs and Menominee songs connected with stories
78 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

of Manabus, with catalogue numbers of 184 songs”; “Songs of
Nitinat medicine men and miscellaneous Nitinat songs, with catalogue
numbers of Nitinat songs”; “ Songs of Indians living on the Fraser
and Thompson Rivers in British Columbia”; “Winnebago songs
of the Winter Feast”; “ Winnebago songs used in the treatment of
the sick”; and “ Winnebago war songs, with catalogue numbers of
Winnebago songs.”

The paper on Makah customs includes a consideration of such
topics as the construction of houses and canoes, tools, rope, clothing,
fishing, cooking, tatooing, and wedding customs, also methods of
making observations of the sun, and beliefs concerning petitions for
supernatural help.

Early in June, 1928, Mr. H. Hughes, of Ono, Russell County, Ky.,
advised the Smithsonian Institution of certain Indian objects re-
cently exhumed from a cave in the bluffs bordering Wolf Creek, a
branch of Cumberland River. To examine these objects and the
scene of their discovery, Mr. Neil M. Judd, curator of American
archeology, United States National Museum, was directed to proceed
to Ono.

Accompanied by Mr. Hughes, Mr. Judd called upon the three gen-
tlemen concerned with the discovery of the material in question,
examined the specimens, and later visited the shallow cave from
which they had been removed. The collection included parts of three
skeletons—two adults and an adolescent—a fragment of a buckskin
head band with fiber ropes attached, fragments of an olivella shell
necklace, a covered basket, and portions of two others. The basket,
certainly the most important of the several items, was woven of split
reeds; it is about 20 inches long, 8 inches wide, and 8 inches deep,
and was provided with a cover of approximately equal size that fitted
completely over the container. The basket is doubtless of Cherokee
origin; pottery fragments found in the cave tend to confirm this
deduction.

Owing to the fact that the site of discovery is only a shallow shelter
in a thick stratum of disintegrating shale, it is truly remarkable that
these textile fragments should have been so well preserved. Layers
of burned clay and ash indicated frequent though intermittent use
of the shelter by Indian peoples. Fragments of corncobs, one small
red bean, gourd rind, and squash seeds were observed among the
shaly deposits covering the narrow floor space.

During the summer and early fall of 1927 archeological investiga-
tions for the Bureau of American Ethnology were continued by Mr.
H. W. Krieger, curator of ethnology, United States National Museum,
in the arid section of the Columbia Basin and in the lower valley
of Snake River. During the preceding year the region extending
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 79

from the mouth of the Yakima River to the Canadian border was
explored. During the season of 1927 exploration of archeological
sites was continued from the mouth of the Yakima River to Mosier,
Oreg., in the vicinity of The Dalles. At this point an appreciable
increase in rainfall and forest growth marks the dividing line between
the humid northwest coast and the arid plateau of the interior.

In most essentials the early occupants of the upper plateau
possessed a remarkably uniform culture. It was found that the sub-
culture arex of north-central Oregon appears to be distinguished by
the excellent chipping of weapon points and tools from obsidian,
jasper, agate, and chalcedony. ‘The subarea of The Dalles and Miller
Island, the so-called “ Dalles culture,” is characterized to a greater
degree than is the subarea of north-central Oregon by realistically
shaped animal and human figurines executed in stone and wood and
appearing on wooden combs, stone pestle heads, stone bowls, and as
stone plaques. The subarea of The Dalles is also unique in the
possession of a lozenge or ovoid-shape stone knife with beveled lateral
surfaces shaped by rubbing. This type of knife was found in
abundance at Lyle, Wash. In the Snake River Valley a form of bone
or horn knife supplants the knife of chipped stone which prevails
elsewhere in the Columbia Basin, except in the areas mentioned.

Materials used as tools or as media on which to execute art designs
are characteristic of very restricted localities and vary in many
instances from village to village. The distinctions are the more
clear cut the more ancient the site and the more free the area from
the influence of contiguous culture areas.

At Page, Wash., on the Snake River, about 20 miles from Pasco,
were noted definite departures from the general type of archeological
remains characteristic of the sites along the Columbia River. No
copper ornaments or other objects of metal were found; nor were
any objects uncovered, other than dentalium shell, that might indi-
cate intercourse with British Columbia or with the tribes of the
lower Columbia. Bone knives and scrapers here displaced those of
chipped stone; weaving implements and perforators were of antler
or bone instead of rubbed stone as on the Columbia. Pairs of sand-
stone arrow-shaft rasps; fine-grained, grooved stone polishers; bas-
ketry fragments, showing styles of false embroidery, lattice weave,
and simple coiling and twining; ovoid stone clubs; and burials either
with red paint or of the usual cremation group type—all these char-
acteristics indicate a subculture area transitional between the Sho-
shoni on the east and south and the Shahaptian tribes of the middle
Columbia Basin.

The type of early culture that existed within the arid sections of
the Columbia Basin has. become definitely established. Many of the
connecting culture and trade relationships are now known. The re-
80 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

lationship with the Shoshoni and with other cultures on the south,
those of the basket maker and the pueblo, is not yet clearly defined.
Further research along the Snake River and its tributaries in south-
ern Idaho, northern Utah, and Nevada will no doubt bring out addi-
tional evidence of relationships with the preagricultural peoples of
the Southwest.

Mr. Henry B. Collins, jr., assistant curator of ethnology, and Mr.
T. Dale Stewart, of the division of physical anthropology, United
States National Museum, were detailed to conduct field work along
the coast of western Alaska, including the island of Nunivak, for
the purpose of observing these people, their manner of life, and their
physical type, as well as to collect skeletal and cultural material from
inhabited, and abandoned villages. From the standpoint of the
anthropologist, the section of Alaska from Bristol Bay northward
along the coast to the mouth of the Yukon is one of much interest,
for here dwell the most primitive group of Eskimo to be found in all
of Alaska. The work was conducted under the auspices of the
Bureau of American Ethnology, the United States National Museum,
the American Association for the Advancement of Science, and the
American Council of Learned Societies.

Transportation to Nunivak Island was obtained on the U. S. S.
Boxer, through the courtesy of the Federal Bureau of Education,
which operates this boat in the interest of the native schools it main-
tains throughout Alaska. The Boxer stopped at Unalaska, Akutan,
and Ugashik on the Aleutian Islands and the Alaska Peninsula, and
later at Kanakanak on the upper part of Bristol Bay.

Leaving Bristol Bay, the journey was continued northward along
the coast, stopping at Kukukak, Togiak, Mumtrack, and Tanunuk.
The Eskimo here live in small villages, usually along the coast near
the mouth of a stream. They subsist principally on fish, seal, and
birds, together with berries and a few other native plants. The most
important item of their clothing is the parka, a long coatlike gar-
ment made of feathers or fur. Their dwellings are semisubterra-
nean, consisting of a square or octagonal excavation from 1 to 3
feet deep, with walls and roof built up of successive tiers of drift-
wood logs, for there is no timber anywhere along the coast north of
Bristol Bay. The outside is completely covered with sod.

For winter travel the Eskimo use sleds and dog teams, while in
summer most of their journeys are made in the kayak, the in-
geniously made skin boat so typical of the Eskimo everywhere.

On June 21 Mr. Collins and Mr. Stewart landed at Nash Harbor
on the northwestern end of Nunivak Island, 48 days after leaving
Seattle. Here at the small native village of Kligachimiuny is located
the school of the Bureau of Education. Nunivak Island is 70 miles
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 81

long and about 45 miles wide, but there are no dependable charts of
its shores except for two restricted localities.

While very little was definitely known of them, the Nunivak Eskimo
have long been regarded as the most primitive in this remote region.
This was found to be true. Women were found still wearing the lip,
ear, and nose ornaments of beads and walrus ivory that were given
up years ago by the other Eskimo of western Alaska. The elaborate
observances and ceremonies relating to the hunting of the seal, and
their social and religious life in general, furnish additional evidence
of the extreme conservatism of these people.

The first work accomplished at Nash Harbor was the taking of
measurements and physiological observations on the natives. Much
of the western end of the island was explored on foot, bones and
ethnological material being collected from several deserted villages
and finally from the village at Nash Harbor. After completion of the
work on the western end of the island, camp was removed to Amo-
lowikimiut, a native village at Camp [tolin, some 30 miles to the east.

In August the party left Nunivak Island, Mr. Stewart going to St.
Michael with the trader from Tanunuk village, Nelson Island, while
Mr. Collins stopped at Hooper Bay, an Eskimo village on the main-
land between Nunivak and the Yukon, where additional collections
were secured. From St. Michael the outward trip was made up the
Yukon to Nenana, and thence to the coast to Seward, affording an
opportunity to observe the Eskimo along the lower Yukon and later
the Tinné Indians farther up the river.

EDITORIAL WORK AND PUBLICATIONS

The editing of the publications of the bureau was continued
through the year by Mr. Stanley Searles, editor, assisted by Mrs.
Frances S. Nichols, editorial assistant. The status of the publications
is presented in the following summary.

PUBLICATIONS ISSUED

Forty-second Annual Report. Accompanying papers: Social Organization and
Social Usages of the Indians of the Creek Confederacy (Swanton) ; Religious
Beliefs and Medical Practices of the Creek*Indians (Swanton) ; Aboriginal
Culture of the Southeast (Swanton) ; Indian Trails of the Southeast (Myer).
$00 pp. 17 pls. 108 figs.

Bulletin 85. Contributions to Fox Ethnology (Michelson). 168 pp.

PUBLICATIONS IN PRESS
Forty-first Annual Report. Accompanying papers: Coiled Basketry in British

Columbia and Surrounding Region (Boas, assisted by Haeberlin, Roberts, and
Teit) ; Two Prehistoric Villages in Middle Tennessee (Myer).
82 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

Forty-third Annual Report. Accompanying papers: The Osage Tribe: Two
Versions of the Child-naming Rite (La Flesche) ; Wawenock Myth Texts from
Maine (Speck) ; Native Tribes and Dialects of Connecticut (Speck) ; Picuris
Children’s Stories, With Texts and Songs (Harrington) ; Iroquoian Cos-
mology, Part II (Hewitt).

Forty-fourth Annual Report. Accompanying papers: Excavation of the Bur-
ton Mound at Santa Barbara, Calif. (Harrington); Social and Religious
Usages of the Chickasaw Indians (Swanton) ; Uses of Plants by the Chippewa
Indians (Densmore) ; Archeological Investigations II (Fowke).

Bulletin 84. A Vocabulary of the Kiowa Language (Harrington).

Bulletin 86. Chippewa Customs (Densmore).

Bulletin 87. Notes on the Buffalo-head Dance of the Thunder Gens of the Fox
Indians (Michelson).

Bulletin 88. Myths and Tales of the Southeastern Indians (Swanton).

Bulletin 89. Observations on the Thunder Dance of the Bear Gens of the Fox
Indians (Michelson).

Bulletin 90. Papago Music (Densmore).

DISTRIBUTION OF PUBLICATIONS

The distribution of the publications of the bureau has been con-
tinued under the charge of Miss Helen Munroe, assisted by Miss
Emma B. Powers. Publications were distributed as follows:

Report. volumes; and! separatess = 2. ea Se ee 1, 450
Bulletins, vand ‘separategs oe ee a eS 6, 870
Contributions to North American Ethnology______--_------------_--_--- 23
Miscellaneous publications! Seas =. eee ee ee one eee 783

TDD tea Me ei IR Se NS A I RS Le 2 ee 9, 126

There was a decrease of 788 publications distributed, due to the
fact that 1 less publication was distributed to the mailing list than
in the previous year. The mailing list, after revision during the year,
now stands at 1,713 addresses.

ILLUSTRATIONS

Following is a summary of work accomplished in the illustration
branch of the bureau under the supervision of Mr. De Lancey Gill,
illustrator :

Drawings made (maps, diagrammatic and graphic illustrations) _------- 55
Photographs retouched, lettered, and made ready for engraving__--~- Ll OS
Hneraved: proors) Crivgicized= ee 2 eee 582
Color prints examined at Government Printing Office_________---------- 3, 660
Illustrations catalogued for outside publications_____________-_-_------- 350
Photographie.-negatives=! 2 ste ANE as 2 eee eS ee eee 96
Photographie prints. 2. = 20 ea ee ee ee 367
PMTAre ements) 2 eo a a a? a ee 2

Development (films)
Color *print) 2c seeooich Se tee 8 et NEE aR SE hh Pk pierre pe Eaves ee eee il
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 83

The development and printing of all photographic work was done
in the laboratory of the United States National Museum by Dr. A. J.
Olmsted in cooperation with the bureau in exchange for work done
by Mr. Gill for other branches of the Institution. This arrangement,
as in the previous year, has proved eminently satisfactory.

LIBRARY

The reference library has continued under the care of Miss Ella
Leary, librarian, assisted by Mr. Thomas Blackwell. The library con-
sists of 27,921 volumes, about 16,177 pamphlets, and several thousand
unbound periodicals. During the year 780 books were accessioned, of
which 115 were acquired by purchase and 665 by gift and exchange;
also 3,980 serials, chiefly the publications of learned societies, were
received and recorded, of which only 108 were obtained by purchase,
the remainder being received through exchange. A considerable
amount of time was given to preparing bibliographic lists for corre-
spondents. Requisition was made on the Library of Congress during
the year for an aggregate of 325 volumes for official use. An increas-
ing number of students not connected with the Smithsonian Institu-
tion found the library of service in consulting volumes not obtainable
in other libraries.

COLLECTIONS

99366. Archeological and human skeletal material collected in Florida by Henry
B. Collins, jr., during January and February, 1928. (133 specimens.)

99553. Lots of potsherds collected on the surface of mounds in the vicinity of
Greenville, 8S. C., during the spring of 1927 by Dr. J. Walter Fewkes.

99554. Small archeological collection purchased by the bureau from R. W. Owen,
Philadelphia, Pa. (16 specimens.)

99953. Archeological and human skeletal material collected by H. W. Krieger
during the late summer of 1927 in the Columbia and Snake River Valleys.
(190 specimens. )

101146. Small collection of archeological specimens from Tennessee secured in
the spring of 1928 by Henry B. Collins, jr. (6 specimens.)

101340. Archeological material from two sites in Chaco Canyon, N. Mex., col-
lected during 1927 by Dr. F. H. H. Roberts, jr. (199 specimens. )

101524. Potsherds, stone, and shell objects from a shell mound near Melbourne,
Fla., collected by Dr. F. H. H. Roberts, jr. (4 specimens.)

101525, Atlatl spearshafts, sandals, netting, ete., from a cave about 20 miles
northeast of El Paso, Tex., collected in May, 1927, by Dr. F. H. H. Roberts, jr.
(26 specimens. )

PROPERTY
Office equipment was purchased to the amount of $656.89.
MISCELLANEOUS

Clerical—The correspondence and other clerical work of the office
has been conducted by Miss May S. Clark, clerk to the chief, assisted
84 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

by Mr. Anthony W. Wilding, stenographer. Miss Mae W. Tucker,
stenographer, continued to assist Dr. John R. Swanton in compiling a
Timucua dictionary. She also classified and catalogued 2,323 musical
records in the possession of the bureau. Mrs. Frances S. Nichols
assisted the editor.

Personnel.—Dr. J. Walter Fewkes retired as chief of the bureau
January 15, 1928, but continued on the staff of the bureau as associate
anthropologist.

Respectfully submitted.

H. W. Dorsey,
Chief Clerk, Smithsonian Institution.
Dr. C. G. AxBgBor,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 5
REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report on the
operations of the International Exchange Service during the fiscal
year ending June 30, 1928:

An appropriation was made by Congress for the support of the
system of international exchanges between the United States and
foreign countries under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution
for the fiscal year 1928 of $46,855, an increase of $595 over the appro-
priation for the preceding year. This increase in the amount made
available for the service was to enable the Institution to advance to
the next step in their respective grades such of the exchange em-
ployees as were eligible for promotion. In addition to the above,
$300 was allotted for printing and binding. The repayments from
departmental and other establishments aggregated $5,083.14, making
the total resources available for exchange purposes during the year,
$52,238.14.

The total number of packages passing through the service was
542,223, a decrease from the number for the preceding year of 48,656.
This falling off in the number of packages handled was expected.
However, it does not signify that the normal work of the office has
slackened to any extent, as the number of packages. passing through
the service during the preceding fiscal year was the largest since its
organization in 1850—the increase being over a hundred thousand
packages, while the annual increase usually averages five or ten
thousand. The increase in that year was due in great measure, as was
explained in last year’s report, to the action of the Department of
Agriculture in turning over to the exchange office large numbers of
small packages for distribution abroad that it formerly transmitted
through the mails. That department later discontinued sending the
material in question to the Institution.

The total weight of the packages was 594,121 pounds—a gain of
40,996 over the weight of those handled during the preceding twelve
months.

240354—29———_7 85
86 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

The number and weight of the packages of different classes are
given in the following table:

Packages Weight
Sent | Received Sent | Received
Pounds | Pounds
United States parliamentary documents sent abroad----------- 219;'968) i): 222s 2 O9N658% 2 S20 eee
Publications received in return for parliamentary documents_--|_.--..---- 6) 3200 |oeeeee ene 23, 693
United States departmental documents sent abroad___-_------- 153) O7Si|Soeee we a 163;046)|o-22 esses
Publications received in return for departmental documents-_-_--|---------- 6; O60p|ae see 2 23, 002
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications sent abroad_-| 113, 448 |.--------- 196; 6460): scree
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications received from
abroad for distribution in the United States___...-_.....__._-|---------- 43 O54 )|/k- ees ke 88, 181
SS SS ee eee Oe
TTS Ley] Ot eee nse Sut nee re pa Cee) Tem nT Se a 486, 789 55,4384 | 459, 245 134, 876
Granditotale: ase sae sh ree ae ie Se ee eee 542, 223 594, 121

In a letter to the American legation in Peking regarding the inter-
change of governmental documents between China and the United
States the Metropolitan Library in Peking, which in 1926 was desig-
nated by the Chinese Government as the depository library for all
official publications of foreign governments received by China
through the International Exchange Service, makes the following
statement :

Special mention should be made of the monthly consignments of govern-
mental documents received from the Smithsonian Institution. The Metropolitan
Library maintains a reference card catalogue containing genera] and specific
information concerning these publications and endeavors to furnish informa-
tion to inquirers, either in person or by mail, involving the material over which
it has custody.

The official publications of the United States forwarded to China previous
to 1926 were scattered in different places. The Library of the Foreign Office,
Peking; the Library of the Science Society, Nanking; and the Library of the
Chamber of Commerce, Shanghai, are the three places where a portion of these
publications are kept. It is hoped that these publications will eventually be
concentrated in one large library where a complete file is available for refer-
ence and research.

The Metropolitan Library further adds in its letter to the legation:

In writing to the Department of State will you be good enough to convey our
high appreciation of the efficient service which the Smithsonian Institution has
been rendering to the Metropolitan Library.

The Smithsonian occasionally receives letters from its correspond-
ents testifying to the usefulness of the International Exchange Serv-
ice and expressing appreciation of the help rendered in diffusing
knowledge by distributing scientific and literary publications.
Among such communications received during the past year was one
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 87

from Mr. George S. Godard, Connecticut State librarian. A part of
that letter is given below:

Every time I make a call at your department I am the more impressed with
the most important service you and those associated with you in the Inter-
national Exchange Service are rendering to the several States, institutions, and
others scattered throughout the civilized earth.

As a representative of the State of Connecticut in charge of the State, na-
tional, and internAtional exchanges of Connecticut, I wish to again express my
thanks for the services you have rendered the good State of Connecticut both
in forwarding to others and sending to us.

Another correspondent, the Minister of Guatemala, states that:

It is my privilege to express to the Institution the sincere thanks of the Gov-
ernment of Guatemala for the interest manifested by the useful and abundant
material furnished.

As an example of aid rendered by the International Exchange Serv-
ice in securing publications on some particular subject, a request was
received from a correspondent in London for information as to what
America has done toward the important subject of enacting laws to
provide for compulsory automobile liability insurance, and the In-
stitution succeeded in procuring quite a number of publications on
the subject. In acknowledging their receipt, the correspondent wrote
in part as follows:

I have not up to the present time had the opportunity of reading more than
a few of the publications sent to me, but I should like to tender you my very
sincere thanks for sending me all the reports desired and in addition many
other highly interesting articles. I assure you I appreciate your action very
much indeed.

There were shipped abroad during the year 2,872 boxes, being an
increase of 264 over the number for the preceding year. Of the total
number of boxes sent abroad 643 contained full sets of United States
official documents for foreign depositories and 2,229 included depart-
mental and other publications for the depositories of partial sets and
for miscellaneous correspondents.

Occasionally, as explained in previous reports, it is found more
economical to forward packages direct to their destinations by mail
than to transmit them in boxes by freight. In addition, quite a num-
ber of packages are sent by mail to remote places which can not be
reached through the existing agencies. During the year the number
of packages thus forwarded was 47,851.
88 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

The number of boxes sent to each foreign country during the fiscal
year 1928 is given below:

Consignments of exchanges forwarded to foreign countries

Country niperet! Country Rane
AlMpaimnbey = bcsenet ect) he put chee doyel ECV oes eopehle eh ae 4
Argentina ser eee 625) lait hen iy a ee ee ed ee 6
ANISTTI a= Meee ee eae a he ae ee G7 MexICOl = 2 s= eee eo ee 11
Belgium is o5§ oes oy (le |WNetherlan dsi4s sea eee 66
rez ibn ky 2 i ge gE 48 || New South Wales__________-- 39
Buloania: 342 teas pines a ahhs 5 | New Zealand 2<. 44) smisiect a 5275 32
British, colomiess225 52 4244-4 = = PASM 0} GN ap ae ee oy ae 69
Canadaee. -on tee es ere are 50). Palestinemo2t soe. 2a ees 69
Chiles f= 2a Gaia eee ae 29) Peru). 22S 22 eee 2a
Gloviays eeu es ye ee ee aan Ball soln +. 2 tat ae a cee 41
Colomipitt oe eres ees ae ae 22 |) Portugal. 25 90 ro.) aie aerate ae 21
Costa fRicae2t 6 saris aie 21 \\(@Queensland= 222.0222 eee 26
Cua see ee Wea eee a TELA NP cab hoa sh oF: enya pre enrne  ReR MIERY Boy 14
@zechoslovakiasete e222 tees G87 SRUssiae se ee) ae tk ee ee 134
Denmarlcis: ee ie eke ips 549||HSouth Australia=® see see ee 30
IBC UA ORE) ve aie eres ee AW (ars) 20 oR eee EE ME 228 ays
Py Due el eee ae ree Ae Wha 210 (250 Caan Mp NS Le hy oh ees 87
BIStOmiae ss enh iy tyes has ope piaeesys ve Nos witzerlandeaa- leah wep: aye 66
Sprays eth eo A ke Ne 14 |). ASMania. on oe Oe ee 20
TN Ce ee een re ee ees ene TOS eur ke yea.) seen ere. Rene 4
Germany: Sree el eye epee 357 || Union of South Africa_______-- 36
Great Britain and Ireland_--_-- BIANCO) ob cabs Se eee EN UN ce one 19
Greecosaie Mathie: Yai. irae 9) li) Menezuelaze ces 44328 oe anes | 15
Ra ay ee ee eg AG sl NiChOTIR SoS en ae ee | 59
ylides ee ae ea ee ee 68: || Western Australia- 2-2) 2-222 es 25
LECTED pee gl pu al aaah 158" "|| Yugoslavia ees 2 ake ae ee | 18
JRA CALA, SES SIA Es 2 |
JAE oe eae Oe tat 91 Totals. toe. ee 2, 872

FOREIGN DEPOSITORIES OF UNITED STATES GOVERNMENTAL DOCUMENTS

The number of sets of United States official documents forwarded
abroad to certain designated depositories is 105, an increase of 2
during the year—Burma and Bombay having been added to the list
of those countries receiving partial sets. The partial set of govern-
mental documents which has been sent to Rumania since 1903 has
been increased to a full set.

Shipments of governmental documents to Turkey, which were sus-
pended at the beginning of the World War, have been resumed, the
Turkish Government having designated the Ministry of Public
Instruction at Angora as the depository.

At the request of the Government of Yugoslavia, the depository of
the full set of official documents in that country has been changed
from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Ministry of Education at
Belgrade.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 89

The depository of governmental publications sent to the Nether-
lands, at the request of that Government, has been changed from the
Library of the Second Chamber of the States General to the Royal
Library at The Hague.

The Government of the Commonwealth of Australia, which was tem-
porarily located in Melbourne, has moved into the recently founded
city of Canberra. The set of United States governmental documents
sent to the Library of the Commonwealth Parliament, therefore, is
now being forwarded to that city instead of to Melbourne.

A list of the foreign depositories is given below:

DEPOSITORIES OF FULL SETS

ARGENTINA: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Buenos Aires.
Buenos ArrEs: Biblioteca de la Universidad Nacional de La Plata, La Plata.
(Depository of the Province of Buenos Aires.)
AUSTRALIA: Library of the Commonwealth Parliament, Canberra.

New SoutH WALES: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.

QUEENSLAND: Parliamentary Library, Brisbane.

SouTtH AUSTRALIA: Parliamentary Library, Adelaide.

TASMANIA: Parliamentary Library, Hobart.

Victoria: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.
Austria: Bundesamt fiir Statistik, Schwarzenbergstrasse 5, Vienna I.
BELGIUM: Bibliothéque Royale, Brussels.

BraziL: Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio de Janeiro.
CANADA: Library of Parliament, Ottawa.

MANITOBA: Provincial Library, Winnipeg.

Ontario: Legislative Library, Toronto.

QueEBEc: Library of the Legislature of the Province of Quebec, Quebec.
CHILE: Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Santiago.

CHINA: Metropolitan Library, Pei Hai, Peking.
CoLOMBIA: Biblioteca Nacional, Bogota.
Costa Rica: Oficina de Depésito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, San
José,
Cupa: Secretaria de Estado (Asuntos Generales y Canje Internacional),
Habana.
CZECHOSLOVAKIA: Bibliothéque de l’Assemblée Nationale, Prague.
DENMARK: Kongelige Bibliotheket, Copenhagen.
EeypetT: Bureau des Publications, Ministére des Finances, Cairo.
EsTonia: Riigiraamatukogu (State Library), Reval.
FRANCE: Bibliotheque Nationale, Paris.
Paris: Préfecture de la Seine.
GERMANY: Deutsche Reichstags-Bibliothek, Berlil..
BADEN: Universitiits-Bibliothek, Freiburg. (Depository of the State of
Baden. )

Bavaria: Staats-Bibliothek, Munich.

PrussiA: Preussische Staatsbibliothek, Berlin, N. W. 7.

Saxony: Siichsische Landesbibliothek, Dresden—N. 6

WURTTEMBERG: Landesbibliothek, Stuttgart.
90 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

GREAT BRITAIN:
ENGLAND: British Museum, London.
GLAseow: City Librarian, Mitchell Library, Glasgow.
Lonpon: London School of Economics and Political Science. (Depository
of the London County Council.)
GREECE: Bibliothéque Nationale, Athens.
Huneary: Hungarian House of Delegates, Budapest.
InprA: Imperial Library, Calcutta.
IrtsH FREE State: National Library of Ireland, Dublin.
Iraty: Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio Emanuele, Rome.
JAPAN: Imperial Library of Japan, Tokyo.
Mexico: Biblioteca Nacional, Mexico, D. F.
NETHERLANDS: Royal Library, The Hague.
NEw ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.
NORTHERN IRELAND: Ministry of Finance, Belfast.
Norway: Universitets-Bibliotek, Oslo. (Depository of the Government of
Norway.)
Perv: Biblioteca Nacional, Lima.
PoLAND: Bibliothéque du Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Warsaw.
PorTuGAL: Biblioteca Nacional, Lisbon.
Russia: Shipments temporarily suspended.
Spain: Servicio del Cambio Internacional de Publicaciones, Cuerpo Faculta-
tivo de Archiveros, Bibliotecarios y Arquedlogos, Madrid.
SWEDEN: Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm.
SWITZERLAND: Bibliothéque Centrale Fédérale, Berne.
SWITZERLAND: Library of the League of Nations, Geneva.
TuRKEY: Ministére de Instruction Publique, Angora.
UNION oF SoutH Arrica: State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal.
Urueuay: Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Montevideo.
VENEZUELA: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.
YUGOSLAVIA: Ministére de l’Education, Belgrade.

DEPOSITORIES OF PARTIAL SETS

AUSTRIA :
VIENNA: Magistrat der Stadt.
BotiviA: Ministerio de Colonizacion y Agricultura, La Paz.
BRAZIL:
Minas Gerars: Directoria Geral de Estatistica em Minas, Bello Horizonte,
Minas Geraes.
Rio DE JANEIRO: Bibliotheca da Assemblea Legislativa do Estado, Nictheroy.
CANADA:
ALBERTA: Provincia! Library, Edmonton.
BritisH CoLumMBiA: Legislative Library, Victoria.
New Brunswick: Legislative Library, Fredericton.
Nova Scotia: Provincial Secretary of Nova Scotia, Halifax.
PRINCE Hpwarp IsLAND: Legislative Library, Charlottetown.
SASKATCHEWAN: Government Library, Regina.
BRITISH GUIANA: Government Secretary’s Office, Georgetown, Demerara.
BULGARIA: Ministére des Affaires Btrangéres, Sofia.
CryYLon: Colonial Secretary’s Office (Record Department of the Library),
Colombo.
Danzia: Stadtbibliothek, Free City of Danzig.
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: Biblioteca del Senado, Santo Domingo.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 9]

Ecvuapor: Biblioteca Nacional, Quito.
FINLAND: Parliamentary Library, Helsingfors.
FRANCE:
ALSACE-LORRAINE: Bibliothéque Universitaire et Régionale de Strasbourg,
Strasbourg.
GERMANY:
BREMEN: Senatskommission fiir Reichs- und Auswiirtige Angelegenheiten.
HAmeBurG: Senatskommission fiir Reichs- und Auswirtige Angelegenheiten.
HeEssE: Landesbibliothek, Darmstadt.
LUBECK: President of the Senate.
_ THuRINGIA: Rothenberg-Bibliothek, Landesuniversitiit, Jena.
GUATEMALA: Secretary of the Government, Guatemala.
Harti: Secrétaire d’Etat des Relations Extérieures, Port au Prince.
Honpuras: Secretary of the Government, Tegucigalpa.
IcELAND: National Library, Reykjavik.
INDIA:
BoMBAY: Undersecretary to the Government of Bombay, General Depart-
ment, Bombay.
BurMa: Secretary to the Government of Burma, Education Department,
Rangoon.
Mapras: Chief Secretary to the Government of Madras, Public Depart-
ment, Madras.
UNITED PROVINCES OF AGRA AND OUpH: University of Allahabad, Allahabad.
JAMAICA: Colonial Secretary, Kingston.
Latvia: Bibliothéque d’Itat, Riga.
LIBERIA: Department of State, Monrovia.
LITHUANIA: Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Kovno.
LouRENCO MArQueEz: Government Library, Lourenco Marquez.
Matra: Minister for the Treasury, Valetta.
NEWFOUNDLAND: Colonial Secretary, St. John’s.
NICARAGUA: Superintendente de Archivos Nacionales, Managua.
PANAMA: Secretaria de Relaciones Exteriores, Panama.
PARAGUAY: Secc6én Canje Internacional de Publicaciones del Ministerio de
Relaciones Exteriores, Estrella 563, Asunci6n.
RuMANIA: Academia Romana, Bucharest.
Satvapor: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador.
Sram: Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok.
STRAITS SETTLEMENTS: Colonial Secretary, Singapore.

INTERPARLIAMENTARY EXCHANGE OF OFFICIAL JOURNAL

During the year, three additional foreign depositories were added
to the list of those ‘receiving the daily issue of the Congressional
Record, the depositories being located in Brazil, Irish Free State, and
Turkey.

The two chambers of the National Congress of Spain having been
superceded by a national assembly with but one chamber, only one
copy of the Record is now forwarded to the Spanish Legislature
instead of two. The total number of establishments receiving copies
of the daily issue of the Congressional Record is 101.
92 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

A complete list of the countries now taking part in this exchange
is given below:
DEPOSITORIES OF CONGRESSIONAL RECORD

ARGENTINA:
Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Buenos Aires.
Camara de Diputados, Oficina de Informacion Parlamentaria, Buenos Aires.
Buenos Aires; Biblioteca del Senado de la Provincia de Buenos Aires.
La Plata.
AUSTRALIA :
Library of the Commonwealth Parliament, Canberra. a
New South Wales: Library of Parliament of New South Wales, Sydney.
Queensland: Chief Secretary’s Office, Brisbane.
Western Australia: Library of Parliament of Western Australia, Perth.
AUSTRIA: Bibliothek des Nationalrates, Vienna I.
BrEeLGIuM: Bibliothéque de la Chambre des Représentants, Brussels.
BotiviA: Camara de Diputados, Congreso Nacional, La Paz.
BRAZIL:
Bibliotheca do Congresso Nacional, Rio de Janeiro.
Amazonas: Archiyo, Bibliotheca e Imprensa Publica, Manéos.
Bahia: Governador do Estado de Bahia, Sao Salvador.
Espirito Santo: Presidencia do Estado do Espirito Santo, Victoria.
Sergipe: Director da Imprensa Official, Aracaju, Estado de Sergipe.
Sao Paulo: Bibliotheca Publica do Estado de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo.
CANADA:
Library of Parliament, Ottawa.
Clerk of the Senate, Houses of Parliament, Ottawa.
CuHiInA: Metropolitan Library, Pei Hai, Peking.
Costa Rica: Oficina de Depdsito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, San
José,
CUBA:
Biblioteca de la Camara de Representantes, Habana.
Biblioteca del Senado, Habana.
CZECHOSLOVAKIA: Bibliothéque de l’Assemblée Nationale, Prague.
Danzic: Stadtbibliothek, Danzig.
DENMARK: Rigsdagens Bureau, Copenhagen.
DoMINICAN REPUBLIC: Biblioteca del Senado, Santo Domingo.
DutcH East Inpiges: Volksraad van Nederlandsch-Indie, Batavia, Java.
Eeypt: Bureau des Publications, Ministére des Finances, Cairo.
EsToNIA: Riigiraamatukogu (State Library), Reval.
FRANCE:
Bibliothéque de Ja Chambre des Députés, au Palais Bourbon, Paris
Bibliothéque du Sénat, au Palais du Luxembourg, Paris.
GERMANY:
Deutsche Reichstags-Bibliothek, Berlin, N. W. 7.
Anhalt: Anhaltische Landesbticherei, Dessau.
Baden: Universitiits-Bibliothek, Heidelberg.
Braunschweig: Bibliothek des Braunschweigischen Staatsministeriums,
Braunschweig.
Mecklenburg-Schwerin: Staatsministerium, Schwerin.
Mecklenburg-Strelitz: Finanzdepartement des Staatsministeriums, Neu-
strelitz.
Oldenburg: Oldenburgisches Staatsministerium, Oldenburg i. O.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 93

GERMANY—Continued.
Prussia: Bibliothek des Abgeordnetenhauses, Prinz-Albrechtstrasse 5,
Berlin, S. W. 11.
Schaumburg-Lippe: Schaumburg-Lippische Landesregierung, Biicheburg.
GIBRALTAR: Gibraltar Garrison Library Committee, Gibraltar.
GREAT Britain: Library of the Foreign Office, London.
GREECE: Library of Parliament, Athens.
GUATEMALA: Archivo General del Gobierno, Guatemala.
Haiti: Secrétaire d’Etat des Relations Extérieures, Port-au-Prince.
Honpburas: Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Tegucigalpa.
Huncary: Bibliothek des Abgeordnetenhauses, Budapest.
InpIA: Legislative Department, Simla.
ITALY:
Biblioteca del Senato del Regno, Rome.
Biblioteca della Camera dei Deputati, Rome.
Traq: Chamber of Deputies, Baghdad, Iraq (Mesopotamia).
TRISH FRE® STATE: Dail Hireann, Dublin.
Latvia: Library of the Saeima, Riga.
LIBERIA: Department of State, Monrovia.
Mexico: Secretaria de la Camara de Diputados, Mexico, D. F.
Aguascalientes: Gobernador del Estado de Aguascalientes, Aguascalientes.
Campeche: Gobernador del Estado de Campeche, Campeche.
Chihuahua: Gobernador del Estado de Chihuahua, Chihuahua.
Chiapas: Gobernador del Estado de Chiapas, Tuxtla Gutierrez.
Coahuila: Periddico Oficial del Estado de Coahuila, Palacio de Gobierno,
Saltillo.
Colima: Gobernador del Estado de Colima, Colima.
Durango: Gobernador Constitucional del Estado de Durango, Durango.
Guanajuato: Secretaria General de Gobierno del Estado, Guanajuato.
Guerrero: Gobernador del Estado de Guerrero, Chilpancingo.
Jalisco: Biblioteca del Estado, Guadalajara.
Lower California: Gobernador del Distrito Norte, Mexicali, B. C., Mexico.
Mexico: Gaceta del Gobierno, Toluca, Mexico.
Michoacin: Secretaria General de Gobierno del Estado de Michoacan,
Morelia.
Morelos: Palacio de Gobierno, Cuernavaca.
Nayarit: Gobernador de Nayarit, Tepic.
Nuevo Leén: Biblioteca del Estado, Monterey.
Oaxaca: Periédico Oficial, Palacio de Gobierno, Oaxaca.
Puebla: Secretario General de Gobierno, Zaragoza.
Queretaro: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Secci6n de Archivo, Queretaro.
San Luis Potosi: Congreso del Estado, San Luis Potosi.
Sinaloa: Gobernador del Estado de Sinaloa, Culiacan.
Sonora: Gobernador del Estado de Sonora, Hermosillo.
Tabasco: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Seccién 38a, Ramo de Prensa,
Villahermosa.
Tamaulipas: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Victoria.
Tlaxcala: Secretaria de Gobierno del Estado, Tlaxcala.
Vera Cruz: Gobernador del Estado de Vera Cruz, Departamento de
Gobernaci6n y Justicia, Jalapa.
Yucatin: Gobernador del Estado de Yucatén, Mérida, Yucatan.
NEw ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.
Peru: Camara de Diputados, Congreso Nacional, Lima.
O4. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

Norway: Storthingets Bibliothek, Oslo.
PoLAND: Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Warsaw.
PortTuGAL: Biblioteca do Congresso da Republica, Lisbon.
RUMANIA:
Bibliothéque de la Chambre des Députés, Bucharest.
Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Bucharest.
SPAIN:
Biblioteca de la Asamblea Nacional, Madrid.
Bareelona: Biblioteca de la Comision Permanente Provincial de Barcelona,
Barcelona.
SWITZERLAND:
Bibliothéque de l’Assemblée Fédérale Suisse, Berne.
Library of the League of Nations, Geneva.
SYRIA:
Ministére des Finances de la République Libanaise, Service du Matériel,
Beirut.
Governor of the State of Alaouites, Lattaquié.
TurRKEY: Turkish Grand National Assembly, Angora.
UNION oF SouTH AFRICA:
Library of Parliament, Cape Town, Cape of Good Hope.
State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal.
Urucuay: Biblioteca de la Camara de Representantes, Montevideo.
VENEZUELA: Cimara de Diputados, Congreso Nacional, Cardécas.
YUGOSLAVIA: Library of the Skupshtina, Belgrade.

FOREIGN EXCHANGE AGENCIES

The Italian Office of International Exchanges, which since its
organization had been under the direction of the Victor Emanuel
National Library in Rome, was during the latter part of the year
placed under the ministry of public instruction.

The Dutch Central Scientific Bureau, which for many years con-
ducted the exchange agency for the Netherlands and was under the
direction of various scientific organizations, was made, on January
1, 1928, a subdivision of the Federal organization and placed under
the direction of the Royal Library at The Hague. Information has
been received from the latter to the effect that the name and address
of the agency is now International Exchange Bureau of the Nether-
lands, Royal Library, Kazernestraat, The Hague. A list of the
foreign exchange agencies or bureaus is given below:

LIST OF EXCHANGE AGENCIES

ALGERIA, via France.

ANGOLA, via Portugal.

AGSENTINA: Comisi6n Protectora de Bibliotecas Populares, Calle Cordoba 931,
Buenos Aires.

AustTrRIA: Bundesamt fiir Statistik, Schwarzenbergstrasse 5, Vienna I.

AZORES, via Portugal.

BELGIUM: Service Belge des Echanges Internationaux, Rue des Longs-Chariots,
46, Brussels.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 95

BotiviA: Oficina Nacional de Estadistica, La Paz.

Brazi.: Servicio de Permutacdes Internacionaes, Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio de
Janeiro.

BrItIsH CoLonies: Crown Agents for the Colonies, London.

BRITISH GUIANA: Royal Agricultural and Commercial Society, Georgetown.

BRITISH HonpurAS: Colonial Secretary, Belize.

BuLGARIA: Institutions Scientifiques de S. M. le Roi de Bulgarie, Sofia.

CANARY ISLANDS, via Spain.

CHILE: Servicio de Canjes Internacionales, Biblioteca Nacional, Santiago.

CHINA: Bureau of International Exchange of Publications, Ministry of Educa-
tion, Peking.

CoLoMBIA: Oficina de Canjes Internacionales y Reparto, Biblioteca Nacional,
Bogota.

Costa Rica: Oficina de Depdsito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, San
José.

CZECHOSLOVAKIA: Service Tchécoslovaque des Echanges Internationaux, Biblio-
théque de l’Assemblée Nationale, Prague 1-79.

Danzig: Amt fiir den Internationalen Schriftenaustausch der Freien Stadt
Danzig, Stadtbibliothek, Danzig.

DENMARK: Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen.

DutcH GUIANA: Surinaamsche Koloniale Bibliotheek, Paramaribo.

Ecuapor: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Quito.

Eeypt: Bureau des Publications, Ministére des Finances, Cairo.

Estonia: Riigiraamatukogu (State Library), Reval.

FINLAND: Delegation of the Scientifie Societies of Finland, Helsingfors.

FRANCE: Service Francais des Echanges Internationaux, 110 Rue de Grenelle,
Paris.

GERMANY: Amerika-Institut, Universitiitstrasse 8, Berlin, N. W. 7.

GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND: Messrs. Wheldon & Wesley, 2, 3, and 4 Arthur
St., New Oxford St., London W. C. 2.

GREECE: Bibliothéque Nationale, Athens.

GREENLAND, via Denmark.

GUATEMALA: Instituto Nacional de Varones, Guatemala.

Hartr: Secrétaire d’Etat des Relations Extérieures, Port-au-Prince.

HonpurAs: Biblioteca Nacional, Tegucigalpa.

Huncary: Hungarian Libraries Board, Budapest, IV.

ICELAND, via Denmark.

Inp1A: Superintendent of Stationery, Bombay.

ITALY: R. Ufficio degli Scambi Internazionali, Miuistero della Pubblica Istru-
zione, Rome.

JAMAICA: Institute of Jamaica, Kingston.

JAPAN: Imperial Library of Japan, Tokyo.

JAVA, via Netherlands.

KoreA: Government General, Seoul.

Latvia: Service des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque d’Etat de Lettonie,
Riga.

LIBERIA: Bureau of Exchanges, Department of State, Monrovia.

LITHUANIA: Sent by mail.

LoURENCO Marquez, via Portugal.

LUXEMBURG, via Belgium.

MApaGAscaR, via France.

Mapetra, via Portugal.

MOozAMBIQUE, via Portugal.
96 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

NETHERLANDS: International Exchange Bureau of the Netherlands, Royal
Library, The Hague.

New SoutH WALES: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.

New ZEALAND: Dominion Museum, Wellington.

Nicaragua: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Managua.

Norway: Universitets-Bibliotek, Oslo.

PALESTINE: Hebrew University Library, Jerusalem.

PanaAMA: Sent by mail.

PARAGUAY: Seccién Canje Internacional de Publicaciones del Ministerio de
Relaciones Exteriores, Estrella 563, Asuncion.

Peru: Oficina de Reparto, Depdsito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones,
Ministerio de Fomento, Lima.

PoLAND: Service Polonais des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque du Minis-
tére des Affaires Etrangéres, Warsaw,

PortruGaL: Seccio de Trocas Internacionaes, Biblioteca Nacional, Lisbon.

QUEENSLAND: Bureau of Exchanges of International Publications, Chief Secre-
tary’s Department, Brisbane.

RuMANIA: Bureau des Echanges Internationaux, Institut Météorologique Cen-
tral, Bucharest.

Russia: Academy of Sciences, Leningrad.

SALVADOR: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador.

Sram: Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok.

SoutH AUSTRALIA: Public Library of South Australia, Adelaide.

Spain: Servicio del Cambio Internacional de Publicaciones, Cuerpo Facultativo
de Archiveros, Bibliotecarios y Arquedlogos, Madrid.

SuMATRA, via Netherlands.

SweEDEN: Kongliga Svenska Vetenskaps Akademien, Stockholn.

SwITzERLAND: Service Suisse des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Cen-
trale Fédérale, Berne.

Syrra: American University of Beirut.

TASMANIA: Secretary to the Premier, Hobart.

TRINIDAD: Royal Victoria Institute of Trinidad and Tobago, Port-of-Spain.

TUNIS, via France.

TurRKEY: Robert College, Constantinople.

UNION oF SoutH Arrica: Government Printing Works, Pretoria, Transvaal.

Urucuay: Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Montevideo.

VENEZUELA: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.

VicTorIA: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.

YucostaviA: Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Belgrade.

Dr. Charles G. Abbot, who on his appointment December 16, 1918,
as Assistant Secretary of the Institution, was, among other duties,
assigned to the general charge of the international exchanges, has
retained supervision over the exchanges since his election as Secretary
of the Smithsonian Institution on January 10, 1928.

Respectfully submitted.

C. W. SHOEMAKER,
Chief Clerk, International Exchange Service.
Dr. Cartes G. AxBsor,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

APPENDIX 6
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera-
tions of the National Zoological Park for the fiscal year ending June
30, 1928. The appropriation made by Congress for the regular
maintenance of the park was $175,000, and there was the usual allot-
ment of $300 for printing and binding. Of the appropriation,
$126,000 was expended for salaries and labor in connection with the
maintenance of the park; $22,800 for food for animals; and $4,701
for coal.

There has been no important increase in the collection of animals,
though a number of species new to the collection have been added.

ACCESSIONS

Gijts——There were added to the collection by gift or deposit 188
specimens from 87 different donors. Notable among the gifts are a
shoe-bill stork and two red birds of paradise which were purchased
from the Chrysler fund. Mrs. James Cox Brady, of New York City,
presented a flock of six of the beautiful Forsten’s parrakeets. Col.
H. A. Shumaker, of McElhattan, Pa., presented three plains wolves,
a pair of which have since bred in the park.

From the United States Biological Survey, through its chief, Mr.
' Paul G. Redington, the park obtained a beautiful specimen of the
young Kadiak bear. The acquisition of young animals is of great
importance, for although the national collection is one of the most
notable, many of the animals are now very old. The Yakatat bear,
for instance, has been here 28 years, and young specimens, especially
of the Alaskan species, are highly desirable.

Through Dr. H. C. Kellers, United States Navy, now on duty with
the Marine Corps in Nicaragua, the park has received two original
collections of Central American birds and animals, among them
toucans, a cage of spider monkeys, and a cage of coatimundis, all of
which make attractive exhibits.

DONORS

Mrs. Ethel E. Allicoate, Washington, D. C., screech owl.
American Nature Association, Washington, D. C., two European flamingoes.
Mrs. Anne Archbold, Washington, D. C., one kinkajou.
Miss Helen Louise Baldwin, Chevy Chase, Md., horned toad.
97
98 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

Mr. Thomas Barbour, Cambridge, Mass., musk turtle, box turtle, two spotted
turtles.

Mis. A. A. Beck, Washington, D. C., grass parrakeet.

Mr. H. S. Bickel, Brunswick, Md., two alligators.

Mr. John 8. C. Boswell, Alexandria, Va., four-lined snake.

Mr. Roy M. Bott, Washington, D. C., black snake.

Miss Betty Bowman, Germantown, Md., kinkajou.

Mrs. James Cox Brady, New York City, six Forsten’s parrakeets.

Mrs. Robert Callow, Washington, D. C., Cuban parrot.

Mr. F. G. Carnochan, New York City, wood tortoise, mynah bird.

Mr. M. O. Castleman, Castlemans Ferry, Va., weodchuck.

Mrs. Fred K. Chapin, Washington, D. C., two finches.

Mr. W. P. Chrysler, Detroit, Mich., shoe-bill stork, two birds of paradise.

Mr. F. M. Clark, Washington, D. C., red fox.

Mrs. E. Cocksell, Washington, D. C., double-yellow-head parrot.

President Coolidge, White House, bald eagle.

Dr. T. B. Cracroft, Washington, D. C., horned toad.

Mr. C. W. Cramer, Morgantown, W. Va., three banded rattlesnakes. |

Mr. C. E. Cummings, Buffalo, N. Y., six helibenders.

Mr. H. A. Daniel, Orange, Va., red-tailed hawk.

Sefor don Pedro Domian, Limon, Costa Rica, two Costa Rica deer.

Lieut. Commander G. W. Dugger, United States Navy, alligator.

Major Erwin, Washington, D. C., gray fox.

Mrs. N. Floyd, jr., Garden City, N. Y., douroucouli.

Mr. C. W. Gaines, horned toad.

Mr. R. D. Harrison, Alexandria, Va., alligator. |

Mr. Stephen Haweis, Washington, D. C., two menk parrakeets.

Mr. C. A. Henderson, Washington, D. C., great horned owl.

Mr. Albert Hochbaum, Takoma Park, D. C., barrel owl.

Horne’s Zoological Arena Co., Kansas City, Mo., vervet monkey.

Mr. James Hyslop, Silver Spring, Md., copperhead. ;

Miss Elsie Jardine, Washington, D. C., bull snake. |

Mr. L. W. Keesling, Bristol, Va., two skunks.

Dr. H. C. Kellers, United States Navy, Fifth Brigade, Managua, Nicaragua, ©
three gray spider monkeys, two gray coatimundis, agouti, lemon-breasted toucan,
two tovi parrakeets, white-throated capuchin.

Mr. John H. Kennard, Newton Center, Mass., Gila monster.

Mr. J. R. King, Takoma Park, Md., rhesus monkey.

Mrs. D. W. Knowlton, Washington, D. C., white Pekin duck.

Mr. Preston Laflin, High Point, N. C., great blue heron.

Mr. J. C. Lannam, Calderwood, Tex., black snake.

Mr. 8. J. La Scola, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Mr. G. C. Leach, Bureau of Fisheries, Washington, D. C., opossum.

Mr. Harrison Lee, Bastian, Va., banded rattlesrake.

Mr. R. S. Lindamood, Salem, Va., two American black bears.

Mrs. William M. Mann, Washington, D. C., two nanday parrakeets,

Miss Mary Marsh, Chevy Chase, Md., red fox.

Mr. M. E. Musgrave, Phoenix, Ariz., puma, Bailey’s lynx, Berlandier’s tortoise.
Mrs. B. H. Myers, Washington, D. C., two white-tailed jack rabbits.

National Park Service, Grand Canyon, Ariz., Gila monster.

Mrs. Rose V, Nolte, Washington, D. C., double-yellow-head parrot.

Mrs. W. P. Norfolk, two brown capuchins.

Urs. R. B. Patterson, Washington, D. C., alligator.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 99

Pearson & Hauke, Clifton, Tex., red-tailed hawk.

Hon. Gifford Pinchot, Washington, D. C., yellow and blue macaw.

Mr. Paul G. Redington, Chief U. S. Bureau of Biological Survey, Washing-
ton, D. C., Kadiak bear.

Mr. E. B. Reid, Culpeper, Va., gray fox.

Mr. E. D. Reid, National Museum, black snake.

Lieut. BE. J. Richards, United States Navy, rosella parrakeet.

Mr. Siegfried Scharbau, Washington, D. C., crimson-headed parrot.

Mr. Charles Shelby, Washington, D. C., American black bear.

Mr. H. A. Shumaker, McElhattan, Pa., and New York City, three plains
wolves.

Mr. M. B. Slemmer, Centerville, Md., alligator.

Miss Stella Snell, New York City, canary.

Mrs. Sockrell, Washington, D. C., red-tailed hawk.

Mr. J. H. Stieg, Washington, D. C., osprey.

Mr. Robert F. Taylor, Washington, D. C., raccoon.

Mrs. Thomas, Garrett Park, Md., copperhead.

Miss Frances Tooke, Washington, D. C., opossum.

Mr. B. R. Torrance, Silver Spring, Md., three skunks.

Mr. G. Townsend, Colonial Beach, Va., great horned owl.

Mrs. E. M. Tracy, Washington, D. C., two coyotes. -

United States Biological Survey, through Stanley G. Jewett, Portland, Oreg.,
albino coyote.

United States Coast Guard, New London, Conn., black bear.

United States Marine Corps, through Dr. H. C. Kellers, United States Navy,
three gray spider monkeys, two gray coatimundis, agouti, lemon-breasted tou-
can, two tovi parrakeets, white-throated capuchin.

United States National Museum, Washington, D. C., coach-whip snake.

Miss Mabel Van Alstyne, New Rochelle, N. Y., red-fronted parrakeet.

Mr. G. H. Vega, Fort Humphreys, Va., gray fox.

Mr. A. E. Vinsen, Port au Prince, Haiti, Haitian snake.

Mr. C. T. Vorhies, Tucson, Ariz., three Gila monsters.

Mr. Edward White, Washington, D. C., two alligators.

Mr. W. L. Whiting, Takoma Park, Md., raccoon.

Mr. J. 8S. Williams, Widewater, Va., green guenon.

Mr. W. C. Williams, Franklin, Tenn., banded rattlesnake.

Unknown donors, great blue heron, turkey vultures, broud-winged hawk, two
alligators.

The office of the Chief Coordinator has again transferred certain
useful and appreciated equipment and supplies to the park.

Births —Among the births of the park this year have been yak,
tahr, American elk, Alpine ibex, mouflon, barasingha deer, hog deer,
fallow deer, red deer, Sika deer, bison, mountain sheep, llama, gray
wolves, aoudads, wart hogs, agouti, rhesus monkey, and leopards.
Both pairs of leopards secured by the Smithsonian-Chrysler expedi-
tion mated in the zoo and each produced a litter of two cubs, which
are doing well. An American white pelican was raised in the pelican
pond near the Harvard Street entrance, which is the first breeding
record of this bird in captivity, and two more blue geese have been
hatched. The herd of Rocky Mountain sheep was augmented by
100 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

2 lambs, and at the close of the year there were 10 individuals—8 born
in the park and 4 of them grandchildren.

Eachanges-—The most important of the animals received in ex-
change were a mate to the Mongolian wild horse which we already
had, a pair of South African big-eared foxes, and a collection of
eight species of lories.

Purchases—The principal purchases of the year were a young
South African buffalo; an inyala, the first of its kind to reach
America; a pair of brown hyena, also unique of their kind in America;
three wolverines secured by Dr. W. H. Chase, of Cordova, Alaska; a
rhinoceros horn-bill; and a hyacinthine macaw.

La Société Nationale d’Acclimatation de France during the year
awarded the park its medal in recognition of the raising of the blue
goose.

Removals.—Losses by death include the two giraffes, Hi-boy and
Dot, both of which died of nephritis with complications. Other
serious losses are a Kadiak bear, which had lived in the park from
December 15, 1903, to August 28, 1927; white-tailed gnu, arrived
June 23, 1914, died November 21, 1927; a sambar deer, received May
22, 1912, died January 2, 1928; our last cheetah, which had arrived
August 8, 1913, died September 6, 1927; an American bison, born
in the zoo May 24, 1907, died September 4, 1927; jaguar, arrived
May 1, 1915, died June 28, 1928; European black stork, arrived May
18, 1902, died May 13, 1928; West African crowned crane, arrived
May 25, 1905, died February 21, 1928; gila monster, received Sep-
tember 21, 1910, died January 11, 1928; anaconda, received August
17, 1899, died August 26, 1927.

The long life of the cheetah is a record for an individual of its
apecies living in the North, and the anaconda, having lived for 28
years in the park, provides a most notable record for longevity of
this snake, which is usually not hardy in captivity.

The loss in the reptile collection has been great, as we have no
suitable quarters for them.

Post-mortem examinations were made in most cases by the patho-
logical division of the Bureau of Animal Industry. The following
list shows the results of autopsies:

CAUSES OF DEATH
MAMMALS

Carnivora: Acute peritonitis, 1; intestinal obstruction, 1; gastritis, 2.

Primates: Chronic nephritis, 1; pneumonia, 5; gastroenteritis, 3; cachexia
yenilis, 1.

Artiodactyla: Nephritis, 2; gastroenteritis, 1; septic metritis, 1; pneumonia,
3; old age, 1.

Rodentia: Pneumonia, 1.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

Sphenisciformes: Pevitonitis, 1.

BIRDS

Ciconiiformes : Ruptured liver, 1; edema of heart, 1.

Charadriiformes: Pneumonia, 1.
Coraciiformes: Aspergillosis, 1.

Psittaciformes: Acute enteritis, 1.

101

The animals lost by death which were valuable for museum pur-
poses were transferred to the United States National Museum for

preservation.
Museum.

A number of rare birds’ eggs were also sent to the

A few mammals especially desired by the department of anatomy
of the Johns Hopkins Medical School were sent, after death, to that

institution.

ANIMALS IN THE COLLECTION JUNE 30, 1928

MARSUPIALIA

Virginia opossum (Didelphis  virgin-

GCL TE CL) ee a eh eS, SE
Flying phalanger (Petaurus breviceps) —
Bush-tailed rock wallaby (Petrogale

PV CTVACALUCET Cay) Sees ne ee ee
Wallaroo (Macropus robustus) —~-~----~
Wombat (Phascolomys mitchelli) _---~

CARNIVORA

Kadiak bear (Ursus middendorffi) -----
Alaska Peninsula bear (Ursus gyas)---
Yakutat bear (Ursus dalli) _--------~_
Kidder’s bear (Ursus kidderi) _-----~-
European bear (Ursus arctos)-~----~--
Grizzly bear (Ursus horribilis) _-_-----
Apache grizzly (Ursus apache) —~------
Himalayan bear (Ursus thibetanus) —-~
Black bear (Huarctos americanus) —~~~~
Cinnamon bear (Huarctos americanus

CUUNEAMOM UND) LA Sa a ik hs
Glacier bear (Huarctos emmonsii) —-~-~
Sun bear (Helarctos malayanus) —~----
Polar bear (Thalarctos maritimus) —---
Dingom(Canis dingo) 2. ee eee
Gray wolf (Canis nubilus) __-_-------
“lorida wolf (Canis floridanus) —~_--~~-~
Texas red wolf (Canis rufus) --------
Coyote, (Canisiiatrans) 22h SSS.
Hybrid coyete (Canis latrans-rufus) ~~~
California coyote (Canis ochropus) ~~~
Black-backed jackal (Thos mesomelas) —
Fennec (I’ennecus zerda)—-_---------
Rough fox (Cerdocyon cancrivorus) ~~~
Red fox (Vulpes! fulva) 222-2422 fe22
Silver-black fox (Vulpes fulwa)_------
European fox (Vulpes vulpes)—------~--
mit fox (Vulpes vetor) 22 ee oe Sh
Gray fox (Urocyon cinereoargenteus) —
Bush dog (Icticyon venaticus) ~-_-_---

24034—29——_8

Lon Wl os

coe Il Wo a A)

DREAMY NEP ROR Ren ERE eR ARR

On

=

MAMMALS

Cacomistle (Bassariscus astutus) ~~
Raccoon’ (Procyon. lotor) —-— =
Florida raccoon (Procyon lotor elucus)-—
Gray coatimundi (Nasua narica) ------~-
Kinkajouy (Rots fiauus) 22 ose eee
Mexican kinkajou (Potos fiavus azte-

Fisher (Martes pennanti) _______-_-__
Skunk (Mephitis nigra) ——-_____-----
Wolverine! /(Guio’ luscus) = 22s e t o
American badger (Tawvidea taxus) ~~~
Ratel (Mellivora capensis) --_--_-_--_-
Florida otter (Lutra canadensis vaga)-—
Indian civet (Viverra zibetha) _____-~
Palm civet (Paradorurus hermaphro-

Q40US) Wi Se ee a a
Egyptian mongoose (Herpestes ichneu-

MOT) jas ta eS A
Neumann’s genet (Genetta dongalana

NEUMANN) - Se Ae Rees oe
Aard-wolf (Proteles cristatus) _-__----
Spotted byena (Crocuta crocuta)-—--~~-
East African spotted hyena (Crocuta

crocuta..gerninans) 2222 set ee
Striped hyena (Hyena hyawna)—----~~
Brown hyena (Hyena brunneda)_---~--~
Lion (Pelishteo)t see eee
Bengal).tiger. (Melis. tigrs)—-2-— 3 ee
Manchurian tiger (felis tigris longi-

Leopard. (Felis, pardus), 2-2. - 25
Black leopard (Felis pardus)_~--_--~-~
East African leopard (Felis pardus

SUAREVUCUS) MERA OO Fit 7} Preece Teka
Serval’ (felis*servat) Boe ee et
East African serval (/elis capensis

hindet) aa2 seu t eee Rew vu
Ocelot (Felis pardalis)_--_____----_~
Brazilian ocelot (Felis pardalis brasili-

ONS18)i a 5 SAR Mee et Pe
Gray tiger-cat (Felis chrysothriz) ~~~
Mexican puma (Felis azteca)_--_--__

RNR NWR Re NR ROR

=

RK omwr co mee Oo onl

ew
102 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

Mountain lion (Felis hippolestes)____
Yaguarundi (Felis yagouaroundi) ____~
Indian caracal (Lynaw caracal)__-___
Abyssinian caracal (Lyn caracal nu-

TEC) Be RE ON OP Se NEE A a Re
Canada lynx (Lyn@ canadensis) —~~____
Bayilynx \(yne ruyus) 22 oo Se ee
Bailey’s lynx (Lyna baileyi) -------__
Clouded leopard (Neofelis nebulosa) __

PINNIPEDIA

California sea-lion (Zalophus californi-
CLTVAUS)) yo ae ae A Se a
Leopard seal (Phoca richardii var.) __
San Geronimo harbor seal (Phoca
richardii geronimensis) ____________

RODENTIA

Woodchuck (Marmota monar)____-___
Prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus) —_
Albino squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis) —
American beaver (Castor canadensis) _
East African porcupine (Hystrix gal-

C01 1) \o Sie nti Ne Ne cig gh wel a les ga

ALEC 1) i SR aly NAR DAA Shle | ba Bhat al
Viscacha (Lagostomus trichodactylus) —
Central American paca  (Cuniculus

DACCSVITGALUS) ot. et ee See ee
Trinidad agouti (Dasyprocta rubrata)—
Guinea pig (Cavia porcellus)__~_______

LAGOMORPHA

Domestic rabbit (Oryctolagus cunicu-
DIET) gst Res as et RAN Tales wl pal Sian eh ees

INSECTIVORA

European hedgehog (Hrinaceus euro-

PRIMATES

Zanzibar lemur (Galago garnetti) ____
Red-fronted lemur (Lemur rufifrons) —
Black lemur (Lemur macaco)__~______
Douroucouli (Aotus trivirgatus)_—~____
Gray spider monkey (Ateles geoffroyi) —
White-throated capuchin (Cebus capu-

CNS) (a ee. REE AEE
Brown capuchin (Cebus fatuellus)___
Margarita capuchin (Cebus margari-

Chacma (Papio porcarius)__~_________
Anubis baboon (Papio cynocephalus) —_
Olive baboon (Papio newmanni)—--~_~
Hamadryas baboon (Papio hamadryas) —
Mandrill (Papio sphingz) —~-__..____
Drill. (Panto) leucopheus) = —— 2s
Moor monkey (Cynopithecus maurus)_—
Black ape (Cynopithecus niger) _____
Barbary ape (Simia sylwanus)__~-_-__
Japanese macaque (Macaca fuscata)_

me ROD ee

YHP ee

Lae So]

SN RF Wr WR OON eS

.

Brown macaque (Macaca arctoides) __
Pig-tailed monkey (Macaca  neme-

BELA) eee Pe An eee ee ee
Burmese macaque (Macaca andamanen-

Rhesus monkey (Macaca rhesus) —____
Crab-eating macaque (Macaca irus)__
Philippine macaque (Macaca syrichta) —
Javan macaque (Macaca mordar)____
Sooty mangabey (Cercocebus fuligino-

S28) fh Wa Pe Bee 2 a ee
Green guenon (Lasiopyga_ callitri-

CRUE FS EE Ey eee 2 Aas ee ene
Vervet (Lasiopyga pygerythra)__-_-__
Johnston’s vervet (Lasiopyga pygery-

END JONNSTONT))| Mae oe eee
Mozambique monkey (Lasiopyga sp.)__
Sykes’ guenon (Lasiopyga albigularis) _
Mona guenon (Lasiopyga mona)_____~
De Brazza’s guenon (Lasiopyga braz-

Lesser white-nosed guenon (Lasiopyga

DOLOMITE) jcc ee ee a ee eee
Patas guenon (Hrythrocebus patas)__~
White-handed gibbon (Hylobates lar) _—
Gray gibbon (Hylobates leuciscus) ___
Chimpanzee (Pan satyrus)--________
Orang-utan (Pongo pygmeus)________

ARTIODACTYLA

Wart hog (Phacocherus ethiopicus) __
River hog (Potamocherus africanus) —
Collared peccary (Pecari angulatus)_—_
Hippopotamus (Hippopotamus amphi-

Gis) SS Se Se ee See
Pigmy hippopotamus (Cheropsis  li-

bertensis) _ 22223 eae
Bactrian camel (Camelus bactrianus) —
Arabian camel (Camelus dromedarius) —
Guanaco (Lama huanachus) ---------~
Llama (Lamayglama) 22-222
Reindeer (Rangifer tarandus)—~__---_~
Fallow deer (Dama dama) —~---------~
White fallow deer (Dama dama)__---
Axis) deer) (Alvis taais)) =22 = = 224 Se
Hog deer (Hyelaphus porcinus) —----~
Barasingha (Rucervus duvaucelii) ~~~
Burmese deer (Rucervus eldii) __----~
Japanese deer (Sika nippon)—----_---~
Red deer (Cervus elaphus)— ~_-------~
Kashmir deer (Cervus hanglu)—~-~-~--~-
Bedford deer (Cervus vanthopygus) ~~~
American elk (Cervus canadensis) ~~~
Costa Rican deer (Odocoileus sp.)----~
Guatemala deer (Odocoileus sp.)-----~
Mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) ~~~
Blesbok (Damaliscus albifrons) —~-_--
White-tailed gnu (Connochetes gnu) -—-
Brindled gnu (Connochetes taurinus) —
White-bearded gnu (Connochetes tau-

Tinus albojubatus) aa sh as oe ee
Lechwe (Onotragus leche)-----------
Inyala (Tragelaphus angasi)—--____-+-
Sable antelope (Egocerus niger) —_---~-~

bho otk ol ao OnNnrRAe

=

BD eee ee

bo me

bo

=

=
PRR WORN OON ON RF AQOINRF OKO AN RH Fe

me et bo

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

Reed buck (Redunca bohor)----------
East African impalla (A!pyceros me-

lampus sttard) Sao ee eee ees
Indian antelope (Antilope cervicapra) —
Nilgai (Boselaphus tragocamelus) —---~
Mountain goat (Oreamnos americanus) —
Tahr (Hemitragus jemlahicus) ~--__-~
Alpine ibex (Capra iber)_—-------___-
Aoudad (Ammotragus lervia)_--_----
Rocky Mountain sheep (Ovis cana-

CERSER) ee eR be Ne a eS
Mouflon (Ovis curopeus)—------------
Greenland musk-ox (Ovibos moschatus

AOUTOA) Sate ts) a eee Deon ewe
Zebu C808) Andicws))=——— 2 SS ea
Yak (Poéphagus grunniens)—~-_------
American bison (Bison bison)__----~_~
Anoa (Anoa depressicornis)—~~_---~~-
Indian buffalo (Bubalus bubalis)___-~-

STRUTHIONIFORMES

South African ostrich (Struthio aus-
(ee ATS AY) jee a be ag a wh
Somaliland ostrich (Struthio molyb-
dOpnanesyan n= eee a ee
Nubian ostrich (Struthio camelus)—_-~

RHEIFORMES

Rhea (Rhea americana) _----------~--

GASUARIIFORMES

Australian cassowary (Cdasuarius aus-

Single-wattled cassowary (Casuarius
uniappendiculatus) —~_.__-__-._-_--~~
Sclater’s cassowary (Casuarius pht-

Emu (Dromiceius novehollandie)__-~

CICONIIFORMES

American white pelican (Pelecanus ery-
LRP OTAYNCILOS se ee
European white pelican (Pelecanus
OnOCrOtaIws)) =~ =
Roseate pelican (Pelecanus roseus)—--
Australian pelican (Pelecanus  con-
BICMOS) oe te ee
Brown pelican (Pelecanus occidentalis) —
Califoruia brown pelican (Pelecanus
COLLOLNICUS) 52 Se eae eee
Florida cormorant (Phalacrocorag auri-
TUS LOIMOUTUS) i. eee ene ee

Brandt’s cormorant (Phalacrocorazr
BENACHIOTUS a ne ee
Great white heron (Ardea _ occiden-
COULD) Cee nae ne nee a

Great blue heron (Ardea herodias)_—-~
Hybrid great blue and white heron

(Ardea herodias-occidentalis) _____-~_
Goliath heron (Ardea goliath)----___
East African heron (Ardea melanoce-

=
_

wmwow bs b bt

e
=

-l

1
1
6
14
1
2

PERISSODACTYLA

Malay tapir (Tapirus indicus) —---~-~
Brazilian tapir (Tapirus terrestris) —-
Baird’s tapir (Tapirella bairdii) _-_-_-~-
Mongolian horse (Hquus przewalskii) —
Mountain zebra (Lquus zebra) ~----~--
Chapman’s zebra (HLquus quagga chap-

ATONE) = oa ge a
Zebra-horse hybrid (Hquus grevyi-ca-

Gallus) a a ee Se
Zebra-ass hybrid (Lquus_ grevyi-asi-

MUS yan Se ee eee

PROBOSCIDEA

Abyssinian elephant (Locrodonta afri-
Conavonyotts) Saat eS. eee eee
Sumatran elephant (Elephas sumatra-

BIRDS

oo

_

~

_

LT ed

ona)

a

wo

_

Black-crowned night heron

rax nycticorad@ nevius)
Boat-bill (Cochlearius cochlearius) —~--~
White-necked stork (Dissura episcopus)
Indian adjutant (Leptoptilus dubius)—
Shoe-bill (Baleniceps rer)_----------
Wood ibis (IMycteria americana) ------
Sacred ibis (Threskiornis ethiopicus)_
Black-headed ibis (Threskiornis mela-

MOCEDNGUS) =. oa a
White ibis (Guara alba) ~~ _--__=-___~
Scarlet ibis (Guara rubra) _-------_~_
European flamingo (Phenicopterus ro-

(Nyctico-

ANSERIFORMES

Mallard (Anas_ platyrhynchos) —~-~--~-~-
Black duck (Anas rubripes) _---------
Australian black duck (Anas swper-

Chitose) Saas ee eee eee
Gadwall (Chaulelasmus streperus) —--~
Faleated teal (Hunetta falcata)__--~-
European widgeon (Mareca penelope) _
Baldpate (Mareca americana) —----~~-~
Green-winged teal (Nettion caroli-

European teal (Nettion crecca)__--~--
Baikal teal (Nettion formosum) —~-__~-_-
Blue-winged teal (Querquedula_ dis-

COl3) Se eee see ee
Garganey (Querquedula querquedula) —
Shoveller (Spatula clypeata)_--__--~
African pintail (Dafila erythrorhyncha) —
Pintail (Dalia sacute)i- == 222 eSs2 ee
Wood -duck’ (Atm sponsa@) 2—=—=2—--
Mandarin duck (Dendronessa galericu-

(te) 2 ee eS eee
Canvasback (Marila valisineria) ____-~
European pochard (Marila ferina) —----
Redhead (Marila americana) —~--------
Ring-necked duck (Marila collaris) —~---
Tufted duck (Marila fuligula)------~---
Lesser scaup duck (Marila affinis)----
Greater scaup duck (Marila marila) —~-

103

Nye

8
7
3
11
2
1
1
3
104

Rosy-billed pochard (Metopiana pepo-

Egyptian goose (Chenaloper cegypti-
CUS) ee ee ee

Sis) ee a ee ees
Blue goose (Chen cerulescens)—------~
White-fronted goose (Anser albifrons) —
American white-fronted goose (Anser

albtfrons gamteW) =2_ 222 =_ Sasi
Bean goose (Anser fabalis) _---------_-
Pink-footed goose (Anser brachyrhyn-

ChUS) ee ee hee eee
Chinese goose (Cygnopsis cygnoides) __
Bar-headed goose (Hulabeia indica) —--~
Canada goose (Branta canadensis) _-~
Hutchins’s goose (Branta canadensis

hutchinsit) 2-8 eee ee ete
White-cheeked goose (Branta canaden-

gis occidentalis) 2-22 Se
Cackling goose (Branta canadensis

TUNING) 2 ee Se ese
Brant (Branta bernicla glaucogastra)—
Barnacle goose (Branta leucopsis) —~---
Emperor goose (Philacte canagica) ~~~
Spur-winged goose (Plectropterus gam-

bengis) 2s ee eee BEL ee Ss
Museovy duck (Cairina moschata) —-_~
Black-bellied tree duck (Dendrocygné

autwmnalis) 22 Leora eee ee
Eyton’s tree duck (Dendrocygna ey-
toni)ineebow aa ees Se sae tea
Mute swan (Cygnus gibbus)--_------~-
Whistling swan (Cygnus columbianus) —
Black swan (Chenopis atrata) --------

FALCONIFORMES

Condor (Vultur gryphus) —-----------
California condor (Gymnogyps califor-

NVACLTUALS)) oe es ee
Turkey vulture (Cathartes aura) _--~--
Black vulture (Coragyps urubu)—-----
King vulture (Sarcoramphus papa) _-~
Secretary bird (Sagittarius  serpen-

CARVE) Sao oe eee
Griffon vulture (Gyps fulwus)---_-----
African black vulture (Torgos tra-

cheliotus) = = ee
Cinereous vulture (gypius monachus)
White-headed vulture (Trigonoceps oc-

Cipttalis)) a2 22 ee ee eee
Caracara (Polyborus cheriway)—------
Wedge-tailed eagle (Uroaétus audaz) —~-
Golden eagle (Aquila chrysaétos) —~----
Tawny eagle (Aquila rapar)___-___--~
Bald eagle (Haliwetus leucocephalus

LEUCOCED TGS) so we SS
Alaskan bald eagle (Haliwetus leuco-

cephalus: alascanus),——————, -—----——
Red-tailed hawk (Buteo borealis) _---~
Broad-winged hawk (Buteo  platyp-

COTUB)) a a ee ee ee
East African chanting goshawk (WMelie-

FED: DOVOPLEKUS) eh eee

NH Be NHOQW me OT

Noprwwre

10

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

Pigmy falcon (Poliohierar semitor-
quatus)
Sparrow hawk (Falco sparverius)_---~

Osprey (Pandion haliaétus  carolin-

GALLIFORMES

Panama curassow (Craxr panamensis) —
Spix’s wattled curassow (OCrax globu-

Razor-billed curassow (Mitu mitu)—--~
Crested guan (Penelope boliviana)____
Chestnut-winged guan (Ortalis gar-

Vulturine guinea fowl (Acryllium vul-

turintm)) 2982 BP oe eel eee
Grant’s crested guinea fowl (Guttera

grantt) {2B scu ee se ube ear e et as
Reichenow’s helmeted guinea fowl (Nu-

mida mitrata reichenow?i) ~---------
Peafowl (Pavo cristatus) --_-_-------
Albino peafowl (Pavo cristatus)—------
Javan jungle fowl (Gallus varius) ----
Argus pheasant (Argus giganteus)_---

Silver pheasant (Genneus_ nycthe-
Merus)) 2-2 3 Se SSS ae
Edward’s pheasant (Genneus  ed-
wardst) =a eS eee ee
Golden pheasant (Chrysolophus pic-
G8) 22 ee ee

Lady Ambherst’s pheasant (Chrysolo-
phus amhersti@) —--~----~-------=-=
Ring-necked pheasant (Phasianus tor-
quatus) 2220 28 eee ee
Migratory quail (Coturnix coturniz) —-
Valley quail (Lophortyx californica
S0LNC010) 2238222222 ee
Sealed quail (Callipepla squamata) ~~~

Crowned wood partridge (Rollulus

CriStQtus) et ee ee ae ee ee
GRUIFORMES

Florida gallinule (Gallinula chloropus

GGlegtd) =. SS ee

East Indian gallinule (Porphyrio

COIVUS) 222 oe ee eee

Pukeko (Porphyrio stanleyi) --_------
Black-tailed moor hen (Microtribonyxr

VENTL AUS oa ee ee eee
American coot (Fulica americana) ---~
African moor hen (Fulica cristata) —-
African black erake (Limnocraz flavi-

OSU) 2 ee
Lesser rail (Hypotenidia philippensis) —

South Island weka rail (Ocydromus
Qusiralis)izese Sess Se eee
Short-winged weka (Ocydromus_ bra-
CRYUDTCTUS) —— ee ee

Sandhill crane (Megalornis mevicana) —
Little brown crane (Megalornis cana-
@eN8t8) oo es ee
White-necked crane (Megalornis leucau-
CRON) a a

Be

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

Indian white crane (Megalornis leuco-
CQORAILS TRS A = Eee 2 Des it ee
Lilford’s crane (Megalornis lilfordi) —_
Australian crane (Mathewsena rubdi-
CUNGG) ieee eee a been
Demoiselle crane (Anthropoides virgo) —
East African crowned crane (Balear-
ica regulorum gibbericeps)  ________
Kagu (Rhynochetos jubatus)_ ~_______

CHARADRIIFORMES

Ruff (Philomachus pugnar) ~~ __
South American stone plover ((dicne-

mus bistriatus vocifer) ____________
Pacifie gull (Gabianus pacificus)______
Great black-backed gull (Larus ma-

Western gull (Larus occidentalis) —___
Herring gull (Larus argentatus)_____
Silver gull (Larus novehollandie) ~~ ~~
Laughing gull (Larus atricilla)_ -___
Inca stern 1(Noddt) inca) 2222 be
Victoria crowned pigeon (Goura vic-

LOVAG)) 25 es te th
Nicobar pigeon (Qalenas nicobarica) —_
Bronze-wing pigeon (Phaps_ chalcop-

C9 (0) en ee ee Ss eS Le
Bleeding-heart dove

GUSONACT) ae ee eee ae
Wood pigeon (Columba palumbus) —__~

Triangular spotted pigeon (Columba
TAG VAT)), SYBASE 2 Soe SS oe) ER Es
Fiji Island pigeon (Janthoenas vitien-
Gu eh ae ea

Mourning dove (zenaidura macroura
CULOUIEN SiS) ie ee es
Mexican dove (Zenaidura graysoni)—_~
White-fronted dove (Leptotila fulvi-
wentris) brachyptera) 2-2
Necklace dove (Spilopelia tigrina) ~___
Emerald-spotted dove (Turtur chalco-
STPELOS) ree eee ee ee ee
Ringed turtledove (Streptopelia
CLS CHALE) yee oe et ste ce ee
East African ring-necked dove (Strepto-
pelia capicola tropica)____________
Masai mourning dove (Streptopelia de-
Cipiens ‘perspicillata) ——
Zebra dove (Geopelia striata)________
Bar-shouldered dove (G@eopelia hume-
OCS) pee eee ee ee
Cape masked dove (@na capensis) ____
Inca dove (Scardafella inca) ~_______
Cuban ground dove (Chemepelia passe-
rinaraflavidg) ies | Deleeert ays
Pacific fruit pigeon (Globicera pa-

CULCG) = 2 = ST es a Ya

Bronze fruit pigeon (Muscadivores

OPE Oi) Fare ee eee eee ete TN
PSITTACIFORMES

Kea (Nestor notabilis) ~~. _____ =
Violet-necked lory (Hos variegata)—__~
Forsten’s lorikeet (Trichoglossus fors-

Len) ame ae ea OD aL nog)

A106 mh OW Ob

ee

wom

NH

Great black cockatoo (Microglossus
OLOMTIINUS) aS oh ot
Roseate cockatoo (Kakatoe  roseica-
Drie) i) ese be Bs ee
Bare-eyed cockatoo (Kakatoe gym-
NODPUS) Wes. SAE eee See aL. By ee a
Leadbeater’s cockatoo (Kakatoe lead-
10018) JSS eS Ke See = Pekar.

White cockatoo (Kakatoe alba)__-___
Sulphur-erested cockatoo (Kakatoe
GQlerita) sos oe ee ee erie es

Great red-crested cockatoo (Kakatoe
MOLULCCENSIS)\2aBS LS Sess eae ei
Mexican green macaw (Ara militaris

MELICANG) = 3 weit fh) util: apes heel
Severe macaw (Ara severa)__-__-____
Blue and yellow macaw (Ara ararau-

NE) S Se ee Pe dalek ra ae Eb
Red and blue and yellow macaw (Ara

NIUE OO)! AS TENE RII Salts hat Ped
Illiger’s macaw (Ara maracana)_—~-~-~
Hyacinthine macaw (Anodorhynchus

nyacinthinius)) 2 Sab ees es hers eee
Blue-winged conure (Pyrrhura picta)-
Nanday paroquet (Nandayus nenday)-—

Gray-breasted paroquet (Myopsitta
MONGCHWS): EAU WaL) — Terie ws See
Petz’s paroquet (Hupsittula canicu-
lartgsy es Seely lends laels tes
Golden-crowned paroquet (Hupsittula
QUTER) Sao as — eae ees
Weddell’s paroquet (Hupsittula wed-
Cella) Sees er PO LA 5 et
Blue-winged parrotlet (Psittacula pas-
SCNT UC) etl ees eer ert aren een ee
Golden paroquet (Brotogeris  chry-
BOSCIA) gos ee Re

Tovi paroquet (Brotogeris jugularis) —_
Yellow-naped parrot (Amazona auro-
ACLU OE CLA) ore ne le ee ea
Mealy parrot (Amazona farinosa)_~_~
Orange-winged parrot (Amazona ama-
ZONKCO) ee eC Sa ee
Blue-fronted parrot (Amazona estiva)—
Red-crowned parrot (Amazona_ viridi-
GONE) Leos Se Set ee
Double-yellow-head parrot (Amazona
OF Gtrin)) st he pace Be eo eel
Yellow-headed parrot (Amazona ochro-
Cephala)— =~ = s- Zee eee ee
Festive parrot (Amazona festiva)_____
Lesser white-fronted parrot (Amazona
albtfrons: nana) s2=23_ fosc sees 2s
Santo Domingo parrot (Amazona ven-
ATA EN) een eee ene ie SR ae
Cuban parrot (Amazona leucocephala) —
Maximilian’s parrot (Pionus maaimi-
Mang) sabe Se es 98 A 8 ee. Lt
Dusky parrot (Pionus fuscus)-----~~

Blue-headed parrot (Pionus  mens-
CTUUS)) EROI NS PHS Oe) Ree tea ae
Amazonian caique (Pionites «antho-
MONG) ies er te OE ee

Hawk-head parrot (Deroptyus accipi-
CNV se ee eee ee

105

13

_

bo

12
106

Yellow-fronted parrot (Poicephalus

flavifrons) -----------------------
East African brown parrot (Poicepha-

lus meyeri matschiei) -------------
Congo parrot (Poicephalus gulielmi) ~~
Lesser vasa parrot (Coracopsis nigra) -
Greater vasa parrot (Coracopsis vasa) -
Red-faced love bird (Agapornis pul-

LOA) aa ee ee es
Gray-headed love bird (Agapornis. ma-
dagascariensis) —__-_--=—---—----=--=
Yellow-collared love bird (Agapornis

personata) ___----~---------------
Fischer’s love bird (Agapornis fischeri)
Nyassa love bird (Agapornis liliane) ~~
Blue crowned hanging paroquet (Lori-
culus\igalgulus leaner ee
Blue-bonnet paroquet (Psephotus he-
Matorcrhous)/2S2 S20 See
Pennant’s paroquet (Platycercus ele-
gans) ---+--.+-==---+---+=---=--==
Rosella paroquet (Platycercus eximius)
Crimson-winged paroquet (Aprosmictus

erythropterus) —-------------------
Ring-necked paroquet (Conurus_ tor-
quatus) —---------=----------=---=

Nepalese paroquet (Conurus nepalen-
eis) ities — ee SS

Cauda) 2222 See ea aes eK
Blossom-head paroquet (Conurus cy-
anocephala)£=—_=—_ === ae
Grass paroquet (Melopsitiacus undula-
UTI Vy a a ee ee

CORACIIFORMES

Rhinoceros hornbill (Buceros rhinoc-
CTS) eee ee
Jackson’s hornbill (Lophoceros jack-
SOE) ee ee eo eel mie
Sulphur-breasted toucan (Ramphastos
COTANGULS) ee eee a ae eae
Emin Pasha’s barbet (Trachyphonus
emini) _-----------c--------=-=---=
Barred owl (Strix varia varia) -------
Florida barred owl (Striz varia alleni) -
Snowy owl (Nyctea nyctea) ----------
Sereech owl (Otus asio)------------
Great horned owl (Bubo virginianus) —
Eagle owl (Bubo bubo) --------------
American barn owl (Tyto alba pratin-
CO ee eee ee ee eas
African barn owl (Tyto alba ajfinis) —-
Red-shafted flicker (Colaptes cafer col-
Linis) ose os eee oe eee

PASSERIFORMES

Cock of the rock (Rupicola rupicola)-—
Naked-throated bell-bird (Chasmorhyn-

ChUS wnudicalia) == 22a eee
Red-billed hill-tit (Liothriz luteus) ----
Black-gorgeted laughing thrush (G@ar-

TULGD DECTOLOIAS) a er
White-eared bulbul (Otocompsa leuco-

to

=

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

‘Red-eared bulbul (Otocompsa jocosa) —~

Black-headed bulbul (Molpastes he-
Mornnous)) 2 ee ee ea
Piping crow-shrike (Gymnorhina tibi-
CGE) eo gah pe ae ee ee ee

European raven
American raven

1118) ee ee
Australian crow (Corvus coronoides) --
American crow (Corvus brachyrhyn-

Choos) ieee See Se

White-breasted crow (Corvus albus) _-
American magpie (Pica pica hudsonia) ~
Yucatan jay (Cissilopha yucatanica) —-
Blue jay (Cyanocitta cristata) -------
Green jay (Xanthoura lucuosa)
Pileated jay (Cyanocoraz pileatus) —-~
Blue honey-creeper (Cyanerpes cyan-
CUS) os Se Se a ee
Blue-winged tanager (Tanagra cyan-
ontera) oe ae Se eee
Blue tanager (Thraupis cana) -------
Giant whydah (Diatropura progne)--
Paradise whydah (Steganura paradi-

Red-crowned bishop bird (Pyromelana
sywaticd)) 222222222 = eee
Red-billed weaver (Quelea quelea)—---
Buffalo weaver (Teator albirostris) —-
Black-winged coral-billed weaver (Tea-
tor niger nyassae) —-_-_--__-----__-_
Madagascar weaver (Foudia madagas-
cariensis) A
Black-headed weaver (Hyphanturgus
NAGTACEDS)) = hee a eee
Wmin’s scaly-headed finch (Sporopipes
frontalis. emini)= == 22 ae
St. Helena waxbill (Estrilda astrilda) -
Orange-cheeked waxbill (Hstrilda mel-
HO) a a ee
Rosy-rumped waxbill (Hstrilda rhodo-
pygia) -------_=--+----_- ==
Blue-headed blue waxbill (Ureginthus
bengalus cydnocephalus) ~---~---~----
East African fire-throated finch (Pytilia
Kirks) ee Se een ed
Strawberry finch (Amandava aman-
000) eee
Nutmeg finch (Munia punctulata) —---
White-headed nun (Munia maja) -----
Black-headed nun (Munia atricapilla)_
Chestnut-breasted finch (Munta casta-
NE&ENOTEAD ee ee eee
Java finch (Munia oryzivora)—--------
Masked grass finch (Poéphila perso-
NOLG)) eo oe ee
Diamond finch (Steganopleura gut-
AAT) a a a a le
Zebra finch (Teniopygia castanotis) —--
Cutthroat finch (Amadina fasciata) --
Tanganyika cutthroat finch (Amadina
fasciata alewanderi) ------~-------- 2

ee

oN

NwnrrFN Ee

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

Red-headed finch (Amadina erythrocep-
LALA) Fo SE) Pat 1 ee an
Yellow-headed marshbird (Agelaius ic-
LENOCEDRAIUS) Lae aa
Australian gray jumper (Struthidea
CRT ET-GO yea ee a ae
Shining starling (Lamprocorax metalli-
CALS) ea ara SSE See Se es aR ES
Southern glossy starling (Lamproco-
Hus pestis) =.= 2222=—-—22—-= 22222
Crested starling (@aleopsar salvado-

White-capped starling (Heteropsar al-

DIGS) 22 Le OAs Bs See
Indian mynah (Acridotheres tristis)__
Crested mynah (4thiopsar cristatel-

Malay grackle (G@racula javana)—-_---~
Bar-jawed troupial (Gymnomystaz me-

TUMACECTALS)) 2 Bk SEES ieee Ih She
Hooded oriole (Icterus cucullatus)_-__
Yellow-tailed oriole (Icterus mesome-

Purple grackle (Quiscalus quiscula) —_~
Greenfinch (Chloris chloris) __------

Alligator (Alligator mississipiensis) ~~
Horned toad (Phrynosoma cornutum) —
Gila monster (Heloderma suspectum) —
Beaded lizard (Heloderima horridum) —_~
Gould’s monitor (Varanus gouldii)___
Egyptian monitor (Varanus niloticus) —
Philippine monitor (Varanus salvator) —
West Indian iguana (Cyclura cornuta) —
Ball python (Python regius) ------~---
Rock python (Python molurus)_——--~~
Regal python (Python reticulatus)_—__
African python (Python seb@)—~---_~
Anaconda (Hunectes murinus)——_-__~~
Boa constrictor (Constrictor constric-

Brazilian tree-boa (Hpicrates crassus) —
Black snake (Coluber constrictor) ~~~
Corn snake (Hlaphe guttata)_-______
Pine snake (Pituophis melanoleucus) ~~
King snake (Lampropeltis getulus)__~
Four-lined snake (Hlaphe 4-vittata) ___
Hog-nosed snake (Heterodon platy-

7 NANOS) a we ha a hb e  Sa
Water snake (Natriz sipedon)______~
Egyptian cobra (Naja haie)—-—~--_--_~
Black-necked spitting cobra (Naja

MAGTACOUUIS) ete id PS eS Ve
Copperhead (Agkistrodon mokasen) ___
Fer-de-lance (Bothrops lanceolatus) —_~
Florida rattlesnake (Crotalus adaman-

Western diamond rattlesnake (Orota-

UTED Cir Rayo) Ree ey A Ek
Banded rattlesnake (Crotalus horri-
INES) ) ates Et ln gli eg ty Cs Sl EE Bi ae

Snapping turtle (Chelydra serpentina) —

1
al
3

Ls)
PRN E eR oO oo NORPPHHHHHHE MO

Nowe

Boe

European goldfinch (Carduelis cardue-
168i) ee ese Oe waren a ee EL
Brambling (Fringilla montifringilla) __
Yellowhammer (Hmberiza citrinella)__
House finch (Carpodacus mezicanus
IT OMECIAS)) pare eae eae ney es hi ee
San Lucas house finch (Carpodacus
mexicanus ruberrimus) —__._______-_
Canary (Serinus canarius)—--..._____-_
Little yellow serin (Serinus icterus)__
Gray singing finch (Serinus leucopy-
G1U8) a AS AER ahead ne eee
White-throated sparrow (Zonotrichia
QUOICOLUS) eee re ee ee tee
San Diego song sparrow (Melospiza
melodia ~COOpert) | === a ee
Coastal pale-bellied sparrow (Passer
griseus, suahelicue)— = ee See
Saffron finch (Sicalis flaveola)__-_____
Blue grosbeak (Guiraca c@rulea)__~___
Chinese grosbeak (Hophona migratoria
SOW eT bY) ieee es a
Red-crested cardinal (Paroaria cucul-

REPTILES

Florida snapping turtle (Chelydra osce-
Old) 2 326s 8 oe Se eee

CGB) Beate Rah a he
African snake-necked terrapin (Pelo-
medusa: galedta) = Sse. = eee
Brazilian snake-necked terrapin (Hy-
OT GSD ARAL) ee re ee ee
Diamond-back terrapin (Malaclemys
Contr;.Gi@) eS ee eee
Geographic terrapin (Graptemys geo-
graphica)) 2s se ea oe eee
Musk turtle (Sternotherus odoratus)—-~
Mexican musk turtle (Kinosternon so-
NOTIENSE) 2 ae A ie ee Ae
South American musk turtle (Kinoster-
MON SCOTDIOULCS) eres ee ee
Pennsylvania musk turtle (Kinosternon
SUDFUDHUNY)) Sa en po os Re
Wood turtle (Clemmys insculpta)—~--~
Leprous terrapin (Clemmys leprosa)—~
Mubhlenberg’s terrapin (Clemmys muh-
LENDER OM) aoe See NS ee I Serer ee
Blanding’s terrapin (Hmys blandingii) —
European pond turtle (Zmys orbicu-
[FT gt 3:}) Vp see NSE EN ES BD coh unl eset Bibs
South American terrapin (Nicoria
DUNCCULUSTO) See aa ee
Reeves turtle (Geoclemys reevesi) ——__
Loochoo turtle (Geoemyda spengleri)—
Ceylon terrapin (Geoemyda thermalis) —
Painted turtle (Chrysemys picta) ~~~
Western painted turtle (Chrysemys
ESTA I) ech tan Rp ae a agen Pe AT pl ts

Duncan Island tortoise (Testudo ephip-
Uline) OF Si puctie ee eh tyes Re eed 2 eran

107

-

CLA hy

_

bo

_
108

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

Indefatigable Island tortoise (Testudo Iberian tortoise (Testudo iberia)__-__ 1
DOE) a oe eae 1 | Soft-shelled tortoise (Testudo  love-
Albemarle Island tortoise (Testudo vi- WEG CU) yz Be he ek ay eek 8
CUTE) aa ik ERLE Ts ha 2 2 |} Chicken turtle (Deirochelys  reticu-
South American tortoise (Jestudo den- UY) ghey RS ee pp ee 1
TCULOLG)! = 2 Se hee Ct ee 1
Angulated tortoise (Testudo angulata) — 1 BATRACHIANS
Bell’s tortoise (Testudo belli) ---_--_ 3
Leopard tortoise (Testudo pardalis) -_ 6 | African smooth-clawed frog (Xenopus
Agassiz’s tortoise (Testudo agassizii)_ if! MVULUL OTL) a oe Bh i oe ee 28
Berlandier’s tortoise (Testudo berlan- Giant salamander (Megalobatrachus
Cie re ee RE EAS eee al japonicus) tae) teres. eee 2
Statement of the collection
He Hapeies
am- : an
als Birds batrae Total
chians
IPYESON GO oa pe a ee 8 cht 47 40 51 138
3 ORT te ea Se EA ne eee cok We et See 49 29))| 22 veeenene 78
Receivediiniexchanves-- i. 2 soe ee a I ek 16 16 3 35
IPURCH ASC fe er ne See Beene Sire) SEE Oe ee 30 76 6 112
Transferred from other Government departments. ...._-_----_- On [Ease SPCR eS Eiee ee eee 3
PROVO oe aloe eo ee ns a oa Oe ae Nols ee ee EN 145 161 60 336
SUMMARY
Animals on hand: July 2) 1927s 2 Ee Ds Re 2, 366
INCCESSIONS CUTTS SCLC! yet eas te ae ee et eee 366
‘otal animals; heamaleg Ss se se Se ie See ieee eer eee ene PAT eye
Deduct loss (by death, return of animals, and exchange) _________.______ 459
PR DH(RS
Status of collection
Individ-
Species uals
BAT 000000: eRe eels ae a a OR Ue Seale ee thy pM uo me Lho ee RR ate ojala ae 186 529
BUNS arate ec I RI ITD ee Sac a a ry ae 329 1, 481
Reptilesiand batrachians': 2 <ese. 55. 2 viel to Tie ee ~ be Ps on 67 263
Motal faite. Se ea UE ea, 23 Jee ik ae ee eee 582 2, 273
VISITORS
The estimated attendance as recorded in the daily reports of the

park was somewhat smaller than last year, when the interest of the
public in the Smithsonian-Chrysler expedition brought great crowds
of visitors; however, it is higher than any other year in the history
of the zoo, and from observation the number of out-of-town visitors
was unusually great. One morning there were 1,100 visitors from the
State of Pennsylvania and another morning 750 from the same State.
Automobile license tags show that visitors come from every State in
the Union.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 109

Attendance by months was as follows:

1927 1928

UAL ere: aE per Sake Ue S038"800) ianuarye. See ee 65, 150
Atiomst oot sea seer ple) es 266; 9004) Rebruary sisi. 22 Se sees 68, 875
Septemberts2ee6 2 beret een SOTHS 00m eMareh == 2s eee Carns 122, 750
MGlOHeits SS res es ait eet NY 2381 65D0N | April os eee (wile VI2Z86IG2Z4
INOweIn Git Seietsrescens mel tele 1347003 lt Maye 2 Sn ae ee ee SEE = 211, 250
WMecemperssesess es a ee ee 40: 300 |) Junell=_ =f Pee eer 252, 150

Total for yearse2i=s= 2, 298, 449

During the year the park has been the center of a number of
scientific activities. The American Society of Mammalogists, the
American Ornithologists’ Union, and the Society of Ichthyologists
and Herpetologists all visited the park officially and had their annual
smoker at the administration building. The Vivarium Society has
held monthly meetings at the park.

The attendance of organized classes of students was 27,959, from
445 different schools.

IMPROVEMENTS

The bird house was completed in June and the installation of the
birds commenced, so the building will be opened to the public early
in the summer. This building is unique of its kind in providing four
rooms under one roof, with 145 indoor cages. The great flight cage
in the center room is 58 feet long by 22 feet wide and 30 feet high,
with rock work and running water at one end, a large pool in the
middle, and a fine tree at the oppesite end, and makes, with its con-
tents, a remarkably fine exhibit. Mr. Harris, the District architect,
and Arthur L. Smith, the contractor, deserve great credit for this
building, which has been highly praised by visitors from other
zoological parks and by the public in general.

Outdoor cages will be built during the coming fall, which will
make the bird house the center of the ornithological section of the
park. It is planned to develop the area about this building as runs
for outdoor birds.

In connection with the bird house, the maintenance force of the
park has done a great deal of work, cutting down a considerable hill
to permit a good approach to the building, building walks and roads,
installing sewers, and other details necessary to the new building, so
that in general we have been able to make few improvements in other
parts of the park.

NEEDS OF THE ZOO

At present a considerable part of the appropriation has to be spent each year
in repairing temporary structures. (Report of June 30, 1902.)

The inadequacy of the appropriations for the proper equipment of the park
has made it necessary to exercise an unwise economy in the construction of its
110 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

buildings and other shelters, the majority of which are of a cheap and tem-
porary character, and sooner or later must be replaced. (Report of June 30,
1906.)

It should be remembered that at the inception of the park the funds pro-
vided for buildings and improvements were entirely inadequate for its proper
equipment and that consequently the management was forced to construct cheap,
temporary shelters, roads, walks, and inclosures. These have now arrived at
about their limit of usefulness and do not admit of further economical repair.
(Report of June 30, 1909.)

The buildings mentioned in the above reports are still being used.

For more than 20 years earnest, but at the same time modest,
appeals have been made in each annual report for adequate housing
of the animals. Our buildings have been for years a source of most
unfavorable comment on the part of visitors. While other zoos
throughout the United States have been improving and enlarging,
the National Zoological Park, with the exception of the bird house,
has been able to do almost nothing in the way of construction, so
that at present, in comparison with a half dozen other American
zoos, our equipment is extremely shabby. It is impossible to main-
tain the collection at its present status if this condition is ignored.
The fine new bird house just completed is an indication of the condi-
tions that should be provided for other animals.

To house a collection of animals properly, suitable buildings are
needed, and the following building program is presented. This pro-
gram is limited to strictly essential buildings:

1. Exhibition house for reptiles, amphibians, and invertebrates, with
proper heating and lighting apparatus (based on cost of recent rep-
tile housesielsewhenre) - ee ee ee $220, 000

2. Ape, lemur, and small mammal house—this to house the collection of
small mammals of the world and to have a wing for the great apes_ 150,000

8. Pachyderm house—this to include also quarters for giraffe_________ 250, 000
4. To make permanent one wing of the carnivore house and to remodel

the one wing which is of sufficient value to repair____-_-__----_--- 100, 000
5. Antelope, buffalo; and wild-cattle house_—...-.+-=-be oie 100, 000
6. To add wing to bird house and develop areas about with open-air

aviaries, pheasant, and game-bird runsi2_ 22 -- oo 100, 000
7. A proper fence around the park (a high iron fence on a concrete

pee) 22S A ae Sie OLR ES I Fe A eee 85, 000

The above items are most necessary. To these should be added:
8. Open, barless exhibition quarters for bears, lions, and tigers. Such
exhibitions are most popular and some of the newer zoological
parks are specializing in them. It is our desire to have only a lim-
ited numberof these 22 eee ee eae ee eee 80, 000
9. Monkey pit—a barless, open village for monkeys___--------------- 10, 000

Respectfully submitted.
W. M. Mann, Director.

Dr. Cuartes G. Axppor,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 7

REPORT ON THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Sm: The Astrophysical Observatory was conducted under the fol-
lowing passage of the independent offices appropriation act approved
February 11, 1927:

Astrophysical Observatory: For maintenance of the Astrophysical Observa-
tory, under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution, including assistants,
purchase of books, periodicals, and apparatus, making necessary observations
in high altitudes, repairs and alterations of buildings, preparation of manu-
scripts, drawings, and illustrations, traveling expenses, and miscellaneous
expenses, $32,060, of which amount not to exceed $29,000 may be expended for
personal services in the District of Columbia.

The observatory occupies a number of frame structures within an
inclosure of about 16,000 square feet south of the Smithsonian Admin-
istration Building at Washington, a cement observing station and
frame structure for observers on a plot of 10,000 square feet leased
from the Mount Wilson Observatory, and an observing station on
Table Mountain, Calif. This last station, provided by Mr. John A,
Roebling, includes a tunnel for instruments, small structures for the
field director and for the assistant, a shop, and a garage.

The Astrophysical Observatory also defrays a part of the cost of
the maintenance of the observing station at Montezuma, Chile, which
was erected in 1920 with means furnished by Mr. Roebling. The
constructions there comprise a tunnel for instruments, a small struc-
ture for observers, shop, garage, and a telephone line 12 miles to
Calama.

The present value of the buildings and equipment for the Astro-
physical Observatory owned by the Government is estimated at
$50,000. This estimate contemplates the cost required to replace the
outfit for the purposes of the investigations.

WORK AT WASHINGTON

(a) Reduction of observations.—Three field stations—Table Moun-
tain, Calif., Montezuma, Chile, and Brukkaros, South West Africa—
are now steadily sending results of daily observations of the intensity
of solar radiation to the Smithsonian Institution. The work of com-
paring these observations, of detecting and determining sources of
error, and correcting therefor, and the care of keeping the three
stations, thousands of miles away in the wilderness, supplied with

111
112 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

material and personnel has occupied much time of the director and
staff in Washington.

Several years having gone by since the station at Table Mountain
began its regular work, enough data had accumulated to justify a ©
statistical study over the whole period, to detect any systematic
errors. Minute systematic errors in the uncorrected results are in-
evitable. We are attempting to determine the intensity of the sun’s
energy not only as it is received at the observatory but also as it was
in free space outside the atmosphere. Humidity and dust produce
effects which it is impossible to ascertain precisely on any given indi-
vidual day by any method. Hence only by comparing the average
run of the results over a term of years with the average run of atmos-
pheric conditions during the same interval can these not quite negli-
gible residual systematic errors be determined and allowed for.
Such a study of the Table Mountain work has been in progress.
When completed there were revealed certain discordances between
Table Mountain and Montezuma which, though small, demanded still
further study.

As so often has happened in the history of science, this study by
my colleague, Mr. Fowle, of a perplexing discordance has brought a
new discovery of some importance. It is that the ozone existing in
the atmosphere at a level of 30 to 50 kilometers (18 to 30 miles), and
which is formed from the atmospheric oxygen by the action of
invisible ultra-violet sun rays, is variable in amount over Table
Mountain, though nearly constant in amount over Montezuma. The
discrepancy in the final results of radiation work between the two
stations appears to be due mainly to this variability of atmospheric
ozone at Table Mountain. Regular observations of ozone are now
in progress there in cooperation with Doctor Dobson, of Oxford,
England.

The tedious but necessary computations and statistical comparisons
involved in the work of systematizing and correcting the preliminary
results of the observations, only part of which is indicated in the
discussion above, have employed Mr. Fowle and two computers con-
tinually during the year.

(6) Apparatus—Under the direction of the writer and his col-
league, Mr. Aldrich, the instrument maker, Mr. Kramer, has con-
tinued to make apparatus for radiation investigations. One instru-
ment upon which much attention has been lavished is a new form of
pyrheliometer to measure more accurately and conveniently the sun’s
radiation. So accurate and stable is the silver-disk pyrheliometer
which we have employed for nearly 20 years, and of which over 50
copies have been furnished by the Smithsonian at cost to other insti-
tutions at home and abroad, that it is hard to prepare a new instru-
ment superior to it. Yet there are two or three slight sources of
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 113

error, and a certain slowness of reading characteristic of the silver-
disk instrument which it is hoped to improve upon. Thus far the
new instrument, of a compensating electrical type, has not quite
reached expectations, but it is still hoped to overcome its deficiencies
and retain its advantages.

Attention was also paid to the improvement of the radiometer for
measuring the energy of the spectra of the stars. In this instrument
it was proposed to seal the sensitive element in a truly circular,
optically figured quartz tube containing a small pressure of hydrogen,
and to adjust the position and direction of the system by moving and
rotating the inclosing cylinder. The device was made ready for use
by the writer during the summer of 1928 at Mount Wilson, Calif.,
with good results, which will properly be described in next year’s
report.

In connection with a research by Mr. Aldrich on the radiation and
convection of the normally clothed human body, a number of instru-
mental appliances were also made.

(c) Research on the loss of heat from the human body.—Inquiry
was made of the writer by Mr. T. J. Duffield, secretary to the New
York Commission on Ventilation, as to the proportion of the loss of
heat of the normally clothed human body which should be ascribed
to radiation rather than to convection by the air. ‘The subject needed
investigation, and at the writer’s suggestion a grant of $1,000 was
made by the New York Commission on Ventilation to the Smithsonian
to promote it. My colleague, Mr. Aldrich, undertook the work and
made several long series of novel and valuable experiments, the results
of which will shortly be published. He employed principally two
instruments: First, the melikeron, or honeycomb pyranometer, for
observing radiation of bodies at low temperature, first described in
these reports for the years 1919 and 1920; and second, a special
thermoelectric temperature tester constructed for the research.

Mr. Aldrich sums up his results as follows:

(1) The radiation from the skin and clothing is approximately
that of a “black body ” or perfect radiator.

(2) Skin temperatures computed from melikeron radiation measure-
ments are about 1° C. higher than skin temperatures measured di-
rectly with the thermoelement. This is not true on clothing of
calorimeters. Apparently the melikeron sees deeper into the pores
of the skin than the level observed by the thermoelement.

(3) A cloth-covered, vertical, cylindrical calorimeter at body tem-
perature loses in still air 60 per cent by radiation, 40 per cent by
convection. <A similar horizontal calorimeter loses 54 per cent by
radiation, 46 per cent by convection. The human body convection
loss is probably similar to this; that is, the convection loss is roughly
114 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

one-third less than the radiation loss in still air and normal room:
temperatures.

(4) Increasing air motion rapidly decreases the percentage radia-
tion loss and increases the convectional. With the vertical calo-

rimeter:
Per cent

Air motion: radiation loss
(pte 2 al ot a dk a Sa ea al cane AO ape aleig den ol be Oe aaa 60
CASH SYS opp OVS) oO LAU ON DOS er Semester Se eee 41
130. feet*per minute: 22220 - = se a eal 35
190 feet. Per MMU Ce ee Oe ee ee ee eee 25

(5) Total body radiation similarly decreases with air motion:

Air motion: Radiation loss (mean for 10 subjects)
HOTEL MErh MUM Te eee ele ay ea 30. 7 large cal. per sq. m. per hour.
50'to 100 feet per minute l_-.2-_-—___- 29.3 large cal. per sq. m. per hour.

100 to 150 feet per minute..-.-——----_— 25.7 large cal. per sq. m. per hour.
180 to 250 feet per minute____________- 23. 2 large cal. per sq. m. per hour.

(6) Increase in room temperature (which also means increase in
wall temperature) produces a progressive lowering of radiation loss.
. Radiation loss

The ratio

Basal metabolism
wall temperature:

decreases with increase of room and

Radiation loss

Room
temper- Basal metabolism
ature

(Gis
21°.3 | 0.80 (mean of 10 subjects).

SLi EET ences ape orang TOG oP CGT SRE ES ET ge | 24°.1 | 0.75 (mean of 10 subjects).
22°.1 | 0.84 (mean of 3 subjects).

Table Tas ea a Cee ET ee eee eee 24°. 5 | 0.74 (mean of 4 subjects).

25°.6 | 0.66 (mean of 3 subjects).

(7) Kegping room and wall temperatures unchanged, the tempera-
ture of the skin and clothing decreases with increasing air motion,
the decrease being greatest on the side facing the wind and about
one-half as great on the side away from the wind. The clothing
temperature drop on the side toward the wind is about one-third
greater than the corresponding skin temperature drop. Summary of
10 subjects:

Skin ST eel Clothing temperature drop
Air motion (feet per minute) A nN P
way : way erpen-
from Toyard from coward dicular to
wind Moe wind wind
C. C. C. C. Lace
(VCH PEN te ee Be ee a eee er eene ne —°.4 —°.8 —°.6 —-1°.3 —°.5
TOO COWEDO mec oe tet oe ee eee ee ee een ee ee —°.7 —1°.2 —°.4 —1°.7 —°.5

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY br

(8) At normal indoor temperature, in still air and with the subject
normally clothed and at rest, body heat losses are distributed as fol-
lows:

Per cent
Hvyanora tlonvotaw attentive 2a soesh hey Sa ee ea 24
ECEVCLT SD EO Tiere eee eee ese is oe eR Se a teens Stee ee as 46
WOTIVEC TONES aCe SEE Eh | APNE eee eee 30

(9) Tests with the thermoelement show that the air temperature
falls to room temperature very rapidly as the distance from the body
increases. That is, there is a steep temperature gradient in the first
centimeter or so from the body surface. With the thermoelement 30
em. away no effect of the presence of the body could be detected.

(10) The Abbot-Benedict work (Table A) indicates that the radi.
ation loss from a nude subject is about twice as great for a room tem-
perature of 15° as it is for 2 room temperature of 26°. This evidence
does not entirely support the “ suit-of-clothes ” theory referred to by
DuBois. In explanation of this theory, he says (p. 885, 1927 ed. Basal
Metabolism) : “A constriction of the peripheral blood vessels (oc-
curs) and the amount of heat carried to the surface is relatively small
in proportion to the heat produced. * * * The patient really
changes his integument into a suit of clothes and withdraws the zone
where the blood is cooled from the skin to a level some distance below
the surface.”

(11) Normal fluctuations in humidity indoors produce negligible
effect upon the radiation loss. This is to be expected. Our bodies,
about 300° absolute, radiate almost wholly between the wave lengths
4u and 50% with a maximum at 10u. Water vapor absorption is so
strong for much of this range and so nearly negligible near the
maximum, that its possible effect is so fully produced, even by the
humidity of an ordinary room, that the effect of changes of the quan-
tity of water vapor in the ordinary room is small. Were the air of the
room exceedingly dry, changes might be noticeable.

WORK IN THE FIELD

(a) Solar radiation work at three desert mountain stations —As
far as possible, daily measurements of the intensity of solar radia-
tion have been made at the Smithsonian stations at Table Mountain,
Calif., and Mount Montezuma, Chile. Also similar measurements
have gone on regularly at the cooperating station of the National
Geographic Society on Mount Brukkaros, South West Africa.

Pending completion of the statistical investigations of the results
of the two last-named stations, as mentioned above, only the results
obtained at Mount Montezuma are being published at present. By
continued cooperation of the United States Weather Bureau, the daily
116 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

telegraphed values of the solar constant of radiation are being regu-
larly published on the Washington daily weather map.

As tentatively and privately forecasted in November, 1927, on the
basis of hitherto observed periodicities in solar phenomena, the
“solar constant ” values reached a high level in the spring months
of 1928, and were expected to reach a low level in the autumn.
Much interest attaches to these tentative forecasts of the solar energy
to be expected for Jong periods in advance, but several years must
yet elapse before (if ever) they can be made with sufficient confidence
to justify publication.

Although the solar radiation measurements have been reduced to
a routine for several years at all our stations, the very high degree
of accuracy now demanded and generally achieved is occasionally
marred by new and unexpected accidents and difficulties. Thus
internal evidence disclosed that some obscure error of very consid-
erable amount began in August, 1927, to affect the sky radiation
measurements of the pyranometer on Table Mountain. Our best
thought and many experiments had failed to disclose the obscure
cause up to the close of the period of this report, but by anticipation
I may say that at this time of writing (October 3) the error has been
detected, cured, and a beginning has been made to eliminate its
influence from the final results of the observations. This circum-
stance has prevented us from making public Table Mountain results
hitherto.

(b) Measurements of atmospheric ozone-—Doctor Dobson, of Ox-
ford, England, having perfected a spectroscopic method for deter-
mining the quantity of atmospheric ozone, has found that quantity
variable in most interesting relations to solar phenomena and to
weather. He has established a chain of cooperating observatories in
Europe, and, by aid of a grant from Mr. John A. Roebling, the
Smithsonian was able to equip the Montezuma station with the
necessary apparatus. For about one year daily measurements were
made at Montezuma by Field Director Freeman, aided by Mrs. Free-
man. The photographs taken were reduced in England by Doctor
Dobson and his colleagues, but, contrary to European experience,
showed almost zero variation. They also showed a much smaller
quantity of atmospheric ozone at Montezuma than in Europe.

Finding further observations at Montezuma unnecessary because
of the uniformly constant results, the apparatus was returned to
Oxford, restandardized, and sent to Table Mountain, Calif., where it
is now installed for daily observing.

(c) Expeditions to Mount Wilson.—As stated in last year’s report,
the writer undertook at Mount Wilson, in the autumn of 1927, to

1At this writing (October 3), this latter forecast also has been supported by September
results.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 117

continue radiometer measurements of the distribution of energy in
the spectra of the stars. This work was made possible by the availa-
bility of the 100-inch telescope of the Mount Wilson Observatory.
It had been proposed to substitute hydrogen for air in the radiometer,
on the theory that the radiometer reaction would be nearly the same,
but the damping and consequent sluggishness of action would be
much diminished in so hght and free-moving a gas as hydrogen.

Arriving in July, 1927, at Pasadena, the writer constructed the
radiometer vanes from bits of house-flies’ wings. Incidentally it was
observed that it requires about 6,000,000 house-flies’ wings to weigh
one pound. With a fragment of microscope cover glass (ground and
polished to about one-third the usual thickness) the mirror of the
radiometer system was prepared. Two such systems of unequal, but
both of almost microscopic size, were hung upon quartz fibers so fine
as usually to be invisible, and were tested in air and in hydrogen at
various pressures. With them was used also a bolometric element
designed to give basis for an estimate of the comparative rise of tem-
perature of the radiometer vanes, when exposed to a constant source
of radiation, but contained in the different test gases.

Hydrogen proved somewhat less efficient in regard to rise of tem-
perature and radiometer reaction than air, but abundantly justified
the expectation that its damping properties were much less objec-
tionable. On the whole, hydrogen appeared greatly superior as the
radiometer gas, and a carefully built system, with vanes 0.35 milli-
meters wide and 1 millimeter tall, was constructed. It had three
vanes in parallel on either side of the stem, separated 1 millimeter
between centers. This system was sealed into a glass? case in hydro-
gen under 0.23 millimeter pressure of mercury. Provision had been
made to rotate the system by a magnetic device.

After many trials, the device proved useless, because the mecha-
nism required to rotate the system so as to bring it to face in the
proper direction so stirred up the gas that wholly unexpected motions
resulted. After much labor the experiment was given up for the
year 1927.

For use in 1928, at Doctor Adams’s suggestion, there was prepared
an optically figured quartz cylindrical vessel. This fused quartz cyl-
inder, of beautiful clearness, was made to my order by the General
Electric Co., and was figured within and without at the Mount Wilson
Observatory shop. Being truly a circular cylinder with optically
figured concentric walls, it mattered not at all in what direction the
radiometer looked out. Thus by mounting the whole cylinder from a

‘LT am greatly indebted to the director and staff of the Bureau of Standards, especially

Mr. Sperling, and to the director and staff of the Mount Wilson Observatory, especially

Mr. Pompeo, for the construction of the special glass apparatus and the preparation for
its use on Mount Wilson.

24034—29——_9
118 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

brass support, rotatable in a ground joint, the radiometer could be
inclosed in an airtight outside case of brass having windows, toward
which the radiometer could at any time be made to look out by merely
rotating the brass piece in its well-ground seat.

With this simple but adequate apparatus the Mount Wilson expe-
dition was renewed by the writer in 1928, with a high degree of suc-
cess, which must be related in next year’s report.

Personnel.—During the year the personnel has been as follows:

At Washington :
Director, Dr. C. G. ABBOT.
Research Pete F. E. Fow te, Jr., L. B. ALDRICH.
Temporary assistant, M, KK. BAUGHMAN.
Computers, Mrs. A. M. Bonn, Miss M. A. MARSDEN.
Instrument maker, A. KRAMER.
At Table Mountain:
Field director, A. F. Moore.
Field assistants, H. H. Zoprnrer, H. B. FREEMAN.’
At Mount Montezuma :
Field directors, H. B. FREEMAN, H. H. ZopTNer.
Field assistants, E. E. WARNER, M. K. BAUGHMAN.
At Mount Brukkaros:
Field director, W. H. Hoover.
Field assistant, F. A. GREELEY. ;

Summary.—A. novel research on the relative cooling of the human
body by radiation and by air convection has yielded unexpected and
valuable results. Improvements in instruments include a new form
of sensitive radiometer in which by the substitution of hydrogen for
air a great increase in quickness of response permits the use of exces-
sively light systems and promises a great development of sensitive-
ness. Continued progress in the reduction and systematization of
the results of solar radiation work have brought the study of the
ozone content of the atmosphere as a new element in the determina-
tion of the solar constant of radiation. Daily observations have been
continued at Table Mountain, Calif., Mount Montezuma, Chile, and
(in cooperation with the National Geographic Society) at Mount
Brukkaros, South West Africa. By cooperation with the United
States Weather Bureau, daily publication of the values of the solar
constant of radiation for the use of meteorologists has been effected.

C. G. Axssor,
Director, Astrophysical Observatory.
The SEcrETARY,
The Smithsonian Institution.

1Mr. Freeman assisted for a short time after his return from South America, pending
other assignment.

.
APPENDIX 8

REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF
SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE

Sir: I have the honor to submit herewith the following report on
the operations of the United States Regional Bureau of the Inter-
national Catalogue of Scientific Literature for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1928:

Since actual publication of the International Catalogue was sus-
pended in 1922, owing to the inability of the foreign bureaus to
contribute their quota of the necessary financial support, it has been
the policy of this bureau to keep its expenditures at the lowest pos-
sible amount consistent with the need of keeping the organization
operating sufficiently to compile the necessary records of current
scientific publications. This policy has been explained each year to
the Bureau of the Budget and to congressional appropriation com-
mittees, the understanding being that until publication was resumed
some part of the appropriation would revert to the surplus fund of
the Treasury. Each year a surplus has reverted, and this year it
was found possible to allow the classifier to take seven months’ fur-
lough without seriously interfering with the necessary routine. By
this means an additional saving of $1,225 was made, the gross ex-
penditures of the year being $5,867.29 out of the appropriation of
$7,260, the remainder, $1,392.71, reverting to the Treasury.

As the financial status of a number of the cooperating foreign

countries now appears to be established on a firmer basis than at any

time since the war, this bureau is making an effort, through corre-
spondence, to formulate a practical plan whereby the necessary sup-
port may be had to enable the Central Bureau to resume publication.
To this end letters were sent to the several members of the executive
committee of the catalogue and to the director of the London Central
Bureau in whose hands control of the organization is vested. As
these letters outline the situation and are self-explanatory, I submit
copies herewith.
May 22, 1928.

DeEaR Sir: As a member of the executive committee of the International

Catalogue of Scientific Literature, to which the International Convention in

Brussels in July, 1922, referred the question of the future of the undertaking, I
beg to submit the following:

119
120 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

Among the resolutions adopted, 4 and 5 read as follows:

(4) That the convention is of opinion that the international organization
should be kept in being through mutual agreement to continue as far as pos-
sible the work of the regional bureaus until Such time as it may be economically
possible to resume publication.

(5) That it be referred to the executive committee to consider and, after
full consultation wi:h interested bodies, to make proposals as to the form of
future publication and to report with some definite scheme to a meeting of the
international council, to be summoned as soon as it appears possible that publi-
cation can be resumed,

From the implied agreement in resolution 4, I assume that the organization
may still look to the regioial bureaus to take up again their former work
when called on by the central bureau to do so, and from resolution 5 it is clearly
the duty of the executive committee to formulate a definite scheme as soon as
it appears possible that publication can be resumed.

As a preliminary step to the preparation of such a scheme an exchange of
views by correspondence among the several members of the executive committee
seems desirable, in order that all local and personal ideas may be assembled
and coordinated before summoning a meeting of the international council.

Among the questions which might be satisfactorily settled through corre-
spondence are the following:

To what extent could the central bureau depend on each regional bureau
(1) to supply classified data and (2) to secure subscriptions for the support of
the Catalogue.

Could an edition of 1,000 sets be disposed of at $50 per set?

Could a catalogue aggregating 10,000 pages be produced for $50,000 per year?

I am of the opinion that this sum would be sufficient, and submit with this
copies of two letters sent to Doctor Morley and Professor Armstrong on January
12, 1928, cutlining the present condition as I see it and giving an estimate of
the probable cost of publication.

I would appreciate detailed suggestions which would further in any way our
common aim and, as I think, duty to prepare and report a definite scheme
whereby this unique and valuable international work may be enabled to resume
publication.

I am most anxious also to have such a definite and well-considered plan
available to submit to possible donors, should any appear, before a meeting of
the international council is held.

Trusting that this move may meet with your approval and gain your
cooperation, I am

Sincerely yours,
LEONARD C, GUNNELL.

JANUARY 12, 1928.
Dr. H. Forster MoRr.Ley,
Director, International Catalogue of Scientifie Literature,
London, England,

Dear Docror MortEY: I am sending with this a copy of a letter sent to-day to
Professor Armstrong and trust that you and he will be able to outline some plan
of action whereby the Catalogue may again be published. With 10,000 pages to |
be printed each year, or about 33 pages per day of printed matter that could be
made simple and uniform in character, I believe that the organization could
profitably run a plant of its own and issue classified cards, or advance sheets, of
the material to be later assembled and published in annual catalogues.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 121

* * * JT have just consulted a practical printer and he states that our re-
quirements could be met with two typeseiting machines and one high-grade press,
costing approximately a total of $10,000. * * * I believe the whole yearly
eost of printing could be met for $17,500. These are American estimates and
the cost should be materially less in England, but even this figure is half the esti-
mated cost at $3.50 per page. Although the figures are necessarily only approx-
imate they are encouraging enough to warrant looking into the matter in de
tail. With your central bureau and printing plant wnder one roof the organiza-
tion would certainly be in a position to overcome the most serious faults charged
against the Catalogue, high price, and delayed publication.

I did not want to complicate my letter to Professor Armstrong, but the cost of
production is the only really serious question to confront us for there is no
question in my mind as to the need of the Catalogue, and as we produced it once
Wwe can produce it again. Every dollar cut from the subscription price will,
without doubt, increase the number of subscribers, therefore I am most anxious
to get your opinion of this phase of the problem. Editing, assembling, and print-
ing in our case is a question of uniform and continuous production and can cer-
tainly be greatly simplified and cheapened if we consider it in that light.

With kindest regards, I am

Sincerely yours,
LEONARD C. GUNNELL.,

JANUARY 12, 1928.
Prof. HENRY E. ARMSTRONG,

Chairman, Executive Committee International Catalogue of
Scientific Literature, Royal Society of London, London, England.

DEAR PROFESSOR ARMSTRONG: I feel that if the International Catalogue is ever
to resume publication some definite steps should be taken looking to that end.
Assuming that the agreement made by the delegates at the Brussels convention
of 1922 to keep the organization in being is still in force, the question of resump-
tion is in the hands of the executive committee named at that time and author-
ized to report with some definite scheme. As I am one of that committee, of
which you are the chairman, I feel that any steps I might take, after consulting
you, in an attempt to forward the interests of the Catalogue would be within
my province and can be taken quite independently of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, which need not appear in the matter until some assurance of success is
evident.

The situation as I see it is: That the International Catalogue of Scientific
Literature, to supply an authors’ and classified subject catalogue of the cur-
rent literature of pure science, is as much a necessity now as it was in 1900,
since no similar service or publication has taken its place.

That the organization still exists duly authorized to prepare and publish such
a catalogue.

That the enterprise can be made self-supporting if financial support sufficient
to cover one year’s editorial and printing expenses can be procured.

That if an edition of 1,000 sets can be sold at $50 a set the publication costs
can be covered.

I am led to this opinion by the fact that a prominent American publisher has
offered, if furnished regularly with manuscript to fill 10,000 pages of printed
matter, to print, publish, and bind, in paper, an edition of 1,000 for $8.50 a page,
or $35,000. Adding $15,000 as the approximate cost of a central bureau staff,
the total would be $50,000 needed for an edition of 1,000. I believe that regular
subscribers to take this edition of 1,000 sets could be readily enrolled at a price
of $50 per set and the organization would thus become self-supporting. I assume
122 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

that if American publishers could print the Catalogue for $3.50 per page, in an
edition of 1,000, some English printer would do the work for that sum or less.

Before any financial aid could be reasonably applied for the “ definite scheme,”
which the executive committee was authorized to prepare, would have to be
submitted, and I think that it is time for the committee to take some action.

A definite scheme could be prepared after taking the matter up with the
regional bureaus and determining the probable support each could be depended
on to provide in material for the Catalogue and subscribers. It would then be
necessary to prepare revised schedules of classification and lists of journals
to be indexed. From previous experience I am sure that you will agree with
me that the schedules should be far more simple than those previously used
and that the journals and papers indexed should be limited strictly to pure
science, else the whole undertaking would be too ponderous at the very begin-
ning. I feel that after a start has been made an allied though supplementary
index of the applied sciences would be feasible and certainly most desirable,
but this could not be attempted until the more simple index to pure science is
provided and put on a paying basis. What in your opinion would be the
attitude of the Royal Society and the Zoological Record?

The plan published in the acta of the convention of 1922 included disposal of
the stock of complete sets at a reduced price, when publication should be
resumed, as a means of repaying the debt to the Royal Society, and this plan
would still hold.

With kindest regards, I am

Sincerely yours, Lronarp C. GUNNELL.

While it is as yet too soon to forecast what the result of this move
toward reorganization will be, it seems probable that the various
countries previously represented will again cooperate by furnishing
the necessary bibliographical data to the central bureau, but it is
doubtful if they are in a position to subscribe to the capital fund
necessary to start the operations of the central bureau.

The French bureau’s reply, dated June 22, 1928, seems to bear out
this idea, the reply stating: “If therefore the Catalogue were resumed
we could immediately furnish everything relating to France.” ‘The
French bureau, however, could promise nothing toward the support
of the central bureau, but has requested the director of public instruc-
tion to canvass the French universities for subscribers.

If during the coming year a definite scheme can be agreed upon by
the countries formerly cooperating in the work, it appears likely that
the comparatively small sum needed to begin publication could be
raised in the United States. It would appear both fitting and
proper to have aid extended from this country to reestablish a great
and useful enterprise originally founded on the idea and suggestion
of an American pioneer in science, Joseph Henry, first secretary of
the Smithsonian Institution.

Respectfully submitted.

Lronarp C. GUNNELL,

Assistant in Charge.

Dr. Cuaries G. ABpor,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

APPENDIX 9

REPORT ON THE LIBRARY
| Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi-
ties of the library of the Smithsonian Institution for the fiscal year

ended June 30, 1928:

THE LIBRARY

|

|

| The Smithsonian library, or, more properly speaking, the Smith-
-sonian library system, comprises the Smithsonian deposit in
| the Library of Congress, which is the main library of the Institu-
tion, the library of the United States National Museum, the Smith-
_sonian office library, the Langley aeronautical library, the technologi-
cal library, and the libraries of the Astrophysical Observatory, the
National Gallery of Art, the Freer Gallery of Art, and the National
) Zoological Park, together with the 36 sectional libraries of the Na-
tional Museum. To these may later be added a tenth divisional
library, namely, that of the Bureau of American Ethnology. With
its 700,000 volumes, pamphlets, and charts, chiefly scientific in char-
acter, including especially society and serial publications, the Smith-
sonian library not only is an invaluable instrument in the work of
the Institution and indirectly of other research institutions through-
out the country, but represents an important link in the chain of
libraries in the service of the Federal Government.

THE STAFF

It is gratifying to report that during the last fiscal year a way
was found of providing for a second position of assistant librarian—
the first, that of chief of the reference department, having been
established two years before. This new position will be set up
immediately and will be filled by the appointment of a chief for
the accessions department—the department which acquires publica-
tions for the library, partly by purchase and gift but mainly by
exchange; which carries on an extensive correspondence, particu-
larly with the learned societies and institutions of the world, keeps
a file of this correspondence and a record of the items acquired,
with their sources, and assigns them to the divisions and sections
of the library in which they promise to be of most use.

123

124 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

Several changes occurred in the personnel during the year. Mrs.
Natalie M. Bennett, junior librarian, resigned and her place was filled
by the appointment of Miss Gertrude L. Woodin, a graduate of
Wellesley College and of the Albany Library School, who has had
many years of experience in library work. Miss Woodin is direct-
ing the preparation of the union catalogue. Mr. R. Webb Noyes,
junior librarian, also resigned and was succeeded by Miss Elisa-
beth Hobbs, a graduate of George Washington University and
of Simmons College Library School. At various times during the
year the following persons were members of the staff on tempo-
rary appointment: Miss Helen V. Barnes, Mrs. Adeila E. Blanchard,
Mr. Arthur W. Gerth, Miss Elisabeth Hobbs: Miss Josephine H.
Kinney, Miss Mary dal Mrs. M. Landon Reed, Mrs. Hope H.
Simmons, and Mr. Giles E. Taggart.

EXCHANGE OF PUBLICATIONS

Since its founding in 1846 the Smithsonian Institution and its
branches as one by one they have come into being have sent their
publications to other learned institutions and societies and to editors
of scientific journals throughout the world, and have received their
publications in return. Although from the beginning the increase
of the Smithsonian library has been due partly to purchases and
gifts, it has been due chiefly to this exchange. ‘These publications
have come to the library direct, or through the International Ex-
change Service, which is Hintaaene by the Institution. During
the fet fiscal year 26,316 packages, of one or more publications each,
came by mail, and 6,231 through the exchange. After these 32,547
packages had been opened the items were stamped, entered, and sent
to the appropriate units of the library, but chiefly to the Smithsonian
deposit in the Library of Congress and the lhbrary of the United
States National Museum. In connection with the acquiring of this
material the library wrote about 1,100 letters, sent out thousands of
acknowledgments, and took up exchange relations with many new
societies.

As usual dissertations were received from various universities and
technical schools both at home and abroad.

GIFTS

The gifts for the year were many. ‘Two were especially note-
worthy. One was the Chinese library of the late Hon. William

Woodville Rockhill, well-known traveler, scholar, and United States _

minister to China. This was presented to the Institution by Mrs.

Rockhill, and was deposited in the Freer Gallery of Art. It con- |
sisted of 1,100 volumes on the history, geography, literature, and

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 125

culture of Central Asia, particularly of Mongolia and Thibet, and
included a number of rare items, several in manuscript, and various
works of general reference, among which was a copy of the Palace
Edition of the Imperial Dictionary issued in 1716 in 40 volumes by a
commission of scholars under the personal supervision of Emperor
K’ang Hsi. This gift constitutes a most valuable supplement not
only to the Chinese works in the library of the Freer Gallery but to
those in the oriental division of the Library of Congress.

The other noteworthy gift came from the American Association for
the Advancement of Science. It comprised approximately 3,500
volumes of serial and society publications, from all parts of the world
and in nearly all Janguages, many in almost unbroken sets extending

over years. From this collection have already been selected more
— than 1,500 volumes and parts needed in the Smithsonian deposit and

the libraries of the National Museum and the Astrophysical Observa-
tory. Among these were some that were out of print and very rare,
including not a few that these libraries had been trying for some
time to get to complete their sets. The gift is one of the most useful
that the library has received in recent years.

Among other gifts worthy of especial mention were scientific publi-
cations in 68 volumes and 47 parts, lacking in the Smithsonian library,
from the Library of Congress; North American Wild Flowers,
volumes 1 to 38, by Mary Vaux Walcott, from the artist-author; a
collection of 70 volumes and 174 pamphlets, mainly on art, from

Dr. William H. Holmes, director of the National Gallery; various
_ works, in 50 volumes, chiefly on Egyptian art and archeology, from
Mrs. George Cabot Lodge; To Galdpagos on the Ara, 1926, by Wil-

lam K. Vanderbilt, from the author; A Souvenir of Wyoming—an
illustrated manuscript in 3 volumes, with text by John G. White,
being a diary of a fishing trip in Jackson Hole and Yellowstone Park,
with remarks on early history and historical geography—from

Thomas A. McCaslin; the Ronald Aeronautic Library, in 12 volumes,

presented by the publishers at the suggestion of Mr. Paul E. Garber,
assistant curator of the divisions of mineral and mechanical tech-
nology; and about 300 volumes, pertaining largely to the religions of
the Old World, from the estate of Dr. I. M. Casanowicz, late assistant

curator of the division of Old World archeology.

Many other gifts were also received, especially from Secretary

: Abbot, Assistant Secretary Wetmore, Mr. A. H. Clark, Dr. Walter

Hough, Dr. Ale’ Hrdli¢ka, Dr. W. R. Maxon, Mr. J. U. Perkins, Miss
M. J. Rathbun, Dr. C. W. Richmond, Mr. Robert Ridgeway, the late

| Dr. J. N. Rose, Mr. R. C. Smith, Dr. L. Stejneger, Mr. B. H. Swales,
-and Dr. J. R. Swanton.
126 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928
SMITHSONIAN DEPOSIT

The Smithsonian deposit, which, as has been said, is the main
library of the Institution, dates from 1866, when by an act of Con-
gress the Institution was authorized to deposit its library of 40,000
volumes in the Library of Congress. It is, of course, distributed
according to classification, but because of its prevailingly scientific
nature it is chiefly in the Smithsonian division, which was established
in 1900 to take care of the scientific publications in the deposit,
together with the works of like character belonging to the Library of
Congress.

The deposit has grown steadily by additions from the Institution,
and is now recognized as one of the outstanding collections of its
kind. It is especially rich in serial publications and in the reports,
proceedings, and transactions of the learned societies and institutions
of the world.

During the fiscal year just ended the Institution sent to the deposit
13,558 publications, of which 2,292 were volumes, 9,773 parts of vol-
umes, 988 pamphlets, and 505 charts. Documents of foreign govern-
ments, largely statistical in character, to the number of 7,376, were
also sent, without being stamped or entered, to the document division
of the Library of Congress. In addition to these, 13,187 disserta-
tions, most of which had been received in previous years from forty
or more universities and technical schools in different parts of the
world, but which the Institution, for lack of help, had not been able
to catalogue, were forwarded to the deposit, that they might be made
available to scholars at the earliest possible moment. Short title
cards for these dissertations will be sent to the Institution as soon as
they are prepared for filing in the union catalogue.

In response to special requests from the Library of Congress for
publications wanted for the deposit, the Smithsonian library was able
to obtain, as usual, many volumes and parts of volumes by exchange.
It is expected that this service will be greatly enlarged in the course
of a few months, as the result of the reorganization of the accessions
department of the library.

OFFICE LIBRARY

The office library consists of some of the more important society
publications that the Institution needs to have continually at hand,.
a set of its own publications and of those of its branches, the art-
room collection, the employees’ library, and various reference books,
some assigned for special use to other divisions of the library or to.)
the administrative offices of the Institution. To this library were—
added during the year 108 volumes and 34 pamphlets.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 127

The progress made on the union catalogue of the Smithsonian
library, which was kept until lately in the office reading room—the
room that now has become the catalogue room of the Institution—
was notable, especially in connection with the material in the Smith-
sonian deposit, the office library, the Langley aeronautical library,
and the libraries of the National Museum and the Astrophysical
Observatory. Cards were also added to the catalogue for the Rock-
hill collection of 1,100 volumes in Chinese recently given to the Insti-
tution and deposited in the library of the Freer Gallery of Art.
This progress is shown in detail by the following statistics:

MearlchTEAe Se Cede] O10 Cees 8 ne a ee oe ce ES eS eee ne ee ee 3, Loe
MoIrmesirecntalOsued san. 2.5 ea be ESR ee a) Se ee ee te ee 3, 913
IMM LEGS a CALS TICs ot ee LEE Sa ied ies pai a ey SE Oy 1, 766
ESTP Mets mec tal OLMed sees 4 i oe Se ee oe oe oe a 2, 846
em CACAO SCG ee aise See a ee 504
ype ecaLgs7; 1Oded: COmecataloguel eo. 2. ase = ee 3, 337
Library of Congress cards added to catalogue___._____-________________ 6, 372

MUSEUM LIBRARY

The library of the United States National Museum, which ranks
next in size and importance to the Smithsonian deposit in the library
system of the Institution, is composed principally of works on the
different branches of natural history represented in the Museum. Its
collections increased during the year by 3,015 volumes and 1,165

pamphlets, totaling more by several hundred than the increase even
_ of the year before when there was an unusually large gain in acces-
sions. The library now numbers 72,315 volumes and 106,881
_ pamphlets. Some of the additions came, of course, by purchase, but
' most came, as usual, by exchange and gift. The outstanding gift,
which, with other gifts to various divisions of the library of the Insti-
tution, is described earlier in this report, was received from the
American Association for the Advancement of Science.

In the course of the year 10,526 parts of periodicals were entered,
_ 821 volumes and 1,039 pamphlets were catalogued, and 2,382 cards
_ were added to the shelf list. The number of books and pamphlets

sent to the sectional libraries was 6,683. The loans to members of
the scientific staff numbered 5,013, of which 2,118 were borrowed
from the Library of Congress and 236 elsewhere. The other loans
totaled 89. These were made chiefly to Government libraries, but
| a score or more to libraries outside of Washington, including those
_ of the American Museum of Natural History, Archeological Institute
of America, Berkshire Atheneum, Carnegie Museum, EK. I. du Pont
' de Nemours & Co. Experimental Station, Rockefeller Institute, West-
_ field Normal School, Williams College, and the following universities :
_ Maryland, North Carolina, Princeton, and Toronto. The number of
128 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

books sent back to other libraries was 2,451, of which 2,262 were
returned to the Library of Congress. The volumes prepared for
binding numbered nearly 2,200; of these 1,701 were sent to the bind-
ery during the fiscal year. As usual, thousands of publications were
consulted in the reading room, not merely by members of the Museum
staff, but by investigators from other departments of the Government
and elsewhere, including some from abroad. In connection with their
work an increased reference service was rendered by the library staff,
as was the case in connection with the many inquiries for information
that were received from different parts of the country.

The sectional libraries, which now number 36, were brought into
closer working relation with the main library of the Museum and
with the other units of the Smithsonian library system. The work
of completing their sets of society and serial publications was
continued, their binding was considerably advanced, and marked
progress was made in cataloguing their collections. The sectional
libraries are as follows:

Administration, Marine invertebrates.
Administrative assistant’s office. Mechanical technology.
American archeology. Medicine.

Anthropology. Minerals.

Biology. Mineral technology.
Birds. Mollusks,

Botany. Old World archeology.
Echinoderms. Organie chemistry.
Editor’s office. Paleobotany.

Hthnology. Photography.

Vishes. j Physical anthropology.
Foods. Property clerk’s office.
Geology. Reptiles and batrachians.
Graphic arts. Superintendent’s office.
History. Taxidermy.

Insects. Textiles.

Invertebrate paleontology. Vertebrate paleontology.
Mammals. Wood technology.

TECHNOLOGICAL LIBRARY

The reorganization of the technological library, which is housed
in the Arts and Industries Building, received particular attention.
Many thousands of Government publications not related directly to
the work of the institution and its branches, which had been accumu-
lating in the library for years, were returned to the Superintendent
of Documents, thus releasing space for the much needed rearranging
and expanding of the collections now going on. The most noticeable
change was made in the reference room. The cement floor was
covered with a cork carpet, many new shelves were built in, some
of the furniture was done over, and, to make the room still more

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 129

attractive, several ferns, palms, and other plants—the generous gift
of the Bureau of Plant Industry—were placed on the floor and in
the gallery. The collections in this room were entirely reorganized,
the less used books being removed to other parts of the library, and
those in constant demand by the curators put where they would be
immediately available. Among the latter were the standard refer-
ence works that belong to the library and a set of Smithsonian publi-
cations. To this room were also transferred from the Smithsonian
Building the current files of scientific and popular periodicals, and
the employees’ library. Finally, a trained assistant was put in
charge, and the room opened to the public, with the result that the
library increased its usefulness many fold, not only by making its
collections more accessible to the curators, but by providing material
and information, both directly and _ indirectly, for the readers and
other visitors who came to it daily.

The accessions for the year are included among those to the
Museum library.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY LIBRARY

The library of the Astrophysical Observatory, which occupies part
of the main hall of the Smithsonian Building and part of the ob-
servatory itself, comprises about 3,767 volumes and 2,725 pamphlets,
chiefly on astrophysics and meteorology. It is one of the most impor-
tant of the smaller units of the Smithsonian library system, and is
of especial value in connection with the well-known researches in
solar radiation that are being carried on by the Institution. During
the past year the catalogue for this hbrary, which was begun the
year before, was finished, and the collections were labeled and rear-
ranged. The accessions to the library were 130 volumes, 64 parts of
volumes, and 25 pamphlets. The number of volumes bound was 121.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY LIBRARY

The lbrary of the Bureau of American Ethnology, which is in
the Smithsonian Building, consists almost exclusively of works on
anthropology, particularly those pertaining to the American abo-
rigines, and covers especially the linguistics, history, archeology,
myths, religion, arts, sociology, and general culture of the American
Indian. It contains 27,921 volumes and 16,177 pamphlets. In its
special data files are manuscript material, photographs, Indian
vocabularies, etc. The activities of this library for the last fiscal
year are described in the report of the chief of the bureau, by whom
the library is administered.
130 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928
LANGLEY AERONAUTICAL LIBRARY

The Langley aeronautical library, as the aeronautical collection
of the Institution is now called, is rapidly coming to be a prominent
division of the Smithsonian library. While it is still comparatively
small, numbering only 1,612 volumes and 700 pamphlets, together
with a large number of photographs and newspaper clippings, it
includes many rare items, some of which were in the original gift
as it came from Samuel Pierpont Langley, the third secretary of the
Institution, after whom the library was named, and others among
the additions made since by Alexander Graham Bell, Octave
Chanute, and James Means. During the last year the recataloguing
of this library was begun, and well advanced. The accessions were
12 volumes. Much use was made of the collection, especially by
Government experts and others from different parts of the United
States and Europe, who were investigating matters of aeronautical
interest.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART LIBRARY

The library of the National Gallery of Art, which occupies for
the present part of the Natural History Building, concerns itself
chiefly with the art of the United States and Europe. The collection,
while small, totalling only 848 volumes and 1,024 pamphlets, consti-
tutes a carefully chosen nucleus for the larger library that will be
formed when a special building is provided for the gallery. The
library was increased during the last year by 144 volumes, 714 parts
of volumes, and 288 pamphlets. The most important gift was
received from Dr. William H. Holmes, director of the gallery.
This is mentioned in more detail earlier in this report.

FREER GALLERY OF ART LIBRARY

The library of the Freer Gallery of Art holds a unique place in
the Smithsonian library system. It contains many works in the
Chinese and Japanese languages, some of which are very rare, and
for purposes of research supplements to an important degree the
oriental division of the Library of Congress. It has to do mainly
with the interests represented by the collections of art objects
pertaining to the arts and cultures of the Far East, India, Persia,
and the nearer East; by the life and works of James McNeill Whistler
and of certain other American painters whose pictures are owned by
the gallery; and, further, to a very limited extent, by the Biblical
manuscripts of the fourth and fifth centuries, which, as the pos-
session of the Freer Gallery, are known as the Washington manu-
scripts. Additions to the library during the year numbered 1,126

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 131

volumes and 59 pamphlets. These included the William Wood-
ville Rockhill collection of 1,100 volumes in Chinese, which was
given to the Smithsonian Institution by Mrs. Rockhill and deposited
in the library of the gallery. This valuable gift is described else-
where in this report. The lbrary now has a total of 4,038 volumes
and 2,578 pamphlets. It also has a special collection of about 700
volumes and 500 pamphlets for the use of the field staff of the
gallery.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK LIBRARY

The library of the National Zoological Park, which is housed
in the administration building at the park, consists of about 1,200
volumes and 300 pamphlets on animals and other subjects of special
interest to the curators there. Its accessions during the last year
were 11 volumes and 2 pamphlets.

SUMMARY OF ACCESSIONS

The accessions for the year, with the exceptien of those to the
library of the Bureau of American Ethnology, may be summarized
as follows:

Pamph-
Library Volumes | lets and Total
| charts
|
Astrophysical: Observatory.-_--2_=.2.-.--.-2--.---4 ee Se ar toe | 130 | 25 155
roe Gal lonyiOleAn Gee echee a a ae ae nT Ue Resear ae | 1,126 | 59 1, 185
Hanpiey-acronatitical library. 22s Jie Meier ak 2 eee | 1p Le oe 12
National! Gallery of-Att son 2-08) ors. ec deee oe IA ese : 144 | 238 382
AHI OHS ee OOLOLICA IME OT Ke seer ee kee ee AN Ey Ce LS oe ee 11 | 2 13
Smithsonian deposit, Library of Congress___.._...___...___..-_-__-..____-- 2, 292 | 14, 680 16, 972
Smithsonian Om Coss. tetas seed Feel a ns st A A he ees 108 34 142
United States National Museum, including the technological library ______- | 3,015 | 1,165 4, 180
TAT Se ee WT ee OR ae! SEO BS RRS el CREA SER eiS 6, 838 | 16, 203 23, 041

The estimated number of volumes, pamphlets, and charts in the
Smithsonian library, not including those in the library of the Bu-
reau of American Ethnology, on June 30, 1928, was as follows:

\WOMI We eVeS} MRED ba CSUR GOTT a i CED ee 505 610s eed lee SURO ys Me Berek OP ew fe TAD Lue RI RS et 527, 941
AIL OES Soe ee Bel ag Ses Ae es ci Bog gat eel Seve ee See EE =e d= i Apap regi sghe 156, 983
“CAVE ASP ES EE A ee eee eee ae eee ee. ee UN oe 24, 660

To ta eees ee ep NS De SAIS TA We PEO aes AVES ELS 709, 584

This number does not include the many thousands of volumes in
the library still uncatalogued or awaiting completion.

SPECIAL ACTIVITIES

It was possible for the staff to undertake a number of special
tasks during the year, several of which may be mentioned.
132 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

One of the larger accumulations of reprints was sorted according
to subject and distributed to the curators. This was an important
step in disposing of material valuable to the Institution but not
needed for cataloguing. As soon as help becomes available another
accumulation, much larger than the first, will be treated in like
manner.

A list was made, in preparation for cataloguing, of some of the
special collections, including the Casey, Dall, Gill, Henderson, Lacoe,
Roebling, Schaus, Springer, Teller, and Vaux, and of the volumes
in the John Donnell Smith botanical collection and the Watts de
Peyster library that had not already been catalogued. ‘To expedite
this work the Library of Congress was generous enough to contribute
for a few weeks the services of two typists, in return for which the
Smithsonian library will later provide manuscript cards for the
items in these collections, as well as in its other collections, that are
not in the library of Congress. These cards will be prepared pri-
marily for the national catalogue that is in progress there under the
direction of Dr. Ernest C. Richardson, consultant in bibliography
and research.

The generous contribution of material (see “Gifts,” p. 124) that
was received during the year from the American Association for the
Advancement of Science was carefully checked up and many of the
items were selected to fill gaps in the sets of serial and society pub-
lications. The rest of the contribution will be used in various ways
later.

Most of the uncatalogued Russian publications were looked over
and those with Roman titles were entered in the catalogue; the rest
were put aside, to be sent, with other publications in Russian,
Turkish, and Japanese, and probably some in Hungarian, Polish, and
Bohemian, to the Smithsonian deposit, that they may be made
available to scholars, and cards prepared for them in due course and
returned to the Institution.

The organization of the west stacks in the Smithsonian Building
was considerably advanced. Many thousands of college and univer-
sity publications, not needed by the library, were sent to the Bureau
of Education, where they would be at hand for completing sets and
for exchange. The files of popular and semipopular periodicals,
which had for many years been kept in these stacks, were trans-
ferred, through the courtesy of the curator of textiles, to a room in
the basement, to await final disposal. The geological material was
brought together and arranged. The publications that lay in heaps
on the floors were grouped roughly on the shelves. This work was
all preliminary to the final step in organizing this heterogeneous
mass, which contains almost countless items of value, many of which,

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 133

it will probably be found later, will serve a purpose either in the
library of the Institution or in other Washington libraries. ‘Those
that will not, will be used for exchange toward further completing
the Smithsonian collections.

During the year the librarian gave 14 public lectures and addresses,
2 on the Smithsonian Institution, the others on literary and educa-
tional subjects. In addition to his three regular reports, namely,
to the Secretary of the Institution, the Assistant Secretary in charge
of the National Museum, and the Librarian of Congress, he prepared
for the Secretary two special reports, entitled, respectively, ‘“ The
Smithsonian Library—an Interpretation” and “Accomplishments of
the Smithsonian Library, 1924-1928.” In connection with the latter
_ he checked up and listed the special collections in the library. He

- also contributed descriptions of the various libraries in the Smith-
sonian library system to the ‘“* Handbook of Washington’s Informa-
tional Resources ”—a recently published directory of libraries in the
District of Columbia; and prepared a bibliography of significant
works in American history and literature for one of the French
colleges.

Respectfully submitted.

Wiu1AM L. Corsin, Librarian.
Dr. CHartes G. ABpor,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
24034—29——_10
APPENDIX 10
REPORT ON THE PUBLICATIONS

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the publi-
cations of the Smithsonian Institution and the Government bureaus
under its administrative charge during the year ending June 30,
1928 :

The Institution proper published during the year 11 papers in
the series of Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, 1 annual report,
and pamphlet copies of the 31 articles contained in the report appen-
dix, and 4 special publications. The Bureau of American Ethnology
published one annual report and one bulletin. The United States
National Museum issued 1 annual report, 3 volumes of proceedings,
5 complete bulletins, 2 parts of a bulletin, 1 complete volume in the
series Contributions from the United States National Herbarium,
and 57 separates from the proceedings.

Of these publications there were distributed during the year
183,196 copies, which included 102 volumes and separates of the
Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, 26,099 volumes and sepa-
rates of the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, 29,720 volumes
and separates of the Smithsonian Annual Reports, 5,783 Smithsonian
special publications, 111,405 volumes and separates of the various
series of National Museum publications, 9,126 publications of the
Bureau of American Ethnology, 178 publications of the National
Gallery of Art, 28 volumes of the Annals of the Astrophysical
Observatory, 42 reports of the Harriman Alaska Expedition, and 713
reports of the American Historical Association.

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS

Of the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, volume 78, the title-
page and table of contents, was issued; volume 79, one paper (whole
volume) and title-page and table of contents; and volume 80, 10
papers and title-page and table of contents, as follows:

VOLUME 78
Title-page and table of contents. (Publ. 2920.)
VOLUME 79

World Weather Records. Collected from official sources by Dr. Felix Exner,
Dr. G. C. Simpson, Sir Gilbert Walker, H. Helm Clayton, and Robert C. Moss-

134

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 135

man. Assembled and arranged for publication by H. Helm Clayton. Published
under grant from John A. Roebling. August 22, 1927. vi+1,199 pp. (Publ.
2913.) (Whole volume.)

Title-page and table of contents. (Publ. 2918.)

VOLUME 80

No. 3. Fossil Footprints from the Grand Canyon: Second Contribution. By
Charles W. Gilmore. July 30, 1927. 78 pp., 21 pls., 37 text figs. (Publ. 2917.)

No. 4. Religion in Szechuan Province, China. By David Crockett Graham.
February 4, 1928. 83 pp., 25 pls., 16 text figs. (Publ. 2921.)

No. 5. Drawings by A. De Batz in Louisiana, 1732-1735. By David I. Bush-
nell, jr. December 1, 1927. 14 pp., 6 pls. (Publ. 2925.)

_No. 6. Yaksas. By Ananda K. Coomaraswamy. May 8, 1928. 43 pp., 23 pls.
(Publ. 2926.)

No. 7. The Aboriginal Population of America North of Mexico. By James
Mooney. February 6, 1928. 40 pp. (Publ. 2956.)

No. 8. Fossil Footprints from the Grand Canyon. Third Contribution. By
Charles W. Gilmore. January 28,1928. 16 pp., 5 pls., 7 text figs. (Publ. 2956.)

No. 9. Aboriginal Wooden Objects from Southern Florida. By J. Walter
Fewkes. March 26, 1928. 2 pp., 3 pls. (Publ. 2960.)

No. 10. Drawings by John Webber of Natives of the Northwest Coast of
America, 1778. By David I. Bushnell, jr. March 24, 1928. 12 pp., 12 pls.
(Publ. 2961.)

No. 11. The Legs and Leg-bearing Segments of Some Primitive Arthropod
Groups, with Notes on Leg-segmentation in the Arachnida. By H. E. Ewing.
April 23, 1928. 41 pp., 12 pls. (Publ. 2962.)

No, 12. Charles Doolittle Walcott, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution,
1907-1927. Memorial Meeting, January 24, 1928. May 12, 1928. 37 pp., 1 pl.
(Publ. 2964.)

Title-page and table of contents. (Publ, 2969.)

SMITHSONIAN ANNUAL REPORTS

Report for 1926—The complete volume of the Annual Report of
the Board of Regents for 1926 was received from the Public Printer
October 4, 1927.

Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, showing
operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the year ending
June 30, 1926. xii-++551 pp., 125 pls., 21 text figs. (Publ. 2879.)

The appendix contained the following papers:

The New Outlook in Cosmogony, by J. H. Jeans.

Influences of Sun Rays on Plants and Animals, by C. G. Abbot.

On the Evolution of the Stars, by C. G. Abbot.

Excursions on the Planets, by Lucien Rudaux.

High Frequency Rays of Cosmic Origin, by R. A. Millikan.

The Present Status of Radio Atmospheric Disturbances, by L. W. Austin.

Cold Light, by E. Newton Harvey.

Scientific Work of the Maud Expedition, 1922-1925, by H. U. Sverdrup.

The Romance of Carbon, by Arthur D. Little.

The Cause of Earthquakes: Especially Those of the Eastern United States, by
William Herbert Hobbs.
136 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

The Loess of China, by George B. Barbour.

A Visit to the Gem Districts of Ceylon and Burma, by Frank D. Adams.

The History of Organic Evolution, by John M. Coulter.

Barro Colorado Island Biological Station, by Alfred O. Gross.

Geography and Evolution in the Pocket Gophers of California, by Joseph
Grinnell.

How Beavers Build Their Houses, by Vernon Builey.

The Mosquito-Fish (Gambusia), and Its Relation to Malaria, by David Starr
Jordan.

The Effect of Aluminum Sulphate on Rhododendrons and Other Acid-Soil
Plants, by Frederick V. Coville.

Eastern Brazil through an Agrostologist’s Spectacles, by Agnes Chase.

Our Heritage from the American Indians, by W. E. Safford.

The Parasite Element of Natural Control of Injurious Insects and Its Control
by Man, by L. O. Howard.

Fragrant Butterfiies, by Austin H. Clark.

The Ritual Bullfight, by C. W. Bishop.

The Bronzes of Hsin-Chéng Hsien, by C. W. Bishop.

The Katcina Altars in Hopi Worship, by J. Walter Fewkes.

Omaha Bow and Arrow-Makers, by Francis La Flesche.

The National Park of Switzerland, by G. Edith Bland.

Samuel Slater and the Oldest Cotton Machinery in America, by Frederick Ih.
Lewton.

Preventive Medicine, by Mark F. Boyd.

William Bateson, by T. H. Morgan.

H. Kamerlingh Onnes, by F. A. Freeth.

Report for 1927.—The report of the executive committee and pro-
ceedings of the Board of Regents of the Institution, and the report
of the acting secretary, both forming parts of the annual report
of the Board of Regents to Congress, were issued in December, 1927.

Report of the Executive Committee and Proceedings of the Board of Regents
of the Smithsonian Institution for the Year Ending June 30, 1927. 12 pp.
(Publ. 2924.)

Report of the Acting Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution for the Year
Ending June 30, 1927. 131 pp. (Publ. 2923.)

The general appendix to this report, which was in press at the
close of the year, contains the following papers:

The Accomplishments of Modern Astronomy, by C. G. Abbot.

Recent Developments of Cosmical Physics, by J. H. Jeans.

The Evolution of Twentieth-Century Physics, by Robert A. Millikan.
Isaac Newton, by Prof. Albert Einstein.

The Nucleus of the Atom, by J. A. Crowther.

The Centenary of Augustin Fresnel, by E. -M. Antoniadi.

Soaring Flight, by Wolfgang Klemperer.

The Coming of the New Coal Age, by Edwin E. Slosson.

Is the Earth Growing Old? By Josef Felix Pompeckj.

Geological Climates, by W. B. Scott.

Geologic Romance of the Finger Lakes, by Prof. Herman F. Fairchild.
Fossil Marine Faunas as Indicators of Climatic Conditions, by Edwin Kirk.
Paleontology and Human Relations, by Stuart Weller.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 137

At the North Pole, by Lincoln Ellsworth.

Bird Banding in America, by Frederick C. Lincoln.

The Distribution of Fresh-water Fishes, by David Starr Jordan.

The Mind of an Insect, by R. E. Snodgrass.

The Evidence Bearing on Man’s Evolution, by AleS Hrdli¢cka.

The Origins of the Chinese Civilization, by Henri Maspero.

Archeology in China, by Liang Chi-Chao.

Indian Villages of Southeast Alaska, by Herbert W. Krieger.

The Interpretation of Aboriginal Mounds by Means of Creek Indian Customs,
by John R. Swanton.

Friederich Kurz, Artist-Explorer, by David I. Bushnell, jr.

Note on the Principles and Process of X-Ray Examination of Paintings, by
Alan Burroughs.

Lengthening of Human Life in Retrospect and Prospect, by Irving Fisher.

Charles Doolittle Walcott, by George Otis Smith.

William Healey Dall, by C. Hart Merriam.

SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS

Classified List of Smithsonian Publications Available for Distribution, Sep-
tember 15, 1927. Compiled by Helen Munroe. 29 pp. (Publ. 2922.)

List of Paintings, Pastels, Drawings, Prints, and Copper Plates by and attrib-
uted to American and European Artists together with a list of Original
Whistleriana in the Freer Gallery of Art. March 20, 1928. 51 pp. (Publ.
2963.)

Handbook of the Health Exhibits of the United States National Museum under
direction of the Smithsonian Institution. April 6, 1928. 39 pp., 19 figs.

Explorations and Field-work of the Smithsonian Institution in 1927. April 7,
1928. 188 pp., 218 figs. (Publ. 2957.)

REPRINTS

Phonetic Transcription of Indian Languages. Report of American Anthropo-
logical Association (Reprint). September, 1916. 15 pp., 2 charts. (Publ.
2415.)

The Origin and Antiquity of the American Indian. By AleS Hrdlitka. From

the Smithsonian Report for 1923, pp. 481-494, 16 pls. Revised edition.
(Publ. 2778.)

PUBLICATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

The editorial work of the National Museum is in the hands of Dr.
Marcus Benjamin. During the year ending June 30, 1928, the
Museum published 1 annual report, 3 volumes of proceedings, 5 com-
plete bulletins, 2 parts of a bulletin, 1 complete volume in the series
Contributions from the United States National Herbarium, and 57
separates from the proceedings.

The issues of the bulletin were as follows:

*
Bulletin 76. Asteroidea of the North Pacific and Adjacent Waters. Part 2,
Forcipulata (Part). By Walter Kenrick Fisher.
138 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

Bulletin 100. Contributions to the Biology of the Philippine Archipelago and
Adjacent Regions. Volume 6, part 4. Report on the Hehinoidea collected by
the United States Fisheries Steamer “Albatross” during the Philippine Expe-
dition, 1907-1910. Part I. The Cidaridae. By Theodor Mortensen. Volume
7. The Fishes of the Families Pomacentridae, Labridae, and Callyodontidae,
collected by the United States Bureau of Fisheries Steamer ‘Albatross,”
chiefly in Philippine Seas and Adjacent Waters. By Henry W. Fowler and
Barton A. Bean.

Bulletin 141. Collection of Heating and Lighting Utensils in the United States
National Museum. By Walter Hough.

Bulletin 142. Life Histories of North American Shore Birds. Order Limicolae
(Part 1). By Arthur Cleveland Bent.

Bulletin 143. Biological and Taxonomic Investigations on the Mutillid Wasps.
By Clarence E. Mickel.

Bulletin 144. The American Bats of the Genera Myotis and Pizonys. By Gerrit
S. Miller, jr., and Glover M. Allen.

Of the separates from the proceedings, 12 were from volume 71,
25 from volume 72, and 20 from volume 73.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

The editorial work has continued under the direction of the editor,
Mr. Stanley Searles.
During the year one annual report and one bulletin were issued.

Forty-second Annual Report. Accompanying papers: Social Organization and
Social Usages of the Indians of the Creek Confederacy (Swanton) ; Religious
Beliefs and Medical Practices of the Creek Indians (Swanton) ; Aboriginal
Culture of the Southeast (Swanton) ; Indian Trails of the Southeast (Myer).
900 pp., 17 pls., 108 figs.

Bulletin 85. Contributions to Fox Ethnology (Michelson). 168 pp.

Publications in press are as follows:

Forty-first Annual Report. Accompanying papers: Coiled Basketry in British
Columbia and Surrounding Region (Boas, assisted by Haeberlin, Roberts, and
Teit) ; Two Prehistoric Villages in Middle Tennessee (Myer).

Forty-third Annual Report. Accompanying papers: The Osage Tribe: Two Ver-
sions of the Child-naming Rite (La Flesche) ; Wawenock Myth Texts from
Maine (Speck) ; Native Tribes and Dialects of Connecticut (Speck) ; Picuris
Children’s Stories, with Texts and Songs (Harrington) ; Iroquoian Cosmology—
Part IL (Hewitt).

Forty-fourth Annual Report. Accompanying papers: Excavation of the Burton
Mound at Santa Barbara, Calif. (Harrington); Social and Religious
Usages of the Chickasaw Indians (Swanton); Uses of Plants by the Chip-
pewa Indians (Densmore) ; Archeological Investigations II (Fowke).

Bulletin 84. A Vocabulary of the Kiowa Language (Harrington).

Bulletin 86. Chippewa Customs (Densmore).

Bulletin 87. Notes on the Buffalo-Head Dance of the Thunder Gens of the
Fox Indians (Michelson). e

Bulletin 88. Myths and Tales of the Southeastern Indians (Swanton).

Bulletin 89. Observations on the Thunder Dance of the Bear Gens of the Fox
Indians (Michelson).

Bulletin 90. Papago Music (Densmore).

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 139
REPORT OF THE AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION

The annual reports of the American Historical Association are
transmitted by the association to the secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution and are communicated by him to Congress as provided
by the act of incorporation of the association.

Part 2 of the annual report for 1922 was issued during the year.
The annual reports for 1923, 1924, and 1925 and the supplemental
volumes to the reports for 1924, 1925, and 1926 were in press at
the close of the year.

REPORT OF THE NATIONAL SOCIETY, DAUGHTERS OF THE AMERICAN
REVOLUTION

The manuscript of the Thirtieth Annual Report of the National
Society, Daughters of the American Revolution, was transmitted to
Congress, in accordance with the law, December 15, 1927.

SMITHSONIAN ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PRINTING AND PUBLICATION

The editor has continued to serve as secretary of the Smith-
sonian advisory committee on printing and publication, to which
are referred for consideration and recommendation all manuscripts
offered to the Institution and its branches. Seven meetings were
held during the year and 107 manuscripts acted upon.

Respectfully submitted.

W. P. Troe, Editor.

Dr. C.5G. ABgor,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
ACP IP aN EX eb

LIST OF SUBSCRIBERS TO JAMES SMITHSON MEMO-
RIAL EDITION, SMITHSONIAN SCIENTIFIC SERIES?

Mr. J. Henry Alexandre,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Frederic W. Allen,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Rayford W. Alley,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. W. J. Anderson,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Hugh D. Auchincloss,
Washington, D. C.
Mr. Richard B. Ayer,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Joseph Bancroft,
Wilmington, Del.
Mr. David Bandler,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. George G. Barber,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. J. S. Barnes,
New York, N. Y.
Dr. Grant 8S. Barnhart,
Washington, D. C.
Mr. William 8S. Barstow,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. W. H. Barthold,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Philip G. Bartlett,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Oliver G. Bauman,
Buffalo, N. Y.
Mr. Barton A. Bean, jr.,
Buttalo, N.Y.

Mr. John P. Bickell,
Toronto, Canada.
Mr. Edwin Binney,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Charles E. Birge,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Samuel Shipley Blood,
New York, N. Y.
Mrs. Elizabeth B. Blossom,
Cleveland, Ohio.
Mr. Sidney Blumenthal,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Samuel T. Bodine,
Philadelphia, Pa.
Mrs. John C. Boyd,
Washington, D. C.
Mr. A. R. M. Boyle,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Henry Platt Bristol,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Robert S. Brookings,
Washington, D. C.
Mr. Gerald Brooks,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Donaldson Brown,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. H. F. Brown,
Wilmington, Del.
Mr. Albert Buchman,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Britton I. Budd,
Chicago, Ill.

1 List brought up to date as of Oct. 15, 1928, when manuscript of this report went to

the printer.

140

REPORT OF

Mr. Percy Bullard,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. W. Douglas Burden,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. Frederick John Burghard,

New York, N. Y.
Mrs. Stevenson Burke,
Cleveland, Ohio.
Mr. Eric Burkman,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Smith P. Burton, jr.,
Boston, Mass.
Mr. F. S. Byram,
Philadelphia, Pa.
Mr. William C. Cannon,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. E. A. Cappelan-Smith,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. George W. Carnrick,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. John J. Carty,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. George Cary,
Buffalo, N. Y.
Mr. C. Merrill Chapin, jr.,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. A. Wallace Chauncey,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. George H. Chisholm,
Buffalo, N. Y.
Dr. A. Schuyler Clark,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Ray Clark,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. John L. Clawson,
Buffalo, N. Y.
Mr. John N. Cole,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Philip S. Collins,
Philadelphia, Pa.
Mr. Martin Conboy,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. W. L. Conwell,
New York, N. Y.

THE SECRETARY 141

Prof. Thomas F. Cooke,
Buffalo, N. Y.

Mrs. Q. F. Coonley,
Washington, D. C.

Mr. Dudley Martindale Cooper,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. W. S: Corby,
Washington, D. C.

Mr. Fred D. Corey,
Buffalo, N. Y.

Mr. John W. Cowper,
Buffalo, N. Y.

Mr. William Nelson Cromwell,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. Miquel Cruchaga,
Paris, France.

Mr. E. A. Cudahy, jr.,
Chicago, Ill.

Mr. Victor M. Cutter,
Boston, Mass.

Mr. C. Suydam Cutting,
New. York,.N..Y.

Senor Don Carlos G. Davila,
Washington, D. C.

Mr. Edgar B. Davis,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. James Sherlock Davis,
Brooklyn, N. Y.

Mr. Frederic A. Delano,
Washington, D. C.

Mr. William Adams Delano,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. Fairman R. Dick,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. Milton S. Dillon,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. L. W. Dommerich,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. Robert Donner,
Buffalo, N. Y.

Mr. Eugene E. du Pont,
Wilmington, Del.

| Mr. Henry B. du Pont,

Wilmington, Del.
142

Mr. Irénée du Pont,
Wilmington, Del.
Mrs. J. Coleman du Pont,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Lammot du Pont,
Wilmington, Del.
Mr. S. Hallock du Pont,
Wilmington, Del.
Dr. George J. Eckel,
Buffalo, N. Y.
Mr. Louis J. Ehret (2 subscrip-
tions),
New York, N. Y.
Otto M. Eidlitz,
New York, N. Y.
Arturo M. Elias,
New York, N. Y.
. George Adams Ellis,
New York, N. Y.
. Duncan Steuart Ellsworth,
New York, N. Y.
. James Radford English,
New York, N. Y.
. William Phelps Eno,
Washington, D. C.
. W. H. Erhart,
New York, N. Y.
. Eberhard Faber,
New York, N. Y.
. Frank J. Fahey,
Boston, Mass.
. James A. Farrell,
New York, N. Y.
. L. F. Fedders,
Buffalo, N. Y.
. Edwin C. Feigenspan,
Newark, N. J.
. Orestes Ferrara,
Washington, D. C.
. W. W. Flowers,
New York, N. Y.
. Stanley D. Fobes,
New York, N. Y.

Mr.

Mr.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

Mr. Oswald Fowler,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Richard L. Fox,
Philadelphia, Pa.
Mr. Clayton E. Freeman,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Herbert G. French,
Cincinnati, Ohio.
Mr. John Hemming Fry,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Walter D. Fuller,
Philadelphia, Pa.
Judge Arthur G. Gallagher,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. C. P. Gearon,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Stanley L. Gedney, jr.,
East Orange, N. J.
Mr. Paulino Gerli,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. William P. Gest,
Philadelphia, Pa.
Mrs. John H. Gibbons,
Washington, D. C.
Mr. Michael Gioe, sr.,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Charles F. Glore,
Chicago, Ill.
Mr. Edward 8S. Goodwin,
Hartford, Conn.
Mr. Osmer N. Gorton,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Lyttleton B. P. Gould,
New York, N. Y.
Dr. Louis S. Greene,
Washington, D. C.
Dr. James C. Greenway,
New Haven, Conn.
Mr. John Gribbel,
Philadelphia, Pa.
Mr. George B. Grinnell,
New York, N. Y.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

Grosvenor Library,

Buffalo, N. Y.
(Presented by Mr. Ansley Wilcox,

Mr. William Schoellkopf, Mr. H. W.

Walcott, Mr. Percy G. Lapey, Mr. Ed-

ward L. Jellinek, Buffalo, N. Y.)

Mr. Robert L. Hague,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. E. K. Hall,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. William A. Hamann,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. Chauncey J. Hamlin,
Buffalo, N. Y.

Mr. John Hays Hammond,
New York, N. Y.

Dr. Walter S. Harban,
Washington, D. C.

Mr. John R. Hardin,
Newark, N. J.

Mr. Louis A. Harding,
Buffalo, N. Y.

Mr. Franklin Hardinge,
Chicago, II.

Mr. Huntington R. Hardwick,
Boston, Mass.

Mr. Anton G. Hardy,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. Fairfax Harrison,
Washington, D. C.

Mr. Philip H. Haselton,
New York, N. Y.

Dr. F. R. Haussling,
Newark, N. J.

Mr. John J. Hearn,
New York, N. Y.

Mrs. A. Barton Hepburn,
New York, N. Y.

Mrs. Sallie A. Hert,
Louisville, Ky.

Mr. Joseph H. Himes,
Washington, D. C.

Mr. Samuel V. Hoffman,
New York, N. Y.

Mrs. Edward Holbrook,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. George E. Holmes,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Ernest Hopkinson,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. John §S. A. Hosford,
New York, N. Y.
Miss Marie O. Hotchkiss,
East River, Conn.
Mr. Allen G. Hoyt,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Richard F. Hoyt,
New York, N. Y.

Hon. Charles EK. Hughes,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. Frederick H. Hurdman,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. William Dunn Hutton,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. A. F. Hyde,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. Charles H. Innes,
Boston, Mass.

Mr. Samuel Insull,
Chicago, Il.

Mr. Robert F. Irwin, jr.,
Philadelphia, Pa.

Mr. Henry H. Jackson,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. Alfred W. Jenkins,
New York, N. Y.

Mrs. Mary L. Jennings,
Washington, D. C.

Mr. Eldridge R. Johnson,
Camden, N. J.

Mr. James A. Johnson,
Buffalo, N. Y.

Mr. George H. Judd,
Washington, D. C.

Mr. Otto H. Kahn,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. Henry J. Kaltenbach,
New York, N. Y.

143
144 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

Mr. Russell M. Keith, Mr. Louis K. Liggett,
Cleveland, Ohio. Boston, Mass.
Dr. Foster Kennedy, Mr. James Duane Livingston,
New York, N. Y. New York, N. Y.
Mr. C. C. Kerr, Mr. S. D. Locke,
New York, N. Y. Bridgeport, Conn.
Mr. Robert C. Kerr, Mr. Frank Lord,
New York, N, Y. New York, N. Y.
Miss Bessie L. Kibbey, Dr. Earl P. Lothrop,
Washington, D. C. Buffalo, N. Y.
Mr. Gustavus T. Kirby, | Mr. G. R. Lyman,
New York, N. Y. New York, N. Y.

Mr. Norman E. Mack,
Buffalo, N. Y.

Mr. Clifford D. Mallory,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. Peter J. Maloney, jr.,
New York, N. Y.

Judge Francis X. Mancuso,

Mr. Benjamin Kittinger,
Buffalo, N. Y.

Mr. Seymour H. Knox,
Buffalo, N. Y.

Mr. Edward L. Koons,
Buffalo, N. Y.

Mr. Harry G. Kosch, New York, N. Y.
New York, N. Y. Mr. John Markle,

Mr. de Lancey Kountze, New York, N. Y.
New York, N. Y. Mr. Richard H. Marshall,

Dr. Shepard Krech, New York, N. Y.
New York, N. Y. Mr. John C. Martin,

Mr. H. C. Lakin, Philadelphia, Pa. |
New York, N. Y. Mr. George Grant Mason, |

Mrs. Marshall Langhorne, New York, N. Y.
Washington, D. C. Mr. B. A. Massee,

Mr. Irwin B. Laughlin, Chicago, Il.
Washington, D. C. Mrs. Grace H. Mather,

Mr. Erich E. Lehsten, Cleveland, Ohio.
New York, N. Y. Mr. Cyrus H. McCormick,

Miss Isobel Lenman (2 subscrip- Chicago, Hl.

tions), Mr. =e a pe diagone 2
arece ew York, N. Y.

Mr. iiss ee i Mr. Hubert McDonnell,
New York, N. Y. New York, N. Y.

Mrs. Frank Letts, Mr. William L. McLean,
Washington, D. C. Philadelphia, Pa.

Mr. Henry Lewis, Mr. Andrew W. Mellon,
New York, N. Y. Washington, D. C.

Mr. Samuel A. Lewisohn, Col. Herman A. Metz,

New York, N. Y. New York, N. Y.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

Mr. John J. Miller,
Washington, D. C.

Mr. Ogden L. Mills,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. John J. Mitchell,
Chicago, Ill.

Mr. Leeds Mitchell,
Chicago, Il.

Mr. Roscoe R. Mitchell,
Buffalo, N. Y.

Mr. T. E. Mitten,
Philadelphia, Pa.

Mr. Jay R. Monroe,
Orange, N. J.

Mr. Henry E. Montgomery,
Buffalo, N. Y.

Mr. Adelbert Moot,
Buffalo, N. Y.

Mr. J. Pierpont Morgan (2 sub-

scriptions).

New York, N. Y.

Mr. John W. Morgan,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. Frank C. Munson,
New York, N. Y.

Premier Benito Mussolini,
Rome, Italy.

Mr. William E. Nickerson,
Boston, Mass.

Mr. John B. Niven,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. Aaron E. Norman,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. George W. Norris,
Philadelphia, Pa.

Mr. J. J. O’Brien,
Chicago, Ill.

Mr. Lyle H. Olson,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. John Omwake,
Cincinnati, Ohio.

Mr. James L. O'Neill,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. James Parmelee,
Washington, D. C.
Mr. Charles S. Payson,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Charles Pfeiffer,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Gustavus A. Pfeiffer,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Ellis L. Phillips,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. H. M. Pierce,
Wilmington, Del.
Mr. Townsend Pinkney,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Bayard FI. Pope,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Frederick J. Pope,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. William Cooper Proctor,
Cincinnati, Ohio.
Mr. Ralph Pulitzer,
New. York N.Y.
Mr. Percy R. Pyne, jr.,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. John J. Raskob,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. William F. Raskob,
Wilmington, Del.
Mr. Earle H. Reynolds,
Chicago, Ill.
Mr. Edwin T. Rice,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. E. Ridgeway,
Chicago, Ill.
Mr. Harry G. Rieger,
Philadelphia, Pa.
Mr. Arthur W. Rinke,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Walter B. Robb,
Buffalo, N. Y.
Mr. William A. Rockefeller,
New York, N. Y.
Mrs, John A. Roebling,
Bernardsville, N. J.
146 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

Mr. Saul E. Rogers,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. William H. Rollinson,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Edward L. Rossiter,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. James Savage,
Buffalo, N. Y.
Mr. Homer E. Sawyer,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Michael A. Scatuorchio,
Jersey City, N. J.
Mr. H. W. Schaefer,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. William N. Schill,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. L. O. Schmidt,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Henry Schniewind,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Alfred H. Schoellkopf,
Buffalo, N. Y.
Mr. J. F. Schoellkopf, jr.,
Buffalo, N. Y.
Mr. Sherman W. Scofield,
Cleveland, Ohio.
Mr. T. A. Scott,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Jere A. Sexton,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. John C. Shaffer,
Chicago, Ill.
Mrs. Paula W. Siedenburg,
Greenwich, Conn.
Mr. E. H. H. Simmons,
New York, N. Y.
Mrs. Frances G. Simmons,
Greenwich, Conn.
Mr. Z. G. Simmons, jr.,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Sidney H. Sonn,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. John R. Sproul,
Philadelphia, Pa.

Col. W. C. Spruance,
Wilmington, Del.
Dr. Edward H. Squibb,
Brooklyn, N. Y.
Mr. Andrew Squire,
Cleveland, Ohio.
Dr. A. Camp Stanley,
Washington, D. C.
Mr. Joseph E. Sterrett,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Aron Steuer,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. John P. Stevens,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Robert G. Stone,
Boston, Mass.
Mr. James J. Storrow, jr.,
Boston, Mass.
Mr. D. H. Strachan,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Charles L. Sturtevant,
Washington, D. C.
Mr. Gerard P. Tameling,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. Arthur Van _ Rensselaer

Thompson,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. George W. Thompson,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. John R. Thompson, jr.,
Chicago, Il.
Mr. Ralph E. Thompson,
Boston, Mass.
Mr. J. C. Thorn,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Francis B. Thorne,
New York, N. Y.
Dr. Edward C. Tillman,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. John H. Towne,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. J. Barton Townsend,
Philadelphia, Pa.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 147

Dr. Raynham Townshend,
New Haven, Conn.
Mr. J. C. Trees,
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Gen. Harry C. Trexler,
Allentown, Pa.
Mr. George F. Trommer,
Brooklyn, N. Y.
Mr. Calvin Truesdale,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. George Tyson,
Boston, Mass.
Mr. Ernest Uehlinger,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Alvin Untermyer,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. George P. Urban,
Buffalo, N. Y.
Mr. George Urquhart,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Ray A. Van Clief,
Buffalo, N. Y.
Mr. William H. Vanderbilt,
New York, N. Y.
Mrs. S. H. Vandergrift,
Washington, D. C.
Mr. 8S. M. Vauclain,
Philadelphia, Pa.
Mr. George E. Waesche,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Sidney S. Walcott,
Buffalo, N. Y.
Mr. Thomas John Watson,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. F. O. Wetmore,
Chicago, Ill.

Mr.

Col.

—

Mr.

Mr.

Mr.

F. Edson White,
Chicago, Ill.
Frank White,
Chattanooga, Tenn.
Lazarus White,
New York, N. Y.
Thomas W. White,
New York, N. Y.

*. Philip J. Wickser,

Buffalo, N. Y.

Mr. Milo W. Wilder, jr.,

Newark, N. J.

*, Howard L. Wilkins,

Washington, D. C.

*, Charles B. Williams,

New York, N. Y.

». Wilham H. Williams,

New York, N. Y.

*, Joseph Wilshire,

New York, N. Y.

*, William E. Winchester,

New York, N. Y.

. C. Chalmers Wood,

New York, N. Y.

. Howard O. Wood, jr.,

New York, N. Y.

*, Charles H. Woodhull,

Washington, D. C.

. George C. Woolf,

New York, N. Y.
Clarence M. Woolley,
New York, N. Y.

*, Beverly Lyon Worden,

New: York, N.Y.

. Max Wulfsohn,

New York, N. Y.

. Frederic L. Yeager,

New York, N. Y.
ae

a

mEPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. OF
PELE BOARD. OF REGENTS..OF THE wSMITH=
SONIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDED
PUNE 30,1928

V'0 the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

Your executive committee respectfully submits the following report
im relation to the funds, receipts, and disbursements of the Institu-
tion and a statement of the appropriations by Congress for the fol-
lowing Government bureaus in the administrative charge of the
Smithsonian Institution: The National Museum, the International
Exchanges, the Bureau of American Ethnology, the National Zoolog-
ical Park, the Astrophysical Observatory, the International Catalogue
of Scientific Literature, and the National Gallery of Art; also for
an additional assistant secretary and for printing and binding for the
fiscal year ended June 30, 1928.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
Condition of the endowment fund June 30, 1928

The sum of $1,000,000, deposited in the Treasury of the United

States under act of Congress, is part of a permanent endowment
fund, which includes the original Smithson fund and additions ac-
cumulated by the deposit of savings and bequests from time to time.
Subsequent bequests and gifts and the income therefrom, when so
required, are invested in approved securities. The several specific
funds so invested are now constituted and classed as follows:

Consolidated fund

pcrvmrerimd te sea aee a be SARE Se Owes Pied 2k a a Od
COMM VALCINIAVEUT ys HUNG ee ee ee es ee 62, 272. 93
Bemninieriadtey 1.) fand 2 ote ke aii am ened ny, 1, 783. 88
Ine ea COlechiOny CNG ate pis tse ha ae be 46, 232. 86
Reet ees Veen) OhTTY A Ge ln CTY Oe ama ee ek oe mee ke ee aera ee 1, 000. 00
— TERESA Ved RE RV sO 6 tu acai pa eM eh Dae aio Ft bl all hes 35, 000. 00
Bmarne Co TPA ee TAT CDi see een ek ee oc a ee TT, a ee eg 41, 542. 80
ee HEM ee itn) eee oh SS So iss Be 2 ee ed Se Del ie 5, 000.00
__SDEPDIENO TG “T0070 ERNE SS EIS PT ee ee Re 500. 00
BEREAN an O Lime) mith ee ae eee a ee 1, 425. 45
Reed Skinseoonera le fun Geese ke ea ee ye 37, 275. 00
eRe ITU Ge iy fe Tn Cees a he ee Ren ee 16, 108. 72
Myer, Catherine Walden, fund____________ eae neers nea 18, 649. 48

24034—29——11 149
150 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

Pell (Cornelia: Livingston, fund. 22 ee eee $3, 000. 00
Poore, ‘Lucy 'T.;\ and George W:,; fund 22) ee 24, 847. 89
Reid) Addison 1.) fund@s2 24 = em 2 BUS ae ee ee eee 9, 810. 48
Rees Hern se a es hs 2 i A a ee ane eee 523. 38
Roebling. fund Se ss a Ee ee ee 150, 000. 00
Sanford; ‘George Hy funds] eh ee ee ee eee 955. 18
Smithson‘: fund! 3:3. tt} eee eee ek 1, 516. 40
Stock dividends not yet credited to various funds____--__--______-- 1, 280. 00

Total ‘consolidated: fund 2 ae ee ee 502, 969. 00
Springer, rank: fund 22092 i ee ee eee ee 30, 000. 00
Walcott, Charles D., and Mary Vaux, research fund__--------_--- 11, 520. 00
Younger, Helen Walcott, fund (held in trust) ----_---__--__---___-- 49, 812, 50

The total amount of dividends, interest, etc., received by the Insti-
tution from the Freer bequest during the year for all purposes was
$286,705.06, and the amount received from sale, call, etc., of Freer
bequest stocks, bonds, etc., was $580,486.07.

The itemized report of the auditor, the Capital Audit Co., certified
public accountants, is filed in the office of the secretary.

CLASSIFIED RECEIPTS AND EXPENDITURES

Parent fund

Balance; June:30,. 192(_.- = 2 2 a ee $15, 324. 93
Receipts, consisting of interest and receipts from mis-

cellaneous sources, available for general purposes____ $57, 985. 02
International exchanges, repayments to the Institution. 5,151.12

Total TECelptS eo See ee SE 63, 186. 14
Total resources for general purposes___~___--=--____h 78, 461. 07
General expenditures:
Care: and repair of buildings) ir Setar sit 7, 525. 90
Furniture: andefixtures. at fe ae oe eee Se 601. 00
General jadministration=—— 222222. se se eine eee 24, 532. 65
NYT] 0 of Wed eee ee erga Boia a dA INE eg a OORT hain IAN 3, 710. 30
Publications (comprising preparation, printing, and
distribution es Ve Se Ghee Teas ikea ab abane eee E ake Sak sap.
Researches ‘and (exploration==— 2 eee 3, 563. 00
International’ |exchan ress eee ee ee 6, 557. 18
Total general Texpenditurese oe re eee 63, 663. 15
Balance une SOs AGQS) aa ee ee ee ee 14, 797. 92

Funds for specific objects, including payment and return of funds advanced for
field expenses and other temporary transactions during the year

AES TANT CO ILENE SS Os 1 2 Fe ae ae a es ees eed sere eye $8T, 097. 38
Receipts:
Abbott, archeological exploration in Dominican Re-
10) 0) 0) AY Cheer i 11 010 leh aedlie Spe rene pe eas ba cue te ene $785. 30
Abbott, Haitian and Santo Domingan expedition
PUN, ee Se as de aan lean 941. 60
Abbott, China expedition: fund==—— = == 265. 02
Avverye funds 2) 2 eas 2k ee ee 3, 226. 07

REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 151

Receipts—Continued.
Bacon Virginia Purdy. fund———— 4 eee oye $3, 358. 32
Baird, aucy ae.) fund eee ee ee eee 96. 15
Beach African expedition fund_------_--_+_----__- 219. 11
@anfield¢collection fund.) es eee ee 46, 846. 79
Casey, iauraiwelsh, fund222 32 2_ A. pees 256. 88
@aseys Dhomasel:;) fund see 2, 0538. 93
Chamberlain, Frances Lea, fund_-------------~--- 1, 887. 55
Dall bibliography and library funds______-__---__~ 3, TOO. 00
Daly sMancuss bund ee 500. OO
Edison rubber collecting expedition fund____-____~ 2, 453. 09
Hndowimentyrun dese Sie ee eee 41, 527. 55
Frick vertebrate paleontological exploration fund__ 548. 43
BETSY Hi CUM TeGee URI Ck ae 269. 65
SEA ea ryan Veta Ee we at 176. 96
Harriman “Rrust, fund Sse eee eee 12, 700. 00
Harvard University botanical expedition to Hon-
durais shauna 2-2 oa ee ee 600. 00
Henrys wWanoline, funds2o2 6-522 eo ee 76. 85
| Hodgkinsefund specifiers. aes 2 ea eee 7, 195. 07
| FUCH eS eB UCC pe LUNG oe re 868. TO
| iepeb.. Morris ifund 3... Iwate irk Sapte. cieetebs 1, 479. 56
Myer, Catherine Walden, fund______-------_--__- 1, 286. 89
New York Commission on Ventilation, Radiation
: from Euman, Bod ya un geist ies eae 1, 006. 00
North American Wild Flowers publication fund__-_ 41, 683. 64
SS UBT Ca a Ee ed 500. 00
PellS Cornelia’ Livingston; funds 22768 _ Setar seis 2, Glowte
Poore, Lucy’ 2: and George W., fund_..__--________ 2, 940. 19
Reid wACMISON ST. . tf Un d= Meteor tyipiy es yee 1, 189. 05
Research Corporation fund for researches in solar
PAM AGLOM Ms ee oe Sk es eg eth fire) 15, 067. 50
mheCes fru ge ete. wet siya pete Spee Dyed it veg 63. 60
DECC TD Hira SEU TEN I wh ek fee Passe aya 8, 144. 63
Santord sG@eoree. Hl. fund 2. 117. 50
Simpson wenanles 0. tun eee 1, 976. 50
Smithsonian-Chrysler expedition fund__-_____-___ 370. 93
Smithsonian Scientific Series fund_______________ 2, 002. 42
Springemphrank, funds. fete isl eae 2, 250. 00
Vet SS) URINE i sel oe ee tk Rein aay. Raga ty 2) Sie 10
Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, fund_____-__ 1, 239. 19
wWoungerrHelen) Walcott; funds]. o) talaenss te 18, 296. 17
Refund of temporary advances, ete_______________ 1 TA SE
ANON TED VST RES GY 29 0 Bs A la PR Ra ae PNT Nah Oe ee Rie eR ESE $244, 929. 43
Cash capital from sale, call, ete., of securities (to be rein-
SVS OU!) eee nO oi in AR Oe Ee Da oe les 58, 350. 50
LOtah TESOUTGES ts A RO ed ee a 390, 377. 31
Expenditures:
Abbott, archeological exploration in Dominican
Remuniic <trnd: expended, 2.25.22 0 02 ee $750. 00
Abbott, China expedition fund, expended_________ 750. 00
eV CHVELING invested =- so ot 3, 788. 14

7
Bacon, Virginia Purdy, fund, expended___________ 3, 278. 78

152 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

Expenditures—Continued.

Baird, lucy.H.* fund; invested 20 eae ae $55. 79
Beach African expedition fund, expended_______~ 219. 11
Canfield ‘collection fund, invested______+----___-+— 46, 232. 86
Casey, Laura Welsh, fund, expended__----___-___ 886. 88
Casey, Thomas L., fund, invested________-_ 4===*~ 1, 000. 00
Chamberlain, Frances Lea, fund, expended________ 3, 693. 22
Cottrell, Frederick G., fund, expended____________ 500. 00
Edison rubber collecting expedition fund, expended_ = 2, 453. 09
Hndowmentsiund. invested 22022) sa eS 40, 547. 55
Endowment fund, campaign, expended____________ 32, 630. 63
Frick vertebrate paleontological exploration fund,

expendeqeee 238 2. euler mie flea Goons, Tit ee 500. 00
Hamiltoniiunciiexpendedie. stn sai) 408. 00
Harriman? Brust-fund;, expended -2-- = 242 ee 10, 340. 72
Harvard University botanical expedition to Hon-

auras” fund, ‘expended: 48-3 sie Leet 600. 00
Henry, Caroline, tund:) imvestede..: 2.2 22s Sa 202. 12
Hodgkins fund, specific, expended________________ 7, 741. 45
Hughes: *Bruce, fund. invested {22 ae aes 1, 949. 82
Loeb; Morrissfund: .expended@ 23225 2a) ees 2, 977. 43
Myer, Catherine Walden, fund, invested__________ 4, 031. 48
New York Commission on Ventilation, Radiation

from Human Body fund, expended_____________ 390. 28
North American Wild Flowers publication fund,

expended ws 2 hte 2 Vag dg en Ue bak TA ip teh lita EE 42, 068. 42
Osage fundavex pended ee ee ee ee 700. 00
Pell, Cornelia Livingston, fund, invested and ex-

OGM Ce Gir sable a a a eee 3, 471. 51
Poore, Lucy T. and George W., fund, invested and

expended ie. Leh ae. Walle cad uy a nsewths Peel Se 3, 613. 47
Reid? Addisons Ls fund, investeda2 2222s 2, OLLS32
Research Corporation fund for researches in solar

MAGTATION ee MC CC se a a eee 7, 500. 00
Rhees? fund VHmveste dacs Sb ae ee ee 166. 04
Reeblingetunds expended = 222544 eee 4, 053. 66
Roebling, John A., solar research, ete., fund, ex-

PEN ea Ew i She we ee Ee ae, Le 9, T79. 36
Sanford, George H., fund, invested__________-__-- 279. 46
Simpson, Charles T., fund, expended__________-_- 188. 05
Smithsonian-Chrysler expedition fund, expended__ 2, 200. 00
Springer, Frank, fund, expended________-________ 1, 696. 60
Swales fund expended. in eee ig 193. 12
Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, fund, ex-

| 95 0G (eT byt seared ly Ay pe ole res nll ru eer cra re 2, 025. 65
Younger, Helen Walcott, fund, invested and ex-

| OCH OX G51 6 Nese pen dA ra ad tele et pac fe AA SS oR BT 18, O78. 67
Temporary udvances for field expenses, ete________ 19, 284. 24

Tota Mexpendicures: Ss soviet mo mune A wee ee 283, 686. 87
Reinvestment of cash capital received from sale,

Gall Cte Or SCCULIG TSS eee ene eee a eee ee 59, 157. 75

FTN) GeguU a Sh ea ite a nS A $342, 844. 62

Balance June: 30, 1928 ie et ee ee 47, 532. 69
REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 153
Charles L. Freer bequest

eM CStOMM NAD Cuevas LO ts 2) eueuee ee NS ee ee $100, 405. 18
Receipts:
Dividends, interest, and miscellaneous reeeipts. $286, 705. 06

Sale and call of stocks, bonds, etc. (gain) ~--__ 61, O69. 72

Cash capital from gale, call, ete., of stocks, bonds,
eles (to! Dewremivested ) i-th 519, 416. 35
PROTA TE CCP oee sae eS I ie eee Oey ee $67, 191.13
eT Olea apt S OUI CS so ae ea a ee ae 967, 596. 31

Expenditures:
Operating expenses of gallery, salaries, purchase

of art objects, field expenses, and incidentals__ 152, 412. 99:
TIS TENG O fea HUTT See hee al ee 89, 058. 50
Reinvestment of .cashp.ca pital. = ee ee 550, O86. 02
Ota Cpe ULeS= oto tee we ee Se es ee 791, 557. 51
AVA Comey SON ODS. to ne Lee ae Lie Ae ee 176, 038. SO
SUMMARY
Rotalpalancesvorvall funds june ZOj 192i Le. set a ee Sh 202, 827.49
Receipts of year ending June 30, 1928:
Parent fund, for general purposes_______________ 63, 136. 14
Revenue and principal of funds for specific ob-
jects exceptiiltreert bequest 2 2. 244, 929. 43
Cash eapital, for reinvestment, except Freer
ICC CS see ke ia en eee as a arts ia ie ote Pe ONE DED 58, 350. 50
Freer bequest, dividends, interest, ete____________ 286, T05. 06
Freer bequest, sale, call, ete., stocks and bonds
(( LER OU GPa Ui eof USS) ee ates eee ae 61, 069. 72
Freer bequest, cash capital for reinvestment_____ 519, 416. 35
ERO TAC GCG eee se 8 Se i 1, 233, 607. 20
PRG ANAT SO TIT COS a esa ea er ie ae ae sae Ee ee ee 1, 486, 4384. 69
Expenditures :
Parent fund, for general purposes of the In-
SUT DRA OF Ye a Ga Ns EE 63, 663. 15
Specific objects, except Freer bequest____________ 283, 686. 87
Cashwcapitale Teniyvested Satan ee anne EEN 59, 157. 75
Freer bequest, operating expenses, ete___________ 152, 412. 99
HTreereDequest, MlVeStede eee te er ee ene ee 89, 058. 50
Freer bequest, cash capital reinvested___________ 550, O86. 02
AWS TE ep. OS) OVO UT HD Dey NM Ring aa le Pea GL Uae ee Ped yea een gin sas 1, 198, 065. 2
Total balances of all funds June 30,.1928_________-- 238, 369. 41

ARCO) RET Cah Ne pats Ml ET NP eh te Na a a ee 1, 436, 434. 69

154 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

BALANCE SHEET OF THE INSTITUTION, JUNE 30, 1928
ASSETS

Stocks and bonds at acquirement value:

Consolidated ifindS+ 2-2 -- ee ee ee $502, 969. 00
Ereer .bequest< = =21=-5- tae a, Cee eee 4, 268, 244. 26
Springer) funds) 82252 2 2 Se eee 30, 000. 00
BTs'/28 CeL0) meee 810-010 Cee eee ne en RCM Re A NOe ert Fy 11, 520. 00
MOUNSEL) LUNs se Ha es See nae ei doe aaa 49, 812. 50
—____———— $4, 862, 545. 76
Wnited States Ereasuryad CO Sita ee 1, 000, 000. 00
Miscellaneous—principally funds advanced for printing publica-
tions and field expenses (to be repaid)_~___- =. 35, 990. 97
Cash:
Funds in United States Treasury and in
| ge aU esp eh net PA inal A hyena ea ch $237, 969. 41
@n hand) for petty transactions_~-_--= = = 400. 00
—_ 238, 369. 41
6, 186, 906. 14
LIABILITIES

Freer bequest—capital accounts:

Gourt and crounds!tund== 2 eae 394, 574. 09
Court and grounds maintenance fund_____-_-_ 81, 586. 40
Curator funds. 22 ee rie ase ees 330, 022. 46
Residuaryrestate pund = 2 22s wee eee 3, 462, 061. 31
———_—__—_——. 4, 268, 244. 26
Consolidated ‘tund=capital accounts. 2-22 eae 508, 157. 00
Springer: fund——capitales—--- 2s a ee ee ee 30, 000. 00
Walcott. fund—capitalls = = 2c Se See 11, 520. 00
Younger fund —capitala2 2 ee eee 49, 812. 50
United States Treasury deposit—capital________________________ 1, 000, 000. 00
Freer bequest—current accounts:
Courtand: crounds und 2222 eee 25, 074. 56
Court and grounds maintenance fund_________ 4, 240.16
CGH GEN 0 6G [Ne I ac eS FT 10, 965. 97
Residuary <estate funds2) =o 5 ae eS 124, 341. 77
Stocks and bonds, sales} ete==_ 2. eee ee 11, 416. 34
~— 176, 038. 80
Springer’ tund—currentwaccount.— == eee 1, 293. 40
Walcottstund—currentsaceoun toe ee 645. 00
Younger fand—curreniwaccOUnt= 22 ee eee 217. 50
Miscellaneous cash accounts held by the Institution, for the
MOSE MALietOL SHCCIIGAUISOe ea nee ee ee 95, 977. 68
6, 186, 906. 14

All payments are made by check, signed by the Secretary of the
Institution, on the Treasurer of the United States, and all revenues —
are deposited to the credit of the same account. In some instances |
deposits are placed in bank for convenience of collection and later are
withdrawn in round amounts and deposited in the Treasury.

REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 155

The practice of investing temporarily idle funds in time deposits
has proven satisfactory. During the year the interest derived from
this source, together with other similar items, has resulted in a total
of $5,215.32.

CAPITAL AupDIT CoMPANY, October 31, 1928.
JEXECUTIVE COMMITTEE, BOARD OF REGENTS,
Smithsonian Institution,
Washington, D. C.

Sirs: We have examined the accounts and vouchers of the Smithsonian In-

stitution for the fiscal year ende@ June 30, 1928, and certify the balance of cash
on hand June 80, 1928, to be $288,369.41.
_ The vouchers representing payments from the Smithsonian income during the
year, each of which bears the approval of the secretary or, in his absence, of
the acting secretary, and a certificate that the materials and services charged
| were applied to the purposes of the Institution, have been examined in connec-
tion with the books of the Institution and agree with them.

Respectfully submitted.

CAPITAL AUDIT COMPANY,
WitiiaM L, YAEGER,
Certified Public Accountant.

The following appropriations for the Government bureaus in
administrative charge of the Smithsonian Institution were made by
Congress for the fiscal year 1928:

Bureau: : Appropriation
International Hxehangest.ec a2 0s SON sole eee ee ee $46, 855
NITE CONME ENT OLO Ry sete e Sets SE eS 2 ee i ee 58, 720
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature________________ 7, 260
AStTOpnYy Sica ODSerVatOryajace = oe eos en ee ee 32, 060

mocdibionalyAssistant. Secretary. soos ae 2 ee 7, 500

National Museum:

Rurnituresandipxtuvess 2s sea toe ee es Se ee eee $26, 500
eating band mien tin geek eo oe oe ee ee ha 79, 500
Preservyationiot collectionss= 224 tes. ee Ae 473, 510
Breil in pape pains’ Serres ee ee 13, 000
DBO CO ESS sg ee ie eae er ee 1, 500
EOS GAS Genie Ee a Se ee 450
Grea eo rray a ae pe eek ee ee 12, 500

606, 960

BONA Gallet yaO ta Anes eas he ee 30, 356

meron aleZ00] OPI CAME AT Kaan Se wd ba ee ee 175, 000

National Zoological Park—building for birds_______________________ 25, 000

PeEEUULT MAT CM UNG in ees 2 al es le 90, 000

ING) Tegal een eer ca en ee ne 2 ee Ss ne ee a 1, 079, 711

_ Respectfully submitted.
Frepertc A. DeLANo,

R. Warton Moore,
Joun C. Merriam,
Executive Committee.

PROCEEDINGS OF BOARD OF REGENTS: OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE FISCAL
MEAR ENDED JUNE: 30,1928

ANNUAL MEETING DECEMBER 8, 1927

Present: Chief Justice William H. Taft, chancellor, in the chair;
Senator Reed Smoot, Senator Woodbridge N. Ferris, Senator Joseph
T. Robinson, Representative Albert Johnson, »Representative R.
Walton Moore, Representative Walter H. Newton, Mr. Frederic A.
Delano, and the acting secretary, Dr. Charles G. Abbot.

Dr. Alexander Wetmore, assistant secretary, was also present.

The first business was the presentation of the Langley medal to

Col. Charles A. Lindbergh. The presentation was made on behalf of
the board by Chief Justice William H. Taft, chancellor, and in

accepting the medal Colonel Lindbergh expressed his appreciation
and stated that the Spirit of St. Louis would later be offered to the

Institution for permanent exhibition. A full account of the presenta-

tion is given in the annual report of the secretary.
The acting secretary announced the death of Mr. Henry White,

and Mr. Johnson submitted the following resolutions, which were

adopted :

Whereas the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, having learned
of the death on July 15, 1927, of the Hon. Henry White, a member of the board
for over 10 years, and latterly the chairman of its executive committee: There-
fore be it °

Resolved, That the board here record an expression of their very sincere
regret at the passing away of their colleague, whose demise is at once a heavy
loss to the Institution and a personal sorrow to the members of the board.
Mr. White’s distinguished career as a diplomat, which is too well known to be
recited here, well fitted him for his dut:es as a Regent, and his ripened judgment
and keen interest in the affairs of the Institution will be greatly missed.

Resolved, That a copy of this resolution be transmitted by the acting secre-
tary to the family of Mr. White.

The acting secretary then announced the death of Mr. Charles F.

Choate, jr., and stated that on behalf of the Board of Regents he

had attended the funeral services at Southboro, Mass.

The chancellor spoke briefly of the high esteem in which Mr.
Choate was held by the bar, and of the great clearness and fine finish
of his arguments before the court. Mr. Moore also made eulogistic
157
158 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

remarks, after which Mr. Newton offered the following resolutions,
which were adopted:

Whereas the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution having learned
of the death, on November 380, 1927, of Charles Francis Choate, jr., a distin-
guished leader of the Boston bar for many years, and a Regent of this Lb Se
tion since February 24, 1908: Therefore be it

Resolved, That the board desire here to record an expression of their pro-
found sorrow at the passing away of a friend whose splendid qualities endeared
him to his associates on the board, and of a colleague who was ever ready to
devote his best efforts in advancing the interests and prestige of the Smith-
sonian Institution, whose past was to him a source of pride and in whose future
he had unbounded faith.

Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be transmitted by the acting seere-
tary to the family of Mr. Choate.

Mr. Delano submitted the following customary resolution, which
was adopted:

Resolved, That the income of the Institution for the fiscal year ending June ©
30, 1929, be appropriated for the service of the Institution, to be expended by ©
the secretary, with the advice of the executive committee, with full discretion
on the part of the secretary as to items.

Regarding the bequest to the Institution of the late Secretary
Walcott the following resolutions were adopted:

Whereas the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution having been
informed of the bequest to the Institution by its late secretary, Charles D.
Walcott, of $50,000, subject to a life interest of his daughter, Helen B. Walcott
(now Helen Walcott Younger), said bequest on her decease to be transferred
in its entirety to the Charles D. and Mary Vaux Walcott research fund and
become a part thereof, and be treated in the same manner as the original dona-
tion to that fund; and

Whereas it is also provided by the said testator that if at any time before
or after the death of said daughter, Helen Walcvtt Younger, the Smithsonian
Institution shall have been placed under the control of any executive department
or branch of the Federal Government, the said bequest of $50,000, both principal
and any interest that may have accrued at the time of Ssueh transfer, shall then
be paid to the George Washington University, of Washington, D. C.: There-
fore be it

Resolved, That the board hereby unqualifiedly accepts the said bequest,
together with all the conditions imposed therein, with an expression of its.
grateful appreciation of the late secretary’s generosity.

The acting secretary submitted the annual report of the executive
committee showing the financial condition of the Institution for the
fiscal year ending June 30, 1927, which, on motion, was received.

The annual report of the National Gallery of Art Commission was.
presented, and, on motion, the following resolution was adopted:

Resolved, That the Board of Regents hereby approves the recommendation of
the National Gallery of Art Commission that James E. Fraser, J. H. Gest, F. J.
Mather, jr., and E. C. Tarbell be reelected as members of the commission for the
ensuing term of four years, their present terms having expired.

The acting secretary then presented a special report on a number of
important matters, including the endowment movement, the Smith- |

PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS 159

sonian Scientific Series, the North American Wild Flowers series,
the Freer bequest, the Industrial Museum, the National Historical
Maritime Museum, the proposed National Gallery of Art building,
and the Hachenberg bequest. On motion it was

Resolved, That the special report of the acting secretary, together with the
recommendations made by him, be referred to the permanent committee for
later consideration,

The special committee on the future policy of the Institution ap-
pointed at a previous meeting of the board presented its report, and,
after discussion, several resolutions were adopted, among them one
to elect Mr. Delano as chairman of the executive committee, and
another increasing the membership of the permanent committee to
six, to consist of the executive committee, the secretary, and two other
members of the board, and naming Senators Smoot and Robinson as
the two new members.

SPECIAL MEETING JANUARY 10, 1928

Present: Chief Justice William H. Taft, chancellor, in the chair;
Vice President Charles G. Dawes; Senator Reed Smoot; Senator

| Woodbridge N. Ferris; Senator Joseph T. Robinson; Representative
_ Albert Johnson; Representative R. Walton Moore; Representative

Walter H. Newton; Hon. Irwin B. Laughlin; Mr. Frederic A. De-

lano; Dr. John C. Merriam; and the acting secretary, Dr. Charles G.
_ Abbot.

Dr. Alexander Wetmore, assistant secretary, was also present.
The acting secretary announced that under date of December

12, 1927, the Speaker had reappointed Representatives Albert John-

son, R. Walton Moore, and Walter H. Newton as Regents of the
Institution.

He also stated that the President had signed joint resolutions ap-
pointing the following as citizen Regents for six years from the dates
given:

December 21, 1927: The Hon. Charles Evans Hughes, of New York.

December 21, 1927: Dr. John C. Merriam, of Washington, D. C.

After remarks by the acting secretary, outlining in general terms
the history and purposes of the Research Corporation, he introduced
Dr. F. G. Cottrell, who made the original gift which resulted in the
organization of the corporation. Doctor Cottrell made a statement
regarding the affairs of the corporation, and, after remarks by the
Regents, Mr. Moore introduced the following resolution, which was
adopted:

Resolved, That the permanent committee is requested to consider with the
board of directors of the Research Corporation what further arrangements, if

any, should be made with reference to the matter discussed at this meeting by
Dr. F. G. Cottrell and report at the next meeting of the Board of Regents,
160 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

Mr. Delano stated that a vacancy existed in the membership of
the executive committee and offered the follow.ng resolution, which
was adopted:

Resolved, That Dr. John C. Merriam be elected a member of the executive
committee of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution.

Mr. Delano, chairman, reported on a number of important things
which have been under consideration by the executive and permanent
committees.

On motion, the report was received.

At this point Doctor Abbot and Doctor Wetmore withdrew from
the meeting.

Mr. Delano then presented a report recommending to the Board
of Regents for election to the position of secretary the name of
Dr. Charles G. Abbot, at present the acting secretary, and offered the
following resolution, which was unanimously adopted:

Resolved, That the vacancy in the position of secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution be filled by the election of Dr. Charles Greeley Abbot.

Doctor Abbot was then recalled to the meeting and notified of his
election. He expressed his appreciation of the high honor conferred
upon him, and his assurance that his very best efforts would be
put forth to further increase the usefulness and prestige of the
Institution.

Senator Robinson here said that he would lke the opportunity to
express the board’s congratulations to Doctor Abbot and its confi-
dence that he would carry on the great work of the Institution with
success.

POSTPONED MEETING FEBRUARY 17, 1928

Present: Hon. Charles G. Dawes, Vice President of the United
States, in the chair; Senator Reed Smoot, Senator Woodbridge N.
Ferris, Senator Joseph T. Robinson, Representative Albert Johnson,
Representative Walter H. Newton, Mr. Frederic A. Delano, Hon.

Irwin B. Laughlin, Dr. John C. Merriam, and the secretary, Dr.

Charles G. Abbot.

Dr. Alexander Wetmore, assistant secretary, was also present.

The secretary reported that as: directed by the Board of Regents,
a meeting in memory of Doctor Walcott was held at the National
Museum on January 24, 1928. The meeting, which was well attended,

was presided over by the Chancellor of the Institution, and addresses |

on the late secretary’s life and work were made by Dr. John C. Mer-
riam, president of the Carnegie Institution of Washington; Dr.
Joseph S. Ames, chairman of the National Advisory Committee for

Aeronautics; Dr. George Otis Smith, Director of the United States |

Geological Survey; and by the secretary, representing the Smith-

sonian Institution and the National Academy of Sciences. An ac- |

PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS 161

count of the meeting, together with the addresses made, will be
printed in due time.

The secretary presented to the board several subjects of interest
that had come up since the last meeting, among them the matter of a
gift to the endowment of the Institution by Mr. Dwight W. Morrow,
a Regent, and the following resolution was adopted :

Resolved, That the board express their thanks to their colleague not only for
his generosity in making this large contribution but even more for his invaluable
counsel and service in promoting the welfare of the Institution, and direct the
secretary to communicate this resolution to him.

Mr. Delano, as chairman of the permanent committee, reported
upon the status of several important administrative matters.

The secretary submitted to the board in writing a statement of
his policy for the future activities of the Institution.

SPECIAL MEETING MARCH 15, 1928

Present: Chief Justice William H. Taft, chancellor, in the chair;
Vice President Charles G. Dawes; Senator Reed Smoot; Senator
Joseph T. Robinson; Representative Albert Johnson; Representative
Walter H. Newton; Mr. Irwin B. Laughlin; Mr. Charles E. Hughes;
and the secretary, Dr. Charles G. Abbot.

Dr. Alexander Wetmore, assistant secretary, and Admiral David
W. Taylor, United States Navy, were present by invitation.

After a discussion of the so-called “ Langley-Wright controversy,”
the following resolution was adopted:

Whereas to correct any erroneous impression derived from published state-
ments that the Smithsonian Institution has denied to the Wright brothers due
credit for making the first successful human flight in power-propelled, heavier-
than-air craft:

Resolved, That it is the sense of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian
Institution that to the Wrights belongs the credit of making the first successful
flight with a power-propelled heavier-than-air machine carrying a man.

SPECIAL MEETING APRIL 5, 1928

Present: Chief Justice William H. Taft, chancellor, in the chair;
Vice President Charles G. Dawes; Senator Claude A. Swanson;
Representative R. Walton Moore; Mr. Frederic A. Delano; Mr.
Irwin B. Laughlin; Mr. Charles E. Hughes; Dr. John C. Merriam;
and the secretary, Dr. Charles G. Abbot.

Dr. Alexander Wetmore, assistant secretary, was also present.

The secretary announced the death of Senator Woodbridge N.
Ferris, a Regent.

After remarks, Mr. Moore offered the following resolution, which
was adopted:

Whereas the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution have learned
of the death, on March 23, 1928, of the Hon. Woodbridge N. Ferris, United
162 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

States Senator from Michigan, and a Regent of the Institution for the past
three years: Therefore be it

Resolved, That the board desire to record here their profound sorrow at the
loss sustained by the passing away of this distinguished scholar and statesman
and their colleague, whose deep interest in the Institution made him a valued
member of this board.

Resolved, That this resolution be conveyed by the secretary to the family of
Senator Ferris, with an expression of the board’s sincere sympathy in this hour
of their bereavement.

The secretary stated that on March 28, 1928, the Vice President of
the United States had appointed the Hon. Claude A. Swanson,
Senator from Virginia, as a Regent to succeed Senator Ferris.

The secretary reminded the board that at the meeting of February
17, 1928, a resolution had been adopted appointing Messrs. Hughes,
Robinson, and Moore as a committee to consider the provisions in the
Freer gift and bequest that have been the subject of various interpre-
tations, and to report to the board. The secretary had accordingly
supplied the members of the committee with the papers in the case,
and the committee was now functioning, under the chairmanship of
Mr. Hughes.

The secretary recalled to the board that at the meeting of Febru-
ary 17 last it was stated that the Research Corporation had indicated
that it might be able to place $15,000 at the Institution’s disposal
this year to promote fundamental researches in radiation. He was
pleased to announce that a check for this amount had been received
and duly acknowledged.

The Vice President congratulated the secretary upon this result,
as well as upon his election to the board of directors of the Research
Corporation.

On motion of Mr. Moore, the secretary was requested to convey in
suitable terms the thanks of the board for this grant to the Insti-
tution.

In compliance with the request of the board, the secretary sub-
mitted a detailed statement of the financial needs of the Institution.

The Vice President here said that at the meeting of February 17
the permanent committee had submitted a report containing a rec-
ommendation in regard to the campaign for the endowment fund
of the Institution. This item of the report was again brought before
the board for consideration and, after discussion, the following
resolution was adopted:

Resolwed, That the matter of increasing the unrestricted endowment fund be
placed in the charge of Mr. Frederic A. Delano, with power to appoint the

members of a committee who shall aid him in perfecting and executing plans
for this purpose.

GENERAL APPENDIX

TO THE

SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1928

a

ADVERTISEMENT

The object of the Genera Aprenprx to the Annual Report of the
Smithsonian Institution is to furnish brief accounts of scientific dis-
covery in particular directions, reports of investigations made by
collaborators of the Institution, and memoirs of a general character
or on special topics that are of interest or value to the numerous
correspondents of the Institution.

It has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution from a very early date to enrich the annual
report required of them by law with memoirs illustrating the more
remarkable and important developments in physical and biological
discovery, as well as showing the general character of the operations
of the Institution; and, during the greater part of its history, this
purpose has been carried out largely by the publication of such
papers as would possess an interest to all attracted by scientific
progress.

In 1880, induced in part by the discontinuance of an annual sum-
mary of progress which for 30 years previously had been issued by
well-known private publishing firms, the secretary had a series of
abstracts prepared by competent collaborators, showing concisely the
prominent features of recent scientific progress in astronomy, geol-
ogy, meteorology, physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zoology,
and anthropology. This latter plan was continued, though not alto-
gether satisfactorily, down to and including the year 1888.

In the report for 1889 a return was made to the earlier method of
presenting a miscellaneous selection of papers (some of them origi-
nal) embracing a considerable range of scientific investigation and
discussion. This method has been continued in the present report
for 1928.

164

THE WIDER ASPECTS OF COSMOGONY !

Bynes lew, JAN Se SeGh russ.

{With three plates]

Interest in scientific cosmogony is a recent and still a very tender
growth. Anthropologists and geologists tell us that man_ has
existed on earth for something like 300,000 years; we must go this
far back to meet our apelike ancestry. Between them and us some
10,000 generations of men have walked the earth, most of whom have
probably given some thought, in varying degree, to the significance
of their existence and the plan of the universe.

Of these 10,000 generations of men, the first 9,990 unhesitatingly
regarded the earth as the center, and terrestrial life as the central
fact, of the universe. As was suited to its majesty and dignity as
the abode of man, the earth stood still while the celestial sphere spun
around it, covering in the earth much as a telescope dome covers in
the telescope; and this dome was spangled with stars, which had
been thoughtfully added so as not to leave the central earth unillu-
mined at night. Ten generations at most have been able to view
the problem of their existence in anything lke its proper astronom-
ical perspective.

THE POSITION OF MAN IN THE UNIVERSE

The total age of the earth far exceeds the 300,000 years or so of
man’s existence. The evidence of geology, and of radioactivity in
rocks in particular, shows that it must be something like 2,000 million
years, which is several thousand times the age of the human race.
Old Mother Earth must regard man as a very recent apparition
indeed; he has just appeared to burrow into her, burn her forests,
put her waterfalls into pipes, and generally mar the beauty of her
features. If he has done so much in the first few moments of his
existence, she may well wonder what is in store for her in the long
future ages in which he is destined to labor on her surface.

1The Trueman Wood lecture delivered before the Royal Society of Arts on Wednesday,

Mar. 7, 1928. Reprinted by permission from Supplement to Nature, No. 3047, Mar.
24, 1928.

24034—29-—12 | 165
166 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

For in all probability the life in front of the human race must
enormously exceed the short life behind it. A million million years
hence, so far as we can foresee, the sun will probably still be much as
now, and the earth will be revolving round it much as now. The
year will be a little longer, and the climate quite a lot colder, while
the rich accumulated stores of coal, oil, and forest will have long
been burned up; but there is no reason why our desendants should
not still people the earth. Perhaps it may be unable to support so
large a population as now, and perhaps fewer will desire to live on
it. On the other hand, mankind, being three million times as old
as now, may—if the conjecture does not distress our pessimists too
much—be three million times as wise.

Looked at on the astronomical time scale, humanity is at the very
beginning of its existence—a newborn babe, with all the unexplored
potentialities of babyhood; and until the last few moments its interest
has been centered, absolutely and exclusively, on its cradle and feeding
bottle. It has just become conscious of the vast world existing out-
side itself and its cradle; it is learning to focus its eyes on distant
objects, and its awakening brain is beginning to wonder, in a vague,
dreamy way, what they are and what purpose they serve. Its interest
in this external world is not much developed yet, so that the main
part of its faculties is still engrossed with the cradle and feeding
bottle, but a little corner of its brain is beginning to wonder.

Taking a very gloomy view of the future of the human race, let
us suppose that it can only expect to survive for 2,000 million years
longer, a period about equal to the past age of the earth. Then, re-
garded as a being destined to live for threescore years and ten, hu-
manity, although it has been born in a house 70 years old, is itself
only 3 days old. But only in the last few minutes has it become con-
scious that the whole world does not center round its cradle and its
trappings, and only in the last few ticks of the clock has any adequate
conception of the size of the external world dawned upon it.

For our clock does not tick seconds, but years; its minutes are the
lives of men. A minute and a half ago the distance of a star was
first measured and provided a measuring rod for the universe. A
quarter of a minute ago, Hertzsprung and Shapley showed how the
peculiar stars known as Cepheid variables provide a longer measuring
rod, and taught us to think in distances so great that light takes
hundreds of thousands of years to traverse them. With the very
last tick of the clock, Hubble, using the same measuring rod, has
found that the most remote objects visible in the biggest telescope on
earth are so distant that light, traveling 186,000 miles a second, takes
about 140 million years to come from them to us.

Not only is our vision of the universe continually expanding, but
also it is expanding at an ever-increasing rate. Is this expansion des-

COSMOGONY—JEANS 167

tined to go on forever? So far as we can at present see, no; for a
general guiding principle, that of generalized relativity, fixes a
limit, which we are fast approaching. According to this theory,
space can not extend forever; it has no limit, but is nevertheless finite
like the surface of the earth. Without exploring and surveying the
whole of the earth’s surface, we can make a fair estimate of its total
area by measuring its radius, which we can do by measuring its
curvature at any one point. In the same way the total volume of
space is fixed by a quantity, the curvature of space, which can be
determined by measuring the density of distribution of matter in
space. Space which contained no matter would go on forever, but
the parts of space we can survey with our telescopes contain enough
matter to show that we already see an appreciable fraction of the
whole of space. It is as though our baby, watching ships coming
from over the horizon, concluded that the earth’s surface was curved
and formed a general rough conception of its size by imagining the
observed curvature continuing until the earth’s surface rounded back
on itself.

Exact figures are impossible, but Hubble has calculated that space
is not likely to extend to more than about a thousand times as far
as the farthest nebula visible in the biggest telescope. Nothing pre-
vents our going on and on in space beyond this distance, but if we
do we merely come back to ourselves. The possessor of a sufficiently
sensitive wireless apparatus may emit signals and pick them up a
seventh of a second later after they have traveled round the world.
In the same way a not inconceivable increase in the size of our tele-
scopes would take us around the whole of space, and we should see

the stars surrounding our sun by light which had traveled round the

universe, not of course as they now are, but as they were 100,000

million years ago.

Such considerations make it improbable that the expansion of the
universe can continue at its present rate for much longer. Having

grasped that the world is round, the infant speedily forms a fair
idea of its size. Our particular infant, mankind, has made the great
discovery of the existence of the outer world, has formed some con-

ception of its size, and adjusted his ideas, not by a process of slow
revelation, but by a brain flash of the last few seconds. In his
mature years and his staid old age he is no doubt destined to make
many sensational discoveries, but he can never again live through

the immortal moment at which he first grasped the immensity of the

outer world. We only live through a few ticks of his clock, and
fate might have ordained that they should be anywhere in the three
days that the child has already lived, or in the 70 long, and possibly
tedious years yet to come. The wonderful thing is that she has
168 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

selected for us what is, perhaps, in some ways the most sensational
moment of all in the life of our race.

The child sets its newly awakened mind to work to adjust and
coordinate a new array of facts. If the world was not made to
surround its cradle, what purpose can it serve? If the lights of the
great ships in the harbor were not designed to light its nursery at
night, what can they possibly be for? And, most interesting prob-
‘em of all, if the world is such a big affair, can there be other cradles
and other babies?

These remarks will have served their purpose if they suggest that
what I am rashly trying to set forth here should not be judged as a
finished science or the solution of a problem; it is rather the first
confused gropings of the infant mind trying to understand the world
outside its cradle. And if the impression produced by its first inex-
perienced glance at the outer world had to be described in a single
word, it would probably select the word “immensity.”

THE IMMENSITY OF SPACE

The immensity of space is measured by the figures already men-
tioned. Light and wireless signals travel at the same rate because,
of course, they are essentially the same thing; and this thing takes
a seventh of a second to travel round the world, and probably some-
thing like 100,000 million years to travel round the universe. ‘The
ratio of these times (2101) measures the dimensions of the uni-
verse in terms of the familiar dimensions of the world; incidentally,
it also measures the expansion of our spatial ideas since Copernicus.
The disparity of size is too great to be easily visualized.. Suppose
the size of our earth were represented by a single atom. Then the
range of vision of the biggest telescope is about represented by the
whole earth, and the size of the whole universe, according to the
theory of relativity, is represented by a stack of 1,000 million earths.

Scarcely less bewildering than the immense extent of space is the
immense amount and variety of matter it contains. The sun, which is
a million times as big as the earth and three hundred thousand times
as massive, proves to be something less than a grain of sand on the
seashore. It forms one of a family whose number must certainly be
counted in thousands of millions; Seares has estimated it at 30,000
millions. This is not the only family of stars in space. Each of the
great spiral and other extragalactic nebulae, such as are shown in
Plates 1, 2, and 3, is either a family of stars, or consists of stars in the
making, or of matter which is destined ultimately to form stars.
We can estimate the masses of these great nebule by gravitational
means, and each is found to contain enough matter to make 1,000
million suns. This of itself will give some conception of the vast

COSMOGONY—JEANS 169

size of these nebulz, but to tell the whole story, it must be added that
their colossal masses are so tenuous that each millionth part of an
ounce is, on the average, as big as the Matterhorn. Think of a body
which is bigger than the Matterhorn by as much as 1,000 million suns
is heavier than a millionth part of an ounce, and we have the size of
any one of these great nebule. Any one of the three photographs
here reproduced would have to be enlarged so as to cover the whole of
Asia before a body of the size of the earth became visible in it at all,
even under the most powerful of microscopes.

Hubble estimates that about 2,000,000 such nebule are visible in
the great 100-inch telescope at Mount Wilson, and that the whole
universe has abcut a thousand million times the volume of that part
of space visible in this telescope. Let us now multiply 1,000 million
by 2 million, and the product by 1,000 million. The answer (2 10°)
wives some indication of the probable number of stars in the universe ;
the same number of grains of sand spread over Engiand would make
a layer hundreds of yards in depth. Let us reflect that our earth is
one millionth part of one such grain of sand, and our mundane affairs,
our troubles and our achievements, begin to appear in their correct
proportion to the universe as a whole.

While the stars may fairly be compared to grains of sand in num-
ber, they differ too much inter se for the comparison to be carried
further. There is an enormous variety of big and little stars, of
bright and faint stars, of red and blue stars, and of hot, hotter, and
still hotter stars. The faintest of known stars (Wolf 359) emits only
a fifty thousandth part of the light of the sun, while the brightest
(S. Doradus) emits three hundred thousand times as much light as
the sun. The smallest known star (Van Maanen’s star) is about the
size of the earth; a million such stars could be packed inside the sun
and leave room to spare. The largest known star (Betelgeuse) is so
large that 25 million suns could be packed inside it. Their ranges
are greater than those between a searchlight and a glowworm, or
between balloons and birdshot.

Yet the stars are essentially similar structures. A normal atom
consists of a central nucleus round which a number of electrons re-
volve like planets round the sun—a miniature solar system, in fact,
in which the vacant space far exceeds that occupied by matter.
With great heat the electrons begin to break loose and fly off at a
tangent. The central temperatures of the stars can be calculated
with fair precision, and prove to be so high that most of the clectrons
must have already broken loose from their atoms. Of recent years,
a great deal of labor has been devoted to testing the hypothesis that
practically all the electrons have so broken loose, the stripped atoms
and electrons flying about in a general hurly-burly like the molecules
170 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

of a gas. But the hypothesis has proved disappointing, and a much
more probable hypothesis is, 1 think, that the atoms are not stripped
quite bare, but that in most stars they retain a few rings of electrons
which give the atoms so much size that they jostle one another about
like the molecules of a liquid. This hypothesis explains beautifully
the otherwise puzzling fact that stars of large mass fall into distinct
eroups of what may almost be described as “ standardized ” sizes.
On the “ liquid-star * hypothesis, these different sizes correspond to
the different sizes possible for the stellar atoms which may have 0,
1, 2, or 3 rings of electrons left, but can not have fractional numbers.
The largest stars of all, such as Betelgeuse, have three rings left,
while minute stars, such as Van Maanen’s star, consist of atoms most
of which are stripped quite bare, so that there is almost no limit to
the closeness with which they can be packed together. An average
handful of the matter of which this star is composed would contain
about 10 tons.

Thus the observed sizes of the stars proclaim the secret of the
structure of the atom. The sizes of the stars are discontinuous
because the sizes of atoms broken down to different stages are dis-
continuous. These discontinuities can be traced in turn to the discon-
tinuities which form the central feature of the new quantum dy-
namics. Thus the distinguishing characteristic of the laws which
govern the most minute processes in nature is transmitted directly
into the large-scale phenomena of astronomy and governs the dis-
tribution of the huge masses of the stars. ‘The infinitely great is
never very far from the infinitely small in science, but it would be
hard to find a more sensational illustration of the unity of science
than that I have just given.

On this hypothesis, not only do the observed sizes of the stars dis-
close the general structure of the atom, which is old knowledge, but
they also reveal the detailed structure of the particular atoms of
which the stars are composed, and this is new knowledge. To be
precise, the observed sizes of the stars disclose the atomic weights of
the stellar atoms; they indicate that the stellar atoms are probably
rather heavier than the heaviest atom, uranium, known on earth.
The atoms which reveal their presence in stellar spectra are, of course,
atoms of the ordinary terrestrial elements—hydrogen, iron, calcium,
and the like. These, being the lightest atoms in the star, must natu-
rally float up to its surface, and as the earth was originally formed
out of the surface of the sun the earth is necessarily composed of
them. But it now appears likely that down in the depths of the
stars are other unknown and heavier atoms. We may almost say
that it must be so, for no terrestrial atoms, not even radium or
uranium, can produce anything like the amount of energy which these
stellar atoms are observed to produce.

aS SS!

JEANS 17]

COSMOGON Y
THH IMMENSITY OF TIME

The immensity of space is paralleled by that of time. We can
estimate the ages of stars from the impression that time has made
upon them, just as we estimate the age of a tree from the number of
subdivisions of its stem, or of rings in its cross section. ‘There are
three principal methods of doing this. The orbits of binary stars,
which are circular at birth, are gradually knocked out of shape by
the forces from passing stars. As we can calculate the rate at which
this process occurs, the shape of stars’ orbits can be made to reveal
their ages. The moving clusters provide a second method. Groups
of bright stars such as the Great Bear, the Pleiades, Orion’s Belt,
are often found to consist of exceptionally massive stars which move
in regular orderly formation through a jumble of slighter stars, like
a flight of swans through a confused crowd of rooks and starlings.
Swans, however, are conscious beings and continually adjust their
flight so as to preserve their formation. ‘The swanlike stars can not
do this, so that their orderly formation must in time be broken by the
gravitational pull of other stars. When this happens, the lighter
stars are naturally knocked out of formation first, while the most
massive stars retain their formation longest. This agrees with what
is observed, and as we can calculate the time necessary to knock out
the lighter stars, we can at once deduce the ages of those which are
left in. A third method of investigation rests upon a rather abstruse
dynamical theorem, which shows that after a sufficient time the
energies of motion of the different types of stars must tend to
equality, the little stars making up for the smallness of their mass
by the rapidity of their motion. Seares has shown that the stars
near the sun have nearly attained to this ideal state, and as we can
calculate the time needed to establish it we can again deduce the ages
of the stars.

It is gratifying and significant that all three lines of investigation
lead to the same result: The stars are found to be some millions of
millions of years old, perhaps from 5 to 10 millions of millions.
We can not state their age with much precision, but it is the general
order of magnitude, not the exact figure, that is important.

STELLAR RADIATION

Year after year, century after century, for millions of millions of
years, the sun radiates enough energy from each square inch of its
surface to keep a 50-horsepower engine continually in action; still
hotter stars may radiate as much as 30,000 horsepower per square
inch. If this energy were produced by the combustion of coal, the
stars would all be completely burnt out in a few hundreds or thou-
172 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

sands of years. Where, then, shall he find a source of energy to
last millions of millions of years?

More than 20 years ago I directed attention to the enormous
store of energy made available by the annihilation of matter, by
positive and negative electrons falling into and annihilating one
another, thus setting free the whole of their intrinsic energy as
radiation. On this scheme neither energy nor matter had a perma-
nent existence, but only a sort of sum of the two; each was, the-
oretically at least, convertible into the other. Whether energy ‘s
ever transformed into matter we do not know; probably not. But
the falling together of electrons and protons forms the obvious
mechanism for the transformation of matter into energy, and it
now seems practically certain that this is the actual source of the
radiation of the stars. A beam of radiation exerts pressure on
any surface it falls upon, just as a jet of water does or a blast of
air. The reason is that radiation carries mass about with it, and
electromagnetic theory tells us the amount of this mass. For ex-
ample, we can calculate that a searchlight which is radiating 50
horsepower of energy is discharging mass into space with the radia-
tion at the rate of a gram and quarter a century; with sufficiently
delicate adjustments it might even be possible to observe the recoil
of the searchlight. Indeed, the pressure of radiation has actually
been measured although not in this particular way. New mass is of
course being continually fed into the searchlight by the electric
current.

Each square inch of the sun’s surface is in effect a searchlight
discharging radiation into space at the rate of 50 horsepower, and
so is discharging mass at the rate of a gram and a quarter a century,
and the sun’s surface is so large that the sun as a whole is discharg-
ing mass into space at the rate of 250 million tons a minute. Now
the sun has no source of replenishment. It must have weighed
360,000 million tons more yesterday than to-day, and by to-morrow
will weigh 360,000 million tons less. These are not mere speculative
statements; they rest on observation, and on generally accepted
principles which are directly confirmed by observation.

Allowing for the fact that a more massive star emits more radiation
than a less massive one, we can calculate that 5 or 10 million million
years ago the sun must have been several times as massive as it is
to-day, so that it has already lost most of the mass it had at birth.
Of each ton it had at birth only a few hundredweights at most re-
main to-day. The loss of mass which accompanies radiation is,
then, no mere academic hairsplitting. It is a real astronomical
phenomenon, and young stars must be many times as massive as
old stars.

ees

COSMOGONY—JEANS 173

There is a certain amount of direct evidence of this change of
mass. The radiation of the stars imposes an endlessly recurring
capital levy upon their masses, which, as observation shows, 1s
graduated and increases very steeply indeed for the richest stars.
The levy makes all the stars poorer, but it also tends to equalize what
wealth remains; the older the stars get, the more nearly equal their
impoverished masses become. This is a large part of the reason
why the stars are nearly equal in mass. The process is most clearly
marked in the binary systems, which have been formed by a single
star breaking into two. The two component stars of such a system
are necessarily of the same age, and it is a matter of observation
that the small stars of old systems are nearer to equality of mass
than the massive stars of young systems.

Thus observation and theory agree in indicating that the universe
is melting away into radiation. Our position is that of polar bears
on an iceberg that uas broken loose from the ice pack surrounding
the pole, and is inexorably melting away as the iceberg drifts to
warmer latitudes and ultimate extinction.

Five million million years ago the sun had stored up within itself
che energy which was destined to provide its light and heat until to-
day, and the mass of this energy was many times the present mass of
the sun. No means is known by which so much mass could be
stored except in the form of electrons and protons. Thus we must
suppose that the radiation of the sun through these millions of
millions of years has been produced by the annihilation of electrons
and protons which existed in it originally, but no longer exist now.
These electrons and protons are pure bottled energy; the continu-
ous breakage of these bottles in the sun sets free the radiation
which warms and lights our earth, and enough unbroken bottles
remain to provide light and heat for millions of millions of years
to come.

The amount of energy made available in this way is amazing.
The annihilation of a pound of coal a week would produce as much
energy as the combustion of the 5,000,000 tons a week which are
mined in the British Isles; an ounce of coal a month would provide
locomotive power for all the British railways, while a single drop
of oil would take the Mawretania across the Atlantic. When we
speak of the efficiency of a steam engine as 5 per cent or so, we
regard complete use of the thermal energy of combustion as 100
per cent efficiency. If we measure the work done against the total
intrinsic energy of the fuel as made available by its complete anni-
hilation, the efficiency is more like 0.00000001 per cent. On this
scale the efficiency of the sun and stars is exactly 100 per cent.

.
174 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

Modern physical theory shows that the annihilation of an electron
must produce a single flash of radiation of wave length far shorter
than any we can produce on earth. As this radiation threads its way
through a star its wave length is continually increased, or to use
the technical term the radiation is continually softened. In time it
becomes y radiation, then hard X radiation, then soft X radiation,
and finally it emerges from the surface of the star as ordinary light
and heat. Consider, however, an clectron which is annihilated, not
inside a star but outside in free space, or in one of the almost trans-
parent nebule. The short wave-length radiation now undergoes no
softening, but travels on until it meets something capable of checking
it. Thus all astronomical bodies, including the surface of the earth,
cught to be under continual bombardment by radiation of shorter
wave length, and consequently of greater penetrating powers, than
any we can produce on earth.

Many years ago such radiation was detected in the earth’s atmos-
phere by McLennan, Rutherford, and other observers; it has recently
been studied in detail by Millikan and others. There is no reason
to doubt that it originates just where it ought to, namely, in the
great nebulz, and its amount is about what it ought to be if it is
evidence of the whole universe melting away into radiation. The
wave length of the radiation might be expected to reveal the physical
process by which it is generated, but the evidence is a bit puzzling.
The hardest terrestrial radiation penetrates inches of lead and
corresponds to a voltage of hundreds of thousands of volts. The
cosmic radiation penetrates about 5 yards of lead, and the hardest
rays are now found to correspond to about 60,000,000 volts.t. Millikan
was at one time inclined to attribute the rays to the combination
of 4 atoms of hydrogen to form an atom of helium, but rays so
produced would only be of the hardness corresponding to 30,000,000
volts. There ave many ways known to physics of softening radia-
tion, but none of hardening it. Thus we must look for some source
more energetic than the synthesis of hydrogen into helium, and I
can see no possible stopping place short of the annihilation of
matter. Again, we are not dealing with a minute phenomenon of
mere academic interest. In a sense this radiation is the most funda-
mental physical phenomenon of the whole universe, most regions of
space containing more of it than of visible light or heat. Our
bodies are traversed by it night and day. Short of going down
into a mine or in a submarine we can not escape it, and it is so
intense that it breaks up several million atoms in each of our bodies
every second. It may be essential to life or it may be killing us.

1 Added in proof: The recent complete theory of Klein and Nishina gives about
940,000,000 volts, which is precisely the voltage to be expected if the rays originate in
the annihilation of matter—J. H. J.

:
fl
:
N
+
COSMOGONY—JEANS V75
THE LIVES OF THE STARS

The stars are almost certainly born in nebule of the type of the
great extragalactic nebule, such as are shown in Plates 1, 2, and 3.
These nebule show a great variety of shapes, but a single thread
connects them all; they are the shapes of huge masses of gas endowed
with different amounts of rotation. So definitely is this the case that
when Hubble recently tried to classify the shapes of these nebule,
deliberately and avowedly shutting his eyes to all theoretical con-
siderations, he found that purely observational considerations com-
pelled him to classify them in precisely the sequence I had predicted
on theoretical grounds some 10 years earlier.

A huge mass of gas which was entirely devoid of rotation would,
of course, assume a strictly spherical shape; rotation would flatten
this shape out, just as the earth is flattened by its rotation, until
ultimately most of the matter was spread out in a thin disk. We
see the process beginning in Plate 1, and it is well advanced in
Plate 2. Plate 3 shows a nebula which is probably physically similar
to that shown in Plate 2, but viewed from another angle. Now,
mathematical theory shows that the thin disklike structure could not
remain a mere featureless mass of gas. Just as the cooling of a
cloud of steam causes it to condense into drops of water, so the
cooling of a cloud of gas causes it to condense into detached masses.
We see the phenomenon in progress in nebular photographs; it is
a necessary theoretical conseauence of the laws of gases and the law
of gravitation.

Now, the same theory which predicts that the phenomenon must
happen predicts the scale on which it will happen. We can calculate
how much matter will go to the formation of each “drop,” and the
calculated masses of the drops come out to be just about the same
as the masses of the stars. Indeed, these drops are stars, and the
process just described is that of the birth of stars. Unmistakable
stars have been observed in the outer regions of many of the spiral
nebulz. It is naturally not possible to identify every observed
spot of light with a star, but some of them show precisely the same
peculiar fluctuations of light as characterize a certain class of
variable star, the Cepheid variables already mentioned, and these
put the identity of these particular spots of light beyond all reason-
able doubt.

In these nebule, then, we are watching the birth of stars, the
transformation of an inchoate mass of gas into an “ island universe ”
of stars. Indeed Hubble found it necessary to end up his classifiea-
tion of nebule with clouds of stars. At one end of his continuous
sequence is a nebula shaped like a mass of rotating gas, in which not
a single star is visible; at the other end a star cloud in which nothing
176 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,. 1928

but stars are visible. Our galactic system of stars is probably the
final product of just such a transformation, the Milky Way still
recording the position of the equatorial plane of the original nebula.

Stars born in this way may meet with a variety of accidents, and
these result in different observed astronomical formations. A star
may rotate too fast for safety, just as a flywheel may; when this
happens it breaks into two, and the two stars so formed revolve
endlessly about one another as a binary system. Two stars may run
into one another, although this is very rare. A more common occur-
rence is for two stars to escape running into one another by a narrow
shave. When this happens, huge tides are raised on the two stars
involved, and these may take the form of long streamers of gas, which
ultimately condense into “ drops ” just as did the gas in the outlying
regions of the spiral nebule. It seems reasonably certain that the
planets were formed in this way.

The birth of the solar system, then, resulted from the close ap-
proach of two stars; if a second star had not happened to come close
to our sun, there would have been no solar system. It may be thought
that with a life of millions of millions of years behind it, one star
or another would have been certain to come near enough at some
time to tear planets out of the body of our sun. Calculation shows
the reverse; even after their long lives of millions of millions of
years, only about 1 star in 100,000 can be surrounded by planets bern
in this way. A quite unusual accident is necessary to produce planets,
and our sun with its family of attendant planets is rather of the
nature of an astronomical freak.

In the 1,000 million stars surrounding our sun there are, at a mod-
erate computation, not more than 10,000 planetary systems, because
there has not been time for more than this number to be born. They
are of course still coming into existence; calculation suggests a birth-
rate of about 1 per 1,000 million years. Thus we should have to visit
thousands of millions of stars before finding a planetary system of
us recent creation as our own, and we should have to visit millions
of millions of stars before finding a planet on which civilization and
interest in the outer universe were as recent a growth as are our
own. We are standing at the first flush of the dawn of civilization
and are terribly inexperienced beings. 5

It may be suggested that the creation of planetary systems is also
only beginning, and that in time every star will be surrounded, lke
our sun, by a family of planets. But no; the stars will have dissolved
into radiation or disappeared into darkness before there is time for
this to happen. So far as we can judge, our part of the universe has
lived the more eventful part of its life already; what we are witness-
ing is less the rising of the curtain before the play than the burning

COSMOGONY—JEANS 177

out of candle ends on an empty stage on which the drama is already
over. There is not time for many more planets to be born.

LIFE AND THE UNIVERSE

The planets are the only places we know where life can exist. The
stars are too hot; even their atoms are broken up by the intense heat.
Nebuiz are in every way unsuitable; even if cool solid bodies exist in
them, they would probably be so drenched with highly penetrating
radiation as to render life impossible. Life demands a special type
of matter, such as does not produce intense light and heat by trans-
forming itself into radiation. We find it only in the surfaces of the
stars, which are too hot for life, and in the planets which have been
pulled out of these surfaces.

On any scheme of cosmogony, life must be limited to an exceedingly
small corner of the universe. To our baby’s wonderings whether
other cradles and other babies exist, the answer appears to be that
there can at best be very few cradles, and there is no conceivable
means of knowing whether they are tenanted by babies or not. We
look out and see a universe consisting primarily of matter which is
transforming itself into radiation, and producing so much heat,
light, and highly penetrating radiation as to make life impossible.
In rare instances special accidents may produce bodies such as our
earth, formed of a special cool ash which no longer produces radia-
tion, and here life may be possible. But it does not at present look as
though nature had designed the universe primarily for life; the
normal star and the normal nebula have nothing to do with life ex-
cept making it impossible. Life is the end of a chain of by-products;
it seems to be the accident, and torrential deluges of life-destroying
radiation the essential.

There is a temptation to base wide-reaching inferences on the fact
that the universe as a whole is apparently antagonistic to hfe. Other
quite different inferences might be based on the fact of our earth
being singularly well adapted to life. We shall, I think, do well to
avoid both. Each oak in a forest produces many thousands of
acorns, of which only one succeeds in germinating and becoming an
oak. The successful acorn, contemplating myriads of acorns lying
crushed, rotten, or dead on the ground, might argue that the forest
must be inimical to the growth of oaks, or might reason that nothing
but the intervention of a special providence could account for its own
success in the face of so many failures. We must beware of both
types of hasty inference.

in any case our 3-days-old infant can not be very confident of
any interpretation it puts on a universe which it only discovered a
178 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

minute or two ago. We have said it has 70 years of life before it,
but in truth its expectation of life would seem to be nearer to 70,000
years. It may be puzzled, distressed, and often irritated at the
apparent meaninglessness and incomprehensibility of the world to
which it has suddenly wakened up. But it is still very young; it
might travel half the world over before finding another baby as young
and inexperienced as itself. It has before it time enough and to spare
in which it may understand everything. Sooner or later the pieces
of the puzzle must begin to fit together, although it may reasonably
be doubted whether the whole picture can ever be comprehensible to
one small, and apparently quite insignificant, part of the picture.
And ever the old question obtrudes itself as to whether the infant has
any means of knowing that it is not dreaming all the time. The pic-
ture it sees may be merely a creation of its own mind in which nothing
really exists except itself; the universe which we study with such care
may be a dream, and we brain cells in the mind of the dreamer.

YOLVNOA DNIGNNOYYNS YSLLVIAN HYVG JO ONIY HLIM (76Gb 'O “D 'N) VINSAN GadVHS Y¥V1NDAY

| aLlv1d suevaf—'gz6l |UOSY]IWS
Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Jeans PLATE 2

SPIRAL NEBULA IN COMA BERENICES (N. G. C. 4565) SEEN EDGE ON

Smithsonian Report, 1926 Bans PLATE 3

SPIRAL NEBULA IN URSA MAsor (M. 81)

THE STARS IN ACTION?

By Atrrep H. Joy

This is an age of action. Progress and change are the order of
the day. Illustrated papers which can be read at a glance, motion
pictures for entertainment and instruction, and the ever-increasing
speed of locomotion by motor cars and airplanes indicate the popt-

lar tendency. Public interest and attention are rapidly diverted

from one activity to another. The ever-changing array of passing
heroes is the result of a common desire for novel activity in many
lines of effort. No matter how fine the museum exhibit of the re-
sults of art or industry, the crowds of young and old turn away to

surround the display with a mechanical adaptation which shows

some actual process at work.

Among the stars the lover of astronomy finds a fascinating story
of activity which claims his supreme interest. The heavenly bodies
reveal to the present-day scientist the irresistible charm of action
in many different aspects, from the tremendous bustle of atoms and
electrons to the stately movement of giant orbs three hundred times
the diameter of our sun.

Probably the recognition of life, especially intelligent life, on the
moon or one of the planets would be the astronomical discovery that
would evoke the greatest popular interest. In 1835 the New York
Sun printed an account of life on the moon which purported to
come from the observations of Sir John Herschel with a new mam-
moth telescope 24 feet in aperture located at the Cape of Good
Hope in South Africa. It was a most clever hoax, depicting forms
of life on the moon far different from those existing on the earth.
Trees, animals, and flying men were described in detail, and their
habits of life as observed were skillfully pictured. These stories
were continued in installments on several successive days. The office
of the Sun was stormed for copies and back numbers. New York
was almost frantic. All other topics of conversation were forgotten.
In a few days the Sun, which had been established only two years,

1A popular lecture given Dec. 15, 1927, under the auspices of the Astronomical Society
of the Pacific at Culbertson Hall, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, Calif.
Reprinted by permission from the Publications of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific,
Vol. XL, April, 1928.

179
180 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

had the largest circulation of any newspaper in the world at that
time.

In recent years, on account of the failure to find any signs of life,
the study of the moon has been rather neglected by the large observa-
tories. For many years Mars has held the limelight of public inter-
est because of the possibility of life there. Recent observations
point to daytime temperatures favorable to life, but the nights are
excessively cold. Very meager amounts of atmosphere and water
vapor have been observed. In the sun and stars, all of which have
immensely high surface temperatures extending from 2,000° to
25,000° C., there is, of course, no possibility of life, for there all
chemical compounds, with few exceptions, are dissociated. In the in-
teriors even the atoms are broken up. The astronomer must confess
that he can not point with certainty to any form of life except on
our tiny earth. Nevertheless, much of interest is found in the physi-
cal activity of the stars.

The earliest astronomical discoveries were connected with the
bodies of the solar system and their movements, real or apparent.
After noting the daily rising and setting of the sun and stars and
the monthly changes of the moon’s phases and positions, as well as
occasional eclipses and comets, probably the first facts of astronomy
to be observed were the motions of the planets and the yearly motion
of the sun among the stars. Previous to the invention of the tele-
scope some attention was given to the position and brightness of
stars, but they were considered to be fixed in position and with few
exceptions constant in brightness.

With the invention of the astronomical telescope by the immortal
Galileo, intense interest, such as has never been felt at any other
time in the history of science, was awakened in astronomy. The
theoretical researches of Kepler and Copernicus appealed to a few
scientists and philosophers, but actually to see with the eye the
Milky Way and star clusters resolved, the spots moving across the
face of the sun, the satellites revolving around the planet Jupiter,
and to note the changing position of the rings of Saturn were facts
of such engrossing interest and concern to everyone that the prevail-
ing authority of the church and science were alike shaken to their
foundations because at that time they had no room for new facts in
their established dogmas.

The desire to know more of the stars led observers to make increas-
ingly accurate records of the positions and the brightness of the
stars, which resulted in the discovery that the stars are not at all fixed
in position but have individual motions and that some of them
even vary in brightness. These simple observations some 200 years
ago were the beginnings of modern observational astronomy. ‘The
motions of the stars furnish data for studying the unfverse as a

THE STARS IN ACTION—JOY 181

whole, while the discovery of variation of brightness was the first
step in the study of the stars as individual entities.

The total motion of a star may be resolved into two components,
one toward or away from the observer in the line of sight, called
radial velocity, and the other at right angles to it, known as proper
motion. Radial velocity of stars was thought indeterminable 60
years ago, but the use of the spectroscope—that beautiful optical
appliance which, by analyzing light and spreading it out into its va-
rious wave lengths and colors, has meant so much to astronomy and
physics in the last 50 years—has made it possible to measure the
velocities of the stars in the line of sight. Distance does not mat-
ter, provided only the star is bright enough to record its light rays on
the photographic plate. The largest telescope can photograph the
spectra of stars as faint as the tenth or eleventh magnitude and de-
termine their velocities from single plates.

Proper motion can be observed by noting the positions of stars as
compared with their positions observed 10, 50, or 100 years before.
The largest proper motion known is that of Barnard’s star, a faint
star of the tenth magnitude, which moves among its neighbors at the
rate of 10 seconds of arc a year. This motion would carry it across

‘a space equal to the moon’s apparent diameter in 180 years. Al-

though it seems slow, yet such is the extreme accuracy of modern
photographic methods that the motion could be detected on plates

separated by a time interval of only 24 hours. On account of their
great distances most stars have proper motions which are compara-
tively insignificant, as far as short periods of time are concerned.
The nearer stars have, on the average, the greater proper motion

because they mark out greater angular distances in the sky as they

move.

With proper motion and line-of-sight velocity known, we can

calculate the total motion in space of those stars whose distance

can be determined. Space motions are the foundations of the
study of the structure and dynamical behavior of our universe.

They give a clue to the origin and relationships of stars which can

be found in no other way. For the nearer stars, at least, it ap-
pears that there is a tendency to move through space in groups at
certain speeds and in certain directions. Many such groups, com-

posed of a few hundreds or thousands of stars, are known among

our nearer neighbors. Smaller groups composed of three or four

stars, or even two stars, are numerous. These have the same motion

in space and revolve about each other in orbits, as the moon revolves

about the earth. They can usually be resolved by the telescope and

ean be observed as they leisurely describe their orbits in periods

varying from a few years to many centuries. A number of the
24034—29 13

182 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

binary stars are so close together that they appear single as seen from
the earth, even with the most powerful telescopes, and their duplicity
is known only by the fact that their orbital motions in the line of
sight are shown by the spectroscope. Many of these spectroscopic
binaries have periods less than a day, and the two stars of the pair
are so close together that they almost touch each other. Our Milky
Way system, comprising billions of stars, is made up of such smaller
groups, while it, in turn, seems to be a larger unit, a cluster or perhaps
a spiral nebula, with a definite motion as a whole.

Another activity of the stars which has had an increasing import-
ance in astronomy since it was first discovered is the variation of
total luminosity as seen from the earth. This enticing field of obser-
vation has been so attractive to all interested in the heavens that
hundreds of amateurs all over the world are devoting their time and
talents to the observation of stellar hight changes. The thrill of see-
ing one of the lucid stars of the sky periodically dimming or en-
hancing its brightness is an experience never to be forgotten. The
study of stellar variation has been not only a hobby or useful diver-
sion for the amateur, but has commanded the efforts of nearly all the
greatest astronomers of the last hundred years. The brighter stars

have been observed with the naked eye; the fainter ones have required
the most powerful instruments that could be had. Much time is being.

given to these objects at the largest observatories. About one-third of
the time of the 100-inch telescope is now being devoted to variable
stars of different kinds.

The first scientific record of variation among the stars seems to be
that concerning the appearance of Tycho Brahe’s new star, or nova,
in 1572. ‘This was a very bright nova, appearing in Cassiopeia at a
point where no star had been known before. It was as bright as
Venus at its brightest and could be seen in the daytime. After a
few months it disappeared from view, as there were no telescopes at
that time to follow it further. On account of the lack of accurate
observations of its position, it can not certainly be located at the pres-
ent time, but it is probably identical with a faint star of the four-
teenth magnitude. It has therefore decreased in brightness at least
17 magnitudes, or six million times, since its historic and record-
breaking outburst.

Some 50 nove or temporary stars have appeared since that time.
The number has increased with the use of better instruments and
with the aid of photography. Many recall Nova Aquilz which was
discovered on June 8, 1918, as a first-magnitude star. Photographs
show that for 30 years previous it was an unknown and inconspic-
uous eleventh-magnitude star in the Milky Way. Some time about
June 6 the crisis of its history occurred. The next day it had
increased in brightness a hundredfold and was doubling its bright-

THE STARS IN ACTION—JOY 183

ness in an hour’s time. On the following evening, June 8, having in-
creased another hundredfold, it was independently discovered within
a few hours after it rose above the eastern horizon by a score of
astronomers and amateurs in Europe and America. This remarkable
example of the careful watch of the sky which is being maintained
at all times leads us to believe that not many bright nove have
escaped observation in recent years. ‘The outburst reached its max-
imum on June 10 when the star was equal to Canopus in brightness,
being second only to Sirius itself. To know the real time of the
outburst about 1,000 years must be subtracted from the date of its
appearance, for the star is so far away that it takes that time for its
light to reach us.

After its maximum the decline set in, but at a much slower rate
than the rise. What was gained in brightness in the 2 days before
maximum was lost in 200 days, and after that the decline was even
slower. It took about 2 years to return to normal intensity after its
4 days of dissipation.

The spectrum showed remarkable changes of a character observed
only in novae. At maximum, and presumably before, it resembled
the spectrum of a hot, massive star but with the lines greatly dis-
placed, indicating that the star was expanding at the terrific rate of
over 1,000 miles per second. In spite of this immense expansion to a
million times its original volume, the high temperature of over
10,000° was maintained so that the surface brightness did not change
much until after maximum. ‘The increase in ght seems to have been
largely the result of an increase in the dimensions of the star itself.
The outburst was, in effect, an explosion.

Soon after maximum a gaseous shell was formed, which has con-
tinued to increase in diameter for nine years up to the present time.
It now forms a neat ring of gas about the star similar to the ring
nebula in Lyra, but about one-fourth its apparent size. Whatever
may be the cause of the sudden outburst, we have observed in this
case the actual formation of a ring or planetary nebula in an insig-
nificant interval of time, astronomically speaking. A truly amaz-
ing phenomenon has taken place before our very eyes. The delib-
erate processes of celestial evolution have become a spectacle of ac-
tivity and change, speeded up, as it were, so that in the minute
span of time loaned to man for his mundane existence he may behold
and ponder an example of the splendor of creation.

As the shell of gas is thrown off from the star at a speed a thou-
sand times that of a projectile from a “big Bertha,” the character
_ of its radiation changes rapidly. In the emptiness of space, the atoms
of the shell are cooled so that they would not be able to radiate at
' all were it not that the intense ether waves of the central star are
continually bombarding them from behind and rousing them to
184 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

activity. The physicists tell us that the atoms are absorbing the
ether waves which overtake them and are re-emitting the energy re-
ceived in certain definite rays. Of course only the lightest elements
are thrown out of the star, and the rays which we actually observe
are those proceeding from hydrogen, helium, and nebulium atoms.
This latter is a hitherto unknown gas which Bowen has recently
shown to be merely oxygen and nitrogen, the elements so well known
in our own atmosphere. They were not recognized previously
because such rays could not be produced in the limited coniines of
the laboratory.

The cause of nove outbursts, which are the most violent of all stellar
activities, is still uncertain. We know much of the results of the
explosion, but the underlying cause can only be conjectured. Possibly
an encounter with nebulosity or another body may start the generation
of internal energy in large amounts near the surface of the star. It
can not be a deep-seated effect, for it is too sudden and ephemeral.
The central portions of the star are probably not affected by the great
display at the surface.

Only a few years later than Tycho’s famous nova, the first periodic
variable star was noted. In 1596 Fabricius, a Flemish clergyman,
noticed that the red star Omicron in the constellation Cetus, the whale,
was bright for a few months and then dropped below the limit of visi-
bility. He doubtless thought it a nova. It was 40 years before its
periodic character was discovered. Continued observation showed
that it returned to maxima easily visible to the naked eye every 330
days; that it was visible about 5 months and too faint to be seen for
6 months; and that its rise to maximum was about twice as rapid as
its decline. Because of its extraordinary behavior it was called Mira,
the wonderful. This name it has richly deserved, for it continues to
show peculiarities which can not be predicted and which are little un-
derstood. Its variations are somewhat uncertain but average about
six magnitudes or two hundred and fifty fold increase from minimum
to maximum light.

Although it received its name largely because of the surprise in-
duced by its periodic character and its great range of brightness, its
behavior as studied by the spectroscope has been even more wonderful,
and it has perplexed observers since its spectrum was first observed
more than 40 years ago. There are several facts in connection with
the star and others of its class which are of special interest. Its ap-
parent diameter is the largest thus far measured with the inter-
ferometer, and its real diameter, three hundred and fifty times that
of the sun, is second only to that of Antares. If brought to our solar
system and set in place of the sun, its boundaries would extend be-
yond the orbit of Mars, and the earth in its yearly motion would de-

THE STARS IN ACTION—JOY 185

scribe its orbit not much more than one-half the distance from the
center to the circumference. If its mass were proportionately large,
it would weigh twenty-five million times as much as the sun, and
according to Hinstein’s theory its own gravitation would be so great
that its light would be unable to leave its surface. The mass has not
been directly determined, but it is probably about five or ten times
that of the sun, instead of several million times. This low value
means that we have an exceedingly large body with comparatively
small mass, and the density comes out surprisingly low. It is, in fact,
on the average for the whole star, only one ten-thousandth that of our
atmosphere at sea level. ‘The outer regions which we see have a much
greater tenuity, for a star’s mass is greatly concentrated toward the
center. These regions are much nearer to a perfect vacuum than any-
thing that can be produced in the laboratory. As far as our experi-
ence goes these stars are vast aggregations of nothingness. The po-
etical idea of tripping lightly from one star to another would be
difficult of realization in such cases, for we might approach one of
these giant bodies of gas and, except for the inconvenience of a rather
torrid temperature of 2,000° or more, we might wander about indefi-
nitely inside the star and not even know that we had arrived. If we
wished to use an airplane, we should fall to the center of the star and
yet find no place where it could support itself as it does in the air of
the earth. At the surface, gravity is very small on account of the
ereat distance from the center of the star. It amounts to only one-
thousandth that on the earth. If one could get a solid footing there,
he could jump to a height of a mile.

Mira and the other long-period variables are the coolest stars we
know. ‘The temperatures of the regions which we see vary with the
brightness of the star from 1,600° to 2,500° centrigrade, absolute. Its
red color is easily noted by the eye. A limit of stellar temperature
seems to be set at this point below which stars can not exist, or if it
it is possible to exist, they do not give out enough light to make their
presence known to us. The temperature is so low that molecules of
titanium oxide are able to form in the upper atmosphere. As shown
by the bands in the spectrum, these molecules absorb some of the
light from the interior and are partly responsible for the great light
changes observed. As the star grows colder this absorption increases
and so diminishes the light. The storing of the absorbed heat finally
raises the temperature, the compounds become partly dissociated, and
the star brightens.

Radial-velocity measures also indicate that the star expands and
contracts during its period to the amount of 20 per cent of its radius,
or about 30,000,000 miles. The cause of this pulsation is unknown,
but it is sufficient to produce a distinct change in the effective tem-
perature and a corresponding light variation.
186 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

There are a thousand or more variables of this type whose activi-
ties take place in periods of about a year. They are exceedingly
interesting as being at the earliest stage of stellar existence; they are
the youth of the skies, just stepping upon the threshold of celestial
splendors. From the darkness of space they have suddenly emerged
to take up their lhght-giving activities for billions of years.

In the 200 years following the discovery of Mira a few new varia-
bles, mostly of the same class, were discovered. It remained for two
keen-eyed young men, friends and neighbors, John Goodricke and
Edward Pigott, of York, England, to open the field of short-period
variation of stars. Such variables, with periods from a few hours
to 50 days, have been responsible for much of the knowledge which
we now have concerning the properties and ages of the stars, their
interiors, their distances, and the extent of the universe. Stars that
are in action, such as variables, give opportunity to apply physical
laws and deduce results as to the conditions prevailing there. They
are the working laboratories of the sky where the astronomer may
actually observe changing conditions. In our terrestrial laboratories
we can vary conditions of pressure, density, and temperature for
various sources at will to suit the investigation, but in the stellar
laboratories we must depend upon the variable stars to make the
manipulations for us.

Edward Pigott was the son of a surveyor who had some small
astronomical instruments and had used them to observe the stars
and planets. ‘The son seems to have inherited his interest in astron-
omy from his father and was accustomed to make observations at
his own home. His knowledge of the heavens attracted to him John
Goodricke, the son of a neighboring lord, who is one of the most
extraordinary characters in the history of science. Born a deaf-
mute, he received, nevertheless, a good education and became espe-
cially proficient in mathematics. In 1782, when he was but 18 years
of age, he took up the observation of Algol at the home of his friend,
Kdward Pigott. In a short time he had found its period of varia-
tion by comparing its brightness with that of near-by stars. Its
variation was small, only 1.2 magnitudes, which makes the difficulty
of observation very much greater than that of the variables of the
type of Mira, where the variation is 5 or 6 magnitudes. He found
the period to be 2 days 20 hours 49 minutes, which was so much
shorter than that of any variable known before that the observation
was doubtless looked upon with reserve by the scientists of the Royal
Society to whom he communicated his results. In that early day,
when physical double stars were scarcely known, he boldly concluded
that the light changes were the result of an eclipse of the star by a
darker companion which was describing an orbit about it in such an
unexpectedly short time. It was 100 years before this remarkable

THE STARS IN ACTION—JOY 187

conclusion was verified by Vogel, who observed the star with the
spectroscope and found that it was actually moving in an orbit in ac-
cordance with the theory. Two years later Goodricke discovered the
variability of § Cephei with an even smaller range (0.7 magnitude)
of variability and deduced a period of 5 days 9 hours. He recognized
it as a different kind of star, but he was not able to explain the cause
of its variation, and we can do only slightly better to-day. In the
same year he also observed 8 Lyre, whose period is 12 days 22 hours
and range 0.6 magnitude. It is also an eclipsing star, but the stars
are so elongated toward each other that a variation is produced,
independently of eclipse, by the fact that sometimes we see the stars
endon and sometimes broadside. His friend Pigott discovered the
variability of » Aquile in that same year.

Goodricke died in 1786 at the early age of 22 after discovering
three variables which are to-day the type stars of their classes.
Pigott later added two more, R Corone and R Scuti, and he also
discovered two comets. Those who know the difficulty of the obser-
vation of variable stars of small range can not but admire the skill
and persistence of these two young men who, on their own initiative,
without instruments and without precedent, opened up in a sys-
tematic study the field of variable-star astronomy, the importance of
which is being more clearly recognized as time goes on. Had Good-
ricke lived to the age proverbially allotted to the astronomer, what
other fundamental discoveries might not have been his! Pigott con-
tinued his observations for a time after his friend’s death, but later
was lost to astronomical history.

The eclipsing stars of which Algol is the prototype are not intrinsi-
cally variable at all, but are binary stars whose orbits happen to be
so placed that the components eclipse each other at certain times
when viewed from theearth. They are always close together and their
periods are usually short, from a few hours to a few days. Study of
the light and velocity changes of such stars makes it possible to deter-
mine their masses, densities, absolute dimensions, surface brightness,
and the distances between them; and these are the only stars for
which these data may be directly calculated. About 300 eclipsing
stars are known, most of which are found among the hottest and
brightest stars. They represent the early stages of double-star exist-
ence, when the two stars are just being formed from a single body.
They are often elongated toward each other by tidal effects, and in
some cases may actually be in contact.

The Cepheids are named from Goodricke’s star § Cephei, which
was the first known and the brightest of its class. They are single
stars of great intrinsic brightness. They are the supergiants of the
stars. Study of their light changes shows that they rise from mini-
188 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

mum to maximum much more quickly than they fall from maximum
to minimum. ‘The variation is usually a little less than one magni-
tude, the maximum brightness being about twice that at minimum.
The spectroscope shows that the surface is heaving up and down with
the period of the star’s variation and that changes of temperature
are taking place. Due to some unknown cause, the gaseous body of
a star seems to have taken up a periodic pulsation of some kind,
which accounts for the action observed there. If we assume with
Shapley and Eddington that this pulsation is a free oscillation, the
mass and density of the star may be computed. The period will de-
pend largely on the density. Since the period may be observed with
extreme precision, changes in the density, if present, might be de-
duced by investigating secular changes in the period. Such changes
have not been definitely proved in the span of time during which
these stars have been observed, which gives us an idea of the extreme
deliberateness of stellar evolutionary processes.

Again, the periods have been found to be correlated to the lumi-
nosities, Cepheids with the longer periods having the greater intrinsic
brightness. When proper calibration has been made, the lumi-
nosities and distances of Cepheids can thus be determined provided
their periods are known. The great distances of the spiral nebule
found by Hubble by this method are most interesting.

Some 300 stars have this general type of variation. The periods
group about one-half day and 10 days. The longest known periods
of this type are about 50 days. ‘Those with periods near one-half day
in length seem to form a separate group. They are of interest be-
cause they have the highest velocities of any stars known in our
Milky Way system. One of them, called VX Herculis, is moving at
a rate of over 250 miles a second, a speed sufficient to take it the whole
distance from the earth to the sun in 4 days’ time.

It may be doubted whether there are any stars which are entirely
constant in brightness. Variation seems to be a relative matter.
Nearly all very red stars appear to vary to a small extent in an
irregular way. Our sun shows small changes in intensity of about
2 per cent, which seem, in general, to follow the sun-spot activity in
an 11-year period, but with considerable irregularity. At certain
times there are also fluctuations within a few days. The spots them-
selves, the facule, and the prominences are continually changing,
and all affect, in some degree, the total amount of radiation given
out. It is safe to say that activities of a similar nature could be
found in the atmospheres of all stars, if we could get within observ-
ing distance; but they are probably more characteristic of dwarf
stars of high density like our sun than of the tenuous giants.

The sun is the only star on which we can actually observe details
of atmospheric activity. On account of its proximity we see its

THE STARS iN ACTION—JOY 189

surface as a disk of considerable size, and with the aid of the tele-
scope we can examine the changes which are going on there. Sun
spots are indicators of the presence of disturbances low down in the
atmosphere of the sun. ‘They are usually accompanied by facule
which are areas of intense activity and high temperature. Even
the fine structure of the solar disk is not at rest but is continually
changing in the attempt to adjust itself to conditions within. The
prominences projecting from the solar atmosphere are perhaps the
most striking of all the phenomena of astronomy. At times they are
thrown up to immense heights, as great as 500,000 miles, at speeds of
200 miles a second or more. Their rapid changes are most fascinat-
ing to the spectator, and their beautiful forms as seen in the deep
red of hydrogen Ha are beyond description. With the spectro-helio-
scope recently devised by Doctor Hale, they can be splendidly seen
even with a small telescope.

When we classify the stars, we find some hot, some relatively cool;
some large, some small; and some light, some heavy. It is natural
for us to ask the question as to what is the life history followed by
stars in the course of their existence. The answer is not as definite
as we might wish, because the process of change is too slow to be ob-
served in the few years of man’s history. It seems most likely that
the solution will be found in connection with the density and mass
sequence which has been observed among the stars. Apparently
stars, in general, begin their visible careers under conditions of low
density and great mass, as well as low temperature. As they con-
tract their density increases and they become hotter, until a maxi-
mum is reached. Then they gradually become cooler again while
continuing to decrease in size. Mass is lost throughout in the form
of radiation. It may be that no one star follows the course outlined
completely, but doubtless that is the direction of stellar progress.
The actual process taking place in a star depends largely on the
state of the atoms composing it. Very different behavior may be
expected, depending on the extent to which the atoms are knocked
to pieces and their rings of electrons removed.

We have not exhausted the story of the activities of the stars when
we have considered merely their movements in space, their light
variations, and the various disturbances which can be observed in
their atmospheres. Recent advances in the interpretation of the be-
havior of the atom have been applied to the conditions within the
stars. Eddington, by a process of masterly mathematical analysis,
has given us a picture of the atomic activities in the interior of stars.
He bases his conclusions on the known physical behavior of the atom
in the laboratory and tests them out in the high temperatures of
the stars. It is true that we can see down into the stars only a few
190 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

miles at most, but from the heat and light pouring forth it is possible
to judge the conditions within. When we plunge below the surface,
it will be necessary for us to change our proportions greatly if we
are to get any idea of what is going on about us. In those regions
we should no longer see the large surface disturbances, such as spots
and prominences, which are measured in thousands and millions of
miles, but all would appear calm and quiet as the depths of the sea.
We would be aware only of increasing temperature and pressure as
we approach the center. If, however, we might be diminished by
some magic draft to one millionth of a millionth of our size or could
see with a microscope that would magnify correspondingly, we
should see a wealth of activity, and we should discover that within
the stars atoms are moving about with speeds of 100 miles per second
and knocking each other about in a most terrific fashion. We should
be bewildered by multitudes of free electrons darting this way and
that with vastly greater velocities. Electrons would be captured
by atoms only to be shoved off again by powerful ether waves or
X rays coming from below with the speed of light. The X rays
would continue on their zigzag upward course, being absorbed and
reemitted as they come in contact with atoms in their path. The
atoms would be entirely stripped of their outer shells of electrons.
After thousands of years, according to Eddington’s computations,
these rays finally reach the surface, and their energy is taken up by
the cooler atoms and sent out to the corners of the universe as light.
Traveling in straight lines for many years they may fall upon our
tiny earth and tell to eager scientists the story of their origin and
escape.

In spite of this indescribable confusion, there would be equilibrium
in the mean at any point within the star. The knocking about of
the atoms and electrons and the outward pressure of radiation,
mostly in the form of X rays, would be just suflicient to support
the outer layers against the force of gravitation, and thus keep the
star from complete collapse. ‘These laboratories of the sky are the
scenes of action beyond anything which we know in the coldness of
our earthly surroundings. They seem strange and mysterious only
because we do not fully understand the processes involved and be-
cause we have been accustomed to an entirely different scale of
dimensions and temperature.

We have passed rapidly from the movements of the stars, which
are the greatest aggregations of matter in our universe, to the mecha-
nism of the atom, which is the smallest complete unit of matter. Our
measurements have changed from thousands of light-years for the
distances between the stars to a billionth of a billionth of a second,
which is the time it takes light to cross the orbit of an electron. ‘The

THE STARS IN ACTION—JOY 191

velocities have varied from the secular contraction of the giant stars
to the velocity of light which Doctor Michelson finds rushes from
Mount Wilson to Mount San Antonio and back more than four
thousand times a second. The masses vary from thirty million times
that of the earth for the most massive stars to 10°°° of the earth’s mass
for an electron.

Yet, in spite of the great diversity of time and space, we find
all matter behaving in an orderly fashion. The activity which is
found everywhere is controlled by the fundamental laws of nature,
which work in the same way, so far as we know, in the stars as on
the earth. In searching out the mechanism of unknown action in the
universe, whether large or small, the scientist finds his pleasure and
privilege. His satisfaction is vastly enhanced if, in addition to not-
ing some significant eccurrence, he can come to understand the under-
lying laws governing its action.
ISLAND GALAXIES!

By A. Vipert Dovuaetas, M. B. E., PH.D.

McGill University, Montreal

[With five plates]

The knowledge that the heavens contain bodies that are neither
planets nor stars is age old, for the keen eyes of the stargazers of
civilizations long since gone did not fail to detect such objects as
the nebulosity in the constellation of Orion and the small, hazy
patch in Andromeda. But the significance of these objects remained
a mystery for many centuries.

With the invention of the refracting telescope by Galileo about
1600, many of the apparently nebulous regions in the Milky Way
were found to be resolvable into separate stars. These are so closely
strewn in the sky that to the unaided eye their light is completely
merged and blended. ‘Toward the end of the seventeenth century the
second great type of telescope was devised by Sir Isaac Newton,
namely, the reflecting telescope, in which the starlight is brought to
a focus not by a lens but by a mirror. About 150 years later, when the
small pioneer telescopes of Galileo and Newton had given place to
large and powerful instruments, Lord Rosse discovered that a cer-
tain nebulous region in the constellation Cannes Venatici when
viewed through his great telescope was not merely a random, hap-
hazard agglomeration, but a cluster of many stars distinctly grouped
in the configuration of a spiral. (Pl. 5.) Thereafter the search
for and discovery of other spiral nebulz became one of the most
fruitful tasks of the astronomer. From that time to the present, as
a result of ever-increasingly powerful instruments, together with the
introduction of photographic methods, many hundreds of spiral
nebulz have been found, and it is estimated that a thorough search of
the entire heavens would disclose hundreds of thousands of them.

Speculation was at once begun. Could it be that all the nebule
were in reality close assemblages of stars requiring only yet more
powerful telescopes to show each star separately ?

1 Reprinted by permission, with alterations, from Discovery, Vol. IX, No. 99, March,
1928.

193
194 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

Sir William Huggins gave the decisive negative answer to this
question—some of the nebule may be great clusters of stars, but
there are others truly named nebule, for they are masses of glowing
gas having the type of spectrum typical of gas whose atoms are
radiating their characteristic quanta of energy.

Such is the nature of the great nebula in Orion and of many
other nebule where vast regions of space are sparsely filled with
gaseous matter. Where these gases are sufficiently excited they
radiate the distinctive wave lengths of light associated with the
atoms and molecules of which they are composed. Thus the spec-
troscopist identifies in these nebular spectra the unmistakable radia-
tions of hydrogen and helium, often also nitrogen and carbon, and
in addition to these he finds intense radiations which until recently
were attributed to an unknown substance called nebulium. The
mystery is now solved by Doctor Bowen, California, who attributes
these radiations to oxygen and nitrogen atoms, radiating in an
unusual manner as a result of their ionized condition and the low
density of the nebule.

The gaseous nebulx are not all sufficiently hot to radiate; some
of them glow only because of the proximity of very bright hot stars;
others are so cool that they absorb all the starlight that falls on them,
thus forming great black patches in the sky. A famous dark nebula
in the region of the Southern Cross is known as the “coal sack.”
A great American observer, the late Professor Barnard, made a
systematic study of these opaque clouds, of which he listed over 180,
varying from very small patches with sharp outlines to the long,
irregular “dark lanes” so striking a feature of the constellation of
Ophiuchus.

We know, then, that of the celestial objects originally called
nebule some are vast clouds of gas occupying regions of space com-
pared with which our solar system is absolutely insignificant; others
are clusters of stars; while yet others, in particular the spiral
nebulz, are composed of both stars and gaseous nebulosity.

For a long time no one had any conception of the immensity of
spiral nebule. They were thought of as comparatively small aggre-
gations of stars within the great assemblage of stars surrounding
our sun in all directions. The authors of the planetesimal theory
drew an analogy between the arms of a spiral nebula and the arms
of gaseous matter which they assumed to have been drawn out from
the surface layers of our sun by the tidal forces produced by a
passing star, these disrupted arms giving rise to the several con-
densations of matter which eventually became the planets of the
solar system. Gradually, however, it became apparent that a spiral
nebula was not to be compared with the solar system, but rather

ISLAND GALAXIES—DOUGLAS 195

with the whole galaxy of stars—our sun and the thousand million
other suns which stud the heavens all around us.

There are known to be many thousand spiral nebulee, and if each
be comparable in size to our whole stellar galaxy it is obvious that
they are not within it. They are in fact ésland galawies. The term
is here used to denote exactly the same thing as the term “island
universes,” which has become so common an expression in American
astronomical writing. Since “universe” is defined as “all that
exists, the creation and the Creator,” its usé in the plural seems unfor-
tunate, especially as the word “galaxy” is quite adequate. Digni-
fying our stellar system by the name “the galaxy”—not merely
because it is the system to which our sun belongs but for the more
logical reason that as yet no other aggregation of stars is known to
be quite as large—it then becomes natural to divide all nebule into
two main classes, termed, respectively, the “galactic” and the
“extragalactic” nebule.

Our galaxy is a gigantic aggregation of stars and gaseous nebule.
It comprises all the stars visible to the naked eye and the many
thousands more revealed by the telescope when used visually. These
numbers are multiplied manyfold by the use of photography when
stars so faint or remote as to be invisible leave the impress of their
images upon the sensitive plate after many hours of exposure. The
study of these photographs, counting the numbers of the stars of
different magnitude or brightness and comparing the numbers in
different parts of the sky, has shown that it is possible to make an
estimate of their number and a representation of their distribution
in space.

Even with the unaided eye it is evident that the distribution of
stars is not spherically symmetrical. All along a great circle in
the heavens the stars are more numerous than elsewhere, and this en-
circling band is called the Milky Way. The photographic plates
reveal the same concentration, and so the Milky Way is called the
galactic plane, while the directions at right angles to this plane,
where the stars are less numerous and on the average less distant,
are termed the galactic poles. Our sun happens to be situated not
far from the center of this great lens-shaped cluster of stars. The
dimensions of the galaxy are so vast as to be best appreciated when
expressed in light-years, the unit so frequently employed by astron-
omers, equivalent to nearly 6,000,000,000,000 miles. Our galaxy is
approximately 100,000 light-years across the galactic plane and about
one-fifth as much measured toward the galactic poles.

In this vast region, at great distances one from another, there are
30,000 million stars, according to the most recent calculations of
Seares and van Rhijn as reported by Dr. C. G. Abbot of the Smith-

sonian Institution, Washington. As these are by no means equi-
196 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

spaced, there are concentrations of stars here and there which, seen
from another part of the galaxy, produce such beautiful effects as
the “star clouds” in Sagittarius or the “ globular clusters” in Her-
cules and other parts of the sky. Within the galaxy, too, filling
great regions of space around and between some of the stars, are the
gaseous nebulze both dark and bright.

Returning now to the extragalactic nebule—the great gaseous ob-
jects and star clusters like islands in a three-dimensional ocean of
space beyond the Milky Way—we are indebted to Dr. E. P. Hubble
of Mount Wilson Observatory for much new knowledge concerning
them. In a recently published paper? he has given the results of a
careful study of 400 such nebula. Some of the extragalactic nebule
show no regularity of shape or structure. ‘These form a subclass by
themselves, and to this class belong the Magellanic Clouds, great
irregular star clouds visible from the Southern Hemisphere like de-
tached portions of the Milky Way, though actually as far away
again. Far more numerous than the irregular nebule are those
having a definite shape or structure, the ellipsoidal and the spiral
nebule. The spectra of the former are so similar to the solar spec-
trum that there is no room for doubt that they are clusters of stars,
even though the individual stars can not be photographed. Possibly
the stars are being gradually condensed out of the gases of which
the nebule were composed, and the residual gases act as envelopes
rendering the star images indistinct.

Some of the nebule are apparently at a transition stage between
ellipsoidal and spiral, while yet others display well-developed spiral
arms. ‘The evidence seems strongly to point toward an evolutionary
process, as a glance at the illustrations will make clear—the gradual
unwinding, the appearance of stars and star streams, the whole vast
process of the development of island galaxies.

With this idea of progressive development in mind, the spiral
nebule are said to be of early, intermediate or late type, according
2s they present the appearance of the uncondensed nebula in Plate
1, or intermediate forms between that and the well-developed, far-
flung, stellar arms so clearly shown in Plates 4 and 5.

The distances of some of the spirals have been determined in a
very interesting way. ‘These spirals contain stars, known as Ce-
pheid variables, whose light is not steady but fluctuates with perfect
regularity, falling slowly from maximum to minimum and then ris-
ing rapidly to maximum. The light cycles usually have periods of
a few hours or a few days. When studying similar stars whose
{rue brightness was known, Miss Leavitt of Harvard Observatory
discovered the fact that the longer the period of light variation the

2 Extragalactic Nebule. E. P. Hubble. Astrophysical Journal, December, 1926.

ISLAND GALAXIES—DOUGLAS 197

greater the intrinsic luminosity of the star. This relation was well
established for the less distant stars, and it seemed so logical to
‘expect stars with identical characteristics to obey the same law,
whether near or far, that it has been applied to stars in these remote
galaxies. From a series of photographs the period of light varia-
tion is found, then the established relation gives the true luminosity,
and this, together with the apparent brightness on the photographs,
gives the necessary data for calculating the distance.

It was by this method that Hubble determined the distance of the
great nebula in Andromeda (PI. 3) to be more than 900,000 light-
years. Another very large, bright spiral in the constellation of 'Tri-
angulum was found by similar means to be at about the same dis-
tance. It is believed, however, that the thousands of fainter spirals
are very much more distant. In Plates 1 and 2 are shown two of the
spirals in the region of the heavens designated by the constellation
named Coma Berenices. Here, and in the adjacent region of Virgo,
spiral nebulz are richly strewn on photographic plates of long ex-
posure, and both Hubble and Shapley have estimated for some of
these no less a distance than 100 million light-years.

In spite of these tremendous distances much can be learned about
the island galaxies, though, of course, the farther away a galaxy is
the less up to date will be the news which the light brings. Thus in
the case of the Andromeda nebula, approximately 1,000,000 light-
years distant, the rays of light which produced the image on the
negative of Plate 3 had been traveling through space for 1,000,000
years, and consequently the picture we see is not the Andromeda
nebula as it is to-day but as it was 1,000,000 years ago.

Just what it is hke now we can only conjecture—probably not so
very different from the picture, for 1,000,000 years is less in the life
of a star than 1 second of time in the average life of a man.

The radial velocities of the brighter nebule can be determined by
means of the spectroscope and show that they are moving through
space with great velocities. ‘The Andromeda nebula is approaching
our galaxy with a velocity of 300 kilometers per second. Most of
the spirals, however, are receding at speeds averaging 600 kilometers
per second.

There are two ways of endeavoring to find out the total mass of a
galaxy, and when two quite independent methods lead to results
which are in good agreement the astronomer feels considerable
confidence in the reliability of his calculations. The first method is
based upon a speculation regarding the ratio of luminous to non-
luminous matter in a galaxy and the theory that the luminosity is
determined by the mass. When the absolute luminosity of a galaxy
is known, its total mass can therefore be calculated. This method

24034—29-——14
198 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

has been used by Opik and gives for the Andromeda nebula a mass
nearly 2,000 million times the mass of an average star like our sun,
The second method depends upon the spectroscopic determination of
the line-of-sight velocity of opposite edges of the nebula. If one
side be found to be approaching and the other side receding, the only
logical conclusion is that the whole nebula is rotating. Now, a rotat-
ing mass will fly asunder by centrifugal force unless some equal
and opposite force holds its members together. If gravitation,
acting toward the center of the nebula, provides this balancing force,
it is possible to calculate the total mass necessary to give rise to the
restraining force required. The period of rotation of the Andromeda
galaxy was found to be 17,000,000 years. From this its mass was
calculated, giving just over 3,000 million suns. The agreement with
Opik’s result is satisfactory.

Our picture of this best-known island galaxy can be briefly summed
up in a few words: A thousand million stars—lke those in our own
galaxy, some larger and some smaller than our sun—and much uncon-
densed gas, all forming the giant spiral nebula traveling through
space at least 300 kilometers per second, and as it travels, slowly ex-
panding and unwinding its spiral arms, while as a whole it is turn-
ing round with solemn, majestic deliberation.

THE EINSTEIN UNIVERSE

Men of science throughout all the ages have been obsessed with
the idea that there is order in the universe. When the great wave of
agnosticism passed over Europe, threatening to sweep the thoughts
of men from all moorings, this fundamental tenet of scientific faith
was the sheet anchor which saved mankind. So deeply implanted
is this belief in natural law and order, that when some facts of
astronomy and physics appeared to be incompatible with the current
conception of the Universe, based as it is on the stately geometry of
Euclid and the Newtonian mechanics, men of science were willing to
consider throwing over the old conception and adopting a new con-
ception suggested by Einstein. This willingness is the more remark-
able when it is remembered that, to the nonmathematical mind, the
four-dimensional space-time universe of Einstein seems mysterious,
fantastic, and unreal. Yet there is already considerable evidence in
its favor, and so, generalizing from his detailed study of 400 galaxies,
Hubble proceeds to evaluate the radius, volume, and mass of the
Kinstein universe.

He calculates first the average density of space. If the matter
forming all the stars and gaseous nebule in our galaxy and in the
400 other galaxies studied by him were to be spread evenly through-
out the space occupied by these galaxies, there would be a density of
matter equivalent to one atom of hydrogen in every 300 cubic feet.

ISLAND GALAXIES—DOUGLAS 199

He then evaluates the radius of curvature of space time, which, accord-
ing to Einstein, depends only upon this average density and two
constants, the velocity of light and the gravitational constant. This
radius comes out to be 5,000 million million astronomical units
(5X10 times the sun-earth distance). This value is a thousand
times greater than that calculated by Silberstein from other relations
and other data available three years ago. Here, perhaps, in reality,
as always metaphorically, the horizon recedes as knowledge increases.

What then is the total amount of matter distributed as stars and
nebule, in clusters and in galaxies, throughout this vast yet finite
universe? To express these figures in words is far too cumbersome,
and so we set them forth in the elegant shorthand used always by
the physicist and the astronomer: If AZ be the total mass of matter
in the Einstein universe, then

M=1.8X 10°" gms.
=9.0 <x 107? suns
=3.510" normal galaxies
In other words, there are about 10°! tons of matter, and were this to
consist only of hydrogen there would be 10*! atoms.

How much real value these stupendous figures have it is impossible
to say. Firstly, they involve the Einstein conception of the uni-
verse, not yet indisputably established.* Secondly, assuming that
the Einstein universe has a real significance, these figures are con-
clusions regarding a universe not one ten-millionth of whose volume
can be explored by even the giant telescope at Mount Wilson Ob-
servatory. Ifthe distance of a galaxy exceed only one six-hundredth
of the radius of curvature above mentioned, no telescope yet con-
structed can detect it. But a-man will judge the world of humanity,
their habits and characteristics, their comings and goings, by his
knowledge of a few score individuals and his passing glimpses of a
few thousand, and his conclusions will not be entirely valueless. So,
too, the astronomer, with reliable knowledge of hundreds of stars
and many nebule, and glimpses of thousands yet more distant, will
not refrain from speculation regarding the vast regions as yet
beyond his ken—the ocean of spacetime studded with 1,000 million
million glorious island galaxies.

3 Indeed there are many who reject the Einstein cosmology in favor of the modifications
proposed by de Sitter, modifications which obviate some of the difficulties inherent in
Finstein’s cosmology. Doctor Silberstein, for example, denies any reality to the above
figures, retaining confidence in his own value of the radius of curvature based upon his
deductions from the de Sitter equations.
ve Adah shee, atl
at one a nite
it eee oe

tir See reas’

‘nat $f

iit OTe eee
‘ tet

sais GEE 2 “ane SHE

i
roth Event (i be an babar eet 8
iia eteie ke’ To taify tsi) att

MV Ss vit Z . nm Fs: cps
UC by a AREY fovte Le 2 drontartonit i ee if

mTitere eee Hie YT af ahytayy te Shere iit "

ri mes ta frente Givaribrorh Hin: 25g ae a
eat wn Le es |
me ee oe
is PT ORE OSTA . Sif hove Co
ye SUITS EST
| ref rates bial mY hte AY rc

nhet oy hit Rie ae Pevet FLEE E a creel o BEER

hE ety HS wee Suen bah sa Ri te BAP tess

Me r
ia, Tyreeryt? teh Bo Dts.
iP baat ff ry vat rh hee
ohne es — ‘ wee “itt ei b ¥ ‘
~ By pts Aj ee] iPad ts al $ {
weet Oe de habia garieh
“*’
. poewses US bw Naty >
‘ ee FAL cre ow } er. wh ‘eget Lae HES -
hy abt Ya agened 4p vokente peas ME esthiee as be

eee! agtf% isla ; oi) Catarina eyes bach aiaalblnds Whee atk
Pssesdts Pegi, wh ted ce Fe goat ott te cee ore ats ae siabiabe 30th si

ne P pate Ry Peery ad are ei
‘ee ae et 34 cule a HOST, ee. oil 7

ts ny ones gat & pul

Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Dougla: PLATE 1

ISLAND GALAXY (M. 64)

An early type spira nebula in the constellation Como Berenices

ISLAND GALAXY (H. V. 24)

Berenices. Five hours’ exposure.

view of a spiral nebula in the constellation Coma

Edge-on

Fovezround st are in our Galaxy and the brighter on es are distorted by overexposure

Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Douglas PLATE 3

THE GREAT NEBULA IN ANDROMEDA (M. 31)

One of the least distant of the Island Galaxies, just visible to the naked eye; it is made up of some
thousand million stars and much gaseous matter, and it is the best known of these bodies
Four hours’ exposure

THE WHIRLPOOL NEBULA (N. G. C. 5194-5)

This spectacular spiral in the constellation Canes Venatici was first carefully

observed by Lord
Rosse and seen to be not merely a mass of glowing gas but an aggregation of many stars

ASTRONOMICAL TELESCOPES 2

By F. G. PEASE

[With seven plates]

Whenever one looks at any object, the crystalline lens in the eye
forms an image of that object on the retina. 'To see a distant object
more plainly and bring it apparently closer, it is necessary to en-
large this image. The instrument which does this is called a tele-
scope. It consists of two optical parts and a mechanical rod or
tube to hold them at the proper distance apart. One of the optical
parts, which may be either a lens or a mirror, forms an image near
the eye, and the other, called the eyepiece, magnifies it. A tele-
scope in which a lens forms the image is called a refractor; one in
which a mirror forms the image, a reflector. The size of the image
is determined by the focal length of the lens or mirror, and the
brightness of the image by its area.

The first telescope of definite record was made by Lippershey in
Holland when he placed a spectacle lens at each end of a tube, and
made terrestrial observations by holding it in the hands or by rest-
ing it upon a stand to steady it. Astronomical observations had, of
course, been made long before, at first with the naked eye, then with
simple measuring sticks held at arm’s length, to be followed by aper-
tures cut in walls, or markings placed on ramps to observe certain
stars. As time passed, the use of graduated circles became common
practice, and just preceding the advent of the telescope came the
type of quadrant described by Hevelius and shown in Plate 2. The
observer sighted the star through the two markers upon the movable
bar which he adjusted up and down, at the same time rotating the
whole quadrant about the vertical post. All that could be done with
these instruments was to chart the relative positions of the stars and
planets with respect to one another.

Upon learning of Lippershey’s “optic tube,” Galileo constructed
such a telescope of two spectacle lenses and a paper tube, and from

1A lecture delivered om Dec, 15, 1927, at the Public Library, Los Angeles, under the
auspices of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific. Reprinted by permission, with
additional illustrations, from the Publications of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific,
Vol. XL, No. 233, February, 1928.
201
202 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

his tower in the hills of Florence, Italy, turned it to the moon and
the planet Jupiter. What he actually saw was but little compared
with what we see to-day, but it was sufficient to stir the foundations
of thought to their very depths. Here was another world with moun-
tains and seas like the earth, and here another planet with not one,
but four, moons circulating around it. We are likely to think of
these developments as ancient history, yet the telescope is a very
recent tool of man, its advent being coincident with the settling of
America’s eastern coast. Sixty-seven years had passed since Cabrillo
had sailed these California shores, Pocahontas had just saved the life
of Capt. John Smith, and the Pilgrims had not yet embarked in the
Mayflower when Galileo made his first telescopic observations in
January, 1610.

Telescopes continued to be made, and though there was little
progress in astronomical observations aside from charting the
features of the moon, sun spots, and the like, the telescope itself
was developed into a highly useful instrument, a step necessary
before its best work could be accomplished. The lens was first
mounted at the upper end of the quadrant bar and the eyepiece
at the lower end. This type of instrument necessitated two mo-
tions, and it was soon found that by tipping the post to point to
the north pole of the heavens, a single motion about the post would
keep the star in view, the post now being called the polar axis.

In this tipped or equatorial instrument the quadrant arm is
developed into a tube with an axis through its center. This axis is
called the declination axis and is adjusted once for all. There are
many variations in the mechanical forms of the axes. In the
English type of mounting, for example, the polar axis is a yoke
with bearings at either end, with the tube swung between its sides.
In the German type, of which the 36-inch Lick telescope is an ex-
ample, the declination axis is attached to the upper end of the polar
axis, the tube being fastened at one end of the declination axis and
a counterweight at the other. In the forked type, as illustrated
by the 60-inch reflector on Mount Wilson, the upper end of the
polar axis above the two bearings is forked, either prong carrying one
end of the declination axis. In the turret type of telescope, with
which Governor Hartness, of Vermont, has spent many a delightful
night, the polar axis is merged into the roof of the observatory,
the light being reflected into the turret by a 45° mirror placed at the
intersection of the declination axis and the tube.

Having at first only simple lenses to work with, astronomers found
that if they wished to increase the size of the lens they must at the
same time increase its focal length. One of Huyghens’ lenses, for
example, was 6 inches in aperture and 210 feet in focal length. ‘These

}
i
|

ASTRONOMICAL TELESCOPES—-PEASE 203

huge telescopes were swung from braced poles by tackle, and from
the pictures we judge that a sight through one of these monsters was
quite a social event. All lenses are subject to faults called aberra-
tions, and it was partly because of these and partly because of the
poor glass made in those early days that astronomers had to make
use of this type of telescope.

Newton, whose name is familiar to us all, believed that these
aberrations could not be removed, and consequently turned his at-
tention to mirrors. His first model was presented to the Royal
Society of London in 1672. Though this telescope itself has rested
idly on the shelves since that time, its spirit has moved in continu-
ously increasing waves through the Herschels, through Lord Rosse,
and through Common, culminating in the beautiful mechanism we
have in the 100-inch Hooker reflector on Mount Wilson. Newton’s
mirror is made of a bronze called speculum, a heavy metal, very
brittle, which whenever it tarnishes must be polished anew in the
optical shop.

Herschel, a musician at the English watering resort of Bath, made
many of these mirrors with his own hands, his largest telescope
having a mirror 4 feet in diameter and a tube 40 feet long. The
observer stood at the upper end and looked down into the tube, the
large mirror being tipped so as to throw the image to one side. With
his telescopes Herschel discovered many nebuls, double stars, and
the planet Uranus.

Zeal such as that of Herschel and his son, John, was also found in
the two great Irish gentlemen, Grubb and Lord Rosse. With no
other help than the workmen on his farm the latter accomplished a
prodigious amount of experimental work on metals, mirrors, and
methods of casting them. Telescope mountings of various sizes
culminated in his 6-foot reflector, with which he discovered that
many of the nebule, of which Messier 51 is an example, are of a
spiral character, his drawing outlining the principal features por-
trayed in our photographs to-day. As a further indication of his
versatility, it may be mentioned that it was Lord Rosse who advised
the English Navy to protect its ships with armor plate. This inno
ration, however, like many others, was too early for the times.

Meanwhile a way had been found to improve the lens, and Dolland
had made his achromatic objectives. Then Fraunhofer, a German
genius, having been taught how to make glass by the younger Gui-
nand, succeded in casting several fine pieces of glass and fashioning
them into a lens of very high precision, the curves for which he
‘alculated himself. We can picture Fraunhofer in his laboratory
making his disks of glass into prisms and lenses and then passing
the rays of the sun and a few of the brighter stars through his
2()4 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

spectroscope, discovering the numerous dark lines now known as the
Fraunhofer lines.

Through the addition of a means for moving the telescope con-
tinuously in right ascension, the mechanism reached a state in which
the observer could devote his thoughts and attention solely to his
work, and a great increase in the accuracy of measurements resulted.
Most telescopes are turned with a mechanical driving clock, but

oe

MIRROR

LENS

Figure 1.—Action of a lens and a concave mirror on parallel light

to-day some are electrically driven. In the mechanical clock the
essential parts are a falling weight or an unwinding spring whose
rate of descent or release is regulated by a governor through a train
of gears. Foucault designed many of these governors, but the prin-
ciple in all of them is the introduction of a slight amount of resist-
ance to regulate the fall of the weights. The governor used in all our
telescopes on Mount Wilson is patterned after the one designed by

ASTRONOMICAL TELESCOPES—PEASE 205

Warner and Swasey for use in their large refractors. Years of
use have proved its superiority to any others we have yet tried.

Perhaps the final factor which enables us to build the large instru-
ments we have to-day is the silver-on-glass mirror. The fact that
we can take a piece of glass such as the 100-inch disk and cut the
curve in its surface once for all is a matter of very great importance.
The glass forms the permanent curve, but it is actually the very thin
silver film that is the opaque reflector. Unlike the speculum mirrors,
the reflecting surface is very easily replaced without the least injury
to the curve or the mirror disk itself. The silvering of the 100-inch
disk, for example, is accomplished by removing the mirror in its
cell from the telescope and lowering it by an elevator into the silver-
ing room below. A metal band is wrapped around the edge of the
mirror, forming a vessel or bowl. The old siiver film is removed with
acid, the mirror is washed, and then a fresh film precipitated from
a solution poured into the bowl. Waste solutions are drained off
through the spout into a large tank below. A thorough burnishing
with chamois skin and rouge removes from the film any trace of
whiteness which may form during the silvering.

Let us now study the optical parts of a telescope in order to under-
stand them a little better. We have two methods of forming optical
images. In one the light passes through a transparent lens, while
in the other the material is opaque and lght is reflected from its
surface. We take advantage of the fact that light travels more
slowly in transparent solids than in air and that by placing differ-
ent thicknesses in the beam we can retard one portion with respect
to another. To form an image, all the rays in a parallel beam must
reach the focus at the same time. As illustrated in Figure 1, the
outermost ray naturally has to travel a greater distance, so very little
glass is put in its path. A little further in, the beam is not bent so
much; hence the angle of the prism is made less, and at the center the
glass has parallel surfaces. Notice that as we approach the center we
make the glass thicker and thicker. If we were skillful enough, we
could take a very large number of pieces of glass and place them
together; but we can do still better—we shall use only one piece of
glass and make the surfaces such as to imitate the action of all the
individual prisms. For our ordinary lenses the curve we use is a
sphere, as it is most easily made with our grinding tools.

In the case of a mirror (fig. 1) we want the parallel light to reach
the focus by equivalent paths, so we take a number of small mirrors
and place them so that all the total distances are the same. Notice
that the outer ones are brought forward a little and tipped differ-
ently with respect to one another and to the inner one which is
squared on. If we should replace the small blocks of glass by a
single piece and grind a surface to imitate the action of the separate
206 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

mirrors, the resulting curve would be a paraboloid, and it is this
surface which our amateurs are seeking when they attempt a perfect
mirror,

Light of all colors is reflected by a mirror at the same angle, so
that the image appears in natural colors. In passing through a
single lens, however, the blue or shorter wave lengths are bent more
than the red rays and come to a shorter focus. This defect, called
chromatic aberration, makes the image formed by a simple lens not a
single clear picture but a sharp image of one color surrounded by a
halo of all the remaining colors. The reader can see this for him-

LENS

ABERRATION
SPHERICAL CHROMATIC

Sa ii ee MIRROR
a Oe

Figure 2.—Aberrations of a lens

self by holding a reading glass between an incandescent lamp and
the wall and moving it slightly back and forth.

A single lens with spherical curves has also another defect which
we call spherical aberration. If you cover first the center, then the
rim, of your lens, you will find a difference in focus for images even
of the same color. By choosing the proper curves this difference can
be greatly reduced. Both of these aberrations require a second lens
to bring the multiple images to a common focus,

To-day we may choose from the glass manufacturers’ lists two
glasses which have nearly the same relative dispersion or spreading

ASTRONOMICAL TELESCOPES—PEASE 207

of the spectrum, but which deviate or bend the rays by different
amounts. Two prisms of like material and angle can be placed so
as to produce a colorless beam, but they will have no power of
altering the initial direction of the beam. Two prisms of unlike
materials and different angles properly chosen will produce a nearly
colorless beam and still have the power of converging the rays to a
focus. By expanding these prisms into a convex and a concave lens
we obtain an achromatic lens, giving an image practically free from
color.

The central image formed by a paraboloidal mirror is perfect,
but near the edge of the field of view the images are elongated
toward the center. This defect—coma, as the optician calls it—-
limits the size of the picture, but until further improvements are
made we shall continue to use the paraboloidal reflector for large
telescopes.

To-day the telescope is more -than the simple instrument through
which one looks at the heavens. The only way in which we can
make contact with the stars is to gather the radiations which they
send us and study the messages they bring. The lens or mirror
gathers these radiations and with them forms an image. This
image we examine not only with the eyepiece but with all the
modern auxiliary attachments such as plate holders, spectrographs,
photometers, and bolometers. With them we can learn many facts
about the stars, their chemical composition, sizes, masses, and den-
sities, their distances and shapes, their temperatures and their ages.
and how much longer they will probably live.

Much of the work formerly done with the eyepiece is now accom-
plished by photography. ‘The telescope is a huge camera, the tube
being the camera box. ‘The eyepiece having been removed, the plate
is placed directly at the focus where the various parts of the image
affect it according to their brightness. Exposure times vary greatly ;
some for photometric work are of but a second’s duration, while
those for a star cluster may continue for 8 or 10 hours. Photo-
graphs of the moon and planets take from a half second to several
seconds, and more if a color screen is used. One advantage that the
photographic plate has over the eye is the ability to accumulate the
effects of the hght. Our pictures of nebule accordingly show mar-
velous structures not visible in the eyepiece.

The second far-reaching event in the history of astronomy took
place when Sir William Huggins attached a spectroscope to_ his
telescope and viewed the spectrum of many stars. The telescope
alone taught us that there are other worlds than ours; the telescope
and the spectroscope together, that all these worlds are made of the
same materials as the earth.
208 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

Spectroscopic work developed rapidly, and to-day more than
half of all astronomical observation is in this fascinating depart-
ment. From the spectrum one learns practically all that he could
learn were the star in his own laboratory; even more, for there are
stars whose temperatures exceed any we know on the earth, and in
studying these fiery caldrons the astronomer finds many a strange
and often uncanny result. He discovers materials so vanishingly
thin that our lowest vacua are very high-pressure affairs by com-
parison; materials so heavy that a cubic inch weighs a ton. He tells
us of the extraordinary velocities with which some of the celestial
bodies move, for example, the whirling nebula in Virgo. <A spec-
trum exposed for 80 hours shows the nebula receding at a velocity
of 730 miles a second, while at the same time it is spinning around
with a velocity of 205 miles a second at a point 2 minutes of are
from the center.

To measure the total energy of the stars, a thermocouple or
bolometer is used, and readings are automatically recorded on
moving plates.

The Michelson interferometer is the most recent instrument added
to the telescope, and with it we measure the diameter of the stars.
A large steel beam carrying four mirrors is placed at the upper
end of the tube. The whole end of the tube is covered except for
two apertures underneath the central mirrors. The observer sits
at the eyepiece (see pl. 1) manipulating a small glass wedge until
dark lines appear across the star’s image. As he gradually sepa-
rates the outer mirrors on the beam these black lines or fringes dis-
appear. Measuring the separation of the mirrors, he calculates the
angular size of the star, and knowing its distance he computes its
linear diameter. The first star thus measured was Betelgeuse, the
bright red star in the right shoulder of Orion. It proved to have
a diameter comparable with that of the orbit of Mars, but by measures
of Mira and Antares has since been given third place in size.

For solar work many telescopes are of small aperture and long
focal length. In the horizontal telescope the tube is laid along the
ground, so to speak, and sunlight is reflected into it all day by a
rotating mirror called a coelostat. In the 150-foot tower telescope on
Mount Wilson the tube stands vertically, however, and the light is
directed through it by mirrors at its upper end. The observer works
in a house at the foot of the tower, while below him is a pit 80 feet
deep in which the spectrograph is placed. The image of the sun
formed by this tower telescope is 17 inches in diameter, and the spec-
trum produced by its spectrograph is 20 feet or more long. The sun
is a vast globe of incandescent gases having a temperature at the
surface of about 6,000°. Metals and other substances which are
solids on the earth appear there in the form of vapors, and vast

ASTRONOMICAL TELESCOPES—PEASE 209

storms sweep the surface. These storms, called sun spots, are so huge
that the earth would be lost in some of them.

Those of us who spend not only the long watches of the night but
weeks of nights exposing the same plate upon the same object realize
what a great boon it would be to obtain these same photographs in
a much shorter time, or rather to spend the same time upon a spec-
trum of greater scale or upon fainter stars and nebule about which
we have comparatively little direct knowledge. No search for the
pole could be of more interest to the explorer than are the problems
of celestial objects to the astronomer. Many of them are so far
away that our telescopes are not powerful enough for us to decide
whether they are clusters or nebulx, but we shall not rest satisfied
until we learn their true character. Back in the seventeenth century
Hevelius made drawings of the moon, engraving nearly 100 of them
on copper plates himself, showing the moon at its various phases.
Note the accuracy of his drawing, Plate 4, Figure 1, so far as general
features are concerned, the streaks radiating from some of the crat-
ers, the dark seas, the mountain ranges, and compare them with our
best photographs to-day. We will admit that the photographic por-
trayal of the moon’s features is splendid and that when we look at
an individual crater such as Copernicus the amount of detail is great.
But imagine that we could step into Jules Verne’s projectile and
pay a visit to the moon, see it closely with its rills and valleys, its
craters and mountain peaks. Would it not be worth the while?
Actually we can not do this at present, but we may get all the
thrills by building a telescope of greater aperture which will bring
the image of the moon nearer to us.

For many years we have been studying the problems of very large
telescopes. With the interferometer we have examined atmospheric
disturbances over regions 20 feet in diameter and can definitely say
that there is very little difference in the effect on the image between
beams of starlight 4 feet apart and 20 feet apart. Experience in
building our present machines and designing still larger ones shows
that the construction of such telescopes is, with all the increased
facilities of to-day, but a piece of straightforward work, no more
difficult than were others in their day.

Machine shops are equipped with tools of ample capacity to finish
all required parts of large size or weight. Powerful cranes will lift
our materials and place them at our command. Precision bearings
of a size we need have already been tried on our 14-inch seacoast guns
and found to stand all that we ask of them. Many times you have
seen trucks, carrying large safes and castings, guns, and turbines,
rolling along our streets as though the movement of a weight of
100 tons were an every-day affair. A dome of any size is fabricated
as easily as our large steel buildings or ships. Its movement on
210 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

trucks can be made so smooth that its motion does not disturb the
telescope in the least.

If we require special steels or alloys, the assortment we are offered
is far larger than we can use. The pyrex glassmaker with his huge
tank furnaces stands ready at any moment to let the molten glass
flow into the mold, there to cool slowly for months to prevent all
strain. Rough-ground and edged, the glass can be raised by means
of special lifting apparatus and placed on its bed of counterweighted
supports, there to remain until the optician has polished its surface
and given it the last touches necessary to converge the star’s light
into an image smaller in angular size than any ever seen before.

SKETCH OF A TWENTY-FIVE FOOT REFLECTING TELESCOPE

F.G.PEASE MOUNT WILSON OBSERVATORY
PASADENA -CALIFORNIA ~- NOVEMBER 17,1927

SCALE ONE-SIATEENTH INCH = ONE FOOT
—<—t tt ei $0 FEET

Ficure 3.—Sketch of 25-foot reflecting telescope

In the August, 1926, number of these Publications* was shown a
design for a 25-foot reflector planned with a view to making the
changes from one attachment to another a matter of only a few
moments’ time. The observer would stand on a platform just below
the opening in the large mirror itself, with practically all of the
instruments at hand. The plate holder, spectrographs, photometer,
and thermocouple would be mounted each upon a bracket capable of
being swung into position with ease. If the night were not good
enough for fine nebular photography, five minutes’ change would

4 Publications of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific.

ASTRONOMICAL TELESCOPES—PEASE ZV 1

find him at work with the spectrograph or some other instrument
which did not require the best seeing.

In Figure 3 is shown an alternative design for a 25-foot reflector
which could be used at all the various foci now employed in the 60
and the 100 inch reflectors. The mounting is essentially the same
as in the previous design, the principal changes being in the cages
and in the dome. The cage shown hanging on the crane is the focal-
plane cage. In it the observer would sit, carried along in the tele-
scope, exposing his plates directly in the focus of the large mirror
without loss of light by a second reflection, thereby gaining every
possible bit of light for the faintest nebule and stars. Below the
mirror is shown an observer with the instruments best adapted for
use at the Cassegrain focus. At either end of the telescope pier there
would be a well connected with a constant-temperature room below,
which would permit the Coudé focus to be utilized. The rapid
change of cages would require a suitable overhead crane. Were
we to use such a crane as we now have in the curved dome of the
100-inch Hooker telescope, its weight would have to be counter-
balanced and its motion very slow. In a cylindrical dome as shown
the crane has a straight travel and a direct hoist, and fast speeds
could be used. With a pyrex mirror, easily made to-day, and an
invar-steel tube, the images would not only be smaller on account
of the larger aperture but they would remain so because the curvature
of the mirror would change so little with temperature.

Thus far our great reflectors have been used for observations of
planets, stars, and nebule, but not of the sun. The domes are double
walled to keep out the heat of day; the mirrors are inclosed in insu-
lated walls to prevent more than a degree of change in their tem-
perature. Should we succeed, however, in making a mirror of fused
quartz, we could use the telescope for solar work as well. A giant
telescope would then yield a double return, because we could utilize
its power both day and night.
_
+ =
*
=
>) =
40
i
‘

het

ad

AS tot 0 |

i

> P5)

DrAOPEr

‘ a

=

> a

ea .

i 2

— .~ rie

 S =

a .

7.
:
SS

Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Pease

DocToR PEASE OBSERVING WITH

PLATE

1

THE 100-INCH HOOKER TELESCOPE
Smithzonian Report, 1928.—Pease PLATE 2

=
ASbert hel

ROTATING QUADRANT OF HEVELIUS, MADE BY GUNTER, 1659
)T YIIM “CZ6l

LOJOI oI YOU

$% ISNSNY ALOYVALOSGG UOS[IAA JUNOPY 9V apeypy

IOPOFOI YOUL-N9 YILM ALOJVAIOSGGO WOSTI A, JUNOTY 7B opeyy
SYHNOH OML 3AYNSOdxXy

(vd “O “DO 'N ‘LE W OGl 5D) SADVN] YVLS OLNI ALISOT SYNOH SAI4Y AYNSOdXy ‘(9blG Il ‘O ']
-NGAN SONIAIOSSY ‘VOAWOYUGNY NI NOIDSY AO HdVYDOLOH, 'S ‘69 5D) SANDAD NI VWINEAN YVINDAYYH| 4O HdVHDOLOHd ‘|

€ 3ALlvW1d ase

d—'8Z61 ‘Hoday uBluOsYyyIWwS

)
AYOLVAYASEO
MOIT FHL LV S3aVIAJ NOOW TINA AHL AO HdVYDOLOHd °% SNITSASH Ad NOOW TINA AHL AO ONIMVERG ‘1

07

b ALVId aseagd—'gzbl ‘Moday uBluosUu}WS
Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Pease PLATE 5

1. PHOTOGRAPH OF GLOBULAR NEBULA OR STAR CLUSTER IN VIRGO (G. 105,
M 87, N. G. C. 4486), EXPOSURE TWo Hours

Made at Mount Wilson Observatory February 26, 1920, with 100-inch reflector

2, PHOTOGRAPH OF JUPITER

Made at the Mount Wilson Observatory with 100-inch telescope

Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Pease PLATE 6

er.
i Pay
® ‘

1. THE 100-INCH MIRROR OF THE HOOKER TELESCOPE IN THE SILVERING ROOM
WITH SILVERING BAND AND SPOUT ATTACHED, MOUNT WILSON OBSERVATORY

=F
:

2. RAILS, TRUCKS, AND FRAMEWORK OF BALCONY OF THE DOME FOR HOOKER

TELESCOPE, MOUNT WILSON OBSERVATORY

AYOLVAYHASEO
NOSTIM LNNOIW ‘WALSAS ONILYOddNS AHL OLNO 3d00S
S3d00SaTaL LAYYNL SSANLYVH AHL ‘S% “A131 YaANOOH AHL SAO YOUUIIA) HONI-OOL SHL ONIYSMO7 ‘1

|

x

IN

pf hme TY) fe — Se
o
NEW RESULTS ON COSMIC RAYS?

By R. A. MinnikAN and G. H. CAMERON

[With one plate]

The cosmic radiation is defined as that small portion of the “ pene-
trating radiation ” which is of cosmic origin. The main purpose of
this paper is to present a preliminary report upon some very recent
work which throws new light upon the properties of these extraor-
dinary rays, and shows that still harder ones exist than had hereto-
fore been found, rays capable of penetrating 190 feet of water, or
about 16.7 feet (5 meters) of lead, before being completely absorbed.

Since doubts have been expressed as late as last summer by some
of the foremost of living physicists as to whether or not there are
any rays which have as yet been definitely proved to be of cosmic
origin, and since up to this moment different observers of undoubted
credentials, such as Swann,? Hoffmann,? Kolhérster, and ourselves
differ in some cases as much as eight or ten fold in our estimates of
the intensity of the cosmic radiation if it exists, our first task will
be to present very briefly the nature of the evidence up to the time of
these experiments and then to see how the new results supplement
this evidence.

This procedure will have the further advantage of presenting a
very beautiful illustration of the slow, step-by-step process by which
most advances in science are made, each experimenter building on
the past, but pushing on, if he is fortunate, a little beyond where his
predecessors had gone, until presently the world finds itself in the
full glory of a new conception of nature without having been con-

1This article is made up from several recent papers by the authors; the first part,
down to page 222, being the substance of an evening discourse, with additions, delivered
by Professor Millikan at Leeds, on Sept. 2, 1927, during the meeting of the British Asso-
ciation, is reprinted by permission from the Supplement to Nature, No. 3036, Jan. 7, 1928.

2Swann, Phys. Rev. (29, 872; 1927), finds the ionization due to such rays on the summit
of Pikes Peak to be 0.75 per c. ¢. per sec. per atmosphere, while we found them in the
same place to be close to 5 ions. °

3 Hoffmann, Ann. der Physik (82, 418; 1927), finds the ionization at sea level 0.29 per
ce. c. per sec. on the assumption, taken from Kolhérster’s 1926 findings (Zeit. f. Physik,
36, 147; 1926), that the absorption coefficient isinyariant and of value »~H2:0=22X10-3 em,
We, on the other hand (Phys. Rey., 28, 851; 1926), found the absorption coefficient
definitely variable (the rays therefore inhomogeneous), and the ionization at lea level
1.4 ions.

24034—29——_15 213
214 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

scious of any particular instant at which the dawn came. Since the
days of Greek mythology, very few discoveries have sprung full-
grown out of the brain of anyone.

EARLY WORK ON COSMIC RAYS

A starting point in the study of the very “ penetrating radiations”
near the earth’s surface was made in 1903, when these rays were
brought to light and named by McLennan,‘ Rutherford,’ and their
collaborators, who found that the rates of discharge of electroscopes
could be very markedly reduced by surrounding them with successive
screens of lead several centimeters thick, thus showing that rays
existed in the atmosphere capable of penetrating such thick screens,
and therefore appropriately named the “ penetrating radiations.”

The next important step was taken by the Swiss physicist Gockel,°
who in 1910 first took an inclosed electroscope in a balloon to a height
of 4,500 meters and found, contrary to expectation, that the radiation
was higher at this altitude than at the surface, a fact which at once
suggested that all of it, at least, was not of terrestrial origin, but
that a part of it came into the earth’s atmosphere from above, an
idea which had been put forward by O. W. Richardson’ so early as
1906.

During the next four years, Hess * in Austria and then Kolhorster®
in Germany made other flights like Gockel’s, checked his results, and
rendered them more quantitative, Kolhérster taking balloon readings
up to 9,000 meters and finding the discharge rate decreasing slightly
up to about 1,000 meters and then increasing, until at 9,000 meters it
was some seven times as great as at the surface—more accurately,
80 ions more than at the surface, since it was this difference which he
reported rather than the readings themselves.

The war put a stop for a while to further advances, but in the
fall of 1921 and the spring of 1922 Millikan and Bowen" took the
next important step by building and sending up recording electro.
scopes in sounding balloons to a height of nearly 10 miles—15,506
meters—more than nine-tenths of the way to the top of our atmos-
phere, measured by the fraction of the air left below. ‘These flights
checked the results of the European observers in indicating an in-
creasing discharge rate up to that height, though the new observed
rate was very much less than had been computed from the afore-
mentioned observations up to 9,000 meters; thus showing that the

*McLennan and Burton, Phys. Rev., 16, 184; 1903.

5 Rutherford and Cooke, Phys. Rev., 16, 183; 1908.

6 Gockel, Phys. Zeit., 11, 280; 1910.

7 Richardson, Nature, 73, 607; 74, 55; 1906.

8 Hess, Phys. Zeit., 12, 998; 1911; and 13, 1084; 1912.

® Kolhérster, Phys. Zeit., 14, 1153; 1913; and Verh. d. Deut. Phys. Ges., July 30, 1914.
10 Millikan and Bowen, Phys. Rey., 22, 198; 1923; and 27, 353; 1926.

COSMIC RAYS—MILLIKAN AND CAMERON 215

“penetrating rays,” 7f they came from above, were actually more
penetrating than had been supposed up to that time. Since if the
rays come in from above, the ionization inside airtight electroscopes
must increase exponentially—that is, geometrically with the distance
of rise toward the top of the atmosphere—these very high flights
were, and are now, especially significant. They place very certain
and very definite upper limits upon the absorption coefficients of the
rays entering the atmosphere, if there are in fact such rays.

The fact, however, that the total discharge of the electroscopes in
these flights was but about one-fourth what it should have been
from the absorption coefficients, computed on the cosmic ray hypothe-
sis from the data of Hess and of Kolhérster, suggested some other
cause for the phenomenon. Tor up to this time the increasing rate
of discharge with altitude was the chief if not the sole phenomenon
upon which the hypothesis of rays of cosmic origin rested. But
other alternatives were possible and had indeed been suggested; such,
for example, as radioactive particles of unknown origin spread
through the upper regions of the atmosphere. Such an alternative
could be tested definitely by making direct measurements of the
coefficients of absorption of the penetrating rays rather than at-
tempting to compute these coeflicients as had heretofore been done,
on the assumption that the rays entered the atmosphere from above.
For if the rays were of radioactive origin, they would not be
expected to be appreciably harder than those of the known radio-
active substances such as thorium D or radium C.

The next step was taken during summer of 1928, when Kolhérster ™
in Europe and Millikan and Otis’? in America independently made
the first direct absorption measurements with materials other than
the atmosphere itself—the former in Alpine glaciers and in shallow
bodies of water at sea level, the latter in thick lead screens carried
to the top of Pikes Peak—for the sake of throwing new light on the
possible origin of the penetrating rays.

Kolhérster reported as a result of his glacier experiments an ab-
sorption coefficient of 0.25 per meter of water, or about half that
previously found, namely, 0.55, thus eliminating the discrepancy
between the findings from his balloon flights and our sounding bal-
loon experiments. He states in the paper describing this work that
his experiments prove definitely the existence of gamma rays of
about one-tenth the absorption coefficient of the hardest known
gamma rays (4.1 per meter of water) ,’* but speaks with reserve about
their origin. He says, after discussing various alternatives, that
“one inclines more and more of late to the view that the penetrating

11 Kolhérster, Sitz. Ber. d. Preuss. Akad., 34, 366, Dec. 20, 1923.
2 Millikan and Otis, Phys. Rev., 23, 778; April, 1924. Also 28, 851; 1926.
18 Radioactivity, Bull. Nat. Res. Council, Kovarik and McKeehan, p. 114, 1925.

216 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

rays are a phenomenon the origin of which is to be sought in the
cosmos.” +4

Millikan and Otis, on the other hand, concluded from their new
Pikes Peak absorption data that if any of the penetrating rays which
they found on the Peak were of cosmic origin they had to be more
penetrating, or less strong, than corresponded even with the reduced
values now found by Kolhorster, namely, 2 ions at sea level, absorp-
tion coefficient 0.25 per meter of water. The mean coefficient of the
radiation which they found on Pikes Peak was but slightly less
than that of thorium D, and a large part of it was certainly of local
origin. They brought to light in these experiments no new evidence
for the existence of rays of cosmic origin. Indeed, up to 1925,
there appears from the literature to have been no feeling of certainty
in any quarter that the existence of rays of cosmic origin had been
proved. The increase in ionization in closed vessels up to nearly
10 miles was an undoubted fact, and Kolhorster’s glacier experiments
were favorable to the cosmic ray interpretation; but the possibilities
of the radioactive contamination of a glacier are not small, nor do
its irregular shape and proximity to land masses adapt it well to
trustworthy absorpticn-coefficient measurements. Further, Hoff-
mann, in Germany, with an extraordinarily fine technique, had in
1925 pronounced against the existence of rays of cosmic origin.
Also in America, Swann '® was convinced that the work of himself
and his collaborators with the ionization in vessels at pressures up to
75 atmospheres was incompatible with the cosmic ray interpretation
of the penetrating radiation.

OBSERVATIONS IN MOUNTAIN LAKES

‘In 1925, however, Millikan and Cameron got unambiguous evi-
dence from their own point of view of a penetrating radiation which
had to be of cosmic origin. It was indeed weaker and more pene-
trating than had corresponded to preceding estimates, having an
ionizing power at sea level of but 1.4 ions per cubic centimeter per
second, an absorption coefficient which became as small as 0.18 per
meter of water, and a definite spectral distribution, the longest wave
lengths found having a value, computed from A. H. Compton’s
formula, A=0.00063 A, the shortest 0.00038 A. This last is but one-
thirtieth the wave length of the very hardest gamma rays.

144‘‘Neuerdings neigt man immer mehr der Ansicht zu die Hodhenstrahlung als eine
Erscheinung aufzufassen, deren Ursprung im Kosmos zu suchen ist.’’ Again: “ Da fiir
die erstere Auffassung der Héhenstrahlung ais einer aus den héheren Atmosphirenschich-
ten stammenden bisher keinerlei direkta Andeutung gefunden wurde, so sprechen die
augenblicklichen Verhiiltnisse mehr zugunsten einer kosmischen Erkliirung.”

18 Hoffmann, Phys. Zeit., 26, 40, 669; 1925.

16 Downey, Phys. Rev., 20, 186; 1922. Fruth, Phys. Rev., 22, 109; 1923.
COSMIC RAYS—MILLIKAN AND CAMERON FAL

These experiments consisted in sinking sealed electroscopes in
deep, high-altitude, snow-fed lakes, and thus finding, to take a par-
ticular case, that the ionization in Muir Lake (altitude 11,800 feet
or 3,590 meters) decreased steadily with depth from 13.3 ions per
cubic centimeter per second at the surface to 3.6 ions at 60 feet (18
meters) below the surface, below which point there was no further
measureable decrease with instruments of such sensibility as were
being used. Zhis was the first time the zero of an electroscope—the
reading with all external radiations, both local and cosmic, com-
pletely cut out—had been definitely determined, and the results
accordingly began to show that it was possible to make with cer-
tainty determinations of the absolute amount of the penetrating
radiation.

Up to the point to which we have thus far described the experi-
ment, it proved merely either the existence at the surface of the
lake of a penetrating radiation so hard as to be able to penetrate 60
feet (18 meters) of water before becoming completely absorbed, or
else a very strange distribution of radioactivity in the water of the
lake. We therefore tested the radioactivity of the water and found
it immeasurably smali, not one-hundredth part of the activity of
ordinary tap water in Pasadena.

Next, by taking similar readings in another deep, snow-fed lake,
300 miles farther south and having an altitude 6,700 feet (2,060
meters) lower, we found a similar curve, but with each reading dis-
placed just 6 feet upward. But 6 feet of water was exactly the
equivalent in absorbing power, where the mass absorption law holds,
of the layer of atmosphere lying between the altitudes 11,800 feet
(3,590 meters) and 5,100 feet (1,530 meters).

These experiments, supplemented by later similar findings in other
lakes, therefore proved definitely three things:

First, that the effects in Muir Lake had not been due to any
radioactivity which happened to be distributed in the water in
a particular way.

Second, that the source of the rays was not at all in the layer of
atmosphere between the two altitudes, for this layer acted in every
particular like an absorbing blanket, having precisely the absorption
that it should have if the rays came in wholly from above.

Third, that in different localities 300 miles apart, north and south,
the rays were ewactly alike at the same altitudes.

These facts, combined with the further observation made both
before by Hess (loc. cit.) and others and at this time by ourselves,
that within the limits of our observational error the rays
came in equally from all directions of the sky, and_ supple-
mented finally by the facts that the observed absorption coeffi-
cient and total cosmic ray ionization at the altitude of Muir Lake
predict satisfactorily the results obtained in the 15.5-kilometer bal-
218 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

loon flight—all this constitutes pretty unambiguous evidence that the
high-altitude rays do not originate in our atmosphere, very certainly
not in the lower nine-tenths of it, and justifies the designation “ cos-
mic rays,” the most descriptive and the most appropriate name yet
suggested for that portion of the penetrating rays which come in
from above. We shall discuss just how unambiguous the evidence
is at this moment after having presented our new results.

These represent two groups of experiments, one carried out in
Bolivia in the high Andes at altitudes up to 15,400 feet (4,620
meters) in the fall of 1926, and the other in Arrowhead Lake and
Gem Lake, Calif., in the summer of 1927.

PENETRATING RADIATION IN. THE HIGH ANDES

The experiments in the high Andes had four prime objectives as
follows: (1) To see whether in lakes in the Southern Hemisphere
the altitude-ionization curve would coincide with that found in lakes
in the Northern Hemisphere. This curve was particularly sensitive
in the very high altitude lakes obtainable in the high Andes, and
the spectral distribution found in 1925 could be more accurately
tested. If the Northern Hemisphere and the Southern Hemisphere
curves coincided, it would go a long way toward eliminating the
possibility that the rays are generated by the incidence of high-speed
beta rays on the very outer layers of our atmospheres—about the
only hypothesis which could put the source of these rays in the last
tenth of the air about the earth. For such beta rays would be ex-
pected to be influenced by the earth’s magnetic field so as to generate
stronger radiation over the poles than over the Equator. In latitude
17° S. we should be completely screened from such pole effects, par-
ticularly if we could get into suitable high-altitude pockets in the
mountains. (2) To obtain further crucial tests of the C. T. R.
Wilson hypothesis that these rays may be due to the integration of
the effects of the impact in the earth’s atmosphere of electrons en-
dowed with many millions of volts of energy acquired in thunder-
storms. Lakes in suitable pockets in the high Andes would be com-
pletely screened from such effects. Also, a comparison of the rays
found in thunderstorm areas with those found in large regions like
California which are comparatively free from thunderstorms might
furnish check observations upon this point. (8) By determining, as
outlined above, the zero readings of new electroscopes to obtain new
checks on our value of the ionization due to the cosmic rays at sea
level, a quantity upon which as yet there have been wide divergences
between the results of different experimenters. (4) To get into suit-
able pockets or valleys in very high mountains where the rays are
three or four times as intense as at sea level, and there to make more
trustworthy tests on directional effects in cosmic rays—in particular

Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Millikan and Cameron PLATE 1

1. LAKE MIGUILLA, BOLIVIA. ALTITUDE, 15,000 FEET (4,500 METERS), ABOUT
2,000 FEET LONG, 700 FEET WIDE, AND 175 FEET DEEP

J

2. THE TYPE OF ELECTROSCOPE SUNK TO DEPTHS OF 200 FEET BEFORE ITS
READINGS BECAME CONSTANT AT 2.4 IONS(/C.C./SEC. READINGS AT SuR-
FACE, 33.6 IONS/C.C./SEC.
COSMIC RAYS—-MILLIKAN AND CAMERON 219

to see whether the Milky Way is more or less effective than other
portions of the sky in sending these rays into the earth.

On all these four points we obtained, despite unfortunate accidents
with two of the electroscopes, satisfactory and definite information.

As to (1), we obtained on the surface of Lake Titicaca (altitude
12,540 feet or 8,822 meters) readings which corresponded very nicely
with similar ones taken at Muir Lake, Calif. Also, in Lake Miguilla,
near Caracoles, Bolivia (altitude 15,000 feet or 4,500 meters), we
obtained readings which fell satisfactorily on the extrapolated Muir
Lake curve. If, then, there are any geographical differences in the
altitude-ionizatién curve, they are beyond the limits of our present
observational technique.

As to (2), Lake Miguilla is a small lake surrounded on all sides by
mountains several thousand feet high. It would be completely
shielded from rays having their origins in thunderstorms anywhere
on the earth. Further, off the coast of Central America we took a
long series of readings in the wireless room on shipboard on a night
on which a brilliant display of lightning was going on along the
coast, and we compared the results with readings taken on the
California coast, which is almost entirely free from thunderstorms,
without bringing to light the slightest difference. The C. T. R.
Wilson hypothesis is therefore quite definitely eliminated.

As to (3), we took the zeros of two of our electroscopes by sinking
them to sufficient depths and then made an elaborate series of sea-
level observations on tlfe ship all the way from Mollendo, Peru, to
Los Angeles. We found no variation in sea-level reading with geo-
graphical position, and but slight differences between the ionizations
in different instruments, though they had volumes nearly in the ratio
1 to 2 and different sorts of walls. The mean value of the sea-level
ionization thus directly observed was but a few tenths of an ion
above the mean of the sea level cosmic ray ionizations given by the
two curves of our preceding report. These curve-values were 1.4
for electroscope No. 1, and 1.6 for electroscope No. 3—mean value
1.5, which is thus checked approximately, though not yet accurately
(see below), since the ionization due to the radioactive matter in the
air above the ocean must be very small. The main uncertainty in
this present value 1.5 for the sea-level ionization lies in the determi-
nation of the capacities of the electroscopes, and in uncertainties in
the effect of electroscope walls. Upon the latter effect we shall make
a later report.

As to (4), we took two long series of observations, each lasting 3
days, at an altitude of 15,400 feet (4,620 meters) in a deep valley
from which the Milky Way was in sight for a period of 5 or 6 hours
and then practically out of sight for another 6 hours. The value
of the cosmic rays which entered our electroscopes in this valley
220 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

was 3.6. We could detect no difference at all in the value of the read-
ings when the Milky Way was overhead and when it was out of sight.
Our error in the mean values of these readings could scarcely be
more than 0.1 ion. Even if we double this estimate so as to have a

wide factor of safety, we may conclude at least that the Milky Way |

exerts no influence upon the cosmic rays which it is yet within the
power of the instruments used to detect, and that this should mean
that the rays coming from the direction of the Milky Way are not
6 per cent greater or less than are those coming from the portion
of the heavens at right angles to the Milky Way. This is in agree-
ment with our preceding less discriminating measurements, and also
with recent very careful work at sea level by Hoffmann and Steinke, 17
who can find there no directional effect in cosmic rays at all; but
it is at variance with results reported by Biittner‘® and by Kol-
horster.'®

This present work was, however, done under quite as favorable
conditions as have ever been used. It is very important to obtain
unambiguous evidence upon this point. No entirely trustworthy con-
clusions about the origin of the rays can be drawn until it is settled.
As yet, the case for a favored region from which the rays come does
not seem to have been established, but more sensitive tests can be
made and will be made in the near future.

OBSERVATIONS IN CALIFORNIAN MOUNTAIN LAKES
&
The object of the new group of experiments at Arrowhead and

Gem Lakes, begun early in 1927, was to use an increased electroscope
sensibility and an increased accuracy in the determination of the
electroscope constants, for the sake of introducing greater preci-
sion into cosmic ray determinations and placing the whole subject
upon a more strictly quantitative basis.

As already indicated, different observers are still wide apart on
the absolute value of the ionization, though a considerable group of
us now find it to be between one and two ions at sea level. This,
however, can scarcely be called quantitative agreement. But this
could scarcely be expected, since no observers except ourselves have
thus far been able to determine the zeros of their instruments; so
that most reported values of ionizations must be regarded as esti-
mates rather than measurements. Our own values suffer from rather
large uncertainties in the determination of the capacities of our
electroscopes.

As to mean absorption coefficients, Kolhérster and ourselves are
now in reasonable agreement, but no one except ourselves had until

17 Steinke, Zeit. f. Phys., 42, 570; 1927.
18 Bittner, Zeit. f. Geophys., 2, 190; 1926.
19 Kolhorster, Naturwissenschaften, 14, 9386; 1926.

.
|
;
|

COSMIC RAYS—MILLIKAN AND CAMERON oP 1

very recently brought to light the inhomogeneity of the rays though
the latest results by Hoffmann and Steinke lead them to support
provisionally our findings and to suggest that in the mixture of
cosmic rays some may exist even harder than the hardest brought to
light by us. These we found to have an absorption coefficient equal
to 0.18 per meter of water, which corresponds, if computed by Comp-
ton’s equations, to a wave length 0.00038 A, or an equivalent generat-
ing potential of 32,600,000 volts. Hoffmann,°? in order to explain
his latest sea-level readings, assumes components of hardness cor-
responding to a wave length, computed in the same way, of 0.00029
A, or an equivalent generating potential of 41,000,000 volts.

We began in the fall of 1926 to build new electroscopes of greater
sensibility to the cosmic rays in the hope of determining the intensi-
ties of these rays more precisely and studying their spectral distribu-
tion more discriminatingly; in particular, we wished to test for
the presence of still harder rays than could be brought to light by
the sensibility of our preceding instruments; for there were theo-
retical reasons for suspecting that still harder rays might exist.
These electroscopes will be described in detail in more technical pa-
pers. Suffice it to say here that we can now measure the capacities
of electroscopes to a few parts in a thousand (0.791 electrostatic
unit is the capacity of the instrument with which the following re-
sults have been obtained), and that we are now using from eight to
fifteen times the sensibility to cosmic rays that we have heretofore
employed; so that at sea level we have in our electroscope say 27
cosmic ray ions to play with instead of about 2, and at Pikes Peak
about 90 instead of 5 or 6.

In carrying out experiments with this electroscope in Gem Lake
in the summer of 1927, the ionization at the surface of the lake was
33.6 per cubic centimeter per second, and it decreased with depth of
Immersion, regularly and very smoothly, to a zero value of 2.4. But
this asymptotic value of the conization-depth curve was only reached
at a depth of 164 feet (50 meters) instead of at about 54 feet (16.2
meters) as in our preceding 1925 Arrowhead experiments. This
does not represent a discrepancy between the two sets of results. It
means only that the ionization ordinates of the curve have now been
multiplied manyfold by the increased sensibility. In spite of this,
the series of ionization-depth readings taken with the new electro-
scope falls much more smoothly upon the curve, that is, shows less
scattering, than was the case before; so that by improvements ir
technique the actual sensibility has been multiplied considerably more
than eightfold. It is this increased sensibility and precision of
measurement alone which is responsible for the fact that at depths

*° Hoffmann, Ann, der Phys., 82, 417; 1927.
yw ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

between 54 feet and 164 feet ionization is now clearly shown which
was before masked by observational uncertainties.

Taking into account the absorption of the atmosphere above Gem
Lake, which is the equivalent of 7.45 meters of water, the new experi-
ments reveal rays so penetrating as to pass through 60 meters (200
feet) of water, or 18 feet of lead before being completely absorbed.

The new curve can be analyzed for spectral distribution much more
reliably than has been heretofore the case; but it is very satisfying
that, analyzed by the method before used, the portion in the neigh-
borhood of the elevation of Arrowhead yields precisely the same
coefficient as did the former curve in the same region, namely, 0.22
per meter of water, while the lowest part of the curve yields the co-
efficient 0.04 per meter of water, so that we have here brought to
light rays nearly five times as penetrating as those heretofore found
by us. Computed as below, the shortest wave length is now 0.000058
A, the equivalent generating potential of which is 216,000,000 volts,
very much higher than the estimates made by Hoffmann.

Our total curve now extends from an absorption coefficient of
p=0.22 per meter of water to »=0.04, or in equivalent wave lengths
computed as below 0.0005 A to 0.00006 A, a range of three octaves.

WVIDENCE FOR THE CONTINUOUS CREATION OF THE COMMON ELE-
MENTS OUT OF POSITIVE AND NEGATIVE ELECTRONS

What can now be said with reference to the possible source of these
extraordinary rays? Their penetrating power alone—or frequency,
computed by whatever formula—obviously requires that they cor-
respond to changes of some sort taking place within the nucleus itself,
since no extra nuclear charges can possibly be associated with any-
thing like such energies.

The evidence is now strong that they are due to the continuous
creation at the present time of the more stable and more abundant
elements like helium (abundant in the heavens), oxygen, silicon,
and iron, out of the primordial positive and negative electrons, the
former of which is the nucleus of the hydrogen atom. This evidence
may be summarized at follows:

First—The pilot-balloon experiments of Millikan and Bowen,°
in which they sent up recording electroscopes 0.92 of the way to the
top of the atmosphere and in which the absorption coefficient of the
cosmic rays at, or near, the top of the atmosphere came out of the
same order of magnitude as that found near the sea level,?* show
conclusively that these rays consist of a definite and distinct region
of spectral frequencies, or oscillations, a hundred times more rapid
than those produced by the most powerful subatomic changes here-

10 Millikan and Bowen, Phys. Rev., 22, 198; 1923; and 27, 353; 1926.
21 Millikan and Cameron, ibid. 31, 1638 (1928).

COSMIC RAYS—-MILLIKAN AND CAMERON 993

tofore known, namely, those accompanying radioactive processes.
Otherwise stated, these experiments show conclusively that
there are no radiations of appreciable intensity entering the
earth’s atmosphere having frequencies intermediate between those
of the gamma rays and those of the cosmic rays. For, since the
hardest gamma rays are capable of penetrating a thickness of about
70 centimeters of water, while, as indicated below, the cosmic rays
are capable of penetrating 70 meters of water, and since penetrating
power increases approximately as frequency, if rays of appreciable
intensity came into the atmosphere having frequencies between
those of gamma rays and those of the cosmic rays, they would of
necessity have caused the rapid discharge of an electroscope which
rose to within the equivalent of 80 centimeters of water of the top
of the atmosphere, the whole of the earth’s atmosphere being the
equivalent of 10 meters of water. No such rapid discharge took
place; hence there are no strong radiations entering the earth’s
atmosphere in that particular region of frequencies.

Second.—The experiments of Millikan and Cameron of the sum-
mer and fall of 1927 made in deep, high-altitude California lakes
with new electroscopes eight times more sensitive than those the
authors had theretofore used, brought to light the definite proof
that the cosmic-ray spectrum consists of definite bands, like those
of neon or mercury lamps, containing spectral lines as much as three
octaves apart, the highest frequency band having so enormous a pene-
trating power that it passes through as much as 200 feet of water
(18 feet of lead) before becoming completely absorbed. ‘This dis-
covery of a banded structure in the cosmic rays shows that they are
not produced as are X rays by the impact upon the atoms of matter
of electrons which have acquired large velocities by falling through
powerful electrical fields, as we had earlier suggested; but that they
are rather produced by definite and continually recurring atomic
transformations involving very much greater energy changes than
any occurring in radioactive processes. 'The proof of the banded
structure of the cosmic-ray spectrum is found in the fact that the
new ionization-depth curve (fig. 1), which is seen to be of very
much higher resolving power than any heretofore obtained, when
taken in connection with the sounding balloon data, shows a nearly
constant absorption coefficient from close to the top of the atmos-
phere down to about sea level, 10 meters below the top, then bends
quite suddenly and uncovers below 15 meters a new absorption co-
efficient of only about one-sixth the former value, which continues
down to 70 meters below the top with but little further change.
| The cosmic rays therefore consist of at least two, possibly more (see
below), radiation bands of absorption coefficients (and therefore,
roughly, also of frequencies) in the ratio of 8 to 1. The sharpness
224 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

of the bend in the ionization-depth curve is completely incompatible
with any general distribution of the frequencies of cosmic rays
like that found in white light, or in the general X radiation which
is produced by the bombardment of the atoms of a target by high-
speed electrons (cathode rays).

Third.—tIf the Einstein special theory of relativity may be taken
as a sound basis of reasoning—and no results predicted by it have
ever thus far been shown to be incorrect, while it has many striking
successes to its credit—then it follows that radiant energy can never
escape from an atomic system without the disappearance of an equiva-
lent amount of mass from that system, these relations being con-
tained in the now well-known and universally used equation of

O Gem Lake alt.scooft
© Arrowhead all.sizsft

Figure 1.—lonization in ce./sec. against depth in equivalent meters of water beneath
top of atmosphere; upper curve 8 to 40 meters, lower 38 to 70 meters

Einstein (1905) Mc* = EF, where M is mass in grams, ¢ is the velocity
of light in centimeters per second and / is energy in ergs. Now
through the recent, very exact work of Aston ?? we know the mass
of every one of the atoms with a great deal of certainty, and we can
therefore compute the amount of ether-wave energy that can be gen-
erated by any sort of atomic transformation that can take place, and
knowing this energy we can compute with the aid of the Einstein
equation the frequency, and with the aid of the Dirac formula 2* the
penetrating powers of the rays resulting from all possible atomic
transformations. Such studies reveal the fact that there are no pos-
sible transformations capable of yielding rays of the enormous pene-
trating power observed by Millikan and Cameron except those cor-

*2 Aston, Proc. Roy. Soc., 115, 487 (1927).
78 Dirac, ibid., 109, 206 (1925).

COSMIC RAYS——-MILLIKAN AND CAMERON 225

responding to the building up or creation of the abundant elements
like helium, oxygen, silicon, and iron out of hydrogen, or in the case
of the last two elements out of heliwm. The entire annihilation of
hydrogen by the falling completely together of its positive and nega-
tive electrons might be an additional possibility, but it can be elimi-
nated in this case for two excellent reasons. ‘The first of these rea-
sons is that there is practically no place whatever for such a radia-
tion to occupy in the observed ionization-depth curve (see fig. 1), for
it would be between four and five times more penetrating than the
radiation that has the smallest absorption coefficient mentioned
above. The ionization due to it, if it exists, would then have to be
included in the 2.4 ions, which represent the “zero of the electro-
scope ” as shown in the figure. But this 2.4 ions is only about one-
tenth of the observed ionization at the top of the curve, viz, 21 ions,
this topmost reading corresponding to a depth of 1 meter below the
surface of Gem Lake. So that this hypothetical radiation can have
nothing to do with the observed ionization-depth curve much above
the reading 2.4, and below it there is, of course, room only for a
radiation relatively negligible in intensity in comparison with the
softer rays that are responsible for the observed curve. The second
reason is that this hypothetical radiation, if it were present, would of
necessity be homogeneous, and could not therefore exhibit the banded
structure shown by the observed cosmic rays. Whether then this act
of the entire annihilation of the hydrogen atom through the coming
into complete coincidence of the positive and negative electrons takes
place or not, it can certainly be eliminated as a cause of the observed
cosmic rays. ‘There remains, then, no other atomic transformation in
which sufficient mass disappears to create the observed cosmic rays
except the aforementioned atom-building processes. It is important
to note that no step-by-step process of building up, or for that matter
of disintegrating, of atoms in which one positive electron or one alpha
particle is added or subtracted at a time will suffice for the generation
of the cosmic rays, since the Einstein equation tells us that in no case
can such a transformation produce rays of more than from one-
fourth to one twenty-fifth of the observed penetrating power. The
observed extraordinarily penetrating cosmic rays present, then, when
taken in connection with Einstein’s equation and Aston’s findings, not
only the first direct evidence that the more abundant elements are
now in process of being created out of positive and negative electrons
but they also present the first indications as to the general char-
acter of the specific act or acts by which the atom-building process
goes on. So far we have used only the general or qualitative evi-
dence, but it will be seen that from it alone the conclusion is scarcely
escapable that the powerful cosmic rays here studied can be produced
only by the creation in a single act, rather than by a step-by-step
226 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

process, of some, at least, of the common elements out of the
primordial positive and negative electrons.

Fourth—The evidence herewith obtained is, however, not merely
qualitative but, if Dirac’s formula is dependable, fairly accurately
quantitative. For we analyzed very carefully our cosmic-ray curve
empirically before we called on any theoretical considerations
whatever to explain it, and we reported in scientific papers
that our observed curve demanded three cosmic-ray bands
of absorption coefficients 0.35, 0.08, and 0.04 per meter of water,
respectively. It was after this work had been done, reported in
- seminars, written up, and prepared for publication in essentially the
form in which it has appeared ** that we set about computing from
the foregoing considerations what the theoretical absorption co-
efficients would be if our observed cosmic rays were produced (1)
by the formation in one single act of helium out of hydrogen, (2)
by the similar formation of oxygen out of hydrogen, and (3) by
the formation of silicon out of hydrogen. The results of this com-
putation with the aid of Dirac’s formula came out 0.30, 0.075,
and 0.048, well within the limits of the resolving power of
our curve of the observed values. Further, there are only a few
elements so abundant that their formation needs to be consid-
ered as the possible source of the observed cosmic rays. For the
spectroscopy of the heavens shows a very great abundance every-
where of the gases hydrogen, helium, and nebulium. But Bowen”?
has just identified the last as nitrogen and oxygen so that these
gaseous elements, hydrogen, helium, nitrogen, and oxygen seem to
be extraordinarily widely spread through space. As to the elements
found in solids the meteorites have 96 per cent of their mass in the
four elements, oxygen, magnesium, silicon, and iron. Magnesium
and silicon are close together in atomic weight, 24 and 28, respec-
tively, so that their formation would constitute but one band, the
mean energy of which lies approximately at »=0.04. It was this
joint band that we above called for convenience the silicon band.
Similarly the atomic weights of nitrogen and oxygen are respectively
14 and 16, and the mean absorption coefficient 0.08 corresponds to
this joint band. The helium band, most significant of all, corre-
sponds to »=0.30. There is no other abundant element except iron,
and the formation of this out of hydrogen gives a cosmic ray for
which »p=0.021. The existence of such a radiation helps rather than
interferes with the fit of our theoretical and experimental curves,
but on account of the lack of resolving power in the lower end of our
surve it furnishes no trustworthy evidence that this particular act is
the one by which iron is most commonly formed. This uncertainty

2% Millikan and Cameron. Phys. Rev., June, 1928.
* Bowen, Astrophys, Jour. 57, 1, 1928.

COSMIC RAYS—-MILLIKAN AND CAMERON 297.

does not exist, however, with respect to the bands corresponding to
p=0.30, »=0.08, and p=0.04. This whole work constitutes, then,
very powerful evidence that the sort of creative, or atom-building
processes discussed above, are continually going on all about us,
probably not at all in the stars (see below), and that each such event
is broadcast through the heavens in the form of the appropriate
cosmic ray.

EVIDENCE THAT THE COSMIC RAYS ORIGINATE IN INTERSTELLAR
SPACE

If it may be regarded as established by the evidence thus far ad-
vanced that the cosmic rays are the signals sent out through the
heavens of the creation of the common elements out of positive and
negative electrons, the next important question to attempt to answer
is “ where are these creative processes going on”? ‘To this question
there are just two possible answers, as follows:

(1) In the stars where pressures, densities, and temperatures may,
one or all, be enormously high; or else,

(2) in interstellar space where pressures, densities, and tempera-
tures are all extraordinarily low.

In both of these localities matter exists under extreme and as yet
unexplored conditions, and in view of the history of the last 30
years of physics, it would no longer be surprising if matter were
again found to behave in some hitherto unknown and unexpected
way as a new field of experimentation is entered.

Of the two foregoing alternatives we think it possible to eliminate
the first and to establish the second with considerable definiteness,
and that for the two following reasons:

First. If the mere presence of matter in large quantities and at
high temperatures favored in any way the atom-building processes
which give rise to the cosmic rays, then it is obviously to be ex-
pected that the sun, in view of its closeness, would send to the earth
enormously more of them than could any other star. But the fact is
that all observers are agreed that the change from midday to mid-
night does not influence at all the intensity of the cosmic rays.

Since, however, the rays do come to us at all times, day and night,
and, according to all observers, at least, very nearly equally from all
directions, there is scarcely any escape from the conclusion that
the atom-building processes giving rise to the cosmic rays are favored
by the conditions ewisting in interstellar space. If then, in going
from a point in interstellar space toward the center of a star the
favorable conditions for atom-building existing in outer space have
disappeared as the surface of the star is reached it is well-nigh
_ inconceivable that they will again reappear in penetrating from the
surface to the center—a path along which the changes in physical
298 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

conditions all continue unchanged in direction. So that from the
foregoing we may not only conclude quite definitely that the stars
are not the sources of the observed cosmic rays, but also that the
main atom-building processes probably do not take place inside of
stars at all.

Second. The foregoing conclusions may also be arrived at from an
entirely different mode of approach, namely, from our measure-
ments upon the absorption coefficients and the total energy content
of the cosmic rays.

The hardest rays which we have observed are completely absorbed
(reduced to say 2 per cent of their initial intensity) in going through
70 meters of water. This means that even if the atom-building pro-
cesses went on inside a star, the resulting cosmic radiations could not
possibly get out, but would all be frittered away in heat ** before
emergence, save in the case of those rays that originated in the star’s
very outermost skin—a skin equivalent in absorbing power to a
hundred or so meters of water.*’

But we have also found that the total energy coming into the
earth’s atmosphere in the form of cosmic rays is about one-tenth
the total heat and light energy coming to the earth from the stars
exclusive of the sun. This last fact means that 77 the cosmic rays
have their origins within the stars they can not even at the points
of their origin have an tmtensity more than 10 times that which
they have when they reach the earth’s atmosphere, for tf they had
then the cosmic-ray energy transformed into heat by absorption on
the way out would yield a total heat outflow from the stars larger
than the observed 10 to 1 ratio. In other words, if the stars are
the sources of the observed cosmic rays, it follows from our measure-
ments on absorption coefficients and on total energy content that the
total heat output of the stars must be furnished by the atom-building
processes going on in their merest outer skins of a thickness equiva-
lent in absorbing power to about a hundred meters of water, and
that therefore no atom-building processes, nor any other activities
capable of furnishing heat, can then be going on in their interiors.

It is, however, so altogether absurd to suppose that atom-building
processes are going on actively at the surface of a star, down to a
depth of a hundred meters, and then suddenly stop there that we
are forced back by this present mode of approach to the same con-
clusion arrived at from the direct determination of the lack of

* It is important to remember that, as we have already shown, rays of this kind become
frittered away into heat in this passage through matter without any change in the
quality (i. e., frequency or absorption coefficient) of the residual beam. ‘This can only
mean that the conditions existing in and about the sun, and presumably also in and about
esther stars as well, ere unfavorable to the atom-building processes which give rise to these

pays.
*7 Millikan, R. A., and Cameron, G. H., Phys. Rev. 28, 866, 1926.

COSMIC RAYS—MILLIKAN AND CAMERON 999

cosmic-ray activity of a particular star, the sun, namely, to the con-
clusion that the observed cosmic rays do not originate in the stars at
all, but that they must originate under the eautreme influences of
exactly the opposite sort existing in interstellar space.

These considerations bring us then from two entirely new points
of view to the conclusion that the heat output of the stars must be
derived from an entirely different source from the atom-building
processes which produce the cosmic rays. MacMillan ** first, then
Jeans °° and Eddington,*° from considerations based wholly upon
the lifetimes of the stars, have repeatedly emphasized the necessity
of finding a source for this output other and greater than the process
of atom building, but we can now go further and say that the
process of energy emission by atom building does not take place in
the stars at all, or at least in such amount as to make the stars an
appreciable factor in the output of cosmic rays, for if it did the
star would have to be radiating heat much faster than is the case.
As is well known, the foregoing astronomers, and practically all of
the writers in this field have found this new source of stellar heat
not in an atom-building process, but rather in an atom-annthilating
process which they assume to be going on in the interior of stars,
positive electrons being thought to be continually transforming their
entire mass into ether waves in accordance with the demands of
Einsteins’ equation. As indicated above, we have sought in vain
among our cosmic rays for a ray of penetrating power corresponding
to this act. It will be recalled that the mass which disappears in the
creation out of hydrogen of one gram-atom of silicon—this produced
the hardest cosmic rays that we can say with certainty that we have
yet observed, for the iron rays are still to some degree hypothetical—
was 0.23 g. The complete annihilation of the mass of hydrogen
would obviously then produce, in accordance with Einstein’s equa-
1.0775
aigpae
times) the energy and penetrating power of our hardest definitely
observed ray. Our failure to find this ray, however, is no argument
at all against the existence of the process in the interior of stars
where the pressures are colossal and the densities must be enormous.
Indeed our failure to find this ray means rather that, if the act
occurs at all, as MacMillan, Eddington, and Jeans think it must, it
is obliged to occur precisely in the interior of stars where the result-

tion, a ray having approximately four times (accurately

% MacMillan, W. D. Astrophys. Journ., 48, 35, 1918; also 51, 309, 1920; also Science,
52, 67, 1920; also Scientia, Jan, 26, 1923; also Science, 62, July 24 and 31, Aug. «; L925:

» Jeans, J. H. Problems of Cosmogony and Stellar Dynamics, Cambridge, 1919, p. 286;
Nature, 116, 861, 1925, and 121, 467, 1928.

*® Eddington, A. 8S. The Internal Constitution of the Stars, Cambridge, 1926, Ch. XT;
also Nature, 117, 26, 1926.

24034—29——16
230 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

ing radiation is hidden away behind an impenetrable screen of mat-
ter—a screen that transforms all its energy into heat before the ray
can get out. If the cosmic rays originated within the stars they
would of course be similarly screened.

On the other hand, that the atom-building processes responsible
for the cosmic rays, as distinct from the atom-destroying process just
considered, actually occur, as our experiments definitely show, outside
the stars, or at least where the rays produced by them can get to us,
and in an energy that is of the same order of magnitude as that of
the heat poured out by the star, is an extraordinarily illuminating
fact. For it suggests at once, when combined with the MacMillan-
Eddington argument, the following incomplete cycle, each element
in which now has the eaperimental credentials indicated in the
parentheses;

(1) Positive and negative electrons exist in great abundance in
interstellar space (see the evidence of the spectroscope) ;

(2) These electrons condense into atoms under the influence of the
conditions existing in outer space, viz, absence of temperature and
high dispersion (see the evidence of the cosmic rays) ;

(3) These atoms then aggregate under their gravitational forces
into stars (see the evidence of the telescope) ;

(4) In the interior of stars—under the influence of the enormous
pressures, densities, and temperatures existing there—an occasional
positive electron, presumably in the nucleus of a heavy atom, trans-
forms its entire mass into an ether ‘pulse the energy of which when
frittered away in heat maintains the temperature of the star and
furnishes most of the supply of light and heat which it pours out
(see the evidence of the lifetimes of the stars, MacMillan-Eddington-
Jeans).

The foregoing is as far as the experimental evidence enables us to
go; but the recent discovery of the second element of the above
unfinished cycle, namely, that the supply of positive and negative
electrons is being used up continually in the creation of atoms the
signals of whose birth constitutes the cosmic rays, at once raises
imperiously the question as to why the process is still going on at all
after the eons during which it has apparently been in process—or
better why the building stones of the atoms have not all been used up
long ago. And the only possible answer seems to be to complete the
cycle, and to assume that these building stones are continually being
replenished throughout the heavens by the condensation, with the aid
of some as yet wholly unknown mechanism, of radiant heat into
positive and negative electrons. This has been urged for years by
MacMillan. Indeed it is implicit in Einstein’s 1905 equation unless

COSMIC RAYS—-MILLIKAN AND CAMERON 231

we deny the validity of the most approved form of statement of the ,
second law. The effort to work out more fully the thermodynamic
implications of this complete cycle is now being made by Stern,*!
Tolman,** and Zwicky,°° as well as by ourselves.*4

Stern, O. Zeits. f. Elektrochemie, 31, 448; 1925.
22'Tolman, Richard C. Proc. Nat. Acad., 14, 268, 348, 353, 1928.

% Zwicky, F. Proc. Nat. Acad. In press.

* Millikan, R. A., and Cameron, G. H. Phys. Rev., 32, 533-558; 1928.
THREE CENTURIES OF NATURAL PHILOSOPHY ?

By W. F. G. Swann, D.Sc.

Director, Bartol Research Foundation of the Franklin Institute

Three thousand years ago there died in Egypt a king. He was
buried with much pomp and ceremony, and in the company of such
material things as reflected the atmosphere of his time. After 30
centuries, untouched except for the minor vandalism of robbers,
these relics speak to us the story of an age which has passed. They
tell us of a skill in craftsmanship equal to our own, of a beauty in
art and in concept of design such as wins the admiration of our
most famous artists; and reading the evidence of a little act here and
a little thought there, we begin to see a people such as we could well
have known as friends—a people of whom who can say that if one
of them were born to-day and raised with our children he would be
distinguishable from one of us. Yet, neither in the age that knew
Tutankhamun, nor in any of the ancient civilizations that have gone
before or after, do we find any shadow of a concept of that great
scheme of nature’s laws which has unfolded itself so unsparingly
in our generation.

If the period from the dawn of history to the present time be
shrunk into a day, we shall find that 23 hours of that day are barren
as far as natural philosophy is concerned, for it is only in the last
hour that science was born; and, even as the human child develops
in its struggles toward manhood, so this child of nature has grown,
but with such ever-increasing strength that in the last 10 minutes
of its existence, in the last 25 years of actual time, it has outshone
all the accomplishments of its infancy and adolescence and has torn
from nature more of her secrets than she has vouchsafed to man
in the whole previous history of his existence.

Three hundred years ago we find the world just emerging from
the state in which he who would search for the hidden truths of
nature must contend with three great obstacles—superstition, the
power of the church, and, last but not least, a conglomeration of
fixed notions as to the way things should happen, built upon the
pseudo-philosophical reasoning of bygene ages, reasoning founded

1 Rounders’ Day Address, Swarthmore College, Oct. 29, 1927. Reprinted by permission

from the Journal of the Franklin Institute, vol. 205, No. 1, January, 1928.
92
233
234 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

not upon experimental bases, but upon dogma evolved out of the
imaginations of the philosophers.

The train of scientific thought was founded largely upon the
hypothesis that the writings of Aristotle were to be the ultimate
court of appeal in all matters of dispute, and wondrous indeed were
some of the things which Aristotle and his disciples had said.
A good example of some of their misty philosophizing is the proof
given by one of them that the world is perfect.

The bodies of which the world is composed are solids, and therefore have
three dimensions. Now, three is the most perfect number; for, of one we do
not speak as a number, of two we say both; but three is the first number
of which we say all. Moreover, it has a beginning, a middle, and an end.

Toward the end of the fifteenth century we find young Galileo
enjoying the princely stipend of 15 cents a day as professor of
mathematics at the University of Pisa. It is true that the professor
of medicine gets 30 times as much, and Galileo’s parents had origi-
nally intended him to be a professor of medicine. But what does
he care! For he is much interested in discovering the laws of
falling bodies; and, in spite of the fact that Aristotle has said
otherwise, he is contending that heavy bodies and light bodies fall
at the same rate. In scientific circles much resentment is felt at
such a revolutionary suggestion; for Aristotle, without appeal to
experiment, has evolved out of the consciousness of his inner mind
the decision that bodies fall at rates depending upon their weights.
It matters not that young Galileo has ascended the leaning tower of
Pisa with a one-pound weight and a hundred-pound weight and,
in full view of the learned men of the day, has dropped them from
the tower and found that they struck the ground together. For
Aristotle has maintained otherwise, and science is the voice of
Aristotle.

Neither is there more tolerance in the matter of astronomy. For
Galileo has invented and constructed a telescope, and though he
has received much honor from his university for this performance
and has had his salary doubled there are many who not only refuse
to accept what the telescope reveals but steadfastly refuse to look
through it lest they should be convinced of the truth of that which
they do not wish to believe. With this obnoxious machine Galileo
has found that the moon has mountains like the earth, which robs
that body of some of its individual importance. He has found spots
upon that most perfect of heavenly bodies, the sun, but worst of all
he says that Jupiter has four moons attendant upon him. This
last conclusion is in a way to upset everything. Though too much
of a man of progress to doubt the evidence of his own eyes, even the
great Kepler is disturbed in his mind. For according to all prevail-

NATURAL PHILOSOPHY—SWANN 235

ing notions of the day there should be seven planetary bodies and no
more—the earth, moon, Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn.
Hear the argument of Francesco Sizzi, himself a Florentine
astronomer, against this assertion of Galileo:
There are 7 windows in the head—2 nostrils, 2 eyes, 2 ears, and a mouth;
so in the heavens there are 2 favorable stars, 2 unpropitious, 2 luminaries,

and Mercury alone undecided and indifferent. From which and many other
similar phenomena of nature, such as the seven metals, etc., which it were

lod

tedious to enumerate, we gather that the number of planets is necessarily 7.

Moreover, the satellites are invisible to the naked eye, and therefore can
have no influence on the earth, and therefore are useless, and therefore do
not exist.

Besides, the Jews and other ancient nations as well as modern Europeans
have adopted the division of the week into seven days and have named them
from the seven planets; now, if we increase the number of planets this whole
system falls to the ground.

You can judge of the wrath and indignation which Galileo brought
upon his head when he contended in reply that whatever might be
the force of these arguments as a reason for believing beforehand
that no more than seven planets would be discovered, they hardly
seemed of sufficient weight to destroy the new ones when seen.

Tt was Galileo who wrested from nature the secret of the laws
which govern motion—the laws which govern the motions of almost
everything, the planets in the heavens, the flywheel of the steam
engine, the bird in flight—yes; and in a large measure at any rate,
the motions of the innermost parts of the very atoms of matter
itself. But Galileo did not evolve these laws out of the dogmas of
imagination but by the more humble and safe appeal to direct experi-
ment. He marked out the method of approach, the experimental
method, which has been the model for all succeeding generations
in their search for the fundamental facts which govern the workings
of nature.

The laws of motion may be written on a post card, but their conse-
quences have not been exhausted in all the books men of science have
written in 300 years. As we all know, Galileo’s life was beset with
tribulation. He lived in an age when there was little tolerance for
one who followed not the conventionalities of thought of the day.
To question the learning of the past was arrogance, to discover new
truth was blasphemy, and so he died, having sown, however, the
seeds of the fruit that was to come. He died in a world seething
with superstition and ruled by the dogmas of an ancient past, but a
world which was destined only a year later to see the birth of one
who is rated by many as the greatest genius of all time, that great
prince of England’s men of science, Isaac Newton.

* Quoted from Sir Oliver Lodge’s Pioneers of Science.
936 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

In its purest aspect the task of the natural philosopher to-day
is to discover the relationships existing between the different phe-
nomena which happen in our universe. He seeks to see in the work-
ings of nature simply different illustrations of a few fundamental
principles. Newton was the greatest of the pioneers in this method
of systematized thought. In his great work, the Principia, charac-
terized by Marquis Laplace as preeminent above all productions
of the human intellect, he demonstrated the powerful simplicity of
the fundamentals which control the destinies of the heavens. No
longer did the universe appear as a bizarre and formless thing gov-
erned by such a heterogeneous system of agencies as to merit well the
caustic comment of the sovereign of Castille, when, bewailing the
complexities involved in an attempt to explain fhe motions of the
planets, he remarked that “ Were the heavens thus constituted, he
could have given the Deity good advice.”

No longer need the sun carry spokes, as Kepler thought, to grind
the planets around in the heavens. No longer was a guardian angel
necessary for each planet to guide its course. No longer were the
planets whirled through space by the whirlpools of an ether as a
twig is whirled about in the rapids. All that was necessary was the
laws of motion of Galileo, operating under the influence of a force
emanating from the sun according to the inverse square of the dis-
tance therefrom. And this force was no new and mysterious thing,
for Newton showed that gravitation, that same old force which had
been known for so long—gravitation which causes apples to fall
from the tree to the ground—was sufficient to control the moon in
its orbit, and such a gravitation with its origin in the sun served the
purpose of controlling the planetary motions. Moreover, in this
same gravitation did the tides find their origin through an attraction
of the moon. In this same gravitation from the sun, combined with
the flattened shape of the earth, did that mysterious conical motion
of the earth’s axis concerned with the precession of the equinoxes
find its origin, and in the laws of Galileo was to be found an ex-
planation of the actual flattening of the earth’s shape as a result of
the centrifugal force of its rotation. These and many other things
did Newton demonstrate in the “ Principia” and by their means
brought astronomy from a state of pure charlatanism to the state
of order symbolized by Pope’s famous words, “ Nature and nature’s
laws lay hid in ight, God said: ‘ Let Newton be’ and all was light.”

Even as our greatest architects strive for beauty couched in a
fundamental simplicity of design, so the Grand Architect of the
universe revealed himself in Newton’s great work as the father of the
principle of dignity of structure through ultimate simplicity. It isa
great faith in the possibility of seeing in the operations of nature the
working of principles which are ultimately simple which, as each new

NATURAL PHILOSOPH Y—SWANN 237

discovery is revealed, has encouraged man to the hope that he may
some day understand them.

While to-day nature has revealed many treasures unknown to
Newton, there are few who, realizing the great stride made in the
“Principia ” will not to-day join with Halley in his eulogy of that
ereat work, “So near the gods man can not nearer go.”

When an outstanding genius causes science to take a leap forward
beyond the vision of his contemporaries, there usually follows a
period of depression in which it seems that all that is worth doing
has been done, and that what the universe has not already revealed
must forever defy the power of man to fathom. Such a period
followed Newton. Of course, much valuable work was done in the
years which came after, but it took more the form of a development
of the consequences of Newton’s labors than of the discovery of new
paths of knowledge. And then, only about a century ago a new
page in the architectural designs of the universe was turned, and the
heading on that page was electricity.

The forerunners in the march of science do not often come heralded
by much ceremony suggestive of the power that les behind them.
Often in apparent trivialities do they reveal themselves—trivialities
so void of spectacular content that but few can be found who deem
it worth while to listen to their story. A hundred and fifty years
ago little more was known of the science of electricity than the fact
that if a black rod is rubbed with the skin of a cat it will acquire
the power to pick up small pieces of paper, and, if viewed in the
dark, will be found to emit a blue glow. One can hardly imagine
a set of phenomena more vulnerable to the scoffer; for black rods
and cats have been the stock paraphernalia of witches from time
immemorial—the blue light visible in the dark adds no particular
prestige to the phenomena. And then we find that these things will
not reveal themselves in the presence of water. Now, we should say
that water destroys the electrical insulation, but the scoffer who had
heard so much of the fundamentality of that triumvirate, “ earth,
fire, and water,” might find ample wherewithal to whet his sarcasm,
and even though he should admit the reality of the phenomena them-
selves, he might well attack them on the basis of their futility, for
it wouid appear that if all the black rods in the world were rubbed
with the skins of all the cats the most that might hope to be accom-
plished would seem to be the raising of a small weight of totally
insignificant amount. And yet, on this earth at that very time there
existed, and within the reach of man, the wherewithal to make a
dynamo.

To one who contemplates the enormous manifestations of elec-
trical power to-day, it seems almost inconceivable that all of these
238 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

potentialities could have remained dormant for the whole period of
man’s civilization.

The Royal Institution of Great Britain was founded by Count
Rumford in 1799. Its stated purpose is “the promotion, diffusion,
and extension of science, and of useful knowledge.” To its lectures
given by Sir Humphry Davy at the beginning of the last century
‘ame a young bookbinder’s apprentice, whose enthusiasm sufficiently
impressed the lecturer to result in his being appointed as assistant at
the institution. Unfortunately, it became necessary for the young
man to have some money wherewith to live, but there was no money
for scientific assistants. However, the institution had an appropri-
ation for janitors and so the bookbinder’s apprentice, Michael Fara-
day, became janitor at the Royal Institution. I do not know how
efficiently he performed his duties in the office of janitor, but even
though he may have neglected the windows of the laboratory he
cleaned well the windows of science, and even though he may have
neglected the cobwebs on the walls of the building he cleaned many
of them from the horizon of knowledge.

The fact that wires carrying currents possessing in many respects
the characteristics of magnets was already known, but it fell to
Faraday to discover the fact that batteries were not the only means
by which electric current could be produced, and to demonstrate the
fundamental principles upon which electrical engineering is based
to-day. By the labors of that little group of men, Ampére in France,
Faraday in England, and Henry in this country, we came into pos-
session of most of the facts governing the broader features of elec-
trical science,—the facts which tell us how to build a dynamo, a
motor, and the like. We came to know of strange new forces with
mysterious relations between them. But what was their explana-
tion—what was the secret of their mutual relations—of what broad
principles of the design of the universe did they form a part? Then
came Clerk-Maxwell, who sought to correlate these discoveries into
a more harmonious unity.

Maxwell was a great mathematician; and, as a result of his labors,
he wrote a book which few could read, but which, in the years that
have followed, has served to mold our thoughts to that comprehen-
sion of the subject which we enjoy to-day.

The place of the mathematician, of the dreamer, in natural philos-
ophy, is not always apparent to the layman. He takes the facts
which the experimenter gives him, and seeks to correlate them as
part of a greater framework of truth in the hope that the frame itself
shall suggest other things which may be true, and thus stimulate
further search, and widen our comprehension of the whole. A man
coming to us from another country, or from another world might, by
observing the actions of our President, our Secretary of Labor, and

NATURAL PHILOSOPHY—SWANN 239

the governor of one of our States, form some sort of an opinion as
to the probable actions of these individuals under given circum-
stances. His understanding of the whole situation would, however,
be much less complete than it would be were he acquainted with the
whole mechanism of our Constitution, or even with some part of it
which was fairly complete in itself. If his knowledge is confined
within the limits we have supposed, however, he might take such
information as he had, and try to reduce it to some sort of order
by building in his mind a constitution of which such individuals as
he knew formed a part. In this creation of his mind, he would have
to picture many new individuals and offices in order to complete the
framework of his thought. He would naturally suggest a search for
these individuals. Every additional one found would add more cer-
tainty to his general plan, while every one he failed to find would
give him a clue as to how his plan should be modified in order to
conform to the facts. When all was complete, or, indeed, long
before all was complete, long before he knew the status of every
minor clerk in the Government’s employ, he would be conscious of
a much better understanding of the whole situation, and would be
in a much better position to draw upon the services of the Govern-
ment than he was when the whole of his knowledge was confined to
the actions of the three individuals we named at the start. If this
man, who corresponds to our mathematical physicist, should now go
back to his own people, he would doubtless have much difficulty in
making them understand the plan of our Government. The facts
they would have to accept, but it might be only after prolonged
experience of our actions that the mechanism of our procedure would
enter into their inner consciousness with that force which implies
understanding.

So, Maxwell sought and found a beautiful scheme of thought
in which to comprehend and harmonize the discoveries of his prede-
cessors. The form of his scheme was such as to suggest that it
should be possible to propagate electromagnetic disturbances in the
form of waves in an all-pervading medium, and that certain of
these waves should have the properties of light waves, and that all
should travel with a velocity equal to that of light. His conclusions
in the latter respects were beautifully verified by his calculation cf
the correct velocity of light from purely electrical data, and his
predictions in the former have received wonderful justification, first
in the experimental work of Hertz and Lodge, and finally in the
modern developments of wireless telegraphy and telephony in the
hands of Marconi and others, developments which at every stage
of their progress have drawn upon the principles outlined in Max-
well’s great work. We now know that the electromagnetic waves
of wireless, heat rays, light rays, the ultra-violet rays used thera-
240 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

peutically, X rays, the gamma rays emitted by radium and the cosmic
rays of which we have heard so much recently, are all special cases
of electromagnetic waves differing from each other in their essentials
only as regards their length. ‘The longest are the wireless waves,
which attain lengths of the order of a mile, and the shortest con-
stitute the cosmic rays, whose length is comparable with the one-
millionth of the one-millionth of the centimeter.

And then, following Maxwell, once again science made one of
those pauses for breath in which many seem to see the end of ali
that man may hope to know—those dread pauses in which the horizon
of discovery seems the boundary thereof.

Thirty years ago was a time of great depression in physics—a
time when would-be Ph. D.’s went about like roaring lons seeking
something to measure and finding nothing but the density of a
gas or the viscosity of a solid. ‘The sentiment of the times was
well voiced by a certain European physicist of eminence who stated
that it was probable that all the important experimental discoveries
in physics had then been made and that henceforth the investigator
must confine himself to a repetition of what had been already done
with greater attention to minor matters of precision.

Even in those days the apparatus cases of most laboratories con-
tained curiously shaped glass tubes containing rarefied gases of
various kinds which could be made to glow in fantastic manner by
sending an electric discharge through them. Few sought to pene-
trate the mysteries of those tubes. They would be brought forth on
the occasion of popular exhibits in the laboratory, made to 20
through their alluring performances and then returned to their
cases to await the next festivity of the kind. They were not viewed
as serious articles of scientific research, but hardly as more than toys.
And yet, what a marvelous secret they held! For it was in one
of those tubes that, in 1898, J. J. Thomson discovered one of the
two fundamental bricks out of which the universe is built—the elec-
tron, the tireless worker whose home is in the atom, whose quivers
send us light from the sun, whose ceaseless flight around the atom’s
center gives the magnet the power to pull, whose motion through the
electric cable constitutes the electric current, whose splash when
hurled into the atom with great speed is the X ray, whose motions
in the antenna send us wireless waves, and whose motions in the
radio tube enable us to detect those waves. It is to the electrons
that matter owes all its chemical properties. It is electrons from
the sun which are responsible for the aurora. The atoms of which
matter is composed are so small that about a hundred million of them
laid in line would take up but the length of one-third of an inch,
but the electron is so small that even in comparison with the atom
it is but as a fly compared with a cathedral. It is so light that if

NATURAL PHILOSOPHY—SWANN 241

everything were magnified in mass so that the electron attained
a mass of four ounces, that four ounces would on the same scale
of magnification become as heavy as the earth.

Before the discovery of electrons we had cause to believe that
there were such things as atoms and molecules, but nobody ven-
tured to picture their structure, and we felt we had gone far in
penetrating nature’s mysteries when we were able to say that, on
the basis of certain plausible considerations, it was probable that if
a drop of water were magnified to the size of the earth, the mole-
cules would become as large as small shot. The discovery of the
electron gave a fresh impetus to man’s hope of understanding the
atom, and before long the second fundamental brick of nature’s
structure revealed itself—the fundamental unit of positive electric-
ity—the proton, whose natural home is in the nucleus, the heart
of the atom. The proton is two thousand times as heavy as the
electron, but it is two thousand times as small, so that if the proton
were magnified to the size of a pinhead, that pinhead would, on the
same scale of magnification, attain a diameter equal to the diameter
of the earth’s orbit around the sun.

At the end of the last century Roéntgen discovered X rays. The
property by which they first claimed attention was their power to
pass through flesh and so show shadows of the bones of the body.
Soon, however, it was realized they were endowed with many other
properties of a most important and interesting kind, properties
which were bound up with the atom’s structure and whose study,
therefore, served to throw further light upon that structure.

Until the end of the last century, one of the most firmly established
beliefs was that of the permanence of the atoms. However, near its
close, Becquerel found certain curious properties of uranium oxide
which suggested that this substance was continually emitting some
kind of a radiation which could pass through screens opaque to light,
and affect a photographic plate. Several other substances were dis-
covered possessing this property, and many other characteristics of
these substances were discovered, characteristics which could only be
harmonized on the belief that the atoms of these substances were in
a continual state of spontaneous disintegration—of atomic explosions
if you will—and that the phenomena observed were the symbols of
these explosions.

One may naturally be led to inquire how far discoveries in pure
physics and mathematics find their reflections in the things of every-
day life in the sense which we call useful. If in a great city we
should set out on our travels with the intention of visiting all the
places within the field of our immediate interests to the exclusion of
others, and if we should refuse to walk along any street which did
not itself contain many of these places, then, even as regards those
242 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

things to which our interest was confined, we should limit greatly the
possibilities which that city opened to us. If this is true of a rela:
tively simple structure like a city, how much more is it true of that
beautiful framework of science whose parts are so clearly interwoven
that it is almost impossible to touch one of them without producing
response in all the others. While, therefore, the man of science must
pursue knowledge for its own sake, it is a remarkable fact that prac-
ticaily all of those achievements in the physics of the past 20 years
which might be classed as utilitarian, have arisen directly from,
cr in relation to investigations pursued with no utilitarian motive
directly in view. X rays revealed themselves first in the light of
their importance in surgery. The study of their properties shed a
new light upon the structure of the atom and this light was reflected
back with enhanced intensity to clarify the properties of the X rays
themselves. ‘The immediate application to photographic surgery was
obvious, but that field which is concerned with the effects of the rays
upon the body tissue, upon the cure of cancer and the lke, was not
so evident. Bound up as it is with the properties of the rays in rela-
tion to their passage through matter, with their absorption in the
tissues, and the extent of the molecular disruption which they pro-
duce, it must draw for its development upon the more fine-grained
aspects of the study of X rays which the physicist has made in the
field of his own interests.

The study of radio-activity has taught us that in the spontaneous
disintegration of the atoms which accompanies this process, power-
ful radiations are emitted. First we have the alpha particle, a
positively charged atom of helium, with a velocity of 12,000 miles
per second. Then we have electrons traveling with a velocity 10
times as large, and finally we have a very hard type of X ray known
as gamma rays. ‘These rays possess the power to disrupt molecules

through which they pass and it is this power which gives them, in .

common with X rays, such great value in medicine. The surgeon’s
knife can dissect the tissues and remove the larger malformations of
erowth, but the X rays, the rays from radium, and those of ultra-
violet light can dissect the malformation on things ten thousand
times smaller than the smallest things which our microscope can
reveal,

The detailed investigations of phenomena pertaining to the pas-
sage of electricity through gases—phenomena whose study led to the
discovery of the electron, necessitated an improvement in our methods
of producing high vacua. The pumps of to-day can accomplish in
15 seconds what would have taken a couple of hours 25 years ago, and
the vacua attainable are ten thousand or more times better than they
were in those days. We can now reduce the pressure in our appa-
ratus by means of modern pumps to such an extent that only one in

a na NES

Sais AS lS a oe i a hee ee nt Sai Se

NATURAL PHILOSOPHY—SWANN 243

every hundred thousand million of the molecules originally present
remains. This improvement in the technique of producing high
vacua, rendered necessary for investigation in pure science, has ren-
dered possible the electric lamps which we use to-day. It has ren-
dered possible the modern X-ray tube—an instrument not only
infinitely more reliable than the weak and capricious tubes of 20
years ago, but controllable in intensity to amounts twenty times as
great as those formerly attainable. It is only through the aid of
modern vacuum technique that the modern broadcasting station has
been rendered possible, that the radio amplifying tube has become a
reality, and that we can have wireless transmission of signals, speech,
and photographs.

If, 20 years ago we had wished to give an example of a type of
research which was least likely to have an utilitarian value, we could
hardly have chosen a more fitting example than the investigations
which Prof. O. W. Richardson had been carrying on in England, and
later at Princeton, on the emission of electrons from heated wires;
yet it is to these investigations, combined with the power to produce
high vacua, that we owe the modern radio tube, the X-ray tube, and
a variety of appliances used in the general fields of radio transmission
and X-ray technique.

It has long been known that light when falling upon the surface of
certain substances possesses the power to eject electrons from them,
and the study of this phenomenon has been one of primary importance
in relation to our knowledge of atomic processes. But it, too, has
had its practical application, for it is this phenomenon which has
rendered possible the wireless transmission of pictures, and a variety
of other things hardly less important even though less spectacular.

Many years ago, Rowland, of Johns Hopkins University, showed
us how to rule very fine closely spaced parallel lines on speculum
metal, and use them to analyze light into its component colors. That
which the grating does to the light can be predicted if we know the
spacing of the lines; and, conversely, if we had known beforehand
the nature of the light, we could have gained information regarding
the spacing of the lines. Since X rays are of the same general
nature as light, but of much shorter wave length, it became a matter
of interest to inquire how far such methods could be applied to them.
Tt soon appeared, however, that for the successful pursuit of this
problem, it would be necessary to rule lines whose distance apart was
of the order of one hundred-millionth of a centimeter. We can not,
of course, make such ruling, but nature has provided us with some-
thing very like them in the regularly spaced atoms which constitute
a crystal of rock salt, for example. About 15 years ago, Laue found
that he could make a crystal act in relation to X rays in very much
the same way as Rowland’s gratings acted toward light. The matter
244 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

was pushed rapidly forward by a number of physicists, and soon gave
accurate means of measuring the form of distribution, and spacing
of the very molecules of the crystals. It is quite impossible in a
short space to give any idea of the tremendous field of activity which
these discoveries opened up in relation to atomic structure on the one
hand, and the nature of X rays on the other. Not only this, but it
soon became realized that there were other fields of usefulness for the
new method. Not the least among these has been its application to
the structure of metals, which has provided the metallurgical engineer
with a new method of attack in the detailed examination of his alloys,
and of the effect of strain and other treatment upon them. Whereas
formerly the limits to the fineness of his examination were deter-
mined by what his microscope could see, he is now almost in a posi-
tion to look at the very molecules themselves.

Many years ago, Professor Michelson, of the University of Chicago,
became interested in the question of whether or not the velocity of
light is affected by the earth’s motion. This is an experiment having,
at first sight, nothing but a philosophical interest. But Professor
Michelson obtained an unexpected result, a result which did not har-
monize with our understanding of nature’s laws; and herein lay its
great value, for it showed that our modes of thought required
revision. This great revision, not, of course, in the laws themselves,
but in the sense in which we interpret them if they are to harmonize
throughout, constitutes the theory of relativity—a way of looking at
things which soon made its influence felt outside of the domain in
which it was born—a scheme of thought which has enabled us to see
harmony in, and so understand, many wonderful things in the theory
of electricity, atomic structure, and other branches of physics. More-
over, here again, we meet with a remarkable example of the inter-
dependence of the various parts of science on each other. Of all
branches of pure mathematics one could hardly conceive any farther
removed from nature than those having to do with noneuclidean
geometry, and the so-called absolute calculus of Ricci and Levi-
Civita. These were fields so specialized as to be studied only to a
very limited extent by mathematicians themselves. Yet, even as an
archeologist might suddenly come upon a scroll of papyrus outlining
the laws of an ancient civilization, and might therein find the means
to harmonize, and understand the other visual records which his
search had unearthed, so Einstein found in these abstruse writings
of the mathematicians the wherewithal to express the unity of na-
ture’s laws in a form so beautiful that he has likened that expression
to a wonderful symphony of which our universe is the expression of
God’s rendering.

NATURAL PHILOSOPHY—SWANN 245

Astronomy, the most ancient of the sciences, has always occupied
a place in the forefront of the imagination of the scientist and the
layman alike. With the motions of the planets coordinated by Kep-
ler, and molded into a beautiful scheme of physical law by Newton
300 years ago, there seemed but little more that man could expect to
discover. The growth of the science of optics soon provided a tool
wherewith to explore farther, however. Laboratory studies of the
nature of the light emitted by incandescent solids and gases soon
_ provided a means of determining much concerning the heavenly
bodies by a study of the hight which they emit. Stars which are so
far away that their light, traveling toward us at the rate of 186,000
miles per second, takes thousands of years to reach us, may move
_ with great velocity without that velocity making itself apparent by
direct observation. A study of their light has enabled us to deter-
mine their speed in very much the same way that we could determine
the speed of a train by noting how much the pitch of its whistle
is altered by the motion.

The stars are so far away that even in our most powerful telescopes
_ they appear but as points in spite of their great size; but by drawing
in greater detail upon our knowledge of the way in which light comes
to us and of the effect of the size of the emitting body on the char-
acter of the light, Professor Michelson, at an age when most men are
content to rest upon their laurels, performed one of the most bril-
liant feats of a lifetime of masterly achievements in measuring the
diameter of one of these stars, a feat equivalent to measuring the
diameter of a penny at a distance of a thousand miles.

Strange as it may seem that we can learn so much about the stars
which are so far away, the last few years have enhanced still further
the wonder of it all. For the knowledge which we have gained about
matter by experiment in the laboratory has found a most remark-
able field of application in enabling us to understand the condi-
tions which must prevail in the stars; and, these stars by their
peculiar characteristics of large size, high temperature, high density,
-etc., have provided us with conditions to test out conclusions such as
we could never have hoped to attain in the laboratory. A gas com-
pressed to a density eight thousand times that of steel is but a figment
of the imagination in the laboratory, yet of such stuff is the com-
panion of Sirius made. Temperatures of 40,000,000° correspond to
things ten thousand times as hot as any temperatures we find on
earth, yet nature has realized such temperatures in some of the stars.
And so the stars, far from being things through which we dare
hope to learn but little have, by their exceptional condition, served
to provide us not only with a very fascinating story of their own

240384—29-——_17
246 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

life history, but with a large part of the story of the birth of
matter itself.

Discoveries in the fields of experimental science naturally go
hand in hand with that study of the laws of design of the universe
which we call theoretical science. One supplements the other, and
the strength of one enhances the strength of the other. It is nat-
urally around the atom’s structure that the thoughts of men have
Jeved to hover. And here, the power to comprehend a new point
of view has grown enormously in the last few years. We have a
clearer understanding of what understanding means. We were in
danger of becoming so enamored of those laws which govern the
behavior of matter in bulk as to refuse to admit any other possibili-
ties in respect to the laws of the atom. The workings of the coarse-
grained things of nature were all about us. Pulleys, springs, water
torrents, the waves of the sea, these were things of common experi-
ence, and the mind sought contentment in the thought that the atom
might utilize in its structure only things which behaved as these
things behaved; and even as a little hill may hide the Alps from
one whose life is in its shadow, so there was danger in the known
and obvious workings of the common things around us obscuring
from our vision the story of that great universe of the atom which
lies beyond. Happily, the complacency of our outlook has received,
in recent years, one or two serious jolts. First came the theory of
relativity, which taught us that a greater elasticity of thought was
necessary if we were to understand nature as she is rather than as
we might have made her. Then came a series of experimental phe-
nomena which seemed to violate all our notions of how things
should be, and since we could not alter the experimental phe-
nomena we had to alter the notions, and so there arose the so-called
quantum theory of atomic structure—one of the most helpful crys-
tallizations of thought for correlating the facts that we have ever
had. And then, as further search showed this theory to be inade-
quate beyond a certain stage, there arose only a couple of years
ago, an entirely new way of regarding the atom—a way so radical
in its point of view that it is safe to say that had it been put forward
15 years ago, it would hardly have attained a hearing. Born in a
day of more liberal thought, however, it had no sooner made an ap-
pearance than a host of workers arose to welcome it and to develop
its consequences, so that to-day there is hardly a physical laboratory
in the country which does not contain one or more persons who have
acquired the power to think in its terms.

In speaking of theories being discarded and superseded by others,
we must not think of the discarded ones as useless. The situation
is not one where we are to think of a certain theory as right

NATURAL PHILOSOPHY

SWANN 247

and all the others wrong. In a sense, different theories are lke
different languages for describing the same phenomena. The
English language may be more suitable—more powerful for the
purposes of the science of chemistry than the French language. It
may have a greater richness of word content; but to say that one is
right and the other wrong is to utter nonsense.

And so, a quarter of a century after the prediction of the eminent
European philosopher to the effect that discovery was ended we
find ourselves in the most intensive period of scientific activity of
all time. We may well ask where we are headed. Shall we con-
tinue to discover new treasures, or, when we have catalogued those
we have, shall we reach again one of those periods of stagnation?
If we do, and if there be any one who then feels that progress is
ended, that knowledge is complete and that science is dead, let him
think of how confidently he could have voiced that same thought in
the civilization of the Pharaohs. Let him think with what surety

he would have voiced it in the years which followed Newton. Let
him think how he would have voiced it—yes, perhaps how he did
voice it 30 years ago, and then let him take hope. For, the words
_ of the Bard of Avon are truthful yet; “ There is more in heaven and
_ earth than is dreamed of in ” even twentieth-century philosophy, and
the richness of nature’s content will not be fathomed in our time.

S27)
THE HYPOTHESIS OF CONTINENTAL DISPLACEMENT?

By CHARLES SCHUCHERT

Professor Emeritus of Paleontology and Historical Geology, Yale University,
New Haven, Conn.

[With four plates]
“God has delivered the world to the disputes of men”

Wegener’s hypothesis first appeared in 1912 in Petermann’s Mitteil-
ungen and in the Geologische Rundschau. In 1915 came his book,
Die Entstehung der Kontinente und Ozeane, with a second edition
in 1920, a third in 1922, and a translation into English in 1924. The
hypothesis did not receive much consideration from English-speaking
geologists until 1922, when Lake reviewed the book at length in the
Geological Magazine of London, and the next year lectured on the
hypothesis before the Royal Geographical Society. In the same
year, Reid reviewed the book in the Geographical Review of New
York. The theory was likewise discussed before the British Associa-
tion for the Advancement of Science in 1922, and the discussion
reported in Nature by W. B. Wright, while a similar discussion
by geologists, zoologists, and botanists before the Royal Society of
South Africa appeared in the same periodical. Since then the hy-
pothesis has been dealt with further in Nature and elsewhere. For
the benefit of Americans, the more important discussions in English
are enumerated below.’

1 Reprinted, with slight alterations and additions, from Theory of Continental Drift,
1928, by permission of the author and the American Association of Petroleum Geologists,
Tulsa, Okla.

2F. B. Taylor, Bearing of the Tertiary Mountain Belt on the Origin of the Earth’s
Plan, Bull. Geol. Soc. Amer., vol. 21 (1910), pp. 179-226; Movement of Continental
Masses Under Action of Tidal Forces, Pan-Amer. Geol., vol. 43 (1925), pp. 15-50; Salient
Points in Tertiary Epeirogeny, Bull. Geol. Soc. Amer., vol. 38 (1927), pp. 107-109.

A, Wegener, The Origin of Continents and Oceans. Translated by J. G. A. Skerl, and
with an introduction by J. W. Evans, Dutton, 1924.

Philip Lake, Wegener’s Displacement Theory, Geol. Mag., vol. 59 (1922), pp. 338-346;
Wegener’s Hypothesis of Continental Drift, Nature, Feb. 17, 1928, pp. 226-228.

W. B. Wright, The Wegener Hypothesis, Nature, Jan. 6, 1923, pp. 30-31. This discus-
sion, before the British Association, was “lively but inconclusive,” but all were agreed
that the Atlantic Ocean was much older than Pleistocene time. It led to other papers in
Nature for Jan. 27, 1923, p. 131; Feb. 24, 1923, pp. 255-256; Mar. 24, 1923, pp. 393-394;
Apr. 25, 1925, p. 602; May 30, 1925, pp. 834-835; Sept. 26, 1925, p. 481.

J. W. Gregory, Continental Drift, a review of Wegener’s book in Nature, Feb. 21, 1925,
pp. 255-257.

W. K. Pickering, The Separation of the Continents by Fission, Geol. Mag., vol. 61
(1924), pp. 31-34.

Arthur Holmes, Continental Drift, a review of Theory of Continental Drift, Nature,
Sept. 22, 1928, pp. 431-433.

Philip Lake, review of the same book, Geol. Mag., Sept., 1928, pp. 422-424.

249
250 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928 .

ABSTRACT OF WEGENER’S HYPOTHESIS

As Dr. van der Gracht has treated the Wegener hypothesis at
length * it will not be necessary here to go into it again fully; all
that will be needed is to state briefly the main points of the theory:

(1) The earth is not a shrinking mass.

(2) The amount of water on the earth’s surface has always been
the same.

(8) Early in the history of the earth there was a thin universal
granitic shell which before the Silurian had been thrust and folded
into a greatly thickened continent that he calls Pangaea.

(4) The continental blocks (Pangaea) underwent great hori-
zontal drifting movements in the course of geological time, and these
presumably continue even to-day. The rifting probably began in
Paleozoic time, but it was not until the middle Jurassic that Aus-
tralia-Antarctica began to separate and drift southeast. In the early
Cretaceous, the Americas began to move westward and finally, in the
Pleistocene, Greenland-Newfoundland was separated from Norway
and Great Britain.

(5) The separated continents of to-day, when moved together,
working on a globe, fit against one another as do the pieces of a
jig-saw puzzle.

.(6) The poles of the earth have in the past slowly wandered
about, and in Permian time they were as much as 2,500 miles from
their present positions.

(7) The mountains of the earth are in the main not due to a
shrinking earth but to the drifting of the continents, one set arising
at the edge of the forward-moving granitic continents where they
come against the resisting basaltic shell, as best exemplified by the
Cordillera of North America and the Andes of South America; while
those of the Euro-Asiatic continents are due to a “striving toward
the equator of the continental blocks,” namely, the movement toward
each other of the Huro-Asiatic mass and the African one.

(8) Wegener holds firmly to the theory of isostasy, and accord-
ingly believes that the land masses, large or small, can not sink and
vanish into the heavier basaltic layer. He does away with land
bridges across the oceans by uniting all lands into a Pangaea.

(9) Accordingly, Wegener rejects the theory of the permanency
of oceans and continents as we see them to-day.

’ Theory of Continentai Drift, 1928, pp. 1—75.

CONTINENTAL DISPLACEMENT—SCHUCHERT 251
THE MAKING AND BREAKING OF PANGAEA
THE TIME ELEMENT

The rifting of Pangaea and the floating away of Australasia,
Antarctica, and the Americas are said to have begun east of Africa
in Jurassic time and west of Euro-Africa in early Cretaceous time
(Pl. 1). These dates are based at best on insecure paleontological
evidence; nevertheless let us accept the hypothesis to see what it leads
to along other lines of geological inquiry. We are to believe, under
this supposition, that this immense rifting and drifting of the con-
tinents went on during one of the earth’s most marked times of
crustal quietness, the early and middle Cretaceous, when almost no
mountains were made in the whole world—a time almost devoid of
volcanic activity, when the continents were about as peneplaned and
low as they ever have been, and when they were flooded by the great-
est oceanic transgressions of all times. The drifting continued dur-
ing almost the whole of Cretaceous time, which, on the basis of
radium disintegration, means for 65,000,000 years, before the con-
tinents showed any marked crustal unrest, or even marked volcanic
activity. Wegener’s theory emphasizes accumulating or lagging
effects in the crust, but why a lagging of something like 50,000,000
years?

On the other hand, Pangaea must have endured unbroken all
through the Proterozoic, or if it did not exist as early as this, at
least it was present during all of Paleozoic time; yet two of the earth’s
greatest times of mountain-making came toward the close of the
Proterozoic and of the Paleozoic and each was accompanied by a
glacial climate. Why was Pangaea not broken up at these times of
marked crustal unrest, and why did it break up in one of the times
of greatest crustal stability? Of course, all of this is as determined
by orthodox geology. Wegener’s hypothesis calls for floating con-
tinents in a viscous substratum, all whirled to the east, and he com-
pares the continental blocks to icebergs floating in water. Why, we
ask again, was Pangaea not broken up during the Pennsylvanian-
Permian? Was it the making of the late Jurassic Mountains of wide
extent in North and South America that started the fracturing of
this combined land mass? If so, why did not the time of greater
mountain making during the Pennsylvanian and Permian also have
the same effect? On the other hand, it will not do to say that
Pangaea came into existence during the Devonian or Silurian, since
orthodox geology teaches that the continents of to-day were, in their
main features, already present in late Proterozoic time.
252 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

Daly,‘ in his new book, says:

Neither Taylor nor Wegener has shown why the continents should move.
They have not discovered the force which did the gigantic work of overcoming
the resistances to continental migration. Nor have they evaluated these resist-
ances. For these reasons geologists are going slow in placing such mobility of
continents among the accepted principles of science.

THE JIG-SAW PUZZLE

Let us for the time being agree with Wegener that the Americas
have broken away from Euro-Africa and that their present shore
lines and shelf seas are practically those of the Cretaceous riftings,
and see what these assumptions will lead to. If we take an 8-inch
globe and squeeze upon it over the Americas a quarter-inch layer
of plasteline, cut this out into the shape of these continents but
at the outer edge of the continental shelf, and then shift this plaste-
line replica over against EKuro-Africa, following the instructions of
Wegener that Newfoundland must be placed beside Ireland and
Cape San Roque of Brazil fitted into the Bight of Biafra in Africa,
the resulting geography shows Central America about 1,200 miles
away from Africa and leaves Siberia and Alaska separated by about
600 miles! And these are not the only discrepancies, for the North
Atlantic Ocean (Poseidon) becomes much larger and of a totally
different shape from that shown by Wegener; and furthermore, the
Sierras of Argentina not only take on a northeast strike but are also
about 350 miles northwest of the place where they are supposed to
connect directly with the east-west trending Cape Mountains of
Africa. These facts are shown in Plates 2-4, and should be com-
pared with Wegener’s results illustrated in Plate 1 and Behm’s
in Figure 1. It is evident, therefore, that Wegener has taken
extraordinary liberties with the earth’s rigid crust, making it pliable
so as to stretch the Americas from north to south about 1,500 miles,
and the greatest stretching is done in Central America. The smooth-
ing out of all the mountains will at best not reduce this discrepancy
by more than 500 miles.

Diener, in 1915,° in criticism of the displacement theory, directed
attention to the fact that when one shoves North America eastward
against Europe there results a great cleft and a deep ocean between
Siberia and Alaska. He was in error, however, in stating that
the opening would be 35° across, due to his working on a Mer-
cator map; by the plasteline method, previously described, we
find that the opening is nevertheless about 600 miles wide. Such an
opening brings back in full force Diener’s criticism, and alone is
fatal to Wegener’s hypothesis, because since early Cambrian time

*R. A. Daly, Our Mobile Earth, Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1926, p. 263.
5 Carl Diener, Die Grossformen der Erdoberfliiche, Mitt. k. k. geogr. Gesell., Wien, vol.
58, pp. 329-3849.

Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Schuchert PLATE 1

Upper

w Acs
fs yj
We YG

Vij

CAC

—— acer Quaternary

THE BREAKING UP AND MIGRATION OF PANGAEA AS ILLUSTRATED BY WEGENER
IN ‘'‘ ORIGIN OF CONTINENTS AND OCEANS," 1925
Dotted areas, shallow seas; present-day outlines, rivers, latitude, and longitude only for purpose
of identification
Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Schuchert PLATE 2

AN 8-INCH GEOGRAPHIC GLOBE OF THE EARTH WITH NORTH AMERICA PUSHED |
OveER AGAINST EURO-AFRICA, SO THAT NEWFOUNDLAND IS ADJACENT TO
IRELAND

Note how Alaska is separated from Siberia, and Central America from South America. Compare
I
with Figure 1
Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Schuchert PLATE 3

i oe
Pari:

Cansaee

THE 8-INCH GLOBE, AS BEFORE, TO SHOW THE EQUATORIAL MISFIT

Compare with Figure 1

j
Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Schuchert PLATE 4

THE 8-INCH GLOBE, AS BEFORE, WITH SOUTH AMERICA SHOVED AGAINST AFRICA

Dotted area, Franciscan geosyncline. Note how South America is separated from Central America.
Compare with Figure 1

ee,

CONTINENTAL DISPLACEMENT—SCHUCHERT 253

the region of Bering Sea is known on the basis of fossils to have
been of the nature of a shelf sea, thus permitting intermigrations of
marine life between the Asiatic and American sides of the Pacific
and into the Arctic as well. Not only this, but because of the shallow
waters of Bering Sea there was made here from time to time after
the Cambrian a land bridge which permitted the land floras and
faunas to radiate from America to Asia or in the opposite direction.

Of the many criticisms made by Diener against the Wegener
hypothesis, this was the only one that the latter answered, saying:

Diener’s objection, “ Whosoever pushes North America on to Europe breaks
its connection at the Behring Straits with the Asiatic continental block,” is only
met with in a Mercator’s map but not on a globe, for the movement of North
America consists essentially of rotation. At this point the blocks were never
torn away from each other.

The plasteline method shows clearly that this can not be done with-
out great distortion, and if the western connection is to be retained,
as it must, then it leaves Newfoundland 600 miles southwest of Ire-
land. All through Wegener’s book he insists that Newfoundland
must be fitted against Ireland, yet when we do this we find that
Diener is correct in saying that this tearing apart of Asia and
America is fatal not only to the tectonic structures of Siberia and
Alaska, but also to the very necessary migration routes for plants
and animals.

Wegener’s reply to all of this will be, of course, that if the nearly
north-south trending Cordilleras of the western United States and
the Appalachians had been straightened out, the required width
would have been obtained to close up the gap between Alaska and
Siberia. To which the writer counters that the mountains of Siberia
and Alaska trend about east and west and the same is true for the
northeastern end of the Appalachians in Newfoundland, so that we
fail to gain the required land, but what is more significant is that the
geology of Ireland and the Paleozoic sediments of Great Britain
demand a wide land west and northwest of Ireland.

This and the criticisms still to follow show that our difficulties in
present-day orthodox geology are by no means so unsurmountable
as are those of Wegener’s making.

HOW LONG WILL A COAST LINE RETAIN ITS INHERITED SHAPE?

As Lake says, undoubtedly it is the fitting of South America
against Africa that makes the most general appeal. The corre-
spondence in their coast lines has often been noticed—in fact, the
philosopher, Francis Bacon, is said to have observed it in the six-
teenth century—and vague suggestions have been made that they
may have come apart from one another, ‘This striking similarity of
254 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

coast line between Africa and Brazil has long vexed geologists and
geographers, and a friend of the writer recently remarked that it
must have been “ made by Satan” for that very purpose.

Wegener tells us in the opening paragraph of his book that he
came to this hypothesis in 1910 on noting—
the similarity of the shapes of the coast lines of Brazil and Africa (Figure 1).
Not only does the great right-angled bend formed by the Brazilian coast at
Cape San Roque find its exact counterpart in the reentrant angle of the African
coast line near the Cameroons, but south of these two corresponding points
every projection on the Brazilian side corresponds to a similarly shaped bay
in the African, and, conversely, each indentation in the Brazilian coast has a
complementary protuberance on the African, Experiment with a compass on a
globe shows that their dimensions agree accurately.

Now let us see what questions these two fitted pieces of the jig-saw
puzzle raise.

According to the displacement theory, hundreds of millions of
years ago the South American plateau lay directly adjoining the
African one, but in early Cretaceous time South America began to
drift westward through the stiff basaltic material. Similarly, North
America was close to Europe, and also began to drift westward in
the Cretaceous, but, at least from Newfoundland and Ireland north-
ward they still formed, with Greenland, one connected block until the
end of Pliocene time.

We have seen that South America parted company with Africa
in early Cretaceous time. Accepting the age of the earth as 1,500,-
000,000 years, this break occurred about 120,000,000 years ago.
During this vast time the sea waves have been continuously pound-
ing against Africa and Brazil and in many places rivers have been
bringing into the ocean great amounts of eroded material, yet every-
where the geographic shore lines are said to have remained practi-
cally unchanged. It apparently makes no difference to Wegener
how hard or how soft are the rocks of these shore lines, what are
their geological structures that might aid or retard land or marine
erosion, how often the strand lines have been elevated or depressed,
and how far peneplanation has gone on during each period of con-
tinental stability. Furthermore, sea level in itself has not been con-
stant, especially during the Pleistocene, when the lands were covered
by millions of square miles of ice made from water subtracted out
of the oceans. In the equatorial regions, this level fluctuated three
times during the Pleistocene, and during each period of ice accumu-
lation the sea level sank about 250 feet. Nowhere does Wegener
discuss these matters, yet he wants us to believe that the original
fracture lines have practically retained their original geographic
shape during the 120,000,000 years. Is there a geologist anywhere
who will subseribe to this startling assumption? From T. O. Bos-

to)

SCHUCHERT

CONTINENTAL, DISPLACE MENT

os

Sr

/ =~
/ e oD
U BE
MN

f/ Bn

oo

a =)

Pes: 7) &

Americas, an

of the Atlantic. Pla

a2 Dorr Qs . , :
LA iy TD ATLL bp

Oi 2

yf
Ly a
a E :

256 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

worth ® we learn that there are in western Peru three prominent
elevated marine terraces, the “tablazos” of the natives. These are
“ monument to the efficacy of marine erosion,” and the account of
their making is one of the most interesting parts of the book. Dur-
ing the Pleistocene, he says, the Peruvian coast was “moved up-
ward and downward hundreds of feet again and again. The sea
advanced and retreated many times, cutting its cliffs into the land
10 miles or 20 miles on each occasion.”

In other places Wegener tells us that the line of separation where
the original continent split apart is not at the shore line but at the
upper edge of the continental slope or the outer edge of the shelf
seas, commonly placed at about 600 feet beneath the present sea level.
In many places this not-well-ascertained line is very different from
the shore line, but even so, what are the shelves if they are not the
fills and cuts of the sea storms and currents? Are we to believe,
with Wegener, that shore lines and shelf seas have remained con-
stant in shape, position, and contour during 120,000,000 years ?

WEGENER’S SEA MOVEMENTS AS PROOF OF POLAR WANDERING

In Chapter VIII of his book Wegener argues for a viscous earth,
and says that if this is not true there could have been no crustal
movement or polar wandering. But in regard to the latter hypoth-
esis he says that polar wandering may actually be no more than
crustal movement, or, in other words, that the axis of the earth may
not change, but the crust only slips over the nucleus. However, he
adds, “ presumably both occur,” namely, the poles move as well as
the crust (pp. 121-122). To prove these conclusions he presents two
greatly generalized maps showing transgressions and regressions
of the seas over Pangaea, and says that when the pole wanders to
the east it brings on in the Northern Hemisphere regression of the
seas to the east and transgressions in the west, and in the Southern
Hemisphere the water movements are reversed.

He selects Devonian to Permian time to prove this “law,” for
during these periods “the poles wandered rapidly.” His map (his
fig. 22) giving the transgressions and regressions over Pangaea for
all Devonian and Lower Carboniferous time shows regression
throughout South America, Central America, and the whole of the
Appalachian geosyncline out to Newfoundland. Nothing is further
from the truth for the Americas during Devonian time, since this
is one of the periods of marked transgressions; during the Lower
Carboniferous, North America also has wide transgression, but South
America has almost complete regression. He presents a like map (his
fig. 23) for all the time from Lower Carboniferous to upper Per-

®° Geology of the Tertiary and Quaternary Periods of the Northwest Part of Peru, Mac-
Millan, 1922.

eee

CONTINENTAL DISPLACEMENT—SCH UCHERT 957

mian. This shows that in northern North America there was re-
gression during all of Carboniferous time, which is again just the
reverse of the facts, for there were great transgressions during the
Lower Carboniferous and Coal Measures, with marked regression
during the Permian. In South America the map shows marked
transgressions, but the facts are that here there were almost no seas
in Lower Carboniferous time, marked ones in the Coal Measures, and
small ones in the Permian.

The writer has elsewhere asked, “Of what use are paleogeographic
maps that ‘lump’ together such vast amounts of geologic time?”
They can prove nothing and certainly not polar wandering, for we
know that North America had one very slowly progressing trans-
gression during the Devonian, at least two more or less complete
ones in Lower Carboniferous time, two in the Coal Measures, and
one grand regression in the late Pennsylvanian and early Permian.
No paleogeographic map is worth the paper on which it is printed
unless it depicts the actual state of affairs for a limited geologic time,
say several hundred thousand years, and not as Wegener does here,
a number of transgressions and regressions that took place during
160,000,000 years. What Wegener should have done was to make
at least 12 maps, and 9 for “ Carboniferous time” (8 for each of
its three periods), and then from these deduce his curves for each
hemisphere.

SIMILARITIES ON THE TWO SIDES OF THE ATLANTIC OCEAN

It can be truthfully said that Wegener’s hypothesis has its greatest
support in the well-known geologic similarities on the two sides of
the Atlantic, as shown in strikes and times of mountain making,
in formational and faunal sequences, and in petrography (fig. 1).
The main tectonic and faunal “connections” upon which he bases
his theory are: (1) Between the Sierras of Argentina and the Cape
Mountains of Africa; (2) between the Mediterranean and the Antil-
lean region; (3) between the Armorican folds of Belgium and south-
ern Great Britain and those of the Appalachians; (4) between the
Caledonian ones and the Appalachians; (5) the pre-Cambrian simi-
larities of northern lands; and (6) the comagmatic similarities be-
tween Euro-Africa and the Americas.

After making all discounts, it must be said that there still remain
several geologic and faunal similarities on the two sides of the At-
lantic, and chiefly in the north Atlantic. These have long been
known, however, and have all had more or less satisfactory explana-
tions on the basis of the present geography. But under Wegener’s
958 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

hypothesis these slight similarities should be striking identities, and
many of the marine faunas, for instance, should have, not 5 per cent
of identical species, as is actually the case, but between 50 and 75 per
cent, which is not true at all.

COMAGMATIC SIMILARITIES

The petrographic similarities have been treated fully by H. 8S.
Washington,’ who finds some between North America and Europe,
but more between Africa and South America. About the latter
region he says, however (pp. 344, 346) :

It thus seems to be evident that grave petrographical 2nd chemical discrep-
ancies exist between the rocks of the Guiana-Ceara coast and that of Guinea.
... The balance of the petrographical evidence [between Brazil and Africa]
may, then, be regarded as adverse to Wegener’s hypothesis.

Washington’s conclusions regarding North America and Europe are
5S fo)
even less satisfactory.

TECTONIC SIMILARITIES

African Cape Mountains and Argentinian Sierras—In_ the
extreme south of Africa are the east-west-trending Zwarte-Berge or
Cape Mountains, which are thrust to the north. In the east they go
straight out to sea but in the west turn and strike northwest. It is
plain that they have risen out of a typical geosyncline and accord-
ingly must originally have been considerably longer than they are at
present. Furthermore, there must have been a borderland to the
south some hundreds of miles across, from which the main mass of
sediments came. This broken-off (rias) ending of the Cape Moun-
tains has always been explained by downfracturing of portions of
South Africa both on the east and on the west, but this explanation
Wegener rejects, because to him sial can not sink into sima. The
chief geologist of Argentina, Doctor Keidel, has pointed out the
structural, stratigraphic, and faunal similarities between the Cape
Mountains and the Sierras of Buenos Aires, which in turn are
continued into the pre-cordilleras of northwestern Argentina, fur-
nishing Wegener with what he regards as striking evidence for

7H. S. Washington, Comagmatic Regions and the Wegener Hypothesis. Journ. Wash,
Acad. Sci., vol. 13 (1923), pp. 339-347,

CONTINENTAL DISPLACEMENT—SCH UCHERT 259

connections. Now let us see what these relations are, basing a
synopsis of them upon Du Toit, Krenkel, and Keidel (Table 1).*

0

FIGURE 2.—Western Pangaea as drawn by Behm. Dotted areas indicate geosyn-
clines after Schuchert ; open areas, the regions where the continents do not fit

8A. L. Du Toit, The Geology of South Africa, 1926. E. Krenkel, Geologie Afrikas,
vol. 1, in Geologie der Erde, 1925. H. Keidel, Ueber das Alter, die Verbreitung u. die
gegenseitigen Beziehungen d. verschiedenen tektonischen Strukturen in den argentinischen
Gebirgen, Internat. Geol. Congress, 12th session, 1913, Compte Rendu, pp. 671-687; La
geologfa de las sierras de la Provincia de Buenos Aires y sus relaciones con las montanas
de Sud Africa y los Andes, Rep. Argentina, Anales Minis. de Agricul., See. Geol., ete.,
vol. 2, No. 3 (1916), pp. 1-78 (not read). Since this paper was written there has ap-
peared a book by Du Toit entitled ‘‘A Geological Comparison of South America with South
Africa,’ published by the Carnegie Institution, 1927. Schuchert has discussed this book
in The Continental Displacement Hypothesis as Viewed by Du Toit, Amer. Journ. Sci.,
September, 1928, pp. 266-274.
260

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

TaBuE I.—Geological relations between African Cape Mountains and Argentinian
Sierras

SOUTHERN AND WESTERN CAPE MOUN-

TAINS
[Going up in sequence]
Pre-Cambrian systems. Formations

marine, continental, and igneous.

Primitive. Possibly Archeozoic.
Proterozoic:
Witwatersrand.
Ventersdorp. A grand Protero-
Transvaal-Nama.? zoic develop-
Black Reef. ment.
Pretoria.
Rooiberg.

Mountain-making in late Proterozoic;
long erosion.

Waterberg, age unknown.

Cape system of clastics, 10,000 feet,
usually regarded as Devonian. Land
on North.

1. Table Mountain near-shore ss.,
sh., tillites, 5,000 feet: bi-
valves not diagnostic; age,
Ordovician to Devonian.

Disconformity.

2. Bokkeveld, Lower Devonian,
sh., ss., 2,500 feet; lower half
marine with 130 species; upper
half continental.

Disconformity.

3. Witteberg sh., ss., 2,500 feet;
continental, probably Devon-
ian or (?) Lower Carboniferous.

Epeirogenic elevation, begun about
Middle Devonian time, highest north
of 30° 8.

Great hiatus.

Karroo system north of Cape Moun-
tains, continental clastics, 15,000
feet, with terminal volcanics, 4,000

feet. Overlap on Cape Mountains.
1. ‘Lower Permian’? (Dwyka),
lower sh., 700 feet; tillites,

1,000 feet; upper sh., 600

feet; no coals. Mesosaurus,

Noteosaurus. In West, marine
Eurydesma beds.

SIERRAS OF BUENOS AIRES

Pre-Cambrian crystallines.
Undifferentiated.

Period of mountain-making.

Ordovician, extensive in sh., ls., ss., no
known fossils, but such in pre-Cor-
dilleras.

Silurian sh. with Arthrophycus harlani.

Well developed in northwest Ar-
gentina.

Lower Devonian ss., sh., with limited
Bokkeveld fauna. Great develop-
ment in northwest Argentina, but
without tillites.

Possibly a time of marked orogeny in
later Devonian.

Great hiatus.

inter-
No

Permian tillites like Dwyka,
bedded with marine strata.
Eurydesma.

Mesosaurus in Parand, Noteosaurus in
Brazil but none in Argentina.

CONTINENTAL DISPLACEMENT—SCHUCHERT

261

TaBLE I.—Geological relations between African Cape Mountains and Argentinian
Sierras—Continued

2. ‘‘Middle Permian” (Ecea), sh.,
ss., 2,000 to 6,000 feet. Typical
Glossopteris flora and rare ap-
pearance of ‘‘migrant”’ reptiles,
Archaeosuchus, Eccasaurus.

3. Upper Permian (Lower Beau-
fort), ss., sh., 4,000 to 6,000
feet. Late Glossopteris flora,
and greatest abundance of
reptiles (70 species). Pareta-
saurus, Titanosuchus, Dicyno-
don. Propappus, Therocephalia,
Lycosaurus, Endothiodon.

4, Lower Triassic (Middle Beau-
fort), 1,000 feet. Zone of
Lystrosaurus and Procolophon.

5. Middle Triassic (Upper Beau-
fort), 2,000 feet. Zone of Cyno-
gnathus. Erythrosuchus related
to Scaphonyx.

6. Middle Triassic (Molteno), 2,000
feet.

7. Upper Triassic (Stormberg) red
beds, 1,600 feet, with dino-
saurs; Cave ss., 800 feet, with
dinosaurs.

8. Upper Triassic (Drakensberg)
volcanics and dolerite intru-
sions, 4,000 feet north of Cape
Mountains.

Cape Mountains orogeny. Thrusting to
north. Appears to have begun in
late Beaufort (late Triassic) and con-
tinued periodically into Lower Cre-
taceous, resulting in high Cape
Mountains.

Lower Cretaceous (Uitenhage-Enon)
marine Overlap in southeast.

Unconformity.

Upper Cretaceous
rine series, limited.

Rifting and faulting in late Cenozoic
time.

24034—29-——18

(Pondoland) ma-

Middle Permian with Glossopteris flora;
no reptiles.
Orogeny in Sierras and pre-Cordilleras.

Absent. [These Permian-Triassic in-
terrelations between South Africa and
South America are more fully dis-
cussed by Schuchert in a paper on
the age of the Permian tillites,
referred to in the footnote on p. 262
of this paper.]

Absent.

Absent.

Absent.

Red beds, 2,900 feet, with Scaphonyzr
and Erythrosuchus.

Plateau lavas in Brazil, 2,000 feet.
Age uncertain, probably late Triassic.

Absent.

In pre-Cordilleras of northwest Ar-
gentina.

Folding of Andes.

High epeirogenic elevation of Andes.
262 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

From this table we see that about all that is strikingly harmon)-
ous in the two continents is the orogeny at the close of the Protero-
zoic, the Lower Devonian (Bokkeveld) faunas, the Lower Permian
tillites, and the Glossopteris floras; in Permian time, Mesosaurus
and Noteosaurus,; in late Triassic time, Yrythrosuchus and Scaph-
onyw-like reptiles; and finally, in latest Triassic time, the plateau
lavas. We gladly admit that these are striking similarities or iden-
tities, but after all they furnish slender evidence on which to base
so important a conclusion as that Africa and Argentina were
united to one another until Cretaceous time. Against this view are
many more and greater dissimilarities, none of which is more strik-
ing than the almost total absence of the horde of African Permian
reptiles and amphibia and the African Triassic dinosaurs in all of
South America. Furthermore, the writer’s plasteline method of
bringing South America against Africa leaves the Sierras 350 miles
northwest of their supposed connections with the Cape Mountains
(pl. 4).

On the other hand, it must be plain to anyone looking at western
Pangaea that Wegener has greatly distorted and elongated the
Americas, and chiefly in the Central American region (fig. 1). In
this connection, Lake also says (1922) that when one moves the
Americas rigidly and without distortion against EKuro-Africa, then
the Sierras of Argentina fail to meet the Cape Mountains by 1,200
miles.

Krenkel in his book on African geology has likewise studied
Wegener’s hypothesis in relation to the supposedly connecting
geology and structures of eastern South America and western
Africa, following out five lines of evidence. These are (1) the pre-
Paleozoic grain of Brazil and West Africa, (2) the connections of
the Cape Mountains with the Sierras of Buenos Aires, (8) the con-
tinental rocks thrown out by the volcanoes of Ascension, St. Helena,
and Tristan d’Acunha, (4) the bathymetric nature of the ocean off
West Africa, (5) the comagmatic relation of the igneous rocks on
both sides of the Atlantic. In each instance he finds dissimilarities
striking enough to cause him to decide against the displacement
hypothesis. On the other hand, Du Toit (1926), because of the
enumerations given on an earlier page, believes in a Pangaea, but
in his book of 1927 he holds that South America at no time was
united with Africa, but that they were always separated by some-
thing like 400 to 800 kilometers. This admission of the existence
of a wide gap is, to the writer, of the greatest significance, and with

®This point and the more important of the known faunal and floral assemblages are
discussed at length in a memoir prepared after this paper was written. It is entitled

“A Review of the Late Paleozoic I'ormations and Faunas with Special Reference to the
Tee Age of Middle Permian Time,” Bull. Geol. Soc. Amer., vol. 38 (1928).

a Se ae a NS
Fe ee SE

a
—_

ae ae Sere ee er?
CONTINENTAL DISPLACEMENT—SCH UCHERT 263

his orthodox views he sees the gap as having been never less than
it is to-day.

Mediterranean-Antillean connections —Now let us take up the
postulated connections between Spain and the Atlas Mountains of
northwestern Africa and Antillia. Wegener says (pp. 5-12) that
the Atlas Mountains were folded “ chiefly in the Oligocene, but had
already commenced in the Cretaceous,” but that these folds can not
be found on the American side. It is true, nevertheless, that the
Greater Antilles were also folded late in the Cretaceous and that they
have been elevated epeirogenically at different times during the
Cenozoic, and faulted on a most tremendous scale during the Pliocene.
Accordingly it is curious to see that Wegener does not know these
facts or is not willing to stretch them into his scheme. However, he
easily gets around his difficulties by saying that the Americas were
once closely adjacent to Euro-Africa, but that they have rifted and
drifted apart before the Carboniferous. This, then, must have taken
place in the Devonian or even earlier, and his most recent map for
Upper Carboniferous time shows a north-south mediterranean some
hundreds of miles in width, extending from South America north to
about Long Island. The writer’s reconstruction by the plasteline
method, however, produces a good-sized North Atlantic Ocean (Po-
seidon) about 1,500 miles across either way (Pls. 2, 3). This con-
jectured mediterranean is, for Wegener, a saving stroke, and is, in
any event, a feature that paleontologists have long been postulating
to explain the origin of many south European Tethyan marine ele-
ments not only in the post-Ordovician faunas of the southern United
States but also for the Silurian and Devonian of Brazil. These con-
nections are seen again in the Permian and throughout Mesozoic time.
But this mediterranean, the writer’s Poseidon, in order to have been
a normal sea for an abundance of life, and for migration possibilities,
must have had a deep and wide oceanic connection with the Pacific
across Central America, and this Wegener’s map does not show.
Now, however, that his attention has been directed to it, there will be
no further difficulty about this, since with his pen he will draw in a
Caribbean seaway uniting Poseidon and Tethys with the Pacific,
solving this and other problems by the following strategy:

But it is impossible to take up any strong view on this question so long as
the size and outline of the Spanish block in the Devonian period are not known.
* * * But as long as the displacement theory declares itself for these
reasons unable to carry out the reconstruction of this region for the Devonian
period, no one can tell whether the American Devonian will afford refutation
or confirmation.

Caledonides—Wegener is correct in connecting the Caledonian
crustal trends of northwestern Europe with those of northern New-
foundland, but wrong in connecting them directly. At present it is
less than 2,000 miles in a straight line from Ireland to Newfoundland,
264 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

and paleontolagists need a distance something like this during
Paleozoic times to explain the scattering faunal similarities of these
lands. On the other hand, the stratigraphers of Great Britain insist
on a high land to the northwest at least 500 miles across, or a low
land at least 1,000 miles wide, to supply the great mass of detritals
of Ordovician and Silurian times seen in these islands.

Everyone knows that the folding and thrusting of the Caledonian
structures is intense. If, then, Newfoundland lay adjacent to Ire-
land, why is it that this exact time of orogeny is unknown in the
former? And in any event, even if one fits the time of the Cale-
donian folding into that of the Devonian and early Permian time of
Newfoundland, why does this intensity of the Caledonides decrease
so quickly into the far simpler foldings of Newfoundland ?

Hercynides.—In regard to the Hercynide structures, they can not
be connected at all with the Appalachians; it is the Caledonides that
connect with the latter.1° What we see in northeastern North
America connecting with the Hercynides are not the structural re-
lations but the faunal ones of the North Atlantic (Poseidon). These
connections are seen in the Lower Ordovician of southeastern New-
foundland, the Silurian of Arisaig, Nova Scotia, the Lower Devonian,
and Lower Carboniferous (Windsor) of New Brunswick. The writer
has long been explaining these similarities as due to the shelf seas
along the south side of the New Brunswick geanticline, which was the
borderland of the Appalachian-Caledonian seaway wherein the
marine faunas migrated and evolved.

Regarding Wegener’s reconstruction of the tectonic lines between
northeastern North America and northwestern Europe, Lake says™
that they fit very well, but that this results from taking great liber-
ties with the earth’s crust;
he has pressed Newfoundland and Labrador strongly toward the northwest
and has turned the former through an angle of about 30°. The westerly motion
of Newfoundland may be admitted as consistent with the hypothesis; but if,
in addition to moving the masses of sial, we are also allowed to mold them
as we will, the coincidences that we deduce become evidence of imaginative
powers, not of former realities.

Pre-Cambrian trends—The pre-Cambrian connections of Hol-
arctis across the North Atlantic are worthless for Wegener’s purpose,
because these structures were made during the first half of geologic

10. B. Bailey (Nature, Nov. 5, 1927, p. 674) does actually make this connection, begin-
ning with the Boston basin of Carboniferous formations and continuing southwest into
the true Appalachians. But surely the Caledonides did not continue into Louisiana as
shown on his map. An actual connection of the ends of the folds of the Boston basin
with those of Belgium can not be demonstrated; this is far more readily done with the
Caledonides of America and northwestern Europe. Furthermore, there is no demonstrated
crossing, in Massachusetts or elsewhere in America, of the younger Hereynides over the
older Caledonides. It is the theory of the matter that Bailey is discussing, while Wegener
is saying that the several ends can be proved to have once been continuous.

4 Philip Lake, Geo. Mag., vol. 59 (1922), p. 344.

CONTINENTAL DISPLACEMENT—SCH UCHERT 265

time, and accordingly are of so vast an age and so little known that
any advocate can read into them what he will. At the discussion
before the British Association in 1922, Coleman pointed out that no
dependence can be placed on them, since “ the Archean is a universal
formation,” meaning that we have as yet not enough precise knowl-
edge of these exceedingly ancient times to make long-range corre-
lations. .

According to Lake,* “In the Hebrides and northern Scotland,
Wegener says, the strike of the ancient gneiss is from northeast to
southwest; in Labrador it is from east to west.” However, “the
Survey Memoir on the Northwest Highlands gives the prevalent
trend as west-northwest-east-southeast, or east-west.”

THE FRANCISCAN GEOSYNCLINE AND AFRICAN GEOLOGY

We will now take up a structural element in the eastern part of
South America that is unknown to Wegener, because it has never
been presented in generalized form. In its revelation of how little
the geology of Brazil is related to that of Africa, it deals, however,
a crushing blow to the displacement hypothesis.

Some years ago, in a study of the seaways of South America, the
writer was surprised to find that there is a slightly northeast-south-
west trending geosyncline in eastern Brazil. This trough he has
called the Franciscan geosyncline, taking the name from the large
San Francisco River that lies in a great length of it. Evans’s map of
the tectonic lines of South America, reproduced by Wegener (p. 50),
correctly shows the trend-lines for this trough, but at the northeast
he has southeast-northwest strikes, which must be of pre-Cambrian
foldings; accordingly, the trough passed over this old ground and
grain.

This Franciscan geosyncline of eastern Brazil is a long and nar-
row marine trough present at least since the early Silurian. It was
not folded into mountains until middle Permian time, and apparently
then on the west and northwest. Later on, the area of the geosyncline
was also invaded by fresh-water strata of late Triassic age, and
finally, during latest Triassic and earliest Jurassic time, an area at
least 300,000 square miles in extent between the Amazon, Parana,
and La Plata Rivers was covered by plateau lavas averaging about
1,000 feet in thickness. These are overlain by fresh-water sandstones
thought to be of Cretaceous age. None of these post-Permian forma-
tions are folded, though they are more or less normally faulted.

The Paleozoic sediments are essentially sandstones and shales hay-
ing a united thickness of less than 6,000 feet, though there may also
be present strata older than the Silurian. The Silurian and Devonian
are marine deposits, about 2,000 feet thick, while those of the

2 Op. cit., p. 343.
266 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

Permian, 2,400 to 3,400 feet thick, are in the main continental,
although marine and brackish water zones occur almost throughout
the whole of them. All the Paleozoic detritals appear to have come
from the east; to the west they are buried under the plateau lavas.

The formations of the Franciscan trough have not heretofore been
interpreted as of a geosyncline, but Branner’s map of 1919, taken
together with the nature of the deposits, and the position east of a
high borderland during the Paleozoic, with the Amazon shield on the
west, show that we have here all of the structural elements of a
geosyncline. Ina general way the center of this trough may be said
to lie east of Maranhao, and somewhat west of Sao Paulo, with the
axis trending slightly southwest, and finally it extends along the coast
to Rio Grande do Sul.

Since Wegener holds that South America all through the Paleo-
zoic and most of the Mesozoic lay closely adjacent to Africa, the
Franciscan geosyncline must find its continuation northeastward
through western Nigeria. Now let us see what is known of the gen-
eral geology of western Africa, depending upon Lemoine, Chudeau,
and Krenkel.* As one proceeds from the Mediterranean southward
across West Africa into the Gulf of Guinea, the dated geology be-
comes more and more obscure, and this is mainly because one passes
from younger rocks and the depths of ancient Tethys toward older
ones and finally up against the pre-Cambrian shield of central Africa.
This shield also extends widely through southern West Africa west
to Liberia and Sierra Leone. In a general way, we can say that the
Paleozoic seas of the north transgressed southward upon this very
ancient nucleus of Africa, with the southernmost shore extending
from about western Liberia, thence striking northeast to north of
Nigeria, and so on into the southern Sahara, where it is lost. It is
well known that there are much folded and metamorphosed schists
south of this old coast, and especially in the Gold Coast state; these
have sometimes been referred to the early and middle Paleozoic, but
Krenkel points out that they are more probably of Proterozoic age.
Accordingly we see that the structure and the dated sediments of the
Franciscan geosyncline of Brazil abut directly against the old
nucleus of Africa, and no continuation at all occurs of this South
American trough. On the other hand, we gladly grant that the
Tethyan overlaps upon Africa, having east and west strikes, and
with faunas of the Atlantic-Mediterranean realm, strikes into the
Amazon valley, but all paleontologists who have studied these Silu-
rian, Devonian, and Pennsylvanian faunas of Brazil have pointed out

143The best general statement, with maps, is by Paul Lemoine: Afrique occidentale,
Handbuch d. regionalen Geologie, vol. 7, pt. 6A, 1913, pp. 1-88. A later work treating
of the tectonics is by R. Chudeau: Recherches sur la tectonique de l’Afrique occidentale,
Bull. Soc. Géol. de France (4), vol. 18, 1918, pp. 59-87. E. Krenkel, Geologie Afrikas,
vol. 1, in Geologie der Erde, 1925. The detail of the geology of West Africa is to appear
in the second volume; all that we have here is a much generalized account on pp. 46-47.

.
-—

CONTINENTAL DISPLACEMENT—SCHUCHERT 267

that they agree better, though distantly, with those of the Mis-
sissippi valley than they do with those of Africa. As paleontologists,
we can explain these faunal similarities between Brazil, northwest-
ern Africa, and the Mississippi Valley far more easily by long dis-
tance migration routes along shelf seas bordering a land bridge
across the Atlantic, than by the close union of these lands.

In western Africa there are, at least, dated Middle Ordovician
mudstones, with Climacograptus, Diplograptus palmeus, and DP. in-
sectifrons, probably a long Silurian sequence of mudstones from
which are recorded Monograptus priodon, M. lobiferus, and Arthro-
phycus, followed by a long sequence of Lower, Middle, and Upper
Devonian sandstones with an abundance of identified fossils. ‘Then
there is a long hiatus followed by lower (Dinantian) and upper Penn-
sylvanian (Moscovian) faunas, succeeded by Permian continental
deposits with tillites. The next overlap of Tethys was in Cretaceous
time, and it was a widespread one, followed by others of the
Cenozoic.

The pre-Cambrian formations of western Africa have tectonic
lines—the Africanides—that in general trend northeast 45° to 75°,
but there are also north-south strikes. The next time of folding—a
striking one—came during the later Silurian. These are the Saha-
rides, and it is now seen that they have no direct connection with the
Caledonides of northwestern Europe, as is usually assumed. The
trends of the Saharides are more or less like those of the Africanides,
but the two maps of Chudeau give them in the south as trending
northeast and then turning and striking east-west and folded on the
southeast and south. Then followed, much farther north, the late
Pennsylvanian orogeny—the Hercynides—with the trend-lines strik-
ing in a totally different direction, namely, from northwest to south-
east. Finally, in the Eocene-Oligocene came the folding of the Atlas
Mountains—the Alpinides of extreme northwest Africa—with south-
west-northeast strikes.

In Brazil there is no orogeny of Silurian or Devonian time at all,
some but not markedly strong folding in the Permian, and none at
all in Cenozoic time. There may, however, have been a time of
decided folding in the early Paleozoic, either at the close of the
Ordovician or earlier.

These facts show that there are but few geological connections
between Brazil and western Africa, and there should be many if they
once were closely adjacent. Each area has its own independent
geologic development, unlike that of the other, indicating clearly
that Brazil and northwestern Africa, since at least the Silurian, have
been independent and far separated. In this connection, we must
recall what Suess said in his famous book, The Face of the Earth: ™“

4B. Suess, The Face of the Earth, vol. 1, 1904 (German ed., 1885), p. 537.
268 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

South America presents in a higher degree than any other part of the world
all the features of a homogeneous structure.

On the other hand, the writer is well aware that recently J. W.
Gregory has postulated a north-south trending seaway for Middle
Cretaceous (Albian) time—his Angola Gulf (he does not call it a
geosyncline)—extending from Tripoli south across the Sahara and
so on through western Cameroons and thence along the west coast
of Africa to Cape Frio. He says?® that it

was not formed till middle Albian times, and the configuration of the Brazilio-
Ethiopian continent was essentially the same throughout the upper Albian.

NEWFOUNDLAND AND IRELAND 16

In many places in Wegener’s book we find indirect statements to
the effect that Newfoundland was separated from Ireland during
Pleistocene time, and direct passages to this effect are found on pages
12, 55, 60, 110, 111, 117, and 172. We get the best idea of this
connection in the following statement (p. 12) :

Similarly, North America was close to Europe; and at least from Newfound-
land and Ireland northward, they formed with Greenland one connected block.

Finally, he states (p. 110):

The separation may have taken place at the period of maximum glaciation,
or, just as possibly, shortly before. In any case, the distance between the blocks
was not of any considerable importance when the glaciation was at its maxi-
mum; on the other hand, the blocks must have been separated considerably by
the time of the last glaciation.

This connection is also illustrated in his map (p. 111) entitled
“ Reconstruction of the Continental Blocks for the Great Ice Age.”
Since, therefore, the separation of Newfoundland from Ireland took
place during the Pleistocene, the geology of Newfoundland and
Ireland should be alike for all of geological time. Now let us see
what are the actual relations, as set down briefly in Table IT in oppos-
ing columns for easy comparison.

These facts show unmistakably that Newfoundland was never a
part of Ireland, and that each land belongs to a widely differing
geological province. Furthermore, the faunas of the two countries
are so different that they must ever since Cambrian time have been
of distinct faunal provinces, and, judged by those of the present
must have been separated from each other by several thousand miles
of migration routes. Their faunal similarities and dissimilarities can

15 J. W. Gregory, Supplementary Note on the Geology of Benguella in Relation to Its
Cephalopods and the History of the South Atlantic, Trans. Roy. Soc. Edinburgh, vol. 53
(1922), pp. 161-163.

16 For Ireland, see the volume on the British Isles in Handbuch der regionalen Geologie,
yol. 8, pt. 1, 1917; Stanford’s Atlas of Great Britain and Ireland, 1907; Jukes-Browne,
Building of the British Isles, 1911.

CONTINENTAL DISPLACEMENT—SCHUCHERT 269

be explained only by long migration routes, and the strongest simi-
larities are found only among the graptolites (floaters), corals (larvee
long in development while floating), and trilobites (good swimmers).
Nor do the times of orogeny agree, and while volcanic activity was
marked in Great Britain during the Ordovician and Silurian, almost
nothing of the kind occurred in Newfoundland.

Evans, in his introduction to the English edition of Wegener’s
book,!7 makes the following astonishing statement :

The succession of the sedimentary rocks in areas now separated by thou-
sands of miles of sea shows remarkable resemblances that can only be reason-
ably explained if these sediments were laid down in close proximity to one
another and under practically identical conditions.

The accompanying presentation of the geology of Ireland and
Newfoundland shows, however, that there is very little in common
between these two countries in their stratigraphic sequence, facies
conditions, voleanic activity, orogeny, or marine faunas. Why is
this? Because the St. Lawrence geosyncline and the New Brunswick
geanticline once extended across the Atlantic (with something like its
present dimensions) to Scotland and thence into Norway and Swe-
den. Holtedahl has brought this out a number of times, and we
paleontologists must in this case, and in others as well, have the long
migration routes to explain the slight relationship between the faunas
of northeastern North America and northwestern Europe.

17 A, Wegener, op. cit., pp. vii—viii.
270

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

TaBLE II.—Geological relations between Newfoundland and Ireland

NEWFOUNDLAND

Nature of Paleozoic sediments and strike
of St. Lawrence geosyncline call for a
land of great area on northwest.
This trough does not strike into Ire-
land, but does go through northwest
Scotland.

The New Brunswick east-west geanti-
cline separates the northern St.
Lawrence geosyncline from the south-
ern Acadian one.

Acadian geosyncline has from time to
time slight faunal connections with
Great Britain.

Strike of St. Lawrence geosyncline
slightly northeast.

Strike of Appalachides northeast.

Archeozoic of very wide surficial distri-
bution, mainly granites.

Anorthosites the characteristic igneous

rocks.
Proterozoic detritals of southeast in

northeast-southwest troughs.

Lower Cambrian in two geosynclines
separated by New Brunswick geanti-
cline. St. Lawrence trough has
Lower and Upper Cambrian. Aca-
dian trough has Lower and Middle
Cambrian, with European faunal
similarities.

Middle Cambrian in Acadian trough.
Decided faunal connections with
northwest Europe.

Upper Cambrian-Ozarkian ls. in both
basins. Little understood.

Lower Ordovician ls. in great develop-
ment in St. Lawrence geosyncline.
Faunal connections with northwest
Scotland. Detrital facies of Acadian
geosyncline in great development,
with Welsh faunal similarities.

Middle Ordovician (Chazy) Is. in
marked development in St. Lawrence
trough. None in Acadian trough.

Tectonic movement. (?) Block faulting.

Middle Ordovician (Black River-Tren-
ton) in vast detrital development in
northwest. No voleanies. Fauna
limited.

IRELAND

Nature of Paleozoic sediments and strike
of Caledonian geosyncline call for a
land of great area on west and north-
west. A view held by all since its
presentation by Hull. This land
can not be Newfoundland with its
separate marine history.

Absent.

Absent, unless connections are made
with the Armorican geosyncline; fau-
nal similarities then slight.

Strike of Caledonides northeast, but
considerably less than in Newfound-
land.

Strike of Hercynides east.

Archeozoic not definitely known.

None in Great Britain.

Proterozoic in Dalradian detritals that
connect with Torridonian of Scot-
land.

Cambrian. (?) Limited, poorly under-
stood, restricted on southeast. No
diagnostic fossils, age not proved.
No comparisons possible with New-
foundland.

Unknown.

Unknown.

Correlates with Tremadoe and Arenig
clastics, but both are unknown in Ire-
land.

Llandeilo in southeast, detritals and
voleaniecs. No American faunal con-
nections other than graptolites.

Bala of southeast and elsewhere in vast:
development of detritals and vol-
canies. Ends in 9,000 feet of con-
tinental deposits. No American
faunal connections other than
graptolites,

CONTINENTAL DISPLACEMENT—SCHUCHERT

271

TaBLeE II.—Geological relations between Newfoundland and Ireland—Continued

Upper Ordovician (Richmond) ls. with
rich fauna in St. Lawrence geosyn-
cline.

Lower-middle Silurian, probably well
developed in near-shore facies, re-
stricted to St. Lawrence geosyncline,
but faunally little known. Anticosti
farther west shows limited Swedish
and English faunal connections.

Upper Silurian unknown.

No orogenic movements or volcanic
activity.

Devonian absent. Land.
activity in Lower Devonian.

Voleanic

Making of Acadian Mountains through-
out northeast North America in late
Devonian.

Absent. Land.

Late lower Carboniferous (Windsor)
detritals, dolomites, gypsum, and
limited marine faunas which connect
with southern England and Belgium.

Absent.

Coal Measures series of continental

type well developed in Acadian
trough. Orogeny periodic.
Absent. Land.

Marked orogeny of early Permian
time but only in southern Appa-
lachians.

Land and erosion.

Latest Cretaceous with epeirogenic
elevation.

Absent.

Pliocene epeirogenic elevation.

Pleistocene ice sheets.

May be in Bala series, but if so faunas
are wholly unrelated to those of
America.

Entire Silurian appears to be present,
thick, in near-shore facies, becoming
more and more normally marine, and
connects directly with Silurian of
Great Britain faunally and strati-
graphically. Volecanics_ present.
Faunas not closely related to those
of Newfoundland.

Great orogenic movement, making of
Caledonides at close of Silurian.

Devonian in marked Old Red Sand-
stone facies with possibly some
marine, 3,000—10,000 feet and pos-
sibly 20,000 feet, with volcanic
materials.

No orogeny.

Lower Carboniferous (Avonian) in
massive ls., the chief strata of Ire-
land. Rich in fossils with slight
American similarities.

Late lower Carboniferous with  vol-
canics. Faunas almost unknown,
but well known in southwest Eng-
land and Belgium.

Early upper Carboniferous, marine.

Coal Measures series of continental
type once widely present. Orogeny
periodic.

Marine and continental Permian but
little developed in Ulster. Widely
present in Great Britain and Ger-
many.

Great Permian orogeny but apparently
much later than in America.

Early (red continental) and late Trias-
sic (mostly continental) and marine
Lias and Upper Cretaceous, all
limited to northeast.

(?)

Eocene plateau lavas.
(?)

Pleistocene ice sheets.
272 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

Wegener discusses at some length the structural relations of north-
western Europe and northeastern North America and makes out
to his own satisfaction a clear case that the two sides were once
closely adjacent, that they broke apart during Pleistocene time, and
since have drifted apart some thousands of miles. How well the
edges of the two continents fit together is already shown for New-
foundland and Ireland. Then we get this characteristic Wegenerian
conclusion (pp. 55-56) :

The correspondences of the Atlantic coasts, namely, the folding of the
Cape Mountains and of the Sierras of Buenos Aires as well as the correspond-
ence between the eruptive rocks, sediments, and strike-lines in the great gneissic
plateaus of Brazil and Africa, the Armorican, Caledonian, and Algonkian sys-
tems of folding, and the Pleistocene terminal moraines, in their sum total, ...
yield a proof, which is difficult to shake, of the validity of our supposition that
the Atlantic must be considered as an expanded rift. ... It is just as if
we put together the pieces of a torn newspaper by their ragged edges and then
ascertained if the lines of print ran evenly across. If they do, obviously there is
no course but to conclude that the pieces were once actually attached in this
way. If but a single line rendered a control possible, we should have already
shown the great possibility of the correctness of our combination. But if we
have » rows, then this probability is raised to the nth power. It is not a waste
of time to make clear what this implies. We can assume, merely on the basis of
our first ‘‘ line,” the folding of the Cape Mountains and the Sierras of Buenos
Aires, that the chances are 10 to 1 that the displacement theory is correct.
Since there are at least six such independent controls, 10°, or a million to one,
could be laid that our assumptions are correct.

Figures used in this way, however, can prove nothing, and his con-
clusion from them that he is correct 10° is, of course, absurd.

FAUNAL AND FLORAL CONNECTIONS

We have already stated that Wegener began to think about his
continental displacement theory because of the present geographic
similarities of the eastern coast of Brazil when compared with the
western coast of Africa. This led to conviction on his part, once he
became aware of the “paleontological evidence,” that these lands
had formerly been united. This evidence—which I may claim to
know fairly well—lies in the close similarities between the Glos-
sopteris flora of middle Permian time on both sides of the southern
Atlantic, together with the presence of the marine reptiles Meso-
saurus and Noteosaurus in both South America and Africa. To this
can be added the further facts that the Lower Devonian (Bokkeveld)
marine fauna of South Africa extended into Argentina and southern
Brazil, and that the 7rigonia-ammonite faunas of late Jurassic and
early Cretaceous times of northwestern Argentina and eastern Africa
were of one marine province. One might add to this favorable
evidence even more, but, after all, the identities and similarities are
not plentiful; on the contrary, they are very meager and yet they

CONTINENTAL DISPLACEMENT—SCHUCHERT 273

show clearly enough that we are treating here of one marine austral
realm (see Table I). If the migration routes had been short, say
within some hundreds of miles, which would be the case if Africa and
South America had been united, these marine faunas would have a
great many species in common, probably more than 50 per cent of
identities, but their relationships are in reality so distant as to indi-
cate plainly that the dispersion has been along thousands of miles of
coast lines and during long periods of time, causing most of the ele-
ments to evolve en route not only into other species and genera, but
even into different families.

Any paleontologist who reads carefully pages 98 to 106 of Weg-
ener’s book, dealing with the distribution of the Coal Measures and
Glossopteris floras of Permo-Carboniferous time, will see not only
the nimbleness and versatility of his mind, but as well how very
easy it is for him to make all facts fit his hypothesis. Why is this?
Because he generalizes from the generalizations of others, and com-
pares unlike things, regarding the correlation of formations by
geologists as dealing with “relatively trifling differences of time ”
(p. 98). In these pages he is explaining his views of the climate of
‘“ Permo-Carboniferous time,” and, in doing so, shoves the south pole
to a place off the southeast coast of Africa, arranging the equator ac-
cordingly.'® Finally, to make it easy for all of us to get his views,
he pictures them on a single diagram ?° entitled “ Evidences of Cli-
mate in the Permo-Carboniferous.” In this single diagram, he under-
takes to represent events that took place during a lapse of something
like 50 million years, makes the flora of the tropical Coal Measures
fit the “ polar ” Glossopteris flora of the much younger Permian, and
in order that the latter may be truly polar assumes that it was tree-
less,?° says that Antarctis then was adjacent to southeastern Africa
with the south pole at the edge of it, and on this basis arranges the
climatic belts around it (fig. 3) !

The Glossopteris land flora occurs not only in India, Africa, and
very widely in South America, but also in the Falklands, Antarctica,
and widely in Australia.2t  Paleobotanists are not all agreed as to

18 Gerth, who has studied the corals of the Permian of Timor in the Dutch East Indies,
says that they are of warm waters, and this conclusion is also borne out by the associated
species, which together make up the largest known Permian fauna, of about 600 species.
Such a fauna could not have lived beyond 30° south latitude, and on Wegener’s projection
of the Permian it would have occurred at about 45° south latitude. As Gerth says, the
Timor Permian fauna alone proves that the South Pole could not have been where Wegener
places it. See H. Gerth, Die Korallenfauna des Perm von Timor und die Permische
Vereisung, Leid. Geol. Meded., 1926, pp. 7—14.

192A. Wegener, op. cit., p. 100.

70 Gothan in 1911 pointed out that the fossil woods of Australia and Falkland have
annual rings.

4 For an excellent account of the climatie and geographic dispersion of this flora see
David White, Permo-Carboniferous Climatic Changes in South America, Journ. Geology, vol.
15 (1907), pp. 615-683. The Permian problems have recently been discussed by Schuchert
at length in his memoir of 1928, referred to on an earlier page.
274 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

how. this flora was dispersed. Some hold that it traveled across a
land bridge from Brazil to Africa and thence to India, and others
postulate a bridge from South America to Antarctica and from here
another one to Australia. It is not even known where this flora origi-
nated (some paleobotanists think in Antarctis or Australia), but if it
arose in South America and went over a land bridge to Antarctis,
the rest of the distribution might have been by way of oceanic cur-
rents, Just as South and Central American and Asiatic dicotyledons
have in Cenozoic time reached the Hawaiian Islands, which have
always been isolated volcanic masses. On the other hand, David
White points out that the younger Permian flora is clearly, through

FIGURE 3.—Pangaea of Carboniferous time as illustrated by KéOppen and Wegener in
Die Klimate der geologischen Vorzeit, 1924. EK, glacial evidence (introduced in
part by Schuchert) ; K, coals; 8, salt; G, gypsum; W and dotted areas, deserts

climatic rigors, a highly modified outgrowth of the world-wide Coal
Measures flora, and so it may well be that it arose in several places
and through migration and combination with the hold-overs of the
older floras became the well-known Glossopteris flora.

Lake ** has gone at length into the distribution of the Glossopteris
flora, and makes the following points: The Glossopteris flora is
found also in Kashmir, northwestern Afghanistan, and northeastern
Persia, Tonquin, northern Russia, and Siberia. In Russia it is ac-
companied by South African reptiles and fresh-water shells.

Wegener’s explanation has not by any means simplified the problem of the
distribution of the Glossopteris flora and fauna.

Lake then considers the distribution of the Permian tillites and
says:

2 Philip Lake, Nature, Feb. 17, 1923, p. 227.

CONTINENTAL DISPLACEMENT—SCHUCHERT 275

Even if we admit movement of the pole [and Wegener moves the south pole
2,500 miles from its present position], on the most fayorable supposition the ice
must have spread much farther toward the equator than the ice sheets of the
Pleistocene Glacial period ever did.

There are Permian tillites in the Salt Range of India, in Afghanis-
tan (on Wegener’s map, p. 100, this would be within 30 degrees of
his assumed equator), in northwestern Africa, at Boston (on the same
map this would be on the equator), and arctic Alaska.

Coleman is to-day our best informed authority on the distribution
of glacial climates, and has seen the “ Permo-Carboniferous ” tillites
in many lands. He says that on the basis of Wegener’s Pangaea, and
placing the South Pole in southeastern Africa—

the glaciated areas would be far inland and out of reach of the moisture-laden
winds necessary to deposit snow. They would be arid regions without perma-
nent snow fields, like the interior of Asia, which was not glaciated in the Pleis-
tocene though one of the coldest regions of the world. It is evident, then, that
the drift of the continents and the shift of the poles Go not help us to account
for the Permo-Carboniferous glaciation.™

And finally this:

It may be confidently stated that a careful study of the two greatest periods
of glaciation known to geology gives no support to the theory of the drift of
continents and the wandering of the poles.

Wegener relies much on the present distribution of the earth-
worms as proving his theory for western Pangaea. He says (pp.
78-79) :

The present distribution of earthworms offers particularly unobjectionable
evidence of the former Atlantic land connections, because usually the sea is an
insurmountable obstacle to these animals. <A singularly large number of threads
of affinity are spun by them across the Atlantic Ocean in the various latitudes.

We may add here that there are several other equally remarkable
“threads of affinity” that he might have used, namely, the present
distribution of the Unionidae, land snails, macrouran crustaceans,
spiders, lung fishes, caecilians, etc. All of these distributions are,
however, at least as easily explained by the presence of a bridge from
Brazil to Africa—the commonly accepted explanation—of which
Wegener will have none.** On the other hand, it must not be for-
gotten that all of these stocks are ancient, some going back at least to
the Lower Cretaceous or Jurassic and the rest to different periods in
the Paleozoic; the lung fishes date from the Devonian and the earth-
worms may be eve more ancient. We are here dealing with the
organic radiation of a vast amount of geologic time, going back
several hundred million years. What a vista is thus opened up of the
possibilities in biogeographic distribution, and how variously it may

% A. P. Coleman, Permo-Carboniferous Glaciation and the Wegener Hypothesis, Nature,
Apr. 25, 1925, p. 602.

% These faunal connections are fully discussed by Hermann yon Ihering in his Geschichte
des Atlantischen Ozeans, Gustav Fischer, 1927.
976 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

all have come about! We appear, therefore, to be able to say that
with so much time available we might even do away with the middle
Atlantic land bridge and explain the distribution of all land life on
the basis of radial dispersion from Holarctis and Antarctis.

The writer has long been a believer in a land bridge—a far nar-
rower one, however, than usually shown on paleogeographic maps—
all through the Paleozoic and Mesozoic across the Atlantic from
Brazil to Africa. This bridge appears to him necessary to explain
the peculiar distribution of the various Paleozoic and Mesozoic
marine faunas of northern Brazil, the Andean geosyncline, Central
America, and the southern part of the United States, on the one side,
and those of southern South America, south and east Africa, and
India, on the other. But this western Gondwana land bridge appears
even more necessary to explain the similarities of the land floras and
faunas, and yet all biogeographcrs admit the great possibilities of
radial dispersion from Holarctis. Such migration routes have been
possible ever since the beginning of the Cambrian, but have been
made locally and chronologically inoperative through periodically
appearing mountain ranges, desert climates over vast areas, and
variations in the spread of the great mediterranean Tethys and
other oceans.

Grant the biogeographer Holarctis, a land bridge from northern
Africa to Brazil, another from South America to Antarctis (it almost
exists to-day), still another from this polar land to Australia and
from the latter across the Arafura Sea to Borneo and Sumatra and
so on to Asia, plus the accepted means of dispersal along shelf seas
and by wind and water currents and migratory birds, and he has all
the possibilities needed to explain the life dispersion of the land and
ocean realms throughout geological time on the basis of the present
arrangements of the continents. With these means he can also
explain life dispersion far more easily than by way of Wegener’s
Pangaea; this hypothetic land should have made for easy dispersion
and therefore for cosmopolitan floras and faunas, and that is just
what the world has very rarely seen and does not have to-day.

CONCLUDING REMARKS

The previous account has again and again shown that the rump
mountain ranges on the two sides of the Atlantic are not at all as
closely related in position, structure, and history as Wegener makes
them out to be, and the same is equally true for the fossil marine
faunas. The writer does not wish to say that there are no geological
and paleontological similarities at all on the two sides of the At-
lantic, for there are many faunal ones easily seen and there are struc-
tural ones as well, which were pointed out long before Wegener’s
time. But the whole trouble in Wegener’s hypothesis and in his

CONTINENTAL DISPLACEMENT—SCHUCHERT 277

methods is, as we have said, that he generalizes too easily from other
generalizations, and that he pays little or no attention to historical
geology or to the time of the making of the structural and biologic
phenomena discussed. It is not, as he says, that the detailed worker
can not see the forest because of the many different trees, or that
the paleontologists need a geophysicist to show them the road on
which they should travel. Facts are facts, and it is from facts that
we make our generalizations, irom the little to the great, and it is
wrong for a stranger to the facts he handles to generalize from
them to other generalizations.

It will be interesting to see what other critics of the displacement
hypothesis have concluded. Carl Diener,*® the learned paleontolo-
gist of Vienna, says that at first sight the hypothesis appears to have
much of value in it, but on close analysis it turns out to be
but a playing with actual possibilities. * * * It fails in fundamental facts
of a positive nature, and a whole series of paleogeographie facts can not be
brought into harmony with it.

Reid comments: “The elasticity of the Wegener hypothesis is
evident.” And Lake,?° who has gone into it at length, states:

Whatever Wegener’s own attitude may have been originally, in his book he
is not seeking truth; he is advocating a cause, and is blind to every fact and

argument that tells against it. Much of his evidence is superficial. Neverthe-
less, he is a skillful advocate and presents an interesting case.

What is valuable in the hypothesis is this:

He has performed a valuable service by drawing attention to-the fact that
land masses may have moved relatively to one another. He has not proved
that they actually have moved, and still less has he shown that they have
moyed in the way he imagines. He has suggested muck, he has proved nothing.

Berry *" says in 1922:

I can see no record of such a former union [of South America and Africa]
in anything that we know of the straligraphy, structure, faunas, or floras.
* * * JI much prefer the older hypothesis of land bridges and subsidence.

In regard to the geological climates, as set forth by Koppen and
Wegener, Berry says: 78

Neither has the slightest idea of the bearing of fossil faunas or floras on
the problems which they set out to explain, and therefore wherever their con-
clusions lead they explain something which never existed.

Arthur Keith in his presidential address, entitled “ Structural
Symmetry in North America,” *® finds that the mountains in North

25 Op. cit., p. 342.

76 Geol. Mag., vol. 59 (1922), pp. 338, 340, 346.

7K. W. Berry, Outlines of South American Geology, Pan-Amer. Geol., vol. 37 (1922),
pp. 187—216.

*%H. W. Berry, The Term Oligocene, Amer. Journ. Sci. (5), vol. 13 (1927), p. 256.

» Bull. Geol. Soc. Amer., vol. 39 (1928), pp. 321-386.

24034— 29 19

278 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

America are built in the main by the same fundamental process,
namely, subsidence of the oceanic areas. This sinking of the oceans
brings on subcrustal flowage toward and under the continents,
elevating them most along their margins, and at the same time
pushing them and the geosynclinal areas inward against the neutral
and shield areas of the interior land.

The repetition from age to age of the same sort of structures at any given
tract on the continent is a fact of absolutely the highest importance. It indi-
cates not only a persistent arrangement of cause and effect, but also a perma-
nence of form and environment, which make of North America an extremely
well-defined unit having a definite system of structural laws and responding to
repeated thrusts from the direction of each of the adjoining oceans. In this
history I can see only an individuality of the continent, its unity, and also its
permanence of environment, and I see nothing of the haphazard arrangement
which must have followed the random course of a continent floating like a
waif on a sea of sial (p. 372).

Discussing the Wegener and other similar hypotheses, Keith con-
cludes (p. 384) :

I am convinced that it is reasonable to accept the theory of thrust against
the continent | North America] from all of the surrounding oceans, and also
the doctrine that the continental shape and size have been roughly constant
from the present day far back into the pre-Cambrian.

Each major cycle of thrusting is of long endurance, and such
“have occurred as a major revolution at least three times since the
Cambrian.” The fact of such cycles “seems clear in North
America.”

Termier,*® director of the Geological Survey of France, says that
the German theory has “ undeniable charm and real beauty.” It is
a beautiful dream, the dream of a great poet. One tries to embrace it, and
finds that he has in his arms but a little vapor or smoke; it is at the same time
both alluring and intangible.

With Termier and Diener, the writer agrees that Wegener’s
hypothesis stands upon the very unsound method of departing from
the theory of the permanency of position of the earth’s greater con-
figurations of continents and oceans, and opposing to it one that
unites all of the present lands into one enormous continent that en-
dured until middle Mesozoic time, when it began to break up and
the parts to drift into the positions seen to-day. We are on safe
ground only so long as we follow the teachings of the law of uniform-
ity in the operation of nature’s laws. The battle over the theory of
the permanency of the earth’s greater features introduced by James
D. Dana has been fought and won by Americans long ago. In
Europe, however, this battie is not yet fought to a conclusion, since
there are leading geologists who still follow Lyell and believe in the

0p, Termier, The Drifting of the Continents, Ann. Rept. Smithson. Inst. for 1924
(1925), pp. 219-236.

.

CONTINENTAL DISPLACEMENT—SCHUCHERT 279

impermanence of the continents and oceans, and others who do not
hesitate to push the earth’s poles anywhere in order to explain single
floral or faunal peculiarities. .

Long before this, it has become evident to the reader that the
writer is iconoclastic toward the Wegener hypothesis as a whole. On
the other hand, he is wholly open minded toward the idea that the
continents may have moved slowly, very slowly indeed, laterally,
and differently at different times. Every student of tectonics, in his
reading during the past 15 years in regard to the generaliza-
tions attained through a study of mountain structures and their
meaning, must have said to himself again and again that there has
been actual differential continental displacement. These generaliza-
tions, when based upon the individual and smaller mountain ranges,
are not impressive, but when one begins to consider the Cordilleras
of the United States, with their present width of more than 1,000
miles, the question looms large as to how much western California
has moved to the east. No one has yet figured this out. Further-
more, when one turns to the Alps and is told by the best of authori-
ties that their present width of some 150 miles was originally 500 and
perhaps 625,31 which means that their southern limit has moved from
350 to 475 miles to the north, he begins to remember the statement
of Galileo in regard to the earth: “And yet it does move.” Even
more impressive are the statements of Termier regarding the moun-
tains of central Asia, which have a combined present width of 1,845
miles from north to south, but which originally had an estimated
width of 3,600 miles. In other words, the foreshortening may have
been of the order of 1,800 miles. Accordingly, we are obliged to con-
clude that the continents do actually move extensively, but so
slowly that it has taken Asia many hundred million years to accom-
plish the previously mentioned movement. But do these movements
mean that the whole, or even parts, of the granitic sial have moved
horizontally as extensively through the basaltic sima as postulated
by Wegener? The writer is not the one to answer this question, but
he feels that we must be open minded toward at least some unknown
amount of continental displacements. Nevertheless, like Termier, he
is “struck less by the mobility than by the permanence” of the
earth’s greater features.

IN RETROSPECT

Daly’s new book, Our Mobile Earth, sounds the keynote for the
attempt to save the germ of truth in the displacement theory and
reconcile it with the facts that geology already has at hand. Fol-
lowing his lead, the writer has set down below the sequence of earth

31'The compression of the Alps is estimated by Staub (Der Bau der Alpen, 1924, pp.
7-S) as amounting to between 690 and 1,035 miles, while Heim will only say that it is
well over 185 miles.
280 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

development that he finds necessary to fit our determined geologic
chronology, on the one hand, and the known development and dis-
tribution of ancient faunas, on the other. He realizes that this plan,
as well as that of Wegener, presents at least one difficulty for which
no solution is yet in sight—namely, the breaking down of the land
bridges between continents and of the many borderlands, but he is
confident that the geophysicists will in time find the way in which
this was accomplished. In any event, it seems less insurmountable
than the many inaccuracies and “imaginings” that stand against
the theory of Pangaea.

Cosmic time, the writer believes, closed with a molten and layered
earth that gave rise, not necessarily to a universal granitic crust
(sialsphere), but either (1) to a localized and variably thick one,
covering far wider areas than those of the present continents, or
(2) to a universal one, very thin over what are now the Pacific and
Antarctic oceans; what there was of a granitic shell over these des-
tined oceanic areas was “swallowed and digested” by the basaltic
substratum or simasphere during the Archeozoic. Over this cold
crust of sial and sima may have lain a universal ocean but with
probably not more than half the amount of water now on the face
of the earth; the rest came during geological time. The granitic
skin in the places of its occurrence was thinner than it is now, and
the basaltic substratum, largely glassy, was therefore very mobile
because of the greatly heated condition of the interior earth. Geo-
logical time had just begun with the dawning of the Archeozoic
era, and about one thousand five hundred million years of geological
history lie between us and this beginning of earth record in the
rocks.

Archeozoic time was one of greatest crustal unrest, for every-
where the thin and localized sialsphere was being domed into short
mountain ranges, locally folded, compressed, and thrust over one
another, and through the deep wounds of fracture rose fluid granite
and over the surface vast lava flows. The sialsphere, then an island
world, was being crowded and welded together into greater and
greater continental islands, between which lay seas, and with seas,
rain, and air came into full play the phenomena of erosion and sedi-
mentation. This topographically and geographically kaleidoscopic
era may have endured during one-third of geological history.

Proterozoic time was another era of marked sial shifting that
lasted through the greater part of another quarter of geologic his-
tory. But long before the close of this era the sialsphere appears to
have been welded into three zones of transverse or latitudinal lands
of great extent, namely, Holarctis, Antarctis, and Equatoris (fig. 4).
The latter embraced South America, a land bridge across the present
mid-Atlantic, Africa, Madagascar, and Lemuris, including India.

CONTINENTAL, DISPLACEMENT—SCHUCHERT 281

Antarctis had the Antarctic lands, with extensions to South America
and to Australia, which was then a part of this great polar land. To
the north of and as well in various places across Holarctis, the
ereat northern continent, were shallow-water geosynclinal seas, while
to the south of this greatest of land masses lay a vast middle ocean,
Suess’ Tethys, and its several extensions, all of which basins are
now almost wholly squeezed into the mountains of Euro-Asia.
Between Equatoris and Antarctis lay the large oceanic parts that
are now united into the Antarctic Ocean, while the father of oceans,
the Pacific, remained where it started and continued to evolve into
ever greater proportions during the Archeozoic, attaining maturity
about middle Proterozoic time.

= Tropic-of Capricorn j—
PALEOGEOGRAPHY
OF
EARLY PERMIAN
TIME
C. Schuchert, 1923

ZA West {rout Greeneleb——
160° 140? 120° - 50~ co~ 40° 20°

FiguRE 4.—Paleogeography of early Permian time. Oceans are ruled, epeiric seas
and Tethys dotted, and places of glaciation lined (vertical lines, areas of proved
glaciation ; horizontal lines, those of uncertain glaciation). In the north is trans-
verse Holarctis, in the center Equatoris, and in the south Antarctis. Note the
borderlands of the Americas, which have since gone deep below sea level

Granted these or similar conditions, progressive geology meets
the knowledge of orthodox geology and grants it the permanency of
the earth’s greater features, a knowledge on which the biogeographer
of ancient life has built his paleogeography; he must have all this—
the long and intricate migration routes—to explain the evolution
that the migrating hordes have undergone. A Pangaea, the postu-
lated single continent that began to rift in the Carboniferous and
split and wandered apart after Jurassic time, will never explain the
life of the seas and lands as seen by the paleontologist.

The Paleozoic saw no marked changes in the major features of
the earth’s face, but the many readjustments in the continental
282 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

masses toward the close of this era through their combined effect
sounded the prophecy of doom for large parts of the sialsphere, since
some land-bridges and most borderlands throughout the Mesozoic
era were being absorbed by the periodically heated basaltic shell or
simasphere. Cenozoic time completed what was begun during Car-
boniferous time.

The writer’s long training in historical geology and his close study
of Suess’ Antlitz der Erde make it easy for him, after reading Daly’s —
book, to throw the above new dress over the displacement theory,
but he still realizes its many difficulties and hears the warning of
Father Time that the rising generation will many times dress and ~
redress the features of our Mother Earth before geologists and
paleontologists will see her correctly in her evolving form.

| 1927.

ON CONTINENTAL FRAGMENTATION AND THE GEO-
LOGIC BEARING OF THE MOON’S SURFICIAL FEA-
TURES?

By JOSEPH BARRELL 2

[With three plates]
EDITORIAL PREFACH

Considerable delay in editing parts of Professor Barrell’s unpublished work
has been unavoidable; and as some of the articles, including the one presented
herewith, are of a highly speculative nature, a portion of their original interest
has been lost with recent progress in various fields of study. If the author
were living to-day, without doubt he would make changes in this paper before
giving it to the printer. Accordingly there has been some hesitation in offering
the article to the public at this date. It is felt, however, that the central
hypothesis, stated and developed with Barrell’s characteristic breadth of vision,
is still valuable in the field of philosophical geology. Moreover, in fairness
to him, the full statement of his views on ocean basins should appear, as
preliminary brief outlines of these views have not been universally understood
and consequently have received invalid criticism.

During his last years Barrell’s advanced teaching and some of his writings
were colored with his thinking on problems of the relation between continents
and ocean basins. His well-known studies in isostasy led naturally to an inquiry
into the possible mechanism of continental fragmentation, a process for which
he saw the evidence in geologic history as well as in certain tectonic features
of the present. In 1918 he published an outline of his views in a short section
of an article entitled “The Origin of the Earth,’ attributing the inception
and enlargement of ocean basins chiefly to the rise of basaltic magmas from
the subcrust. This short preliminary treatment, and also a later summary by
Schuchert,* stated all essential points of the hypothesis, but without explanatory
detail. The proposed mechanism has been criticized on the ground that vertical
intrusion can only transfer matter from one part of the lithosphere to another,
without altering the average density and so disturbing isostatic balance. The
fallacy of this objection will be evident to the reader of this paper, as one
of Barrell’s fundamental postulates places the source of the great basic
intrusions below the level of isostatic compensation. On this assumption. the

1 Reprinted, by permission, from American Journal of Science, Vol. XIII, No. 76, April,

?This article is part of an unpublished manuscript completed in the summer of 1917
and entitled “ The Genesis of the Earth,’ a portion of which was published by Barrell
under the title ‘‘ The Origin of the Earth” as ch. 1 in The Evolution of the Earth and Its
Inhabitants (Yale University Press, 1918). It has been editorially revised by ‘Dr: 'C: "RB.
Longwell.—CHARLES SCHUCHERYT.

*Ch. I in The Evolution of the Earth and Its Inhabitants, especially pp. 39-43.

‘Pirsson and Schuchert, Textbook of Geology, Pt. II, revised edition, p, 132, 1924.

283
284 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

density of the intruded lithosphere is necessarily increased, and the results out-
lined by Barrell are in full accord with the doctrine of isostasy.

It would be possible, by rewriting certain portions of the paper, to bring
it more nearly into harmony with the most recent data and viewpoints. How-
ever, it is thought best to publish the article essentially as Barrell wrote it, with
some comment on points that will be considered either wrong or questionable
in the light of present knowledge. For example, the thickness of the acidic
crust assumed by Barrell is too great according to recent findings in more than
one field of investigation. After careful analysis of data from studies in
radioactivity Jeffreys states, ‘‘ Hence the theory enables us to make the quan-
titative suggestion that basic rocks predominate in the crust at a depth not
ereater than 16 kilometers.” ® Later, discussing seismological data, he also
concludes ‘that the thickness of the granitic layer of the continents is of the

Ficure 1.—Diagrammatic section across the North Atlantic, to illustrate theoretic
relations of basic intrusions rising from the basaltic asthenosphere into the orig-
inal, more acidic lithosphere, resulting im continental fragmentation in obedience
to the forces reestablishing isostacy. Horizontal scale, ca. 480 miles=1 inch;
vertical scale considerably exaggerated
B, Baffin Land; G, Greenland; I, Iceland; F, Faroe Islands; H, the Hebrides ;

S, Scotland and Ireland.

There are also indicated—

1. The surface profile, exaggerated, ocean water omitted.

2. The granitic or dioritic lithosphere, strongest in its middle part, containing in
its upper part lopolithic intrusions of basie rock.

3. The mean depth of isostatic compensation, the base of the lithosphere. It has
in reality no sharp boundary.

4, The upper part of the asthenosphere, or shell of weakness, penetrated by basic
magmas from below and yielding to warping loads in the crust above. The origi-
nal rock is probably of an intermediate chemical composition, that is, a diorite.

5. The thick basic shell. The part here shown is solid, like the rest of the earth,
but generates molten rock. This tends to rise to a higher level. Since it is a source
of magmas, it is presumably also weak and forms the deeper part of the asthenosphere.

order of 15 kilometers.’* Joly, from studies in radioactivity in which he
considers only the effect of uranium and thorium, concludes that the continental
crust is not over 31 kilometers thick, assuming that it is granitic throughout.’
Holmes and Lawson,’ estimating the additional effect of potassium, have reduced
the figure to 15 kilometers, in close agreement with Jeffreys’ result. These
estimates are conspicuously smaller than the thickness of 50 to 75 miles as-
sumed by Barrell, but the discordance is not necessarily as great as it may
appear. Most of the results based on studies in radioactivity assume a shell
made of typical granite throughout, with a uniform content of the radioactive

° Harold Jeffreys, The Earth, p. 87. Cambridge University Press, 1924.
®Tdem, p. 179.
7J. Joly, Surface History of the Earth, pp. 71-73. Oxford University Press, 1925.

5 Arthur Holmes and Robert W. Lawson, Potassium and the Heat of the Earth. Nature,
May 1, 1926, pp. 620, 621.

FRAGMENTATION—BARRELL 285

substances.® Barrell, both in his discussion and in his diagram (fig. 1), postu-
lates that granite near the surface grades downward into diorite, with a corre-
sponding decrease in the radioactive materials. Even so, it is probable, from
the best data available, that the upper limit of the zone with basaltic com-
position lies higher than is indicated in Figure 1. Possibly the lower limit
of isostatic compensation lies wholly within this basic zone, and not in a dioritic
zone as indicated by the figure. If this conception is adopted, the black: of
the figure should be extended upward into the lower part of the lithosphere,
and conduits leading to the higher intrusive bodies should be pictured as trans-
gressing a zone of solid basic material before entering the more acidic portion
of the crust. Under such a conception the mechanism proposed by Barrel! would
encounter difficulties, as there can be no effective change of volume in the
lithosphere so long as the material at its base has essentially the same density
as the ascending magma.

If the features of Figure 1 are taken literally, the form of the intrusive bodies
may be open to question. In his later years Barrell was impressed with the
lopolithic form of certain large basic intrusions; and, judging from the figure,
he considered this form as probably predominant. Clearly such a conception
must assume a horizontal gneissoid or schistose structure in the granitic shell.
However, this question is of only incidental interest so far as the present paper
is concerned. In the text Barrell suggests that the intrusions in the upper
part of the shell have the form of “lopoliths and batholiths.” Figure 1 is to
be considered merely as a diagrammatic representation of the mechanism
assumed. The essential point is concerned with the volume of basie intrusions
and not their form. As Barrell points out, the volume necessary for the task
involved in the problem is formidable, and the mechanical difficulties of in-
trusion on the scale assumed are increased by the present-day conception of a
thin granitic shell. It is a question whether he might not now want to assign
a larger role to extrusion as a cause of crustal foundering. Arguments for such
a conception might be based on the great thickness of Keweenawan lavas, men-
tioned in the paper, as well as on phenomena of the lunar maria.

The merits and weaknesses of Barrell’s hypothesis, as seen from our preset
viewpoint, may be discussed at much greater length; but it is not the purpose
of this preface to present a full critical analysis.

ON CONTINENTAL FRAGMENTATION
INTRODUCTORY

The outer crust of the earth, granitic in its upper part and some-
what more basic at depth, is held to have a thickness of from 50 to
75 miles. It is very strong and is marked by broad variations in
density amounting to as much as 5 per cent, and by more local
variations up to 10 per cent, these differences corresponding to the
broader relief of the earth’s surface. Below this les a thick, hot,
basic, rigid yet weak shell, the asthenosphere, or sphere of weakness.
The problem of the origin of the ocean basins and the continental
platforms consequently resolves itself into one of the origin of the

® Jeffreys made an estimate based on the assumption that the radioactive content falls
off expcnentiaily with depth.
286 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

density differences in the lithosphere and the maintenance of the
heated and weak condition in the asthenosphere.

Uranium, in degenerating through radium to the stable element
lead, develops an enormous amount of heat, but at so slow a rate that
the whole duration of geologic time has not sufficed to eliminate it
from the crust of the earth. Uranium and thorium, the parents of
the radioactive series, are widely though sparsely diffused through
the lithosphere. If they extend with their amount at the surface
down to a depth of 40 miles,’° they must supply heat to the surface
as fast as it is lost by radiation into space.

The small content of radioactive elements in the basaltic shell or
asthenosphere below the granitic crust of the continents would then
supply that slow increment of heat which is necessary to generate
new molten rocks. The granitic shell loses its excess heat by con-
duction to the atmosphere, but the asthenosphere is so deeply buried
that its heat can not escape, but must slowly transform some of the
solid rock into liquid form. Reservoirs of molten rock gather until
their mass, combined with their decreased density in the fluid form.
enables them to work their way into and through the lithosphere
and demonstrate their existence in igneous activity at the surface
of the earth. The magma which thus comes from the greatest depth
and in greatest volume would, because of the initial density stratifica-
tion, produce a notable increase in the density of the outer crust. In
order to reestablish isostatic equilibrium, such a region must subside.

Most of the igneous rock of later geologic ages which has been
intruded into the outer crust beneath the present continents clearly
has not increased the density sufficiently to produce a foundering and
would appear therefore either to have come from somewhat higher
levels or to have risen in smaller quantity. In some regions, how-
ever, as in that of the Lake Superior Basin, large masses of basic
magma do seem to have overweighted the crust in an early geologic
period and produced a tendency to settle as a basin. The same effect
may have taken place to even a larger degree in some regions of
notable recent subsidence, as in the Mediterranean Basins. In the
earliest times, following the solidification of the earth, the forms and
relations of the ocean basins suggest that dense molten matter from
the depths of the earth broke into or through the outer crust, on a
gigantic scale, eruption following eruption until the widespread
floods had weighted down broad areas and caused their subsidence
into ocean basins.

As seen in the lava plains of the moon, such an action, once started
at a certain point, is conceived to have gone forward with widening
radius, leading to the origin of the many rudely circular outlines

0'This figure is greatly reduced by recent estimates. See Editorial Preface, with foot-
notes.

FRAGMENTATION—BARRELL 287

characteristic of the ocean basins. The process left great angular
segments of the original lighter crust as continental platforms stand-
ing in relief between the coalescent basins. The waters gathered into
the basins and the continents emerged.

Most American geologists hold strictly to Dana’s theory of the
permanency of the continents and ocean basins, whereas Kuropean
workers in general stand by the older view that ocean basins are
broken-down portions of the granitic shell. We may also include
this grander process of crustal change under the term of continental
fragmentation. Great intercontinental troughs, such as the Red Sea
and the Caspian, are thought to have been made in later geologic
times by fracture of their margins and subsidence of their floors. The
writer accepts the European view, since, in spite of its difficulties,
it yet accounts for many geological relationships. If continental
fragmentation is real, it has a strong bearing upon the general prob-
lem of the origin of ocean basins, for the progress of fragmentation
is in reality a continuation of the formative process. Through frag-
mentation the margins of the continents break down into the oceanic
depths and enlarge them, and at the same time diminish the areas

of the land.

INDICATIONS OF CONTINENTAL FRAGMENTATION

The ocean basins, including slopes and deeps, occupy two-thirds of
the surface of the earth. In form they are made up of coalescent,
rudely circular or polygonal segments of the crust. The great Pacific
Basin covers nearly one-half of the globe, is fairly regular in outline,
and the structure of the mountain systems which face it is related to
its margins. Along the western coasts of North and South America
the parallelism is most conspicuous. Eastward from Asia and Aus-
tralia, on the other hand, the mountain systems advance into the
Pacific as chains of islands convex toward the ocean. On both sides
of the Pacific the structure shows the mountains to be much younger
in origin than the ocean basin. This is what Suess has named the
Pacific type of continental margin. Fragmentation on a large scale, -
if it ever occurred there, must have been antecedent to the develop-
ment of the present mountain systems.

The margins of the Atlantic and Indian Oceans show, however, a
very different relation to the continental structure. Here the conti-
nents protrude into the ocean in sharp southward-pointing wedges,
and they face the sea as table-lands of ancient rocks. The sedi-
mentary systems are more numerous in the continental interiors than
on these margins, and the ancient rock structures are in general cut
across by the shorelines, showing that they are older than the present
margins of the ocean basins. This type of coast Suess calls the
288 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

Atlantic type, and takes it as an indication of cross fracturing and
foundering of portions of the continents in later geologic ages.

The rift valleys of equatorial Africa and the deep narrow basins
in the western United States, such as Death Valley, are known to be
sunken blocks founded by fractures. The Red Sea, the Gulf of Cali-
fornia, and Davis Strait bear the marks on their borders of being
similar but larger examples. These troughs therefore appear to be
grabens, formed by recent sinking of blocks below sea level, and the
adjacent lands of ancient rocks still stand high because they are not
yet reduced by erosion.

From these faulted embayments of the sea it is but a step to certain
islands which appear to be ancient remnants of land completely sur-
rounded by the spreading ocean basins. Such upstanding pedestals
are the “horsts” of Suess. Madagascar, off the east coast of Africa,
is the most striking of these, consisting of a table-land of ancient
crystalline rocks stepping up in successive levels and partially skirted
by a fringe of Cretaceous and younger strata. Its structure suggests
that it has been isolated from Africa and from India by fragmenta-
tion which began to be evident in Cretaceous time. In further sup-
port of this conclusion is its archaic mammalian fauna, preserved
there as in an asylum, and protected by the barrier of the ocean
from the predacious higher mammals of the adjacent continents.

The Aigean Sea appears to be a region breaking up and founder-
ing in the present geologic period. The mountain structures are cut
across and terminated by great faults that bound the sunken areas.
It is a region of present geologic movements and consequent violent
earthquakes. Deep, unfilled pockets exist in the adjacent seas. Fi-
nally, on the island of Kos there are river deposits which were laid
down when it was surrounded by higher land.

Passing to more ancient times, the Paleozoic marine sediments of
Great Britain seem to have derived their materials chiefly from a
land situated to the northwest, which Hull called Atlantis. On the
other side of the Atlantic, the thick formations of the Appalachian
system came from the vanished Paleozoic land to the east which has
been named Acadia, and which formed the northern part of the
greater land of Appalachia. The writer has calculated elsewhere 1!
the volume of sediment deposited in Upper Devonian time and finds
it so great that the land supplying it would seem to have necessarily
extended out into what is now the ocean basin.

Let us turn next to the nature of the biologic evidence. Paleon-
tologists have pursued their studies of the ancient marine deposits so
far that they are now able to tell whether the entombed fauna in any

uJ. Barrell, The Upper Devonian Delta of the Appalachian Geosyncline. Amer. Journ.
Sci., 37, 225-258. 1914.

LL ae

FRAGMENTATION—BARRELL 289

period has come from the Pacific, Arctic, or northern Atlantic realm,
At long intervals the geosynclinal seas widen, so that their faunas
commingle in the great interior waters and become cosmopolitan. At
other times these seas do not coalesce and the faunas remain provin-
cial. Therefore during the Paleozoic many of the American faunas
derived from northwestern Europe are distinct from those of south-
ern Europe, certain faunas from the Maritime Provinces of Canada
are easily distinguishable from their contemporaries in the interior
Appalachian region. Nevertheless there were times, as in the Middle
Cambrian, when the eastern Canadian faunas were closely identical
with those of northwestern Europe, although both were quite distinct
from the faunas of southern Europe and the interior of the United
States. Contemporary faunas from the latter area correlate best
with those of China, both regions belonging to the Pacific realm.
Such peculiar relations during times distinguished by an absence of
marked climatic zones have led paleontologists to hold that in the
Paleozoic a land mass extended unbroken across the North Atlantic
Ocean, enabling the shallow-water faunas to migrate along the
northern and southern shelf seas. This inferred northern continent
included parts of Canada, Greenland, Iceland, Scandinavia, and
Britain in one land which has been named Eria.

Turning to the evidence supplied by the land life, it is to be
noted that in the Pennsylvanian period the plants of the great coal
swamps were largely identical in eastern America and western
Europe. The most striking relationships are shown by the flora of
the Southern Hemisphere in the early part of the Permian period.
At that time the Southern Hemisphere was subject to recurrent
glaciation on the vastest scale known in earth history. Continental
ice sheets existed in tropic India, southern Africa, and South Amer-
ica, Australia, and Antarctica. A special stress flora arose in the
Southern Hemisphere adapted to these severe climatic conditions,
and the whole assemblage is known as the Glossopteris or Ganga-
mopteris flora. This flora has been recovered from all these and
other southern lands and is held to have originated here, as it 1s not
represented at this time in the Northern Hemisphere. The spores
of these plants could not have crossed thousands of miles of ocean
water, and it is equally incredible that a nearly identical assemblage
of species could have arisen independently in separated continents.
These and similar facts have led many geologists of Europe and
America to a belief in the great Paleozoic continent of Gondwana,
stretching east and west through the Southern Hemisphere and unit-
ing South America, Africa, India, and Australia. In the west,
Gondwana was separated from Eria by the ancient Mediterranean,
which Suess named Tethys, and by the North Atlantic Basin, which
Schuchert calls Poseidon.
290 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

The theory of the ancient land bridges, created by geologists and
more especially by zoologists and botanists, has, however, been car-
ried too far. It is often easy to explain any real or fancied organic
interrelationships by such a hypothesis, but sound science demands
that there should be a careful examination to see if the facts to be
explained can not be harmonized without recourse to bridging and
rebridging deep oceans. Matthew,'? for example, has shown that
the mammalian faunas of the Cenozoic era do not necessarily imply
the existence of Gondwana at this time, and Chamberlin has argued
against the existence of this land bridge at any time.

Nevertheless most European and some American geologists hold
that a large number of organic relationships exist which establish
the former existence of the above-mentioned east and west continents,
and that the configuration of the present continents has come about
since Cretaceous time.

ARGUMENTS AGAINST CONTINENTAL FRAGMENTATION

The arguments against the acceptance of continental fragmenta-
tion, as the writer comprehends them, may be summarized as follows:

Tirst. There is no direct evidence of the existence of former
lands in the present ocean basins. Moreover, some of the supposed
paleontologic evidence calling for land bridges may perhaps be ex-
plained as well by existing routes, and organic evolution under
similar climatic conditions may have brought about likenesses in
form where no close relationships actually exist.

Second. If the Paleozoic continents stretched east and west across
the Atlantic Ocean, there should still be recognizable east-west
trends in the relief of the ocean floor or in the bounding lands; the
former land bridges’, even if submerged, should still be distinguish-
able. It is, of course, true that submerged plateaus do connect
Australia with Asia and Antarctica, and in the North Atlantic there
is the evidence of the Wyville-Thomson Ridge connecting Scotland
and Iceland. On the other hand, the mid-Atlantic plateau runs
north and south, and the ocean is as deep over the site of Gondwana
as it is elsewhere.

Third. The continental platforms as a whole are known to be in

rather close adjustment to the density of the outer 50 to 100 miles
of the crust. To suppose then that an ancient continent has partially
foundered requires that the crust must here have become on the
average from 3 to 5 per. cent denser. There is as yet no known geo-
logic process which could bring about such an increase in density.
Unless such a process is shown to be possible, the other evidence must

122,W. D. Matthew, Climate and Evolution. Ann. N, Y. Acad. Sci., 24, 171-318. 1915.

FRAGMENTATION—BARRELL 291

become of compelling force and definiteness before the hypothesis of
fragmentation can be accepted.

These counter arguments will now be taken up for discussion.
The positive evidence bearing on the first one has been given under
the previous topic, and is of such weight that most European and
some American geologists have accepted fragmentation as a funda-
mental phenomenon in geologic history. The objections stated
under the last two heads, however, have never been squarely met.
In fact, they have gained most of their strength in America in recent
years through the recognition of isostasy as a real and measurable
factor. It is these objections that will now be more fully dealt with.

As to the relief of the ocean floors, we really know very little
about it in detail. The usual method of exploration, such as that pur-
sued by the Challenger expedition, is to make soundings at distances
of many miles, along lines that are hundreds of miles apart. In
fact, the map of the Atlantic between Brazil and Africa published
by the Institut fiir Meereskunde, Berlin, gives but about 150 sound-
ings. If the elevations on the land were similarly determined and at
such distances apart, a wholly erroneous menial picture of the gentle-
ness of land relief would be obtained. On the other hand, the mar-
gins of the ocean basins must become smoothed out by the deposit of
land waste, but such smoothing would extend generally not more than
200 miles, and therefore could not obscure the larger relief of the
basins. Moreover, detailed surveys for cables have revealed sur-
prising irregularities in places, and regions are known that have tu
be avoided.

This sharp relief seems to be most largely due to submarine fault-
ing and submarine volcanic activity, but it is also possible that some
of it is due to the preservation of an ancient land surface, or to old
faults connected with subsidence. If the north-south trends on the
floor of the Atlantic actually exist, they may be related to the vol-
canic activity of Cenozoic time, but it is more probable that they are
due in part to horizontal pressures like those generating mountain
folds. However, in the submerged mountain ranges on the floor of
the Pacific this relation of ridges to volcanoes is quite clear. From
these considerations we see that the present relief of the Atlantic
bottom may be chiefly due to causes that have operated since the
breaking down of Gondwana in the later Mesozoic, and accordingly
would tend to obscure the original east-west trend of the lands.

If the fragmentation of Gondwana is due to the same causes re-
sponsible for the original ocean basins, it might be expected that
subsidence under these same causes would take place to about the
same amount. Accordingly, the successive additions to the ocean
floor need not be marked by a simple steplike character. Then, too,
292 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

the different oceans and the different parts of the same ocean show
similar ranges in depth.

Future detailed investigations of selected parts of the ocean floors
may bring strong evidence to bear for or against the hypothesis of
fragmentation, but our present knowledge on this subject is in-
definite. The arguments here set forth merely show that frag-
mentation of parts of continents is not disproved by what is now
known as to the relief of the ocean floor.

Let us turn, then, to the third argument, that dealing with change
of density and resulting isostatic movements as the immediate cause
of fragmentation. On the continents such changes in density clearly
seem to have taken place, but the evidence is best where the change
is toward a lesser density and where parts of continents are liited
up into plateaus. As an illustration, most of the great Cordilleran
area of North America during the Mesozoic tended to he not far
from sea level. Here ranges of mountains were uplifted from time
to time, but their waste was deposited in adjacent regions as sea
deposits, or laid down as continental formations at a low elevation.
The region of the lofty Colorado plateaus shows, in fact, a strati-
eraphie section which includes deposits, most of them marine, rang-
ine from the early Paleozoic to the close of the Mesozoic. During
all of that vast time, occasional regional subsidence with resulting
sedimentation was the rule. No uplift occurred great enough to per-
mit erosion to destroy completely the older strata. But during the
later Tertiary a reverse movement set in; broad uplift of fault blocks
took place so that these masses now constitute plateaus from 6,000 to
11,000 feet in elevation. The region is shown by geodetic observa-
tions to be in the usual degree of isostatic equilibrium. There would
appear to be evidence here, therefore, of a regional decrease in density
in late geologic times. The cause of such a decrease would appear
to be the rise of molten magmas and the expansion of the cover rocks
due to the accession of heat. Vast volumes of magma are needed to
account for a change of density in the whole crust sufficient to cause
an isostatic uphft of from 1 to 2 miles, and these volumes must there-
fore be at such a depth that large local surface outpourings would
not be possible as proof of their presence. ‘The Cordilleran belt as a
whole, on the other hand, many hundreds of miles wide and running
the length of the continent, was the scene of regional igneous activity
during the Tertiary era on as large a scale as is known anywhere
since the Proterozoic. Not all parts of the surface have been covered
with extrusive rocks, but the intrusions in depth must be far wider,
and for the Cordilleran province as a whole the relationship of
igneous activity to the great Tertiary uplift seems clear.

FRAGMENTATION—BARRELL 293

RELATIONS OF ISOSTASY, BASIC INTRUSIONS, AND CRUSTAL FOUNDERING

Let us turn now to the opposite side of the problem, that is, to
the possible relation of igneous intrusions of high density to regional
subsidence.

Granites, the siliceous or acidic end of the igneous series, have,
on the average, 70 per cent silica and a specific gravity of 2.70.
Gabbros, the dark, coarse-grained, basic intrusives of the same chem-
ical nature as basalt, average 50 per cent of silica and a specific grav-
ity of 38. The extremely basic rocks, pyroxenites and peridotites,
have an average silica content of 45 per cent and a specific gravity
of about 3.30. The density of these rock types is therefore seen to
range through 20 per cent.

At Sudbury, Ontario, a great intrusion of gabbro shows after
ages of erosion as a great lens 36 miles long and 17 miles broad.
The thickness ranges from half a mile to 2 miles, and in form it
is a saucer-shaped body concave upward. It is the shape of the
mass that is so interesting here, since it appears that the floor sub-
sided under it during or after the intrusion. Such a saucer-formed
body differs from a laccolith, in which the intrusion domes up the
cover. This fundamental distinction in form appears to be related
to the high density. Being denser than the surrounding rocks, the
igneous mass has settled down.

The Duluth gabbro which underlies the southwest part of Lake
Superior is on a far larger scale than the Sudbury intrusion and
accounts for the synclinal structure of this part of the Lake Superior
Basin. In the Middle Keweenawan, basaltic lavas were poured out
on the surface of the earth over the western half of the basin to a
maximum of more than 20,000 feet in thickness, the bottom sub-
siding as the successive floods welled forth. Thus the original basin
structure of Lake Superior was established at this remote time, but
the present depression occupied by the lake waters seems to be of
recent geologic origin, as though, at a time of relatively recent
crustal disturbance, the great weight suspended here in the crust
had, after an age-long rest, dragged it down another stage. The
glacial ice occupied this ready-made trough and by its weight may
have deepened it a little further. Although the extrusives are so
thick, the intrusives as shown in the Duluth lopolith are known to
be much thicker. They presumably overlie still deeper and larger
reservoirs of igneous rock, offering a yielding base to the lavas
above, as otherwise depression of their floor would hardly have gone
forward so readily during the period of igneous activity.

13 —lopolith of Grout. Amer, Journ. Sci., 46, 516-522. 1918.
24034—29—_20
294 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

Turning now to a more recent and still wider exhibition of basic
extrusions, during the early Oligocene basaltic lavas and ashes were
poured out on Scotland and Ireland, the Faroe Islands, Iceland,
and the eastern and western coast of Greenland. In the detrital
beds accumulated between the lava flows, fossil leaves of forest
trees are preserved, testifying to a warm temperate climate at that
time in Greenland; they also indicate a close relationship between
the lands, suggesting connection at that time. Geikie estimates the
thickness of the basaltic series in Iceland at 10,000 feet, and in
northwestern Greenland at 4,000 feet. The flows are scattered over
a distance of 1,800 miles and their superposed sheets underlie sepa-
rate plateaus whose edges face the ocean in steep scarps. It would
appear, therefore, as if the oceanward continuations of these lava
plateaus had foundered. Between these widely separated regions
it seems probable that still larger areas of basalt must occur, which
are now at the sea bottom.

These basalt-covered lands are portions of the ancient continent
Eria, which connected northeastern Canada and northwestern Europe.
Let us note first what the paleontologists have to say as to the date
of its foundering, drawing their evidence from the fossil mammals
found on the two sides of the ocean, and without considering the
basaltic magmas as a cause for the separation of the lands. Schuchert
states :**

Greenland and the region eastward across Norway, Sweden, and Finland
(Fennoseandia) were subject to great block faultings or warpings previous to
the Pliocene, developing not only great rifts or graben but broad sinking areas
as well, with a general trend to the northwest and southeast. This was the
time when Eria was broken through, separating Laurentia from Baltica.
Previous to the Middle Miocene this land was the bridge that enabled the
mammals of Europe and North America to intermigrate. Periodically, but
more especially during the Oligocene and Miocene [late Eocene and Oligocene],
lava flowed widely through fissures over all these lands, the Faroe Islands,
Seotland, and northern Ireland (Giant’s Causeway). This foundering of the
crust where the Norwegian sea now is, permitted the triumphant spread of the
Atlantic into the Arctic Ocean.

The sea bottom between Greenland, Scotland, and Scandinavia is
less than 6,000 feet deep, and therefore only about one-half the mean
depth of the ocean. Assume a mean subsidence of 6,000 feet due to
the intrusion of rocks which after solidification were 10 per cent
heavier than the rocks which they displaced. This would require the
intrusion of a mean thickness of 60,000 feet. The extrusions would
be but a fraction of this, as judged by other regions where abyssal
rocks are exposed, the extrusions serving only as an index of the
greater masses below. The intrusions would presumably cover as

4 Charles Schuchert, Pt. II of the Piersson-Schuchert Textbook of Geology, pp. 923,
924, 1915.

FRAGMENTATION—-BARRELL 295

much as 1,000,000 square miles and attain a volume of 12,000,000
cubic miles. Even though these quantities are vast, they are not at
all unreasonable in proportion to the areas concerned. There is
reason to believe that the thicknesses beneath the Lake Superior Basin
are as great, though not the area of the intrusions, and the volume
of extrusions within that limited region has been estimated at 24,000
cubic miles. Even so, this amount is probably only a fraction of the
volume of the associated intrusions. The ratio of the volume of the
Lake Superior basic rocks of Keweenawan time, to those of the
North Atlantic in the Tertiary era is therefore no more than in pro-
portion to the areas involved.

To produce subsidence in central Asia through basic intrusion,
several conditions would have to be met, as shown in Figure 1. First,
the material would have to come from below the level of isostatic
compensation in order to make the crust above that level heavier, as
a whole, than it was before. The crust, or lithosphere, within which
isostatic compensation exists is a shell of strength. In order, there-
fore, that isostatic adjustment shall take place, it must be underlain
by a thick shell of weakness, the asthenosphere. This sphere is con-
ceived of as highly rigid under vibratory stresses, but yielding read-
ily under prolonged ones, probably by a process of recrystallization
as in glacial flow. It is presumably then very close to the temper-
ature of fusion, as this is the physical condition which permits in
this shell the coexistence of high rigidity and low permanent strength.
Basic magmas originating in its deeper part could, therefore, by aid of
the smelting, drilling, and disruptive pressures of their included gases
and the notably decreased density attending the fluid state, force
their way upward into a colder and stronger shell of lower specific
gravity than the solid phase of the intrusive.

The decreased density of the fluid condition over the solid phase
of the identical magma is about the same as the difference in density
between solid granite and solid gabbro. As long, therefore, as the
intrusive was in a fluid state, there would be little or no tendency
for net subsidence of the crust, a condition which probably still exists
beneath Iceland, as shown by its geysers and active volcanoes. The
erystallization of the magma and the dissipation of the excess heat
of the thick intrusive masses would require a time comparable to the
length of a geologic period. During this time it would slowly be-
come denser; but, in proportion as this downward drag made itself
felt, the crust, which was temporarily weakened by the intrusions,
would heal and grow stronger. The subsidence, on the other hand,
would require a slow lateral displacement of material in the astheno-
sphere. In consequence, the breaking down would be shown on
the surface by great fractures and downfaultings.
296 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

As the sinking strain slowly increases in the outer shell, the imme-
diate cause of its release—the trigger that sets the mechanism in
motion—may be a compression of the earth’s crust such as is mani-
fested elsewhere in a mountain-making movement. To illustrate
this effect of compression, take two laths and support them in hori-
zontal position at the ends. Load one of the laths in the middle
with a few pounds of weight. The load will produce only a slight
elastic flexure. Now compress both with a horizontal thrust. The
loaded lath will bend down and break under a slight compression
which will hardly affect the other. Thus a movement of crustal
compression acting horizontally through the whole lithosphere will
tend to vertical warping of all tracts not in isostatic equilibrium,
either upward or downward, according to the direction of the pre-
existing vertical stress. The surface expression of such warping is
likely to be manifested as great fractures between blocks of crust.
These faults pass miles below into broad flexures.

During the Middle and Upper Miocene occurred the final foun-
dering of Eria, and also one of the greatest mountain-making
movements since the pre-Cambrian. <A sufficient geological interval
had elapsed after the early Oligocene igneous activity of Eria for
the solidification and attendant increase in density of the basic
magmas, with consequent development of downward stresses. It is
believed that in this way Eria was broken up and large parts of
it foundered into the Atlantic Ocean.

The hypothesis of the relationship of continental fragmentation
to basic intrusions on a large scale, reconciles the apparent con-
flict with isostasy and brings together harmoniously in the explana-
tion of the foundering of Eria a number of otherwise apparently
unrelated phenomena. Measured by this test the hypothesis is suc-
cessful.

The example is, however, geologically recent and much of the
evidence is preserved. The land bridge has broken down, but its
pierlike remnants still stand as horsts in the ocean. In certain
other cases the evidence is more or less indeterminate, as indeed is
to be expected.

In northwestern India, the Deccan traps outcrop on the coast
from latitude 17° N. to the Tropic of Cancer (about 22°), and
extend inland halfway across the peninsula, occupying to-day
200,000 square miles and forming one of the greatest basalt fields
of the continents. [According to Wadia,’ however, the outliers
in greater India indicate that the original flows covered an area of
500,000 square miles.] They are broken off by the shore line, the
nearly horizontal beds rising in terraces or steps to elevations of

15 —), N. Wadia, Geology in India, pp. 192-201. 1919.

FRAGMENTATION—BARRELL 297

several thousand feet and forming the Western Ghats. The flows
and ash beds reach a maximum thickness of as much as 10,000 feet
along the coast of Bombay. It would appear as if they once extended
far seaward (perhaps across to Arabia), but that this western por-
tion had broken off and sunk into the Arabian Sea. The date of
the basaltic outpourings is fixed as latest Mesozoic, transitional to
the Eocene.

Far to the south, in the early Eocene, Madagascar is thought
to have been still connected with India, forming the hypothetic
land of Lemuria, the eastern portion of Gondwana. The evidence
here lies in the nature of the Madagascan fauna, which contains a
primitive assemblage of mammals and is devoid of that more power-
ful and advanced placental fauna whose evolution dates from the
later Eocene. The foundering of Lemuria and the spread of the
Indian Ocean westward and northward may therefore be connected
with the basic igneous intrusions of the previous geologic period,
of which the Deccan traps are remnants.

On the other hand, the great Columbia Plateau of basaltic
rocks in Idaho, Washington, and Oregon, which rivals the Deccan
traps in magnitude, is not known to be connected with any adjacent
subsiding area. The presence of basaltic flows does not in itself
prove that there has been a rise of new basic magmas in great
volume into the outer crust. All great cycles of igneous activity
begin normally with the outflow of basaltic or the slightly more
siliceous andesitic lavas. Throughout the Cordilleran belt the great
intrusive masses which followed the extrusives are in part exposed by
later erosion and are seen to be nearly as siliceous as the true granites.
They are therefore called granodiorites. Their specific gravity is
close to that of granite and very different from that of the gabbros.
Hence the Columbia Plateau basalts are seemingly related to the
granodiorite magmas and are probably underlain deeper in the crust
by them. ;

The causes of continental fragmentation which have so far been
suggested involve several postulates which should now be brought
clearly into view.

First. There is involved the conception of an initial granitic crust
grading down through an intermediate or dioritic one into a denser
basaltic shell. This is of course not open to direct proof, but is an
inference reached by a number of petrologists who have dealt with
the profounder aspects of their subject.*° This hypothesis of the
layered nature of the earth is also in accordance with a number of
lines of inference developed in the present work.

16 See especially the comprehensive work by R. A. Daly, Igneous Rocks and Their Origin.
Ch. VIII, 1914.
298 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

Second. The asthenosphere is taken as occupying a deep zone,
possibly several hundred miles in depth, the upper part of which
has the composition of a diorite, and is decidedly more acidic than
the lower part, which probably has the composition of a gabbro or
basalt. The dioritic zone has appreciably lower density than the
basaltic one, quite apart from the effects of pressure. Most of the
igneous activity within the continents is thought to originate in the
dioritic zone, and this was notably true of the extensive fusion which
gave rise to the Archean granites. <A dioritic magma has between
55 and 65 per cent of silica, and is therefore intermediate in compo-
sition between a granite (65 to 75 per cent silica) and a gabbro
(45 to 55 per cent silica). This intermediate magma, when it ap-
pears at the surface in molten form, gives rise to dark lavas known as
andesites, many of which approach basalts in appearance. During
the existence of the molten reservoir in the outer crust a separation
of the fluid rock tends to take place, possibly by an early crystalliza-
tion of the basic minerals, splitting the magma into basalts on the
one hand and granodiorites or granites on the other. The latter
accumulate especially in large bodies in the crust, and these are
exposed in after ages by erosion and are revealed as the cores of
mountain ranges. The processes of differentiation will therefore
produce all kinds of rocks from whatever depth in the crust they
come, but the relative volumes of the different kinds will be notably
different according to the original composition. Such a difference
in proportions is thought to distinguish the lavas of continents from
those of oceanic islands, the latter being more dominantly basaltic.
The difference pointed out is probably to be ascribed to the original
depth from which the magma rises. It is true, however, that ex-
trusions and intrusions of dominantly basic nature are known within
the continents. When these rise to great volume they are thought
to have risen from a deeper source; when occurring over broad areas
they set up strains which work toward continental fragmentation in
obedience to the laws governing isostasy.

Third. The periodic cause of the generation of magmas is _ be-
lieved to be radioactivity. The radioactive elements are known to
be present in appreciable quantities in granites and basalts, so that
if these rocks exist below a depth of about 40 miles,’” heat is gener-
ated by them faster than it can be conducted away, unless some
unknown inhibiting action is there present. If so generated, the heat
must slowly increase and express itself in the liquefaction of rock.
As the liquid rock increases in quantity it becomes able to work its
way to higher levels. Most of it will slowly cool there, but some
will melt its way to the surface. This convection effect will tend to

17 This figure is greatly reduced by recent estimates, See Editorial Preface, with foot-
notes.

———

SS

FRAGMENTATION—BARRELL 299

mix the originally separated intermediate and basic shells. The
ultrabasic rocks, such as the metallic meteorites, have not been
found to contain the radioactive elements, and therefore deeper
shells of such composition, if they exist, have not been considered
as entering notably into the mechanism of igneous activity. It is
possible that the dense, rigid, and strong centrosphere consists of
such ultrabasic materials.

Fourth. The rising magmas break through the strong outer crust
only occasionally and in certain areas, notably along the zones of
mountain building. F. D. Adams has shown that the great pressures
existing within the crust increase the strength of rocks many fold,
and this strength is not decreased by temperatures up to 550° C.
The fact remains, however, that magmas do rise and the crust does
yield in order to permit mountain making and maintain isostasy.
This would appear to necessitate the hypothesis that the temperature
is high enough to reverse the effects of pressure upon strength and
that rock flowage takes place by recrystallization at temperatures
approaching those of fusion. At considerable depths these tempera-
tures of fusion are far above the limit of 550° used in the experi-
ments by Adams. The zone of greatest strength would tend to hold
the magmas down until they accumulate in sufficient volume to dis-
solve, drill, and break their way through this resistant zone. Above
this they would tend to spread out in lopoliths and batholiths, and a
portion would rise higher, forming, as volcanoes, safety valves for
the internal forces. These relations are all expressed in Figure 1.
The localization of fragmentation to certain regions may conse-
quently be due, in large part, to the general resistance of the
lithosphere, only rarely broken through in great volume. The basic
magmas, because of their lower temperature of fusion, lower content
of gases, and higher density, would have smaller power of penetra-
tion than more acidic magmas.

Fifth. Downsinking in obedience to the demands of isostasy is
facilitated by the general heating of the whole crust below the zone
of lopolithic intrusions. The heat of these intrusions must escape
upward. Accordingly the rocks solidify and the outer crust becomes
stronger; but below, the heat is held in, the upper limit of the
asthenosphere necessarily has risen because of this higher tempera-
ture, and the crust as a whole has grown weaker to resist the vertical
loads that are imposed by the new differences in density.

To sum up the argument, some periods, such as the Keweenawan,
and certain regions, such as that of Lake Superior, are seen to be
characterized by especially voluminous extrusions and intrusions of
basic magmas. If the earth is layered in density, such heavy magmas
would presumably originate deeper than those which are more sili-
ceous. The siliceous magmas also give off basic fractions by differ-
300 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

entiation, but the exposed intrusives on the continents are mostly
granite, and the basic portions represent a smaller volume. Great
intrusions of basic magmas rising from the deeper asthenosphere
would, under the principles of isostasy, produce subsidence. Regions
in which the evidence is strongest for fragmentation show, in a
number of cases, great outpourings of basic lavas reaching maximum
thicknesses on adjacent coasts. The evidence for fragmentation is
therefore paleontologic, physiographic, and structural. The strong-
est evidence, however, is paleontologic. If this evidence is strong, it
can not be denied by an appeal to isostasy, as a mechanism of igneous
activity, described in this topic, may be invoked which only requires
a larger scale of action than that observed to have occurred on the
surviving lands.

PERIODIC AND SECULAR SINKING OF THE OCEAN LEVEL

With the development of a solid crust came the origin of the
oceans, and with every rise of magmas the volume of water has been
increased. Therefore, throughout the geologic ages there has been a
contest between land and sea, between the volume of ocean water
and the capacity of the oceanic basins. From epoch to epoch the sea
level is oscillatory, and from era to era there are progressive secular
changes.

The widely flooded condition of most of the continents during
the Paleozoic is shown by the accumulation of marine sedimentary
rocks upon their surfaces. This result of a high ocean level is in
contrast to the deep and widespread erosion of the highly emergent
continents just previous to the Paleozoic era, and is most probably
to be ascribed to the increase of water during the Paleozoic. On
the other hand, it also appears that during the time of revolutions
closing the eras, the ocean level sinks and the horstlike continents
become highly emergent. Higher and higher the continents have
risen during the later Tertiary until the mean elevation of the land
has become about 2,400 feet, probably 1,000 to 1,600 feet higher than
the mean elevation during the Paleozoic era.

Many geologists have assumed that the synchronous emergence
of the several continents is due to a deepening rather than widening
of the ocean basins. This, however, brings in difficulties with the
theory of isostasy. The simpler view appears to be that during the
times of revolution the ocean basins widen by continental fragmen-
iation rather than deepen as a whole. At the same time, individual
lands tend to warp up to offset isostatically the loss of rock previously
removed by erosion.

~The great revolutions are accompanied and followed by complete
or nearly complete withdrawals of the sea. The continents are then

FRAGMENTATION—BARRELL 301

cubject to excessive erosion, and thus arise the long-enduring breaks
in the marine sedimentary records. These are also the times of most
marked mountain making and of greatest progress in continental
fragmentation. Then follow periods of higher ocean levels in which
parts of the continents are again covered by the sea. Here then we
see the cycle of the eras illustrated by the most marked changes of
sea level, which distinguish Paleozoic, Mesozoic, and Cenozoic. What
has been the still longer trend of geologic events?

The revolutions of the Archeozoic, accompanied by batholithic in-
vasions of the continents on a world-wide scale, were followed by
erosion of the continents down to the levels of crystalline rocks.
Hence the ocean level was then low relative to the continents. Dur-
ing the Animikian (Proterozoic), however, the seas appear to have
spread widely over the deeply eroded continents, but in the closing
Proterozoic revolution there was a marked rising of basic magmas
and a falling sea level, as no late Proterozoic marine records are
known. This time of no or very scanty marine record Walcott has
named the Lipalian interval. During the Paleozoic, on the other
hand, a high sea level was the rule, and the Permian revolution,
although it caused a general withdrawal of the seas, did not greatly
change their mean level, as is shown by the lack of deep erosion of
the previously deposited Paleozoic sediments. It is true that, on
the whole, wider lands followed in the first half of the Mesozoic,
but during the Cretaceous the oceans again invaded the continents in
one of their widest floods. The Cenozoic, however, has witnessed
an oscillating rise of the lands until now they appear to have a
greater mean elevation than at any time since the Lipalian interval.

Smoothing out the crustal oscillations connected with periods and
eras, 1t appears that a great cycle of progress has run through earth
history. High and wide lands marked the Archeozoic and Protero-
zoic revolutions; fragmentation was apparently widening the earliest
ocean basins and lowering the ocean levels, but the juvenile waters
from the accompanying igneous intrusions reelevated them. Then
came a long time, from the early Paleozoic to the close of the De-
vonian, during which the oceans rose and repeatedly spread over the
lands. Since the later Paleozoic, however, the ocean level had tended
to sink, and fragmentation appears to have gained on the accessions
of juvenile water. The resulting wider, higher, and more diversified
continental areas have favored the evolution of land vertebrates.
Fortunate indeed has been the summation of these processes, for
without this change in the general trend of the ocean level it is
doubtful if the evolution of man could ever have been attained.

But the lands have been kept high above the increasing waters
only by the breaking down of portions of their areas into ocean
basins, a sacrifice which can not go forward forever if there is to be
302 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

continued an evolution of highest life. Is the earth striving to at-
tain a final uniformity or radius, and, provided the solar energy is
of sufficient duration, will a planetary history which began in a
reign of fire end in the establishment of a universal ocean? Science
as yet can not predict, for the end is hidden behind a deeper veil
than that which conceals the beginning.

THE GEOLOGIC BEARING OF THE MOON’S SURFICIAL FEATURES

In studying the earth as a planet, we labor under the difficulty of
observing only one example of a class. If the earth can be compared
to a similar body, tests may be found that make more probable the
hypothesis framed to explain the features and history of our globe.
Fortunately the moon is such a body, and one so near that under
high powers of the telescope features 500 feet in diameter may be dis-
tinguished. Geologists, their eyes turned toward earth, have sought
but little knowledge in the heavens, though Gilbert, Suess, Shaler,
and others have studied the moon with the vision of the earth scien-
tist. Nevertheless, the features of our satellite reflect something
of the history of the earth, and in particular support the hypothe-
ses of the internal origin of the hydrosphere and atmosphere, as well
as give evidence pointing toward the periodic growth of ocean basins
by continental fragmentation. As throwing light upon such geologic
problems of genesis, these features of the moon are consequently
worthy of some detailed discussion.

The moon, at a mean distance of 238,840 miles, is by far the near-
est celestial body. Its diameter, 2,163 miles, is but 27 per cent of that
of the earth, and yet this is by far the largest ratio of any satellite
to its primary in the solar system. In fact, the size of the moon
really removes it from the class of satellites into the unique posi-
tion of a small sister planet. The mean specific gravity of the earth
is 5.58; that of the moon is 3.34. Consequently the mass of the moon
is but 0.012 that of the earth, and gravity at its surface is but one-
sixth of the same force at the surface of the earth. The earth’s
sphere of gravitative control extends outward to somewhat over
600,000 miles, far beyond the orbit of the moon. The gravity of the
moon, on the other hand, is not sufficient to hold an atmosphere to
itself. Such gases as emanate from its interior diffuse into space,
and being within the earth’s sphere of control have been in greater
part added to the air and ocean of the earth. The moon has there-
fore never had seas, nor has it been subject to the gradational effects
of air and water. It preserves in the rich detail of its surface features
a record of its internal activities, a record similar to yet different
from that which has been obscured on the earth by concealment be-
neath the sedimentary and oceanic envelopes or by destruction
through the gradational forces of the atmosphere.

FRAGMENTATION—BARRELL 303

If, in imagination, the oceans should be removed from the earth
and the planet were to be viewed from outer space, one of its most
striking features would be the systems of mountain folds. These
bear the evidence of being made by great compressive movements
in the crust, and imply a condensation of the earth’s body operat-
ing periodically throughout geologic time. This crustal wrinkling
is clearly not due to external coolmg, as Dutton, Fisher, and Cham-
berlin have shown. Chamberlin has given cogent reasons for hold-
ing that it is indirectly due to a condensation of the nucleus of the
earth, and that the direct cause may be found in the enormous pres-
sure acting thereon, due to the weight of the lthosphere. This
pressure attains 45,000,000 pounds per square inch at the earth’s
center, a depth of 8,959 miles. The moon’s center at a depth of
1,081 miles is subjected to only a small fraction of this pressure,
equivalent to that which would be found in the earth somewhat
less than 100 miles beneath its surface. This lack of high internal
pressures seems, therefore, to explain the absence of important
linear mountain systems on the moon.

The moon’s face, as seen especially in the full moon (pl. 1), con-
sists in part of a brilliant but rough surface interspersed with
coalescent, smoother, darker areas which individually have irregu-
larly rounded boundaries. To the naked eye these darker areas
combine into the rude semblance of the features of a human face.
As Galileo looked at these features through the first telescope, the
resemblance of the darker areas to seas so impressed him that he
named them “maria,” giving to each unit a distinctive name such
as “Mare Imbrium” (shown in pl. 3) and “ Mare Serenitatis.”
Closer observation shows that these “seas” are in reality more or
less smooth dark lava plains, dotted with occasional volcanic craters.
Over the brighter portions, beyond the lava plains, the craters stand
very thickly, older craters are more or less obliterated by numerous
younger ones superimposed upon them, and the whole constitutes a
chaos (shown well in pl. 2). Zoéllner has computed from the amount
of light received at different angles from this surface that the
average angle of slope is at 52° to the horizontal. This corresponds
to the reflection from a rough, loose surface of cracked stone or a
surface of steep, rough, and vesicular lava. The comparative
smoothness and darker color of the maria indicate a comparative
absence of these features, resulting in a different light refraction.

Loewy and Puiseux find that three successive surficial levels may
be distinguished in the moon. The first is the rough, brilliant,
higher lying region in the southern hemisphere; the second, at least
10.000 feet lower, consists of the floors of the maria; the third,
again 10,000 feet deeper, corresponds to the bottoms of the circular
craters which have been formed within the maria after their con-
304 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

solidation. On the other hand, Brown?’ has determined that the
higher, southern limb is farther from the moon’s center of mass
than the northern. In other words, the principle of isostasy applies
to the moon. There seems, then, to be sufficient analogy between
the moon’s maria and the earth’s ocean basins for the former to give
testimony in regard to the causes that have operated to make the
latter.

There are several ways of determining the relative ages of the
features on the moon’s surface. The most positive time value is
the order of superposition of craters. Next to be noted is the fact
that the older craters have lower-angled slopes, as shown by the
deficiency of shadows cast by the slanting sunlight. The younger
craters, showing their youth by their sharpness of definition, as well
as by superposition, also have the ray systems that are so con-
spicuous under the high-angle hght upon the full moon, as seen in
Plate 1. The maria, on the other hand, are younger than the
chaotic upland surface, as shown by the melting in of that surface
and the absence of ancient ruined craters. Some of the craters on
the margins of the maria are, however, partly melted relics of the
older surface, but most of them are clearly younger than the lava
plains. The great crater Copernicus (near the top of pl. 3) is
conspicuous among these younger features, but in the older area of
the moon there are craters just as young, as seen in Tycho (near the
center of pl. 2), which has the most conspicuous ray system on the
moon.

Do all the physical features of the moon belong to a period early
in its history; is it now a dead world? This is the view commonly
taught by astronomers and it has been accepted by geologists. In-
terpreting the moon’s surface features by the methods of geology,
however, a quite different answer is obtained. Its internal igneous
forces work too slowly and intermittently to be seen by the human
eye, unless such small changes as those observed in the crater Linné
are indeed the result of recent igneous activity.

The measure of the relative recency of events may be obtained from
a study of the progress of crumbling recorded on the walls of the
craters. In terrestrial deserts the chief causes of disruption of the
rocks are (1) rapid change of temperature from night to day, (2)
freezing of water in joints, and (3) dashes of rain on heated rocks.
On the moon, however, rain is wholly absent, freezing in joints may
be a minor factor from volcanic waters; but the changes of tempera-
ture between midnight and midday, though slower between maxima,
are rapid at sunrise and sunset and the, results are far more pro-
found than in the earth’s deserts. During the lunar night, the tem-

18, W. Brown, Address on Cosmical Physics. British Association, sec. A, Australia,
1914. Reference No. 201, p. 6.

FRAGMENTATION—BARRELL 305

perature of the surface, which is not blanketed as on the earth by an
atmosphere, must sink to near absolute zero. But the night endures
for two weeks, and in this time cold and resultant contraction must
penetrate many feet in depth. During the two weeks of lunar mid-
day the temperature of the moon’s surface in its torrid zone has been
measured as being above the boiling point of water on the earth.
This rhythmic monthly change of temperature of perhaps 500° F.
must have somewhat the same disintegrative effect as the exposure
of rocks to fire. Blocks large enough to be cold on the inside while
hot outside, and vice versa, will be riven by the rhythmic expansive
and contractive forces. The recurrent changes in volume must tend,
therefore, to work the loose material down to flatter and flatter
slopes, although the individual fragments will still stand up with
steep faces. There are, however, limits to these actions, dependent
upon the rapidity as well as the amount of the temperature changes.
This form of insolative disintegration, dependent upon solar heat, has
been operative with nearly equable effect throughout the whole his-
tory of the moon and has been most intense in its equatorial latitudes.
It may be further aided by the passage of lunar heat and gases at
times of exceptional volcanic activity, but the evenness of the dis-
integrative effect suggests a dominance of external temperature
changes as the cause. Craters which show no appreciable insolative
disintegration are therefore relatively young. From these sharp-
edged craters we may trace back successive generations in time until,
as in the region of Tycho, may be faintly seen the almost obliterated
ruins of great crater rings that appear to be twenty or even one hun-
dred times older. Measured by the scale of terrestrial chronology,
the great craters Tycho and Copernicus, each 65 miles in diameter,
may be as recent at least as the younger Tertiary.

Judged by these means, how old are the maria? Here we must
decide between the craters that are within or adjacent to the maria,
but are older than they, and the craters that are younger. The outer
portions of the Mare Nectaris?® show an ancient topography, but
the bounding scarp of the Altai Mountains at the edge of this mare is
very high and steep. The floor of Nectaris appears, consequently, to
have been formed by a downsettling accompanied by a melting in,
but the latter process has not extended to the walls. The great crater
Theophilus situated in this mare is, however, younger than the mare,
as shown by the depression of its floor, but it is without the ray sys-
tem, which appears to mark the very youngest of the craters. Thus
we reach the striking conclusion that the maria are among the
younger features of the moon, though not the youngest.

12The small mare in the southwest quadrant nearest to the center. In pl. 1 the
features spoken of do not show.
306 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

The craters resemble in form those of the Hawaiian Islands.
They appear to have been opened by gaseous drilling from below, as
are terrestrial craters, and by final explosive outrushes of gas rising
through pipes filled with lava or breccia, but for some reason the
igneous forces in the moon lack the power to produce extensive over-
flows. On the other hand, the alignment of small craters, as those on
the left of Copernicus, shows that they are not, as some have sur-
mised, the results of impact from the outside during the original
fasmntign of the moon.

Although craters of all sizes may be noted in the moon from the
minute craterlets to the great maria, the latter appear to represent a
different kind of activity. Within the Mare Imbrium there are
remnants of a ring outlining an older and smaller feature. The
older, rough topography of the floor of the mare flattens and fades
out by degrees. To understand this feature, imagine a rough sur-
face of pitch, with an outer temperature far below 0° F., heated from
below until the interior became fluid, the outer skin remaining cold
and solid, but the supporting layer passing into a soft and viscous
state. The relief would therefore flatten down, but not be absolutely
lost. Such appears to be the most instructive analogy for the inter-
pretation of the surfaces of the maria, although in places thinly fluid
lava may have overflowed.

The craters probably are gas vents, and are instructive, by analogy,
in regard to the continued supply and internal origin of the terrestrial
atmosphere and hydrosphere. The maria seem to represent the
culminating rise of magma from the depths into the outer crust at
long intervals of time, accompanied by a melting in of the covers, and
correspond to the broad batholiths exposed on the earth by erosion.

We are now prepared to compare instructively the maria of the
moon with the ocean basins of the earth. The great lava plain on
the east side of the moon corresponds rudely to the Atlantie Ocean;
the embayments on the south may be likened in form to the Gulf of
Mexico and the Caribbean Sea; the coalescent maria on the west,
Serenitatis, Tranquilitatis, Fecunditatis, and Nectaris, to the chain
of Mediterranean deeps; the isolated Mare Crisium in the northwest
to the similarly isolated basin of the Black Sea. The uplands occupy
the lesser portion of the surface, extend into the angles between the
maria, and in places are seen to fault off and subside into them.
These resemblances to earth characters also caught the eye of Galileo
and led him to regard the lava floors as in reality lunar seas.

Thus the study of the earth’s small sister planet supports the gen-
eral hypotheses that the ocean waters as well as the ocean basins have
arisen through igneous activity, and that fragmentation of the
original crust has dominated the moon as well as the earth through-
out geological time.

Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Barrell PLATE 1

_

THE FULL MOON

In the telescope the directions are reversed, south appearing above and north below. The maria
are the dark plains covering about half of the hemisphere. The Mare Imbrium is seen as a great
circular plain, over 600 miles in diameter, in the northeast quadrant. ‘To the left of it lie the Maria
Serenitatis, Tranquilitatis, and Fecunditatis in order. Below the last is the isolated Mare Crisium.
Just south of Imbrium the large brilliant spot with irregular rays is the crater Copernicus. To the
south of Copernicus is the Mare Nubium. Still farther south is the crater Tycho, from which
radiates the most brilliant ray system of the moon. Oneray may be traced across the Mare Sereni-
tatis, fully one-third of the way around the globe. These ray systems give a pattern of intersecting
lines somewhat similar to the ‘‘canal’’ systems of Mars, but here on the moon are clearly developed
by purely physical actions. (Photograph by Yerkes Observatory)
Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Barrell PLATE 2

oa ee
rW ie
ay

A PORTION OF THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE OF THE MOON

Atlittle below the center is the crater Tycho, 65 miles in diameter, distinguished by its sharp rim and
central cone. Above and to the right is the large crater Clavius, 142 miles in diameter. Its greater
age is shown by its crumbled walls and the number of younger, sharply defined craters superim-
posed upon its bottom and wall. Below, at the extreme north, is seen the margin of the Mare
Nubium. (Photograph by Yerkes Observatory)

Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Barrell PLATE 3

THE MARE IMBRIUM AND ITS SURROUNDINGS, NORTHEAST QUADRANT OF THE
MOON

The floor of the mare is seen to be older than the ray system of Copernicus and the small, sharp-lipped
craters scattered over it. The mare is younger, however, than the rough topography within its walls
on the left. On the northern (lower) border of Imbrium is seen the crater Plato, 60 miles in diameter
and with crater walls 4,000 feet high. It is flooded by lava which appears to be related to that of
the mare. On the right, near the sunrise line, is preserved the half of a still larger circle, opening
into the mare and forming the Sinus Iridum. (Photograph by Yerkes Observatory)
THE “CRATERS OF THE MOON” IN IDAHO?!
By Haroup T. STEARNS

[With four plates]

When in recent geological time the glaciers began to melt away
from the towering peaks of Idaho, floods of lava poured out of a
fissure on the south side of the White Knob Mountains. The cooled
and weathered products of these eruptions now form the unique vol-
canic area known as the “ Craters of the Moon” which was proclaimed
a national monument by President Coolidge on May 2, 1924. It is
reached by a drive of 26 miles from Arco southwest along the Idaho
Central Highway, and is easily accessible to visitors en route for
Yellowstone National Park. Upon entering the monument the road
leaves the dusty sagebrush desert for an area of barren black cinders
and lava, where it winds among smooth cones and across strips of
rough, fresh-looking rock. The similarity of the dark craters, and
the cold lava nearly destitute of vegetation, to the surface of the
moon as seen through a telescope gives to these peculiar features their
name. The monument comprises 80 square miles of the most inter-
esting and recent part of a vast lava field which covers hundreds of
square miles and merges westward into the Columbia Plateau. This
plateau covers about 200,000 square miles and is probably the largest
lava plateau in the world.

A good view is obtained from the summit of Big Cinder Butte,
which rises to an elevation of 6,516 feet and ranks among the largest
purely basaltic cinder cones of the world. To the east stretches
barren black lava with nothing to break its monotony except one
group of yellow grass-covered cones which were not inundated by
the floods of lava, and which now stand together as a yellow island
in a sea of black. Farther east rises Big Butte, the sentinel of the
Snake River Desert. A little beyond and to the northeast of it are
two small peaks known as the Twin Buttes.

To the southeast extends a double line of cinder cones, many of
them grass covered, and all of them vents of numerous flows which

1A note prepared in cooperation with the Idaho Bureau of Mines and Geology, and pub-
lished with permission of the Director, U. S. Geological Survey, in the Geographical Jour-
nal, Vol. LXXI, No. 1, January, 1928, London. Here reprinted, by permission, from that
Journal, with slight alterations.
307
308 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

unite southward into one great field of lava, lonely and uninhabited.
Black Top Butte, the farthest in this march of cones, lies approxi-
mately 11 miles southeast of Big Cinder Butte. Still farther away
are yellow grass-covered cones, and in the distance are barely dis-
cernible the snow-covered Portneuf and Bannock Mountains. Four
miles to the south lies a chaos of cinder crags and jagged lava sur-
rounding a high cinder cone called North Laidlow Butte. Half a
mile beyond this cone is Little Laidlow Park, a grass-covered field
of ancient lava, appearing pale yellow under the bright desert sun
of midday. Farther away on the plain are low lava domes, and in
the far distance beyond the Snake River are pale blue mountains
along the Idaho-Utah line.

To the west for about 6 miles the lava has flowed against the
southern spur of the White Knob Mountains, filling the valleys as if
they were bays and leaving the ridges like projecting headlands in
a black sea. To the northwest there are crater pits, spatter cones,
cinder cones, and lava flows massed along the Great Rift. Many of
the cinder cones are brilliant red at noon, but slowly change to
purple with sundown. On the tops of many of them are crater pits
which are especially beautiful under the lengthened purple shadows
of evening. Beyond these features rise the granitic White Knob
Mountains covered with grass and streaked with small groves of
aspen in the twisted ravines and canyons. Farther northward are
the snow-clad Sawtooth Mountains.

Before any lava had appeared in southeastern Idaho, the White
Knob Mountains of granitic rocks, then higher, projected south-
ward into the wide open valley of the ancestral Snake River. All
the rivers—Big Lost River, Little Lost River, Birch Creek, and all
the other streams adjacent to the area—flowed southward from the
mountain canyons and joined the ancient Snake. To-day these
rivers sink into the lava plain at the foot of the mountains and find
their way underground into the Snake River through numerous
crevices and cavities in the lava.

The White Knob Mountains and their foothills were undisturbed
except by stream erosion until a fissure called the Great Rift opened
on their slope. With this earth rifting there occurred an eruption
that built up a long line of cinder cones, and lava flowed southward
and eastward, cooling into thick jagged flows consisting largely of
broken blocks. Frozen in some of these lava blocks one can find
both large and small fragments of granodiorite that were stoped
off from the roof of the lava reservoir and floated upward in the
molten lava during the eruption. The lava must have issued at a
temperature of about 1,200° C., which was too low to remelt the
granitic inclusions; hence the white fragments retain all their
original characteristics. Numerous eruptions occurred during this

“CRATERS OF THE MOON *—STEARNS 309

epoch, and most of the flows and cones are now buried by later
flows. Remnants of these old cones, broken by faulting and weath-
ered down into hoodoolike pinnacles of cinders and spatter, form
the Devil’s Orchard, and the field of crags south of Big Cinder
Butte. In these crags occurs obsidian, or volcanic glass, which the
Indians quarried to make arrow points and other implements of
stone.

For a long time the Great Rift seemed to be healed, but volcanic
activity broke out again with renewed vigor, and many of the large
cinder cones in the chain that stretches southeast through the cen-
ter of the monument were formed. To this second epoch belong
Sunset, Grassy, Silent, Big Cinder, Fissure, Split, and numerous
unnamed cones along the Great Rift. Most of their lava flows have
been buried by later flows, but the cones rise as islands above thei.
The volcanic outbursts were spasmodic but probably followed at
short intervals. Often more than one cone was formed during a
great eruption, and there is evidence that some of the cones were
made by successive eruptions occurring at the same place.

The third and last epoch of eruption followed closely upon the
second and may have been actually closely connected. During this
epoch, which is the most recent, all the barren black lavas that are
found in the area were emitted. North Crater, visible from the road
to Carey, was reopened and gave vent to a large billowy lava flow
that moved northward and then eastward. This flow is crossed by
the road leading to the registration booth. Big Crater gave vent
to four flows during this epoch, to the northeast, northwest, and
southeast. With the last eruption of Big Crater the line of spat-
ter cones at the end of the motor road was formed and lava flowed
east and west from them. With the subsidence of the lava in the
Great Rift following this eruption numerous areas along the rift
collapsed, forming a chain of pit craters. Big Sink water hole
is located in one of these pit craters. Big Cinder Butte broke
open again and gave vent to a short lava flow on the north side. Two
other outpourings of lava occurred in the area one half-mile north-
west of this breach, but the eruptions at these vents did not build
cinder cones. Lava also poured out at Indian Tunnel, the Natural
Bridge, and at Needles Cave in the area east of Inferno. In the
central part of the monument the old cinder cone called the Watchman
opened and lava flowed out quietly from the northwest and the south-
west sides. Altogether 35 cones and vents and 30 different lava
flows of various epochs are found in the monument, and many others
are probably buried.

No evidence was found of any great explosive eruption such as
occurred at Krakatoa in 1883, or at Katmai in 1912. The volcanic

240384—29——21
310 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

outbreaks in the monument were all of the so-called quiet type and
similar to those that occur at intervals at Kilauea and Mauna Loa.

Many kinds of lava have been poured out on the surface of the
earth, but they all fall into three main classes or types. The first
type of lava, rhyolite, or the iron-poor lava rich in silica, is the com-
mon lava of Yellowstone Park which gives the Grand Canyon of the
Yellowstone River its magnificent colors. The second type, ande-
site, contains moderate amounts of both iron and silica, is usually
gray in color, and forms a considerable part of the volcano of Lassen
Peak, Calif. The third type, basalt, rich in iron but poor in silica,
covers the Snake River Plains, forms the rim rock along the Snake
River, and is the only type of lava occurring in the Craters of the
Moon.

Two distinct physical types of lava flows occur here. Pahoehoe,
the billowy, ropy type of lava that is filled with caverns, covers
about half the area. Its shiny, blue, glassy crust makes some of the
flows extremely beautiful in brilliant sunlight. Its wrinkled sur-
face is due to the cooling of a thin crust or scum on the flow while
the crust is being pushed forward by the lava below. The numer-
ous caverns that are found in the Craters of the Moon all occur in
this lava. As the flow continues the surface and sides solidify,
and a tube is formed which forks and reforks as the flow moves out
over the plain. Thus the lava is conducted without much less
of heat to the advancing margin of the flow, and as the slope of the
land is not very steep, only the upper or source ends of the tubes
were drained when the lava ceased flowing. Indian Tunnel, Owl
Cavern, and Buffalo Cave show lava stalactites formed by the drip-
ping of the lava from the roof. The narrow ledges parallel to the
floor of the caverns are the shore lines of a subsiding river of lava.
On the floor the last stream of lava with its ropy and twisted sur-
face is usually visible. When the lava drains away, many portions
of the roof fall in or are shaken down by earthquakes accompanying
later eruptions. ‘The natural bridges and caverns are shorter or
longer roofed-in portions of the tunnel.

The other physical type of lava flow in the monument is the
rough, bristling, jagged a-a lava, chemically the same as the pahoe-
hoe lava. Its origin has not yet been definitely determined but it
appears to be due to losses in heat and gas, and to amorphous glassi-
ness. The lava is in a pasty condition while in motion and con-
tinually produces this broken, jumbled material by the cooling and
breaking of the crust. Some of the fragments are pushed and rolled
at the margin of the flow and others are dragged along under the
lava. The whole flow resembles slush ice in a river in the spring.
A-a lava flows 50 to 100 feet thick are found in the monument many
miles out on the plain.

«CRATERS OF THE MOON °—STEARNS 311

There are three distinct types of cones in the area—cinder, spatter,
and lava cones. The cinder cones, with black, loose, cindery surfaces
and smooth conical profiles, are the heaps of lava froth or spray
formed at the time of eruptions. Big Cinder Butte is the finest
example in the area. Spatter cones are formed when the clots of
lava hurled out were insufficiently inflated with gas to form cinders
and moved so slowly and for so short a distance that they fell as
clots in a viscous state and adhered to each other, building up
rather steep-sided cones of small height and diameter. The line of
spatter cones southeast of the end of the motor road, all less than 50
feet high and 100 feet in diameter, is one of the most perfect in the
world. ‘The third type of cone found in the Craters of the Moon
is the lava cone or dome. Lava domes consist entirely of lava and
are broad and flat, and sometimes surmounted by tiny spatter cones
less than 10 feet high. These inconspicuous domes are formed by
the quiet and continuous welling out of pahoehoe lava, and as most
of the lava escapes through tubes the cones are not high, often only
30 to 50 feet. Owl Cavern, Indian Tunnel, and Surprise Cave mark
sites of lava domes.

A curious feature found in the monument are the lava bombs
scattered on the cinder and spatter cones. These bombs vary in
length from one-half inch to over 13 feet, and in diameter from one-
fourth inch to 3 feet. There are three types—spindle, ribbon, and
bread-crust bombs. Spindle bombs, which have earlike projections
on the ends of a football shaped body, were clots of lava which
were hurled through the air with a rotational motion. The best
formed bombs are found close to their source. The ribbon bombs
are the long tapering twisted ears that project 3 to 10 inches from
the ends of the spindle bomb. These long thin strips of lava were
broken off by the fall of the projectile and lie scattered on the sur-
face. Some were formed by the pulling apart of two clots of lava
traveling at slightly different speeds or in slightly different direc-
tions. The long ribbon bombs, 2 to 13 feet in length and a few
inches wide, seem to have originated in one of two ways. <A few are
lava clots that fell on the side of a cone, ran down the slope while
still molten, and were later detached by weathering, and the removal
of the adjacent cinders. Other ribbon bombs are formed by the
throwing out from a spatter or cinder cone of a large clot of very
liquid lava that stretches out during its flight and falls on cinders
sufficiently loose to prevent its breaking. A third kind of bombs are
hight and porous and covered with a skin resembling bread crust.
They are formed by a clot of lava filled with gas being hurled
through the air. During its flight the crust cools, and as the gases
expand the hard skin is cracked open in numerous places.
312 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

Tree molds exist in certain flows in the Craters of the Moon
where the lava flowed slowly and at the right temperature into a
forest. The molds vary in diameter from a few inches to 3 feet,
and are easily distinguished from other holes in the lava. Many of
them are 10 to 20 feet in depth. Molten lava does not completely

destroy a tree because a few inches of solid lava crust prevents any ~

great amount of heat from escaping through it, and liquid lava at
or near the cooling point requires very little time to solidify into a
poor heat-conducting shell around the tree. While the tree is burn-
ing it shrinks away from the surrounding lava, creating an air
space or chamber between the tree and the mold which accelerates
the cooling. The process is further aided by the steam from the
sap of the tree. There is much less chance of the formation of a
mold from a dead tree, for it burns too rapidly. The writer saw in
Hawaii two years after the eruption trees only partly buried by
lava with their upper portions uncharred and dead leaves clinging
to the branches.

Most of the vertical tree molds do not preserve any charcoal im-
pressions, but where the tops of the trees fell on plastic lava the
mold of the charred log and the grain of the wood is sometimes
preserved. In places the lava was soft enough or rendered sufficiently
plastic by the steam from the burning wood to flow into the shrink-
age cracks in the charred surface of the log, forming a checker
pattern easily mistaken for bark impressions. No tree mold showing
bark impressions was found in the monument.

One kind of tree mold, called lava trees, is common on Trench
Mortar Flat southeast of Big Cinder Butte. These trees rise 1 to
5 feet above the lava surface and were formed in the same manner
as the tree molds, except they were in places from which part of the
lava flow could drain away, or else they were buried by spatter from
a spatter vent.

Ice-cold water is found even on hot July days in the most unex-
pected places, its temperature rarely exceeding 2° F. above freez-
ing. Most of the large water holes occur in depressions in very
rough broken lava, where much snow collects in the winter. Some
of it sifts down into the crevices between the rocks and remains
sheltered during the summer days. Water during the thaws may
drip downward into the crevices where it is frozen by cold circulat-
ing air. Some melts in the summer, but in favored positions it
never entirely melts away, as the lava is a poor conductor of heat.
If one digs down into the loose rock in a water hole of this type
ice will always be found beneath the water.

Water and ice occur also in the lava caves or tubes where draughts
of cold air freeze any water that percolates into them. This occurs
about seven months in the year, and during the remaining months

«“ CRATERS OF THE MOON °—STEARNS 313

there is a gradual wasting away of the ice, but melting proceeds
slowly, as even during the summer the temperature of the interior of
the caves does not rise above 40° F. Ice and water are found also in
the deep inverted funnel-shaped craters of the spatter cones. The
snow accumulates in the crater during the winter and is exposed to
the direct rays of the sun for only a short time each day. Thus
there results a continually increasing heap of ice which, in the Ice
Cave near the end of the motor road, is about 20 feet thick.

Ice Caves do not occur anywhere in the world except where there
are freezing temperatures during some part of the year. On the
active volcano of Kilauea, Hawaii, where thousands of similar caves
occur and where much rain falls, no ice occurs in the caves. The
explanation of this is apparent, for no snow falls nor do freezing
temperatures occur during the year. Mauna Loa Volcano, which
rises nearly 14,000 feet above the sea into the snow zone, contains
numerous ice caves in and near the crater, and many are found only
a stone’s throw from a steam vent. The lava in the Craters of the
Moon is so fissured that no water is found in it throughout the year
except where it les upon an impermeable body of ice.

Despite the freshness and bareness of the black lava, the longer
one studies them the more one realizes the time that must have
elapsed since the last eruption. The absence of the soil on many of
the flows is easily accounted for. All the fine dust is blown away or
into near-by cracks. This hidden soil accounts for the numerous
shrubs and pines that grow in the crevices where no soil is visible.
The vegetation has about a four months’ growing season and is
poorly adapted to its environment. The writer found a pine growing
in a crack in the Big Crater lava flow, a flow that appears as black
and recent as any in the monument. This tree has fresh black lava
of the Big Crater flow actually touching the trunk two feet above
the base of the tree, and the tongue of pahoehoe in which the tree
grows is split open and wedged apart by the roots of the tree. This
tree is 33 inches in diameter and has been dead only two or three
years, having been killed by lightning. It is perfectly sound and
shows no burning scars nor any indications of fire. Counting the
annular rings of this tree shows that it was 461 years old. Other
larger trees can be found rotting on the lava surface that have been
dead at least 100 years. The lava was certainly extruded before these
trees came into existence.
4:0

ate Shane eo ered,
‘tibenteety 3 mired sla: jd oot ott To. yaw
4% -inihegiiiat § te nihho pare ait ay f

7
Oi

ot heroes 4a ; iii rane Ht cad rts as parse of: iY ee
cert i> ee Hoag Scaht tre ne laa 40t° ya ot ‘Tou
soto ola peisnaton: ot loins eis ve qitniintines he

abide’ ONS role we awe dtont otk 46°H ha rf
rradh wy tosh soe ‘aide jitd' Tt otenireig ‘shes 2! ae OD ‘aa
att Ohl une deh: 10 asRep Bitibe. WHTAD: “Or
and aty “shhit oy ehupavont peter . pobege 3 ere be oat!

Ae “ORR WET Ge Piety |hT €

.

Xs dhe wee slg if “dt Ps aa if
LE SIBYT ori Lib 5h a
abies: .aerst aonkoAP Olan Bak olf avods ok ev 5

NAEP ATS APRS PTET HHH /FSPB TS Lites Test fuk’ ft al in ‘

Git to seater): aay oe eee) ot ee TR Se Be beak’ ‘rods:
RET ACP MMaRUOIAF Ji at buaot Lat BB hss Ox debate pecan hc! et 100

ated! tease SH ac aD esti eas” bat eds “oe oA? ees

tenrscat noth BBy TO eoitsata aay pee es wy weal “oul bout
y " pi EA ee or
i} Pk sd Ne tic Shi I
alitiniv é ies Srey aay tt i ¥
ie ftaned on yrcris elinom HOt ahd aa noltatoy ; ay.

OCTET Sk HATO PST eS ont ants tue stared ob
7 ‘ee

ite: wy ~ 4 iat
luten deasGqe Tes wroit im yon Svat she witls oll

sb fb i ae ria cre re
Attre: Ochs “On Hug nh S, vitae i, pe wokt * “A a

CRC iets
dott aaoisitad 16 Suniiod oo a eas) 5
eit? Sort sdy to aioos off vd diags bephew bas nego sile
ord Go oF Vine Sash asod ald Bi if satsatnle ‘at oa

brite ihe plat ef ek FE Sori ‘ital vot bi Sint, ‘feed.

abo

pasta ete Cert iia ee Ake mc aS
BYP HAIG Teer’ Air Sais eit
Ke

Ot <i HyEKD—! ea Re edo Mass (bar var
rst) “Diy orse: PP Ree ap ds df gwdie

eal ey aih Hs BAetibs ares bil nO Bis Mot ‘iio ie Ge
‘ ‘ ena, Mt

TIA PlitEh 359 Siw n vot Bit

hy
Kas 4 her $
= te
ei ‘
coe
ty “
+
’ +#)

% yd cen) Dee
COR TAS. Vite Ce

che 5 scan

VAV 1
JO SH901q 3SOO7 NI 31IOH YSLVM OOGOOH ‘°%

MO14 WAVY] SJOHSOHVd JO S3OVAYNS ‘1

Z aLWid

SUIBa]S—'BZSl ‘Woday uB!UOSY}IWS
Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Stearns

1. IMPRESSION OF CHARRED LOG IN LAVA

2. LEDGES MARKING

LEVELS OF

LAVA, BUFFALO CAVE

PLATE 3

p alvid

4ZIS IWHYNLVYN

'WAW7] NI GOOM G3aYyYVHO AO NOISS

audW| 40 M&3lA dn-aso19

suiva}S—'8Z6l

‘yodey UB|UOSHPIWS
THE OLDEST KNOWN PETRIFIED FOREST*

By WINIFRED GOLDRING
New York State Museum, Albany, N. Y.

[With nine plates]

Dreams do come true—sometimes; and one of the most recent
dreams of the New York State Museum was realized when, on
February 12, 1925, there was formally opened to the public the resto-
ration (see pl. 1) of the extensive forests that flourished in eastern
New York a few hundred million years ago during Upper Devonian
(Ithaca) times. The history of the discovery of these trees and the
gradual accumulation of material which led to the final solution of
their nature is almost as interesting as the ancient trees themselves.

HISTORY OF DISCOVERIES

Back in 1869, over half a century ago, the little village of Gilboa
in the Catskills (Schoharie County) came suddenly into prominence
from a paleobotanical point of view. In the autumn of that year
the upper valley of the Schoharie Creek was swept by a great freshet
which tore out bridges, culverts, and roadbeds around the little
village of Gilboa. But science, at least, has much for which to be
grateful, for at the same time that all this disaster was caused the
freshet very obligingly exposed in the bed rock along the creek stand-
ing stumps of fossil trees, all at the same level. The discovery of
these trees was described in the Albany Argus of January 30, 1870,
and in the twenty-fourth Museum Report (1872, for 1870) ; and it was
considered of so much importance that it was brought by Professor
Hall to the attention of the British Association for the Advancement
of Science in 1872. Excavations were made during the year 1870 in
the bed of sandstone containing these trees and five stumps and a
number of fragments were taken out of this ancient forest. The
greater part of this material was brought to the State museum,
where it has for some time constituted a remarkable exhibit of the
ancient, extinct flora of the State.

1 Reprinted by permission, with slight changes in the iilustrations, from the Scientifie
Monthly, Vol. XXIV, pp. 514-529, June, 1927.

315
316 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

The Gilboa collections were submitted for examination to Sir Wil-
liam Dawson, of Montreal, then principal of McGill College, and in
his day an authority on the plants of the Devonian. Dawson placed
these trees in a genus of true ferns, represented by trees, and distin-
guished two species, Psaronius textilis and P. erianus. The genus
has in these later years been thoroughly studied; and it has been
found that the structure is quite different from that of the Gilboa
trees. Moreover, Psaronius belongs to the Carboniferous, the period
of our coal trees, and is much more recent by millions of years than
these Upper Devonian trees. The problem of the nature and rela-
tionship of our Gilboa trees was still left to science, and seemed in-
capable of solution until the summer of 1920.

It had always been assumed that our Devonian trees had a scattered
distribution—no one dreamed of a vast and extensive forest. The old
locality had long since been covered up and the rocks at the level in
which the trees were discovered did not outcrop again in this area.
Nothing more was heard of these fossil stumps until in 1897, when
Prof. C. S. Prosser, then connected with the New York State Survey,
reported finding some small specimens, from a higher horizon, lying
loose at the Manorkill Falls about a mile above Gilboa. Occasional
attempts since then to relocate this primeval forest of the Devonian
period were fruitless until the summer of 1920, when special effort
was made to add to the collection of Devonian plant material already
in the hands of the museum. In this year the efforts to relocate the
Schoharie forest or to find some additional evidence as to its extent
led to the discovery of upright tree stumps not in the original locality
but 6,400 feet south, at the higher level along the road in the vicinity
- of the lower falls of the Manorkill, tributary to the Schoharie Creek.
(See pl. 4, fig. 2.) Five specimens were taken from this site. These
trees, as was the case with those first discovered, were found with
their bases resting in a bed of shale, black or greenish-black in color,
and representing the original mud in which the trees grew. ‘This
tree locality, which constitutes the highest horizon in which these
stumps have been found, has an elevation of 1,120 feet above tide,
and when the Gilboa Reservoir is filled the flow line will be some
feet above this spot. The old locality, on the same side of the
Schoharie just above the old Gilboa bridge, had an elevation of 1,020
feet A. T., giving a difference of just 100 feet between these two
tree horizons. Since 1920, the city of New York has been doing
construction work at Gilboa, preparatory to impounding the waters
of the Schoharie Creek for the future use of its citizens. The result-
ant reservoir will extend over a length of nearly 7 miles and will
drown the village of Gilboa and its vicinity, including the two above-
mentioned fossil-tree localities. In 1921, in the course of quarrying
in connection with the work on the dam, the old locality, which is

OLDEST PETRIFIED FOREST—GOLDRING 317

directly at the spot where the dam was being built, was uncovered
and seven stumps were found, some of them too badly broken to
permit removal. One specimen taken weighs nearly a ton and has
a circumference of nearly 12 feet (diameter about 4 feet). In a
quarry about half a mile (2,300 feet) downstream from the old
locality, trees were found at a level of 960 feet above tide, 60 feet
below the oldest or middle locality, 160 feet below the highest level
where trees were found . This quarry, known as “ Riverside Quarry ”
(see pl. 3, fig. 2, and pl. 4, fig. 1), has yielded the greatest number
and also, on the whole, the largest stumps found. During one period
18 specimens were taken from an area 50 feet square, not counting
those destroyed in quarrying. One of the largest specimens of this
group has a circumference at the base of approximately 11 feet
(diameter approximately 3.5 feet), a height of 22 inches, and a
diameter at that height of 2114 inches; stumps of greater height, but
of smaller girth, have been obtained. At all the three tree horizons
the stumps were found with their bases resting in and upon shale
and in every case in an upright position with the trunk extending
into the coarse sandstone above. The shale beds representing the
muds in which the trees stood vary in thickness from 6 inches to 2
feet, more often thin than thick.

By the spring of 1924 with the additions to our collection, which
we owe to the courtesy of the commissioners of the New York Board
of Water Supply and the various engineers connected with the work,
we had in our museum a total of nearly 40 stumps, partial or com-

- plete, and a number of broken pieces. We have not added to our

number of fossil trees since then; but they have been distributed
among various museums and some even have gone into private
hands. Taking into consideration with all these, those still at the
quarry, the weathered stumps discarded, and those destroyed in
quarrying, the number of stumps taken from these primeval forests
must run into the hundreds, and continued quarrying will bring
more to light. Riverside Quarry is not included in the area covered
by the Gilboa reservoir, but its value as a fossil tree locality will be
greatly lessened with the cessation of quarrying operations. Now
that the rock layers containing the stumps have been located, it is
quite possible that they can be traced around the hills and found out-
cropping elsewhere. In the area known, the tree localities have been
found stretching over a distance of something more than a mile
and two thirds. No forest as old and as extensive as this has any-
where been reported up to date. We therefore have in eastern New
York, up to date, the oldest known forest in the world, and in our
museum a unique and unmatchable exhibit.

Except for the discovery of the seeds, which was quite accidental
as many very important discoveries are, we would still have been
318 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

left with a forest of fossil stumps and have been little better off
than were Professors Hall and Dawson in 1869. By the merest
chance, Dr. Rudolf Ruedemann, State paleontologist, who was on the
ground with some other collectors in the summer of 1920, came
across a slab of dark shale containing seeds along the edge of the
Schoharie Creek in the vicinity of the Manorkill Falls. (See pl. 3,
fig. 1.) The slab was traced to the bed of shale from which it was
derived and a number of good specimens were obtained. Later in
that summer the writer and an assistant worked this bed of shale
and a fairly large collection of excellent material was obtained,
including not only the seeds, but another kind of fruiting body, bits
of foliage and roots. Further efforts in the summer of 1923 led to
the discovery of a new locality about 30 feet south of the original
exposure, and in this and the following year our already unique
collection was considerably augmented in both quantity and quality.
Collecting in the spring of 1925 showed both localities to be prac-
tically exhausted, and besides this whole area will eventually be
under the deep waters of the Gilboa reservoir.

In addition to stumps, portions of the trunks of these fossil trees
were found in 1920 and later. In the early summer of 1923 bases
of stumps were found in Riverside Quarry with the long, radiating
straplike roots attached, so that there could no longer be any doubt
that these trees grew in situ. In 1925 three specimens of the outer
bark showing petiolar scars were brought in by Mr. R. Veenfliet, jr.,
a local collector. The greatest numbers of the trees comprising these
ancient forests were of this Gilboa tree type, but evidences of two
other kinds of trees have been found. One is a Protolepidodendron,
a lycopodlike tree, similar to the Naples tree, Protolepidodendron
primaevum (Rogers), known for so many years from the Portage
beds of central New York. This tree has not yet been described.
In the fall of 1925 two specimens of another type of tree with long,
grasslike leaves on the trunk were collected in Riverside Quarry,
and they have been described under the name Sigillaria ? gilboensis
(N. Y. State Museum Bull. 267, 1926) as another lycopod type of
tree.

In the early summer of that year a rootstock was found in the
same quarry, which may belong to either of the last two mentioned
types of trees.

2. UPPER DEVONIAN GEOGRAPHY AND PRESENT GEOLOGY

The Gilboa trees afford an index to the geography of the western
Catskills and the Schoharie Valley during the late Devonian period
to which they belong. During these times, the present Catskill
Mountains formed the low shore line of a shallow sea; and the con-
tinental land lay off to the east of the Catskills, extending far into

OLDEST PETRIFIED FOREST—GOLDRING 319

the present area of the Atlantic. This shallow sea covered the
interior of the State and country and received the heavy drainage
from this eastern land mass. The southwesterly flowing rivers
brought down débris of the primitive vegetation with which that
iost land was wooded, and scattered the remains, leaves, stems,
branches, etc., through the vast delta and shore deposits. Perhaps
nowhere else in the known records of the rocks is there such an
extraordinary accumulation of the land flora of this geological age
as in these sands which underlie the slopes of the Catskills westward
into the Allegheny Plateau. Plant remains were mingled with the
earliest of the fresh-water mussels which burrowed in the sands of
the river mouths; at times the rivers carried the forest growth far
out among the marine deposits and it was mingled with the animal
remains of the salt sea. This close intermixture of terrestrial and
marine conditions is most abundantly shown in the lower or earlier
part of the Catskill terrane. The coasts of those days were very
unstable, which would give a swampy shore line. Forests of prim-
itive trees grew along these shore lines, spreading down to the water’s
edge. Gradual submergence of the coast carried these trees beneath
the water and the sediments piled up over their bases. At a later
period when the sinking basin was again filled by deposits the forest
again crept down to the water’s edge. The discovery of these hori-
zons of fossil tree stumps shows that three successive forests flour-
ished here, were submerged, destroyed and buried. The fact that
the stumps are buried in a fairly coarse sandstone indicates a rapid
destruction and burial.

The geologic horizon of the occurrence of the Gilboa trees appar-
ently is the Ithaca formation. The Oneonta is characterized by red
beds and they are not found as low as any horizon containing tree
stumps. Red beds characteristic of the Oneonta are seen a few feet
above the highest tree horizon at the Manorkill. Collections made at
a higher horizon four miles to the south at the intake of the tunnel
show a prevailing Ithaca fauna; and it is therefore apparent that we
have an intermingling of Ithaca and Oneonta sediments. The
fresh-water unio, Amnigenia catskillensis, occurs in a massive sand-
stone one and a half miles northeast of Gilboa, some 600 feet above
the level of the Schoharie Creek at Gilboa, which clearly indicates
that the horizon of this shell is above that of the tree trunks found at
Gilboa. The Ithaca fauna is also present on the hillsides above
Gilboa; and all this indicates that we have in this area an interfinger-
ing of the Oneonta and Ithaca sediments.
320 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

3. STRUCTURE OF GILBOA TREES

A full, technical description of the Gilboa trees may be found in a
previous article by the writer (N. Y. State Mus. Bull. 251, 1924, pp.
50-93) by those who care to go into more detail than is given in the
following description.

The stumps taken from the three horizons show great variability
in size and some variability in shape. (See pl. 5, figs. 1 and 2.)
The bases of the stumps are bulbous, as might be expected of certain
trees growing under swampy conditions, and show a circumference
at the base from 3 feet and less up to nearly 12 feet (diameter less
than 1 foot to nearly 4 feet). In general, the height at which the
trunks were broken off varies from a few inches over 1 foot to about
3 feet or slightly over, but in the spring of 1925 a large specimen
was taken from Riverside Quarry, which extended up into the trunk
for 514 feet. Some of the stumps narrow quite gradually from the
bulbous base into the trunk, others very abruptly. The parts of
trunk above the heights shown in the stumps, which have been found
infrequently, are in a flattened condition. The museum has two
of these specimens, one over 4 feet long and the other over 3 feet
long. In the case of the latter, which was taken from the underside
of an overhanging ledge, as much again of the trunk had been broken
away and lost; and, beyond the section obtained, the trunk continued
into the solid rocks with little, if any, diminution in width. Another
specimen, too poor to be removed from the rock, showed some 12 feet
of slender trunk which must represent a portion near the top of a
large trunk or the trunk of a very small tree. Judging from the
stumps and the portions of trunks, the largest of these trees must
have reached heights of 30 to 40 feet.

The outer cortex is the only structure of the stumps and trunks of
these trees that is to any extent preserved. The interior structures
have been washed out and the cavity left filled with sand which has
helped preserve the shape of the stumps in fossilization. The struc-
ture of the outer cortex is similar to that seen in a group of Carbon-
iferous seedferns (Lyginopteris, Heterangium). It consists of inter-
lacing strands of strengthening tissue (sclerenchyma), forming a
network, or more or less parallel (see pl. 6, fig. 1). In transverse
sections, unlike the Carboniferous forms, the sclerenchyma appears
in the form of dots or short thick irregular lines, irregularly scat-
tered. This zone of the outer cortex varies from an inch or less to
several inches in thickness, depending upon the size of the stumps.
In the majority of cases, the outside portion of the cuter cortex is
missing, but it is well shown in several cases. The outer surface is
marked with shallow ridges and furrows, in some cases giving the
effect of a bark; in other cases the outer surface is only irregularly

OLDEST PETRIFIED FOREST—-GOLDRING 321

furrowed and wrinkled or even just roughened, some of which is
undoubtedly due to shrinkage in preservation; but in either case the
outer surface appears to be composed of layers of sclerenchyma
forming a kind of bark, which in the living tree probably had a
covering of ramentum or fibers. The underside of the base of the
stumps (see pl. 6, fig. 2) is quite strikingly furrowed in a radiate
manner, and in some specimens a depression is seen at the center.
The base as well as the sides has the outer zone or covering of
sclerenchyma layers above which is the zone several inches thick
varying according to the size of the stumps, of interlacing scleren-
chyma strands.

The interior structure of the trunk for the present remains un-
known. <A transverse section of one of the smaller trunks shows
toward the center an irregular, thin ring of sclerenchyma tissue and
within this ring and to some extent outside are irregularly scattered
strands of sclerenchyma tissue. The scattered sclerenchyma strands
may be due entirely to some maceration before preservation; but
the ring itself appears to be a definite zone, part of a missing central
cylinder of strengthening tissue. Transverse sections of larger
trunks were made, but nothing was found. Success in this line can
probably only be attained when a petiole or rachis of a frond is
found preserved in such a condition that thin sections can be made
for study.

In the earlier collections specimens of roots were found, but no
stumps were taken with roots attached. This brought forth criti-
cism of our statement that the stumps were buried zm sttu. The dis-
covery in the spring and early summer of 1923 of specimens showing
the underside of the tree bases with roots attached (see pl. 7) finally
settled the question. The roots are long and straplike and radiate
from the margin of the base. One specimen was obtained under
difficulties and set up in concrete to form a museum exhibit, through
the kindness of Mr. Henri Marchand, who was then working on the
Gilboa restoration. The slab, as exhibited, measures 5 feet 7 inches
by 6 feet 4 inches. The base of the stump is about 14 inches in
diameter, and the radiating roots, from one-half inch or less in
width to around an inch, extend without termination as far as the
rock is preserved. From a study of this and other specimens it ap-
pears that the roots were undivided. Much larger specimens were
found in the quarry with roots at least 9 feet long, but it was im-
practicable to get them out. The museum specimen is in sandstone,
seen from the under side; but other specimens were found on the
dumps some time later, showing the impression of the root base in
the shale bed beneath the sandstone, often with the radiating roots
well shown. The shale bed, as pointed out previously, represents
the muds in which the trees grew.
322 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

The fronds of the Gilboa tree are compound, tripinnate (three
divisions), and, judging from the fragments and larger specimens
collected, were at least 6 to 9 feet long. (See pl. 8, figs. 1 and 2.)
The pinnules were bilobed, with the lobes slightly recurved. The im-
pression of the main rachis or stem of the frond in the widest part
varies from three-eighths to five-eighths inch in the larger speci-
mens. Both the primary and secondary divisions are alternately ar-
ranged. The petioles are described as slender and much expanded
at the base and spirally arranged in about five ranks. Specimens of
outer bark showing petiolar scars were collected in the summer of
1925, but as yet the museum has not located any specimens of trunks
showing the attachment of the petioles. About 1870 or 1871 a Mr.
Lockwood, of Gilboa, found the upper part of one of these trunks
with its leaf scars preserved and petioles attached. The specimen
was described by Sir William Dawson as probably the upper part of
one or the other of his species of Psaronius found in the same bed.

The seeds of this Upper Devonian tree (see pl. 9) bear a strong ex-
ternal resemblance to those of the Carboniferous seed fern Lyginop-
teris oldhamia and to other Lyginopterid seeds. They were borne
in pairs at the end of forked branchlets and were probably borne near
the tip of the frond. Sometimes the dichotomies are such a short dis-
tance apart as to bring frequently two, sometimes three, pairs of
seeds close together, giving a clustered effect to the seeds. The seed
is broadly oval (measuring in the larger specimens 5.3 by 2.5 milli-
meters to 6.4 by 3.4 millimeters) and inclosed in an outer husk or
cupule, which in some cases appears to be lobed. Separate nutlets
were found. They occur in groups of small, rounded, thick bodies.

The second type of fruiting body found has been interpreted to be
part of the male fructification, a sporangia-bearing organ (sporan-
giophore), though no separate sporangia have been found. ‘These
sporangia-bearing organs are modified pinnules; they are rounded-
oval, saucer-shaped to funnel-shaped, and are borne on branching
pedicels. It is believed that the sporangia were clustered and at-
tached to the underside of the sporangiophore near the place of
attachment of the pedicel and extending out toward the margin.

The two species described by Dawson were distinguished by the
arrangement of the sclerenchyma strands of the outer cortex, which
he interpreted as aerial roots; and to-day the species can stand only
on those characters upon which they were originally separated, since
we have discovered nothing further to add. His “Psaronius” tew-
tilts (pl. 5, fig. 1) is distinguished by a network of interlacing strands
of sclerenchyma and “ Psaronius” erianus (pl. 5, fig. 2) by more or
less parallel strands. Only one kind of foliage has been found; also
only one type of seed and male fructification. It would appear, then,
that only in the internal structure of the trunks could these two

OLDEST PETRIFIED FOREST—GOLDRING 323

species of trees be distinguished while living; for if the two species
differed in foliage and fructifications, with all the collections that
have been made, some evidence of this would have come to light.
There may, however, be another explanation of this. The fact that
stumps of the tewtilis type have been found in numbers greatly in
excess of those of the evianus type may account for the collection of
only one kind of foliage and fructification, especially since the locali-
ties from which the collection of this material was made were few
and of limited extent.

4. DESCRIPTION OF FORESTS AND RESTORATION

By June, 1922, after more than half a century since their first dis-
covery, we were in a position to place our trees in their proper rela-
tionship and to attempt a restoration. These Gilboa trees in general
appearance must have resembled the tree ferns of the Tropics to-day
and also of the ancient Carboniferous and Upper Devonian times.
The Gilboa trees, however, do not belong in this group; they were
higher types (seed ferns or Pteridospermophytes), standing in a po-
sition between the tree ferns and higher seed plants, and they differ
from the true ferns in the possession of seeds and in the higher or-
ganization of the trunk. Since the name Psaronius had to be aban-
doned for these seed ferns, a new genus was created, Hospermatop-
teris, meaning “dawn of the seed fern” (from the Greek: eos—
dawn, sperma—seed , pteris—fern) , and the two species now stand as
Eospermatopteris textilis (Dawson) and /’. ertanus (Dawson).

As already pointed out, these trees grew along a low swampy
shore. They probably reared themselves to heights of at least 25
to 40 feet and bore fronds at least 6 to 9 feet in length, on the tips of
some of which were borne the seeds, The bulbous base undoubtedly
was buried in the swampy mud for some distance, as the roots are
not heavy and the tree otherwise would not have adequate support.
The foliage of the trees was not heavy, much looser than in the tree
ferns of to-day and the pinnules or leaflets were far apart (see pl.
2). There could have been no dense shade in this primitive forest;
except, perhaps, for the heavy moist atmosphere sunlight could
easily filter through. No higher forms of life existed there. The
hum of insects was not heard, for there were no insects here at that
time. All the sound one would hear, could one have been in that
ancient forest, would be the murmuring of the winds in the tree tops
or sounds from the neighboring sea or at times the howling of
destructive storms. Three such forests, undaunted, reared them-
selves in all their glory, were cut down by the sea, buried, and
fossilized.

The restoration of the Fossil Forests of Gilboa (see pl. 1) was
executed by the artist and sculptor, Mr. Henri Marchand, and his sons,
324 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

Paul and Georges, under the supervision of the writer. As shown
in the accompanying photographic reproduction, it includes an ideal-
ized reproduction of the Gilboa area, showing the three forest levels,
and here the actual fossil stumps are used. In the center foreground
flows the Schoharie Creek, which is joined at the left in a series
of falls by a tributary, such as the Manorkill. Looking across and
beyond this fossil section one sees the painting of our vision of this
ancient forest as it might have looked in the height of its glory.
The lycopodlike trees (Protolepidodendron), which grew in small
numbers in these forests, are also shown in the painting. At both
sides of the painting are life-size restorations of the Gilboa tree,
which merge imperceptibly into the painting. The artist has de-
picted so understandingly and skillfully the character of the forest
with its heavy moist atmosphere that this restoration is at the same
time both a scientific reproduction and a beautiful piece of art.

POUTOTM SSITT JO uolstAradns oy} sopun ‘Ineg pur sa
‘uinesn jy 91819 YIOX MON oq} Ul IIqryxe ue
8 SI punoisyovq ayy

jsluByOqgoored ‘Zuliplon
Aq poyndoxe sea IT ‘“syue[d [Issoy Jo [Tey
AIT WaYM payoor ATqeqoid YE SB 4soI0J oY} JO Zuryured
9S YO 94} JO uoronposdat PeZI[vapl ue uA

3d 3HL 40 NOILVYOLSSYy

51094) ‘SUOS 0.1} SI pus ‘pusy
ST UONBIOJSOI SIT,
“PUNOJ 0.19. SAUINYS [ISsOY Yor 7v S[OAOT 9

OBA, WOH “IY ‘104dnos pue {sTqIV 94
‘OPIS 19YII0 1B suOTyRI0yS0I 9ZIS-OJTT YILM ‘Zur
ol} 94} FULMOYs ‘Boqny Ie woo

9S ST puNnoIZa10J ay) uy
“A 'N ‘vosT15 Lv GNNOY Sisayoy TISSOY NVINOA

Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Goldring PLATE 2

RESTORATION OF THE DEVONIAN SEED-FERN TREE

Showing the bulbous base, the gradually tapering trunk, and the crown of large fronds bearing at
the tip, in some cases, the seeds and spore-bearing organs. (Restoration by Miss Winifred Goldring) |
Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Goldring PLATE 3

1. THE LOWEST FALLS OF THE MANORKILL, GILBOA, N. Y.

The horizon where the seeds and spore-bearing organs were found is at the level marked with a cross;
the area worked extended some distance to the right

2. RIVERSIDE QUARRY, GILBOA, N. Y.

This quarry is located along the Schoharie Creek, one-half mile below the dam. From this quarry
was taken the stone used in the dam and the greatest number, and the finest, of the fossil tree stumps.
This constitutes the lowest tree horizon at 960 feet above tide
Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Goldring PLATE 4

1. Fossil TREE STUMP IN RIVERSIDE QUARRY

Being removed from the spot where it had rested for millions of years

2. Fossit TREE STUMP

In place at the highest tree horizon at 1,120 feet above tide, along the road above the lowest falls of
the Manorkill. The middle horizon (1,020 feet above tide) is at the site of the Gilboa Dam
So[sue 4311 We Jajaure

94) dA0qeR Alrenpeis

Ip ‘soyour 8€ ‘(ein3yg Ur ys 04 12) IOJOMIBIP 4saqyvarg é
SMOIIBU duinys

eUL “onssry SUTUOYTUaIYs Jo sp

URIS [aTTBAR
AdAL SANVINS AHL 40 dANNLS Tissoy S

Seyour og ‘stq4 09
SOU ge ‘q431I0q ‘aseq
d ssf 10 arom 94} SurMoYyg

(seyour 8°€% ‘10J0UIeIp) SOTIUT ¢ yaa] 9 ‘aseq 189
‘199J ¢ “Qys1e ‘ensst} Suruayy
JO YIOMJoUN yy pu aseq oy} 0

oua1esoINI AT)
suas Jo Spuedj4s Sulov[i0q ar
A0q® SuUrIMOLIeU pide surMOYyg

AdAL SITILXS LL SHL 4O dWNLs TISSOY *

l

Soyout ¢

9 ALVId

z dojyoumeIq, ‘Worssoidop [B14 90 9yy PUB SMOLINY PUB sospII SUIYVIPBI SUIMOYS

AdAL SINILXAL JO dWNLS 4O ASVG AO AGISUAAGNA) *S

Zuo soyour ct noe
‘qeuig ‘durmjs jo odA4 sif1zxo 949 Jo ‘onssty Suyue
-YZU0I]S JO SpUBIYS SULNRII9JUT JO YAOMJOU 9YY SULMOYS

SdWNLS AHL
4O ANO 4O X3LHYOD YSLNO 4O NOILYOd ‘1

Sulpjogo—sz6l ‘Wodey uBluosyyIWS
Saou J 490J ¢ AG SOYOUT F 499J 9 ‘quIS ‘19J9UIeIpP UT soyour FT ‘duinjg = ‘*sjood 9yT[dvs4s Surerpel oy} SuUrMoyyS

dWNLS TIVWS 4O asvg JO aqIsuasqNn

21 ALW1d SuUlpjoO—'gz6l ‘J4oday ueluosy}!wWs

INjeN ‘“pedinoes ApS Seqot
‘qiede rey 1oqyel yas a18 SJOYBOT
ATp 97eunt}[0 Zuraoys

9ZIS [B
ou} UM peqotid ev AOL
1o sojnuutd 9h

GNoY4 V AO NOILHOd ‘t

409} Z ‘ARIS JO
g waeq eAvy sNU pue SUOISTATP 2214} PEY SPA auL ‘sotnuutd yy SUOTsT

“qysuet UT 925 6 OF
‘WaLS NIVIN 4O LYVd S

TIPIA 4Se7BAH
ONVYG WHaLV7] GNV ‘SIHOVY HO

GNou4 sO SSH

Sulspjoo— scot yodeay uBJuOSyHWS
Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Goldring PLATE 9

..

SLAB SHOWING GROUPS OF SEEDS

The seeds were borne in pairs at the end of forked branchlets and were probably borne near
the tip of the frond. Natural size

WATER DIVINING?

By J. W. Grecory, LL. D.; D. Se., F. R., 8S.
M. I. M. M. Glasgow University

I. MEDIEVAL AND MODERN USE

The existence of water, water, nearly everywhere, at slight depths
underground, with often no clue where to find a drop to drink, is
the basis of the widespread faith in the divining rod. Its value has
been a subject of perennial controversy. Its use was denounced as
idolatrous by the medieval church and forbidden by the Inquisition
for the detection of crime. It has been repeatedly repudiated, after
careful testing, by men of science and water-supply engineers.
Though the church, academic science, and the practical man of
affairs have alike condemned the divining rod, it has been com-
mended by bishops and lesser clerics, men learned in higher physics
have suggested that modern discoveries may explain its action, and
it is employed by people whose judgment carries great weight. The
rod has unquestionably been often successful, and it is perhaps more
used now than at any previous time owing to the increased need for
small shallow supplies of water. The enormous literature on the rod
has been recently increased by an elaborate defense by Sir W. F.
Barrett and T. Besterman (1926); wonderful powers are claimed
for it in France in the works of M. Henri Mager (1913, 1920, etc.) ;
a special journal and society have been founded in Germany for its
study (Verband zur Klirung der Wiinschelrutenfrage, 1. e., the wish-
ing rod problem) ; and last month it was the subject of an interna-
tional congress at Hildesheim. Its use goes back to ancient times; it
was doubtless the virgula divina of the ancients and is claimed as the
rod of Moses that provided the Israelites with water in the desert.

Its modern use was apparently begun by German medieval miners
in their search for metals. They had no reliable information as to
the genesis and distribution of ore deposits, and in the absence of
geological guidance a method which required the careful systematic

7 Read at the session of the British Waterworks Association, Public Works, Roads, and
Transport Congress, 1927. Here reprinted by permission of the British Waterworks Asso-
ciation.

24034—29——22 325
326 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

traverse of the ground was as likely to be successful as any other.
The use of the rod in medieval mining was described by many
authors, and they often dismissed it as futile, as Agricola (1556)
from mining practice and the Jesuit, A. Kircher (1678), after some
experimental tests.

In the Middle Ages the rod was used for the detection of all sorts
of materials—water, buried treasure, landmarks, metals, and mur-
derers. For example, Aymar in 1692 by the rod traced some mur-
derers from Lyons down the Rhone Valley until one of them was
found at Beaucaire. The man was arrested, charged with the

Ficur® 1.—Divining for metallic veins in the sixteenth century

Preliminary operations of the miner. Two men have divining rods
(A) ; one is cutting a rod, others are delving and discussing the plan
of operation. From De Re Metallica of Agricola. Reproduced from
Old Trades and New Knowledge (1926), by Sir William Bragg, K. B.
®., D. Se., F. R. S., director of the Royal Institution, by kind permis-
sion of G. Bell & Sons (Lid.), the publishers

murder, and confessed. Aymar was employed in a later murder case;
he was led blindfold over ground saturated with the blood of the
victim; but the rod gave no indication, and he was ultimately found
to be a fraud. His first success was probably due to his knowing
who the murderers were and tracking them by ordinary means, as
was suggested by Ozanam and Montuela (Recreations in Mathe-
matics, Vol. IV, 1803, p. 263).

The use of the rod has been generally abandoned except for water,
though it has been extensively employed in America in the search

WATER DIVINING—GREGORY 327

for ores and oil. Some writers claim that it is effective for practi-
cally anything, and will find ores, oil, and buried treasure, and will
answer questions on any problem. According to Mager, it will not
only distinguish between different metals but it can be relied upon
to indicate the percentage of different metals in an alloy. Sir Her-
bert Maxwell (1919, p. 174) describes how a blindfold diviner dis-
tinguished between different kinds of pottery. Sir William Barrett
believed that it could read words in a closed envelope and could pre-
dict the results in a university examination (Barrett and Bester-
man, 1926, pp. 265 and 267). The divining rod is used by landowners
and municipal authorities, and wells sunk at sites fixed by it have
yielded useful supplies of water, where geologists and water-supply
engineers have failed. The expense of using a water diviner was at
one time disallowed by the board of trade, and members of county
councils responsible for the expenditure had to pay it, but later deci-
sions make the operations recommended by a diviner a legitimate
charge upon the public rates. Firm faith in the divining rod has
been expressed by bishops and members of Parliament, and in the
recent work on the foundations of St. Paul’s Cathedral the con-
tractors used a diviner to determine the positions of water under the
crypt. The claims for the success of water divining are innumerable;
the practice is common throughout the civilized world, and its cham-
pions claim that its efficiency is established beyond reasonable doubt.?

II. THE ROD AND THE NATURE OF ITS MOVEMENTS

The rod usually employed is a forked twig of hazel with the forked
ends each about 10 to 18 inches in length, about one-eighth to one
quarter of an inch in thickness, and the butt a few inches long. It
should be tough and springy, and therefore should be freshly cut. It
is held with moderate firmness in the hand and often with each end
of the fork passing between the little and third fingers (fig. 4), or
between the second and third fingers (fig. 5). When thus held, pres-
sure by the finger above the rod bends or twists it and causes the end
to rise or fall. In the first mode of handling the pressure of the third
finger may be suflicient to break the rod and bruise the little finger.

The rod is carried in various ways. The French diviner Bléton,
who made a great sensation in the latter part of the eighteenth cen-
tury, placed a curved rod on his open hands, and it rotated over under-
ground water (fig. 2); but when this rotation was shown to be due
to a sight movement of the muscles of the hand, it was dismissed as

2Some recent correspondence from the Observer, Muncipal Engineering, and The Sur-
veyor has been reprinted in the British Waterworks Association official circular, 9th Ser.,
vol, 9, June, 1927, pp. 418-417. I am much indebted to Mr, G. P. Warner Terry for a
long series of press references to the subject.
328 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

a conjuror’s trick. Mager rejects Bléton as a charlatan who used the
rod to amuse his spectators.

Whatever may be the ultimate cause of the movement of the rod
the immediate cause is almost universally recognized as some con-
scious or subconscious movement of the diviner’s hands. The move-
ments may be divided into three classes: (1) Those based upon
fraud and practical jokes; (2) those due to unconscious imposture,
as with people who believe that they are endowed with some special
gift wherein they are superior to their fellows, and the claim for the
power of water divining is often associated with personal egotism;

z 2 S37 s eis ‘is
ster al 5 5 Fae 4 BS tials = rr:
Ss eee oe —_;* =_- *~ I . |
eg oe pe re * Fhe SS |
FIGURE 2.—The Bléton method Figure 3.—Charles Adams of Rowberrow |

(3) after these categories are separated, there remains so large a
residue for which some other explanation is necessary that the con-
clusion has been adopted that there must be some external physical
force which directly or indirectly causes the movement of the rod. I
was at one time inclined to share this view. A friend in whose prac-
tical insight I had full faith told me of the success of water divining
on his station in western Victoria. I had previously heard the evi- |
dence of some Australian cases, without being impressed by it; but in
this instance there seemed more reason to suspect some special power.
The diviner said the gift was hereditary, that he could not recognize
water in an iron pipe, that the rod never answered on a wet day, or |

WATER DIVINING—GREGORY 329

even in a cold moist wind, and that he could not detect an open sheet
of water. The rod was affected by water that was buried under-
ground, but not by water at the surface.

These statements suggested that the man might have some idiosyn-
cracy by which he was affected by slight sharply contrasted differences
of moisture in the atmosphere. Hence walking across a sheet of
| basalt he might feel moisture rising along cracks, as it would be
| sharply separated from the drier air on either side, while he would
not recognize surface water because the increase in humidity around
| it would be gradual. It seemed possible that by the hands being held
| in a constrained position the muscles, to use the common phrase, may
) go to sleep, and then be contracted by a slight stimulus to the nerves
| of the skin. The sensitiveness of the rod has been compared to the
) power of some animals to scent distant water; but the two processes
| must be different or the diviner would recognize surface water.
| The notion that the movement of the rod may be due to variations
| in the water vapor appears, however, untenable, because it would not

- Figure 4.—A common method of holding (after Ficurn 5.—The rod as held by Mullins
| M ulpin)

explain its response to metals, murderers, and ordinary citizens, or
its unfailing taste as a connoisseur of pottery. It would not also
explain its action on wet days, and one of the tests by M. Mager (1920,
p. 23) was during heavy rain; and it is dismissed as utterly im-
probable by three eminent physiologists, whom I have consulted on
the matter.

There are three rival lines of explanation. The first, that the rod
responds directly to some external physical influence, has been en-
couraged by the discovery of radioactivity. This type of influence
has been described as rhabdoactive by Prof. P. Lemoine (1913, p. 42),
as rhabdomotoric by von Uslar (1912), or as the activité universelle
by Henri Mager, who is the chief champion of the response of the
rod to an external physical force. He claims that all bodies emit lines
of force, which are essentially of the same nature as electric and
magnetic waves, and that they may be recognized by various physical
instruments such as the divining rod, and some forms of pendulum.
He claims that when an expert carrying the rod crosses these lines
330 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

of force the waves pass through his body and thus cause the movement
of the rod. Various instruments such as the Mansfield water finder
also rely on the existence of some physical force. As lines of force
are out of my province I have referred Mager’s last book to Professor
Desch who kindly reports as follows:

I have read “Les Baguettes” with care and with increasing bewilderment.
The author appears to be honest, and gives a detailed account of a very large
number of experiments, and yet the results are evidently worthless, and utterly
inconsistent. Sometimes he can make great alterations in the conditions, and
sometimes the slightest change alters the whole effect. Sometimes he professes
quantitative accuracy, and then it becomes clear that any foreign matter in the
neighborhood would destroy the effect. He gives details of the analysis of
complex substances without explaining why the effect of one constituent does
not mask that of another. I do not think that this book can be accepted as
furnishing any support for the view that the diviners have powers of detecting
water or minerals. The author’s lines of force which build themselves up into
a kind of wall are utterly inconsistent with the known properties of lines of
electric or magnetie force.

According to Mager (1920, p. 12), the movement of the rod can
only be interpreted after prolonged training, and its successful use
requires 10 years of constant laborious systematic experience. The
ordinary diviner he distrusts as somewhat of a quack, because of the
lack of training, and he regards the English diviners as less efficient
that the French (Mager, 1918, p. 121).

A physical cause for the movement of the rod is not to be dismissed
as impossible, but so widespread and powerful a force should be
easily demonstrated. The discovery of radioactivity was at once fol-
lowed by convincing experiments which proved its existence. If the
lines of force of M. Mager exist they should be demonstrable by con-
sistent experimental results; but the statements regarding them are
vague, indefinite, and unconvincing.

Mager and his work are summarily dismissed by the United States
Geological Survey, for A. J. Ellis (Water Supply Paper 416, 1917,
p. 23) states: “In all its weird history no more extravagant and ab-
surd claims were ever made for the divining rod than those which are
maintained at the present time by Henri Mager.”

The alternative explanation is that the movement of the rod is due,
though perhaps unconsciously, to the diviner. Barrett and Bester-
man dismiss the evidence for an external physical force by arguments
which seem unanswerable. The view that the action on the rod is
psychic and not physical is supported by the fact that any sort of rod
will serve. In the early days it had to be a twig cut about sunset or
sunrise by a man standing in a particular position, and with the sun-
hight shining through the fork of the twig, and it would respond only
on certain days. But now any twig serves, and on the treeless plains
of Australia a piece of iron wire taken from the nearest fence will act
as well; or it may be of aluminium, or a piece of clock spring, while

a ce

WATER DIVINING—GREGORY 331

some diviners, such as Gataker, used their hands alone. That the
twig is moved by some impulse from the diviner is rendered prob-
able by the way in which the rod is generally held, for as previously
explained, a slight movement of the finger causes a marked movement
of the rod. The movement by the diviner is explained in two ways.
The theory adopted by Barrett and Besterman attributes the move-
ment to “ cryptesthesia ”—a kind of second-sight, by which the diviner
becomes conscious of the presence of any object for which he is
searching, such as oil, metals, buried treasure, letters in an envelope,
future events, underground water, or some special person. The evi-
dence for this form of second-sight is similar to that for the ordinary
kind claimed by spiritualists.

The alternative view is that the diviner unconsciously or subcon-
sciously moves the rod owing to an impulse due to unintentional sug-
gestion from the bystanders or by his recognition of indications
favorable for water. If the diviner is accompanied by people who
know where there is a hidden spring, or where some material lies
buried, or which envelope contains the test metal, they unconsciously
give away the secret, as in ordinary thought reading; but this ex-
planation does not answer for cases of water divining in which the
bystanders are trusting to the diviner for guidance and have no
preconceived ideas.

This unconscious movement of the rod by the dowser is explained
by Dr. Millais Culpin (1920, pp. 24-83 and 34448) as an instance of

- dissociation of the various streams of activity which flow side by

side in the human brain. Many actions are unconscious as by fre-
quent repetition they have become automatic, and some are now
purely instinctive. Doctor Culpin instances the motor driving of an
expert whose car slips through crowded traffic while he converses on
some abstruse problem. A young pupil reads letter by letter, while
a quick reader takes in sentences at a time and is unconscious of the
individual letters. Similarly many streams of nervous activity are
dissociated from the conscious movements. Hence a man going over
a tract of ground may notice signs of water unconsciously, and some
slight mental action may cause the twitching of a finger and a jerk
of the rod. While some dowsers may be deliberate frauds, and others
may be duped by their vanity, many of the best dowsers probably act
by their dissociated mental activities.

A man like Mullins may by long experience or special quickness of
observation instinctively recognize where water is likely to occur, and
by some subconscious motion of the hand cause the warning move-
ment in the rod.

Dr. H. Haenel, after a careful investigation of the physiological
action of the divining rod, concludes that the nerve system is the
receiver, carrier, and transmitter of the whole divining rod phe-
nomenon. (Schr. Verb. Klar. Wiinschlr., pt. 8, 1918, p. 28.)
332 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928
Ill. THE EVIDENCE FOR DIVINING

The decision between these conflicting explanations must depend
on the evidence. It is overwhelming in quantity, and though I
have dipped into it for years I have not read a hundredth part of
it. Fortunately, however, the best evidence has been collected and
summarized by advocates of
water divining. Barrett and
Besterman’s Divining Rod,
and the series of works by
Mager state the case for the
action of the divining rod by
psychic and physical causes,
respectively.

Barrett and Besterman
(1926, Chap. IV, pp. 65-102)
put forward three cases as of
especial weight—those at
Horsham, Waterford, and
Carrigoona. Near Horsham
in northwest Sussex Mullins
found water for Sir Henry
Harben at Warnham Lodge.
The country consists of a

é

After the 2$-1n. Ordcanse Survey Map: Sussex (IL. 25)

Ficure 6.—Barrett & Besterman’s Figure 15
the southeast of the house,

a low hill capped by a bed of sandstone. Around the top of this
hill (fig. 6) five wells were sunk at sites selected by Mullins; water
was found in two cases at the depth of 12 feet, in one at 19 feet, in
another at 35 feet, and in the well C, apparently a misprint for G,
at a depth unstated.

. 2 GALLO
Mullins’ selection of ws
S = al = be S WR
these sites and his sue Eee WH
cess do not appear sur- —- WATERFORD RErIOES
99 Dip 70

prising. Many hills in
the clay districts of the
southeast of England
are capped by sand,
gravel, or sandstone,
which protects the clay
from being worn away by wind and rain. In many cases the only
chance for shallow wells is upon such hills, for their porous beds are
charged with rain water which is discharged by springs or wells.
The occurrence of water on the hill at Warnham would appear prob-
able to one experienced in well sinking in such positions, for the

Fic 10 Tue Waterroro Experiment

FicgurE 7.—Barrett & Besterman’s Figure 19

sheet of Weald Clay with, to ,

WATER DIVINING—GREGORY 333

natural explanation of the curved pond on the northeastern slope of
the hill would be that it is fed by percolation from a water-bearing
bed on the hilltop.

The second case, which Barrett and Besterman describe as “ one
of the strongest we possess,” was at Waterford. A series of wells had
been sunk into steeply tilted beds of slate and grit, but without full
success. Mullins recommended a line shown in the section (fig. 7)
nearer the eastern (99 ft.) outcrop of the slates. Water running
down from Gallows Hill would collect in the drifts and drain north-
ward to the River Suir at right angles to the section. The deepest
part of the drift-filled valley crossed by this section would be
normally, owing to the slope of the land and the dip of the slate,
near the 99-foot outcrop. Water would collect in this depression
and soak into any porous rock beneath. The well, according to
the section, entered a trough-shaped infold of grit which would
serve as a reservoir for water that percolated from the overlying
drift. It yielded an average of 1,560 gallons per hour (later re-
ported to yield 2,000 gallons), whereas the next well (B) yielded
only 230 gallons an hour, which, being inadequate, was regarded as
a failure. The three wells put down before Mullins’ trials passed
through slate and the upper parts of the beds of grit, in which there
would be nothing to hold the water. Mullins’ line lay along the
most likely position in which to get water from the overlying drifts,
as from them it could soak into the underlying rocks. Mullins had this
clue, and had the good luck to strike the infold of grit which gave
the large supply.’

The third case is that at Carrigoona to the south of Dublin. The
diviner was William Stone, and the test was under the direct super-
vision of Sir William Barrett. Barrett and Besterman put it for-
ward as conclusive proof of the reality of dowsing. William Stone,
after going over the ground, said that plenty of water would be
found anywhere along a marked line (which is presumably the
line 1—3 in Figure 8, though it is stated in the text to be the dotted
line on their Figure 20 which is not reproduced, and for which the
statement would appear improbable). Good water was found as
Stone had predicted, at his sites 1 and 3, and very little at bore
2. Sir William Barrett was emphatic that Stone paid little atten-
tion to the surface features; but the line he chose was that which
I think any person experienced in finding water would have selected
from obvious surface indications. The adjacent bed rock (quart-
zite) is marked on the map as outcropping on both the eastern and
western sides of the field, which lies on a drift-filled valley. The
position No. 2 would be obviously unfavorable as it is only 10

* Professor Sollas tells me that the success in this case was shown to be pure luck by
the failures by which this dowser distinguished himself shortly afterwards.
334 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

yards from the outcrop of the rock (Barrett and Besterman, fig.
28, p. 95), so the drifts would be shallower than under the center,
and water flowing over the bed rock from the side would pass under
No. 2, and collect along the deeper line past the bores 1 and 3.
The position of the favorable line is fixed within comparatively
narrow limits by the fact that the rock is also marked as visible
at the southeastern corner of the field; the drainage from this
patch of drift to “the rocky valley ” shown to the south must go
under the ground marked as “ common ” between the two exposures
of rock. As Stone walked over this ground he doubtless saw the
rock outcrops and the limits of the area of sand and gravel, which
alone would yield shallow supplies of water. A man experienced

we

—_————_
=
uA g i
fin \ \
recourse

-1
dergr3

Me
fe

Oredion Cab

= Parson’ well a boring

Y, / aed //t

Fic. 21. Twe Carricoonwa ExPeRiMENT

Fic 49 Tue SHanxim ExperimENT: SzcrTion

Figure 8.—Barrett & Besterman’s Ficurb 9.—Greatwood Copse, Isle of Wight. Figure
Figure 21 49 of Barrett & Besterman

in the search for water would have known that the line through
1 and 3 would have been the most promising, even if he had not
a mental vision of the water flowing off the bedrock and collecting
in the sand in the lower part of the drift-filled gulley.

Another case quoted by Barrett and Besterman (1926, p. 208) as
“one of the best on record,” was near Greatwood Copse at Shanklin
in the Isle of Wight. (Fig. 9.) The permeable Upper Greensand |
there rests upon an impermeable clay, the Gault. The sandy beds
immediately above the Gault are naturally water-bearing. A double
well yielded about 4,000 gallons a day, and more was wanted. A |
heading was then made through the sandstones on the advice of H.
Bristow of the Geological Survey, and it obtained from 9,000 to
18,000 gallons a day. Three other geologists, Topley, Norman, and
Sir Aubrey Strahan were subsequently consulted, but their proposals
were not carried out; and Topley pointed out that the heading driven
in accordance with Bristow’s advice was at too high a level. Mullins

WATER DIVINING—GREGORY 335

was engaged in 1893; the sites he recommended were not tried, but a
well sunk as near them as was practicable yielded no water. Sub-
sequently two members of the local board tried dowsing, and seven
wells were sunk where they recommended in the lower part of the
sands, and into or near the top of the clay. One well yielded up to
7,000 and another up to 12,000 gallons a day, the total yield of their
seven wells varied from 1,250 to 24,000 gallons a day, whereas the
original double well and the Bristow’s heading yielded from 9,000
to 24,000 gallons a day. Nevertheless, this case is claimed as a great
triumph for the dowsers as against the geologists; but the facts are
that though four geologists reported, the proposals made by three of
them were never tried, and though the heading made at the sugges-
tion of the fourth was at too high a level, it was the most productive
work of the whole series. The dowsers’ wells were put down through
the Greensand to the water-bearing layer at the top of the clay, and
obtained their supplies from the level previously proved to be water-
bearing by the engineer who made the first two wells.

The happy selection of the sites in these four cases was in accord-
ance with common sense and did not require cryptesthesia.

Henri Mager in his book (1920, pp. 16-26) describes the test in
the Bois de Vincennes near Paris in 1913, which he claims as con-
vincing. Thirty diviners came, but only four agreed to take part in
the trials. The first test was to map an underground quarry. One
diviner marked its borders with approximate accuracy; a second
was not very successful because, according to Mager, he held his rod
by a glass phial; the third claimed to have found the pillars which
supported the roof in the quarry, but there is no evidence as to his
accuracy; and the fourth reported coal. The next test was to find a
buried mass of copper and a cast-iron grille. The copper was not
found because, according to Mager, it was neutralized by a metallic
peg above it, but the two diviners identified the position of the grille.
Several diviners were then tested for water in torrents of rain, but
no definite information as to the results is given, though Mager
claims that they were concordant. Finally, two of the diviners were
tested with envelopes containing different metals, and both of them
found one containing copper. These results seem to me by no means
convincing as the success in some cases was only partial and in others
the information given is too indefinite for an opinion.

IV. INDEPENDENT TESTS OF DIVINING

Many tests of divining have been made both by geological surveys
and individuals. The Government geologist of South Australia, Dr.
Keith Ward, reports (November 5, 1914) that in that State an area
had been tested and water found alike where, according to the divin-
ing rod, there was none, and where it gave indications of water. In
336 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

New South Wales the results of an extensive test were also unfavor-
able to divining; the commission for water conservation and irriga-
tion reported (June 10, 1920) observations on 142 bores; of 56 bores
located by the divining rod 70 per cent were successful, but of the 96
bores sunk without it 87 per cent were successful; and as these tests
were regarded as utterly discrediting the use of the rod the tests
were stopped. Prof. Griffith Taylor, of Sydney (Proc. R. Soc. Vict.,
Nn. S., XXx1l1, 1921, pp. 79-86), reports two cases that he carefully in-
vestigated near the Australian capital, Canberra. In one case a
flowing stream was predicted; the stream was not there, but a well
reached the watertable, and thus obtained water. In the other case
the divining was a complete failure, and Professor Taylor adds
(Ibid., p. 83) that few people know of that case.

In England the most systematic test was that organized at Guild-
ford by the Sanitary Record and Municipal Engineering. (Vol. LI,
1913, Jan.—June, pp. 355-358, 391-392, 462-466.) The tests were
supervised by a number of authorities on water supply with the late
William Whitaker as chairman. Many diviners attended; seven of
them were selected, and were conducted separately over a route of
which the water conditions were known to the committee. The indi-
cations of each diviner were marked on separate maps, which are
published in the official report. They tested three sites. At the first,
shallow gravel lay on London Clay; the gravel held water at the
depth of 20 feet on the southern side, but none at the swampy north-
eastern part of the field. Water could be found in the Chalk at the
depth of 150 feet equally well under all parts of the field. The
diversity of indications by the diviners was very marked (fig. 10) ;
one found a small stream across the northern part of the field, and a
broader stream a little farther south. Others found springs ir-
regularly scattered over the field. Some of the indications were quite
isolated, though with so large a number on the small field naturally
there were some coincidences.

Site No. 2 was a reservoir covered by a lawn. On part of the
lawn there was an iron pipe which all the diviners saw, and reported
water beside it, though the ground there was dry. In the distribu-
tion of the water the diviners were utterly at variance, although most
of them were sure that there was none in the middle. (Fig. 11.)
One found water at the north angle; another found water at two
places; a third found it at three places on the margin; a fourth at
two places on the margin; a fifth found two streams; and a sixth,
one stream about equidistant between the two.

Site No. 3 was a field on Chalk with water under all parts of the
field; a spring had been found on the eastern boundary some years
before, and a sewer with running water crosses the field. (Fig. 12.)

WATER DIVINING—GREGORY 337

In this case the diviners agreed better amongst themselves, though
not with the facts. Four of the diviners inferred a stream of water
under the eastern part of the field, but they did not agree as to its
position; the western half of the field was left as practically barren ;

|
{
{

e Antcliff. @ Bacon. xX Beyer. O Child.
S Sutton. “—- Taylor. T Tompkins.

Figure 10.—The Guildford test, April, 1913. The lines
connecting some bores were represented as streams

nothing was found over most of the sewer; one diviner detected
water near the hidden spring, but others found nothing near it.

After lunch four of the diviners tried finding coins under a carpet,
but without success.
338 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

The committee in their report on the experiment state (ibid.,
p. 466) “on comparing the state of facts known to exist with the
indications given by the diviners, that whatever sensitiveness to
underground waters may exist in certain persons, of which some
evidence has been given, it is not sufficiently definite and trustworthy
to be of much practical value. Moreover the lack of agreement with
each other shows that it is more a matter of personal mentality than
any direct influence of the water. The diviners, as a rule, confine
their attention to small streams of water, and as there are few places
where these can not be found, they may well show a large percentage
of success.”

Prof. J. Wertheimer, dean of the faculty of engineering of Bristol
University, conducted a series of experiments to test various pow-
ers claimed by diviners. (Journ. Soc. Arts, 1911, vol. 59, pp.

384-391.) For example in the kitchen —

at Brislington Hall there is a well,
Site 2 and three dowsers were asked to locate

None in center it; they reported water in many places
Child and Tomkins

under the floor (fig. 18), but not the
known well. One of them having de-
termined three positions all away from
the well (C1, C2, C3), on Figure 13,
when told where it was, said he could
trace a course of water to it from his
C1. One of them claimed to know
e Antcliff. @ Bacon. x Beyer. when the water was flowing through
O Child. § Sutton. & Taylor. : 5

T Tompkins. a pipe, and when it was stopped, and
said he would pay £5 to the Bristol

TDR a RR en RE Hospital if he were unsuccessful, He

April, 1913 paid the £5. Experiments were also

conducted for finding coins under

saucers and cushions, but with more failure than success. Professor

Wertheimer concluded from the results that the motion of the rod is
not due to any cause outside the dowser.

Among other tests was one by Professor Sollas at the request of
the Society for Psychical Research (Proc. Bristol. Nat. Hist. Soc.
N. S., Vol. IV, 1885, pp. 116-125). The dowser, Thomas Young,
selected two points in a field at one of which he said there was water,
and at the other none. Sollas predicted that as regards water, both
sites would be found alike, and he claimed in his report that equal
quantities of water were found in both. His conclusion has been
criticized (Barrett and Besterman, p. 59) on the ground that a
subsequent visitor represented one well as 10 feet deep and the other
24 feet. According to Sollas one well was 29 feet deep, and the

WATER DIVINING—GREGORY 339

other 1714 feet. The essential point of this test, however, was that
water was found where the dowser said there was none.*

e Antcliff. @ Bacon. X Beyer. ©O Child. S Sutton.
«= Taylor. T Tompkins.

Figure 12.—The Guildford test, April, 1915. Lines connecting some bores were rep-
resented as streams

4 Professor Sollas tells me that in regard to the site which the dowser predicted would
be dry ‘‘ there was never any question of more or less water; it was water or no water.”
In both wells the water stood at the same level. In reference to the unequal depth of the
two wells Professor Sollas tells me that while pumping out one in order to measure the
rate of flow the sides caved in and it was abandoned.

340 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

In an extensive test in Southwest Africa, of 800 places indicated by
the rod 148 were bored; 21 per cent yielded no water, but in the rest
some water was found, and in 90 per cent of them at the depth pre-
dicted. In a test at the Paris Waterworks the results were such as
would have come from mere chance.

The divining rod has been frequently used in Essex. The success
of the well sunk in 1894 on the recommendation of William Stone
at Thremhall Priory near Bishops Stortford has been often quoted ;
but we owe to G. S. Pritchett (Essex Naturalist, VIII, 1894, p. 50)
record of the fact that two wells were then sunk on the recommen-
dation of Stone, and that at one, though the indication of water was

so powerful that his rod
ts 20 split, a well dug 55 feet
deep yielded no water.

The experts on water
supply connected with
national geological sur-
veys have often reported
on divining, and so far as
I know they are unani-
mously against it. H. B.
Woodward, who was a
member of the British
Geological Survey and
was especially connected

Ficurs 13.—Kitchen of Brislington Hall = with water problems, in
W, Well; C Ee pasa ea nha lines indi- his Geology of Water
Supply (1910, pp. 239-
242), refers to divining as “uncertain,” and often “ remarkably unsuc-
cessful,” and quotes authorities in support of that view. The U. S.
Geological Survey has issued a memoir on the subject (Water Supply
Paper 416, 1917), and O. E. Meinzer in the introduction (p. 5)
asserts emphatically its “ practical uselessness,” and declares that
“it is difficult to see how for practical purposes the entire matter
could be more thoroughly discredited, and it should be obvious to
everyone that further tests by the U. 8. Geological Survey of this
so-called ‘ witching’ for water, oil, or other minerals would be a
misuse of public funds.”

Scale of Feet
to

Windows in this wall

Cty
oS
3

AS
Q
2

=

w

V. AN OIL DIVINING TEST

The rod has been largely used for oil finding or “ oil-smelling ”
in America. A careful test of its powers in this respect was made
by Sir John Cadman at the research station of the Anglo-Persian
Oil Co. at Sudbury. Sir John Cadman tells me that the people
engaged in burying the oil were removed from the vicinity during

WATER DIVINING—GREGORY 341

the test, and no one present at the trial knew where the oil was
placed. Sir John Cadman regards the result as a “ complete fiasco ”
as “in no case were the diviners able to show any justification for
their contention that they could discover such deposits.” The fol-
lowing memorandum, sent me by Sir John Cadman, describes this
instructive experiment.

As a result of a request received in April, 1925, from two ‘“ Professional
Water Diviners”’ who hoped to be able to ascertain:

“AREA OF THE OIL PooL

“ Depth.—(Great accuracy in depth has been obtained in divining for water,
and it is hoped to apply the knowledge so obtained to oil.) It has not been
possible to test this thoroughly but we feel confident that this presents no
insurmountable difficulties.

“ Position—We hope to be able to indicate the spots where the oil supply
is heaviest.

“Quantity and quality—Experiments up to date have shown a markedly
different reaction to varying quantities of oil. Experiments with fats prove
that the spirit is the essential factor influencing the rod.”

BARRELS

4
full of

Petrol

| Notsostrong es2s3 Decidedreaction Decided reaction Decided reaction Slight reaction
Stronger than 5 equal fo 4 Less than 294; grealar
than §

FicurB 14.—Meadhurst oil experiments. Diviners’ reports on lower lines

I authorized the carrying out of a somewhat exhaustive test at our experi-
mental station at Meadhurst, Sudbury-on-Thames, with the following result:

They having claimed to be able to detect hidden deposits of oil and to give
an indication of its amount and of the richness of its petrol content, I had two
series of tests prepared.

For one (fig. 14) a series of five steel 50-gallon drums were set out. One of
these contained water, one petrol, and three were empty.

For the other test (fig. 15) eight deposits were buried about 12 inches deep
in the paddock. Three of these deposits were oil contained in tins (4 gallons
crude, 4 gallons petrol, and 1 gallon petrol, respectively). These quantities
were chosen (as in the “ barrel’ series) to test the claims that the location,
quantity, and petrol content of deposits could be detected. In order to parry
the possibility of an objection that a metal container might neutralize their
efforts two further deposits (gas oil and crude oil) were laid down without
any container. Finally, to obviate any betrayal of the locality by traces of
surface disturbance three other deposits of tins containing no oil were laid down
and special care was taken to render the surface identical in appearance with
the surrounding ground.

24034—29—_23
342 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

The séance was attended by a personal representative, the chief chemist,
and two geologists, the areas submitted for test being the sports field, the
paddock, and the grounds of Meadhurst.

In the sports field (where no oil had been placed) eight definite locations
were detected.

In the drive at Meadhurst (where again no oil had been put) a very strong
location was reported—the strongest they detected during the whole of the test.

ull

4 lon tin
Crude Oil

' Tin water

4u/ous mnoications

in fais areca

«
ne

|
S|
OC; A z wii
Cry ; ‘c
an) Shows a Ker §
<| i :
| Mc ----2____,y

Ficurp 15,—Meadhurst oil experiments

They were taken (without being informed of the fact) within a few feet of
the oil store which contained several hundred gallons of petrol and other oils,
but the divining rod gave no indications at this point.

In the paddock where the buried deposits lay, the positions of these and the
“locations ” detected are shown in detail on the inclosed plan, together with
the distances of the “locations” from the nearest actual oil deposit.

When they had completed their search the buried deposits were dug up and
some of the sites they had indicated were dug up to prove to them the presence

WATER DIVINING—GREGORY 343

of oil in the former positions and the absence of anything but clay in the latter
positions.

Beyond quoting the valedictory remarks of one of the diviners that he “ was
quite at a loss to explain his failure and that he had had hardly any expe-
rience in detecting oil, as facilities in England were so limited and that what
he would like would be to experiment on a known oil field” further comment
would appear unnecessary.

It may be interesting to record that in a subsequent letter expressing their
thanks for the facilities granted they wrote (inter alia).

1. The rod responds to substances other than oil, and further investigation
will be necessary to discover what these substances are. AS it is possible to
distinguish between metals and water with the hazel rod, we have every hope
of perfecting our methods of finding oil.

2. The barrel test was an unsatisfactory one from our point of view, as the
close proximity of all the barrels and a car with petrol in the tank near by
made it almost impossible to localize the exact position of the oil.

3. The fact that we failed to centralize the oil deposits in the paddock by 30
to 40 yards in every case makes it evident that our formula needs adjustment.

4. While recognizing our failure to localize small quantities of oil over a
fairly extensive area, we feel that this in no way affects the possibilities of
finding larger quantities satisfactorily. (Successful experiments over the
L. M. 8S. R. oil tanks had already been carried out.)

Testing the divining rod is difficult and promises no answer that
will be universally accepted, because the claims of the different
diviners are so contradictory and elusive that any test may apply
only to the individual tested, and perhaps to him only on a particular
day. Failures are explained as due to the incompetence of the
diviner tested, or to some accident which neutralized the effect of
the subject sought. Thus a recent number of the Spectator (Septem-
ber 24, 1927, p. 458) reports that buried treasure was located by a
diviner; digging for it was unsuccessful, and the diviner explained
that his rod had felt a piece of ironstone found in the pit. Failures
therefore are always excused and inconclusive.

VI. THE WORK OF THE ABBE PARAMELLE

Many of the claims for the success of the divining rod when inves-
tigated are found to depend on other methods. Thus Barrett and
Besterman (1926, p. 54) claim the Abbé Paramelle as one of the most
successful of French diviners. The success of that abbé in finding
water in many areas of southwestern France made him a great na-
tional benefactor. The Abbé has described his method of work in
his book L’Art de Découvrir les Sources, Paris (1856) which em-
phatically repudiates any help from the divining rod. He tested it
many times; he says (op. cit., p. 1) it has a great vogue “ among
the ignorant ” but although he tried it repeatedly across underground
streams of water he never felt it make the slightest movement in his
hands. He had watched many dozens of “ bacillogires,” including
the most famous, and he declared that with them the rod moves
344 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

equally in places where there is not the slightest thread of subterra-
nean water, as where there is some, and that in consequence it is
useless as an indication of springs. Paramelle’s work was based
upon the combined geographical and geological conditions of the
locality (e. g., ibid., pp. 303, 310, chap. 20): and he remarks that
“la géognosie * * * étre la science la plus propre 4 fournir des
lumiéres sur les cours d’eau souterrains.” He realized the main facts
in the distribution of the water table, and where it could be found
at easily accessible depths. He admitted that he had failures, and
that therefore his method was not perfect; some failures were in-

I'igurRE 16.—Map and section across a gravel-capped ridge of clay.
(Section is along line S—S)

Contours of 100, 90, 80, and 70 feet (lines 9, 8, 7). Gravel areas
dotted ; rest clay with a thin wash of pebbles in the soil. I, most
likely place for well; II, less productive sites; III, dry sites.
The base of the gravel is at about the contour of 90 feet on the
western, and down in places to 70 feet on the eastern slopes

evitable, as there may be no sign at the surface of disturbing irregu-
larities underground. Paramelle concluded that underlying the
country is an impermeable sheet, and that wherever wells reach it
they find water. His impermeable surface was not, as he thought,
an undulating sheet of impermeable material, but was simply the
water table. Though his theoretical explanation was defective he
was generally right, owing to his insight and careful study of the
district, in his inference as to the position of the water table.

WATER DIVINING—GREGORY 345
VII. THE NATURE OF DIVINING

Though Paramelle scouted the use of the rod, some of the most
successful diviners have apparently worked unconsciously on the
same lines. Mullins was probably a man with the same type of
insight,> but who, as an uneducated mason, adopted a less satis-
factory explanation of his success than the more cultured and
intelligent French abbé.

The successful water diviner is probably a quick observer, who
has usually had considerable experience in the search for water, and
as he goes over the ground yard by yard he recognizes clues to the
presence of underground water, which subconsciously lead to some
movement of the strained muscles of the hand. Under some con-
ditions he will probably score no higher proportion of successes than
a competent water expert who deliberately judges by the conditions
of the ground. In some areas however there are no surface indica-
tions of underground water, and the ground has to be tested em-
pirically as in “ wild-catting ” for oil, when wells have to be sunk
on chance owing to the conditions of the country, or lack of time for
a careful survey.

Consider, for example, the conditions on a ridge of clay capped
by an irregular sheet of sand and gravel as shown in Figure 16.
On virgin land it would probably be possible to recognize from the
vegetation and moisture the position of underground water; but the
clues are obscured or destroyed by draining and prolonged tilling
which give the ground an artificial surface. Beneath it there may
be water-bearing pockets of sand and gravel lying on the clay. The
largest water supply would probably be found at the point I on Fig-
ure 16; a smaller quantity at the position marked IT, and none at all
in many places (III). If a geologist were asked to select the best
place for water on this ridge he might regard the task as almost
hopeless. At the end of a prolonged drought clues to the under-
ground water might become apparent, but as the man who wants
the water may not be ready to wait for 20 years the only method is
to sink some trial wells. A diviner going over this ground might
select a good position either by his special experience in the selec-
tion of sites for shallow wells, or by sheer luck.

In some cases the rod is claimed to act where the diviner is not
guided by surface features. Thus, according to a memorandum by
Mr. Little, who was agent to the Earl of Jersey, which has been
kindly shown me by Sir Herbert Maxwell, Mullins was employed at
Upton, Edgehill, Warwickshire; and as Lady Caroline Jenkins,
Lord Jersey’s sister, could not go out, and wished to see how the

>IT am informed that Mullins sometimes made elaborate preliminary inquiries as to the
distribution of wells and the persistence of pools and damp ground.
346 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

rod was used, Mullins went into the house and the rod denoted a
spring under the stone paved entrance hall. He found indications
at the same spot in the cellar beneath, on the first floor, and in the
attic; but apparently nothing was done to prove whether water
actually existed under this position.

In some cases the reputation of the diviner is made by lucky
coincidences which are remembered and exaggerated, while the
failures are forgotten.

The conclusions that the claims made for the divining rod are
invalid, but that in areas where water is most likely to be found by
“ wild-catting ” a diviner may be often successful, agree with the
position expressed in 1897 by Sir Herbert Maxwell (1897, p. 84):
“JT don’t believe in the divining rod, but I don’t deny that its
virtues are genuine; and were I in straits to find water, I should
employ without hesitation a professional water finder—rod and
all—if there remains one so successful as Mullins was.” Since then
(Ibid., Ser. 6, 1919, p. 171) Sir Herbert Maxwell has employed an
amateur dowser “ with thoroughly satisfactory results.” His state-
ment of 1897 exactly expresses my own opinion that though the
claims of the divining rod are invalid, an expert diviner may be
useful under some conditions.

In many cases the diviners’ successes are due to the fact that the
water table is widespread, and that in the kind of country where
they are most successful water occurs everywhere. The rod is tested
only where it indicates water, and not where its results are negative.
Hence in such areas a high proportion of successes is inevitable.
A diviner working over a level sheet of clay may feel that the pros-
pects are unfavorable, and in his discouragement the sudden con-
traction of a finger is not likely to happen, and he is preserved from
failure. Even under conditions to which diviners are accustomed
their percentage of successes appears to be largely a matter of
chance, while their efforts to find lodes, oil, and deep-seated water
are so often unsuccessful that Ackermann in his Popular Fallacies
(3d ed., 1923) is fully justified in including the view “that water
divining is usually successful” in his list of popular delusions.

VIII. ANALOGY WITH WITCHCRAFT AND FETISH

If the power of the divining rod were limited to finding water the
problem might be capable of definite proof or disproof by experi-
ment. It should be remembered that the evidence for this power is
of the same nature as that which leads its most active French cham-
pion to hold that it is capable of accurate analysis and will determine
precisely the proportions of copper and zinc in a mass of brass, and
that has convinced its foremost British advocate, the late Sir Wil-
fiam Barrett, that it will read words in an envelope and predict the

WATER DIVINING—GREGORY 347

results in a forthcoming examination. The divining rod will do the
feats of the planchette, the spiritualistic medium, and the thought
reader.

Many of the records of the success of diviners are as surprising and
as inexplicable from the information given as the performances of a
skilled conjuror, and as card tricks, and are as apparently convinc-
ing as many spiritualists found the feats of the Georgia Magnet and
of some thought readers until more astute observers discovered the
tricks. The widespread faith in the divining rod is no more proof
of its truth than that in many once universal beliefs now regarded
as superstitions. The belief in witchcraft was once more general
than that now in the divining rod; it was accepted by parliaments
and law courts as indubitable.

Thus in 1780 William Forbes, professor of law in the University
of Glasgow (Institutes of the Law of Scotland, Vol. II, chap. 3,
pp. 32-41), describes witchcraft as if there were no doubt of its
actuality, and says that “the ordinary doom against witches is to be
strangled or worried at a stake till they be dead, and thereafter
their bodies to be burnt to ashes * * *.” Witches were hunted
down and slain in this country till the middle of the eighteenth cen-
tury. Belief in fetish is now almost universal in Africa, and it
appears under present conditions ineradicable, for it is maintained
by the combination of the insight and special knowledge of the witch
doctor, of occasional coincidences, and of skill in blurring over fail-
ures which are soon forgotten by credulous people in regard to what
they wish to believe or are told to believe. Belief in superstitions
is by no means extinct. Many survive and new ones arise and be-
come entrenched by habit. It may seem disrespectful to those who
believe in the divining rod to compare it to such an obsolete habit
as witch hunting or to the crude ideas of primitive races, but the
human mind in all people and amongst all ages has many features
in common and in greatly influenced by coincidences and unex-
plained phenomena.

The survival of the use of the divining rod in the search for water
after its many other uses have been abandoned is in my opinion due
to shallow supplies of water being scattered abundantly, but so
irregularly and elusively that their discovery is often a matter of
chance. Some observers are especially quick in detecting the faint
clues to their position, and in the areas where diviners are mostly
used a large number of successes is inevitable owing to the wide
distribution of underground water.
348 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

REFERENCES

Barrett, W. F. and BESTERMAN, T., 1926. The Divining Rod, xxiii, 336 pp.,
r2npIs:

CuLPIN, MiLzars, 1920. Spiritualism and the New Psychology, pp. 24-33
and 34-438.

LEMOINE, P., 1913. Quelques Observations sur la Baguette Divinatoire. Bull.
Soe. Philom. Paris, ser. X, Vol. V, pp. 17-18; Expériences Diverses, Ibid., pp.
43-47; and with M. l’Abbé Senderens Observations sur L’Action des Sels et
des Métaux, Ibid., pp. 19-42.

Macer, Henri, 1913. Les Sourciers et leurs Procédés. La Baguette, Le
Pendule. vii, 314 pp.

Macerr, Henri, 1920. Les Baguettes des Sourciers et Les Forces de la Nature.
Guides des Physiciens et des Analystes, des Prospecteurs et des Sourciers, xi,
423 pp.

MAXWELL, Sir H. E., 1897 and 1919. Memories of the Months. First ser.
1897 ; sixth ser., 1919; xi, 314 pp. 5 pls.

PARAMELLE, L’ABBE. L’Art de Découvrir les Sources. 1856. xx, 376 pp.

SoLtas, W. J., 1884. Report on Wells Sunk at Locking, Somerset, to Test
the Alleged Power of the Divining Rod. Proc. Soc. Psych. Res., II, pp. 73-78,
and Proce. Bristol Nat. Soc., n.s. IV, pp. 116-125.

SOME PROBLEMS OF POLAR GEOGRAPHY?

By R. N. RupMosE Brown, D. Sc.

Since the last meeting of the British Association at Leeds, 37 years
ago, the whole meaning of geography has changed. The purely
empirical stages of the collection of data have largely given way to the
higher stages of interpretation and explanation, and these in their
turn have called for reexamination of the facts by the use of more
accurate methods. An even greater change is the important place
which geography has won in education. Nothing could be more strik-
ing than this advance in a generation or two unless it was the former
neglect of the subject—one might say the entire omission of any
geographical teaching in any grade of education—an almost incred-
ible defect in the training of youth at a period of rapid imperial
growth and consolidation. The battle is not yet won, but even if
some of the universities of this country, which move but slowly, do
not give geography the place it merits, it has at least a foothold in
all. Geographical research and serious geographical publications
have also shown an increase in recent times, though the output in
this country is far too small. This, however, is neither the time nor
the place to dwell on the educational side of geography. I recall
these developments only because the present year has seen the passing
of one who will always be associated with geographical work during
the last half century, and especially the rise of geography to a
place of importance in the universities and the scientific world. Sir
John Scott Keltie was one of the pioneers of geographical education,
and as editor of the Geographical Journal and for many years re-
corder and secretary of section E took a leading part in the advance-
ment of exploration and the spread of sound geographical knowledge
and research. The present position of geography in this country is
largely a monument to his untiring labor, enthusiasm, and tact.

Geographical thought of to-day shows a growing tendency to lay
more stress on the human interests of the subject that it did of old.
As far as this leads to a broadening of the outlook in what was for-
merly known as economic geography, with its somewhat narrow stand-
ards of the bourse and market place, the development is all to the

1 Address of the president of the Section of Geography, British Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science, Leeds, 1927. Reprinted by permission, with minor changes by the
author, from the report of the association for that year.

349
350 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

good. The humanizing of the subject has done much to rob it of
aridity and, by widening its scope, to bring it into close touch with
other aspects of the study of man. It is a good thing for the growth
of knowledge when barriers between allied subjects break down on
a ground common to both. These trends in human and social geog-
raphy are to be welcomed, but at the same time there is a tendency
to forget that our geography must be founded on a knowledge of
the surface features of the earth. The physical factors must be thor-
oughly understood if the superstructure of human and social geog:
raphy is to have a sure foundation. This foundation can be best
laid in personal experience of earth, air, and water. In other words,
travel is an essential part of the training of the geographer if his
work is to have any reality. The complexity of geographical values
can never be gauged by any mere statistical presentment of the facts.
The experience of the world that is necessary to the equipment of the
geographer must be gained not merely by travel in densely populated
lands, where the modern applications of science do so much to protect
man from actual contact with the factors of climate, the influence of
land forms, and the effect of biological distributions, but of travel by
sea and in empty lands and of practical experience in exploring the
natural phenomena and occurrences, of real contact with the raw
materials of geography, in order to learn the elements of the science
at first hand. The scientific no less than the humanistic aspects of
geography must be learned by personal observation. The geographer
who depends solely on maps will never understand his subject or be
a source of inspiration to others. The best map is a poor substitute
for reality. A year of personal experience of nature is worth the
whole of a university course as a foundation of geographical study.

In selecting for the subject of my address some of the problems
of polar geography I have been moved by a twofold reason. First,
these problems come near to my interests by personal experiences,
and I think that in a comparative lull in polar exploration in this
country it is well to take stock of the problems that still await solu-
tion; and secondly, I feel that modern geographical thought, with its
stress on the humanistic side, is tending to overlook the polar regions
in spite of their wide geographical interest. They offer an incom-
parable field of observation for all sides of pure geography. From
the many problems I can select only a few of importance.

THE TASKS OF EXPLORATION

To turn first to the Antarctic, there are certain fundamental prob-
lems in physical geography—problems of the nature of those which
in other continents were solved several centuries ago. The broad
features of the map of Antarctica are not built on ascertained fact
as much as on intelligent guesswork.

POLAR GEOGRAPHY—BROWN 351

The existence of an Antarctic continent is still based on circum-
stantial evidence, and until more than some 5,000 miles of its coast
line, or only about 35 per cent of the total length, are known, direct
evidence of Antarctica will be lacking. It is not a little remarkable
that all the exploration of the twentieth century has merely modi-
fied the probable outline of that continent as it was predicted by
Sir John Murray in 1886. He had little but the reports of Ross,
dUrville, Wilkes, a few sealers, and the Challenger to go on, and.
mainly on circumstantial evidence, he built his Antarctic continent.
The one considerable change in that map has been the curtailment of
the Weddell Sea and the removal of its southern extremity some 4°
north of Murray’s position in latitude 82° South. But that south-
ward prolongation of the Weddell Sea and Atlantic Ocean at the
expense of Antarctica was based solely on Ross’s mistaken sounding
of 4,000 fathoms, no bottom, in latitude 68° 48’ South, longitude 12°
20’ West.

Most of the Antarctic “ lands,” and certainly nearly all those that
may be classed as key positions to the coast line of Antarctica, date
from last century, some of them from 100 years ago. Coats Land,
Wilhelm Land, and Oates Land are among the few exceptions.
Enderby Land, the one certain or nearly certain land in over 3,000
miles of hypothetical coast line, has never been seen or seriously
searched for since Biscoe found it in 1831. It should be the base
of an expedition that is prepared to work westward. Heavy ice
congestion so far found by all vessels that have tried to push south
between Enderby Land and Coats Land suggests that this stretch
of coast line will have to be put in by sledge journeys along the
edge of the ice cap. The western shores of the Weddell Sea are
another ice-girt region which no ship has been able to penetrate,
a region of dangerous ice pressure. Here, too, the advance must
be by land journey, but it should be relatively simple, since accessible
bases are known in Oscar Land and adjoining parts of Graham
Land. Lastly, there is the great gap south of the Pacific between
Charcot and Edward Lands, which leaves ample scope for an attack
from both ends. A minor problem in the outline of Antarctica for
an expedition based on Edward Land is the determination of the
eastern side of the Ross Sea and the elucidation of Amundsen’s
sighting of land to the south of Edward Land, the appearance of
land which he called Carmen Land.

But even more important than the discovery of the “ missing ”
stretches of the Antarctic coast line—a mere matter of descriptive
geography—is the explanation of the structure of the continent
and its former connections with other lands of the Southern Hemi-
sphere. The problem is made more difficult of solution by the im-
mense covering of ice that completely hides the underlying rock in
5 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

most parts. Detailed exploration has so far concentrated on the
two more accessible coasts of Antarctica—those of Graham and Vic-
toria Lands. Im fact, one might reasonably argue that there has
been too great a concentration of interest on those coasts, on the
part of well-found expeditions, to the neglect of unknown or little-
known areas more difficult of access but promising more striking
discoveries. That has been due, no doubt, to the one, Graham
Land with its islands projecting northward into open sea and lying
near civilized lands, and the other, Victoria Land, offering the most
promising point of departure for sledge journeys to the pole. How-
ever, now that the South Pole has been reached, the temptation to
focus effort on the best available base for that undertaking has
gone, and the explorer’s energy of the future is more likely to be
expended in directions more profitable to the advancement of
knowledge.

Graham Land, for we discard the awkward title of west Antarc-
tica, and Victoria Land, or more strictly South Victoria Land, are
both regions of lofty mountain ranges, but apparently of contrasted
structure and diverse origin. The ranges of Graham Land, often
called the Antarctic Andes, in stratigraphy and structure, as well as
in their eruptive rocks, bear so close a resemblance to the Cordilleras
of South America that there can be no reasonable doubt that they
were at one time connected and are in fact disunited parts of the
same foldings. Nor does it appear doubtful any longer that the
line of former continuity can be traced by a submerged ridge on
which stand relics of the chain—in the South Orkneys, the volcanic
south Sandwich group, and South Georgia, extending in a great arc
between Trinity Land and Tierra del Fuego and sweeping well to the
east of Drake Strait. There is no doubt of this line of connection,
but we are still uncertain if South Georgia, and even more so, if
the Falklands are really fragments of the arc or relics of a lost south
Atlantic Land.

The Antarctic Andes, or Southern Antilles, have been traced
southeastward but lost sight of at Alexander Island and Charcot
Land, which in all probability are parts of the same formation. The
great problem of the Antarctic is what happens to these ranges. On
the opposite, or New Zealand, side of the Antarctic the great fault
ranges of Victoria Land show little if any resemblance in structure
and origin with the Antarctic Andes. A great horst capped with
horizontal layers of sandstone, probably of Permo-Carboniferous
age, is associated with much evidence of volcanic activity, and seems
to rise from a great peneplain of crystalline rocks which underlie
the whole of that side of the Antarctic ice sheet.

The structure of the Victoria Land edge of the Ross Sea is remi-
niscent of Tasmania and eastern Australia. and the suggestion of
POLAR GEOGRAPHY—BROWN 353

former continuity across the southern ocean receives further support
from our knowledge of submarine relief between Antarctica and
Australia, especially the work of the Awrora expedition.

The relationships between Antarctica and South Africa are still
very obscure, since the African quadrant of the Antarctic, both by
land and by sea, remains one of the least explored parts. It will
prove a fruitful area for an expedition to tackle.

It is unnecessary to enter into the details of the arguments in
geomorphology bearing on the relationships of the two contrasted
sides of Antarctica. I have recently expounded these at greater
length elsewhere (The Polar Regions, R. N. Rudmore Brown (1927) ).
Only further exploration can solve the mystery. We must go and see
if we want to know. But it may be of interest to state the possible
solutions.

One suggestion is that the horst of Victoria Land is continuous
with the Antarctic Andes. Certainly the direction of the Maud
Mountains to the south of the Ross Sea supports this view, and evi-
dence of great faults bounding the Andes may show that those ranges
after all are not entirely different in nature from the ranges of
Victoria Land. A second suggestion is that the Antarctic Andes
reappear in the Ross Sea in the old crystalline rocks of King Edward
Land—which as yet are but little known—and that these were once
continuous with the folds of New Zealand. If this be true, the ranges
of Victoria Land and the Maud Mountains probably swing across
to Coats Land and may cause those vague shadowy shapes that a
few of us who have seen Coats Land believe to exist in its far
interior. Nothing is known at first hand of the structure of Coats
Land, but rock fragments dredged in the Weddell Sea, and pre-
sianeble derived from Coats Land, suggest a closer Teen with
Victoria than with Graham Land.

In any case, it looks probable that our knowledge of Antarctica
confirms the growing belief that the Pacific basin is girdled by a
ring of fold mountains marking the course of a system of geosyn-
clines. The remains of the borderlands of this Pacific geosyncline
may possibly be found in small islands in that mysterious ice-bound
region to the north of Edward Land which no ship has been able
to penetrate.

In the face of these great problems in exploration, it seems trivial
to speak of the minor ones that await solution in the south. Refer-
ence, however, may be made to the desirabil.ty of measuring an arc
of meridian in a high southern altitude. F. Debenham has pointed
out how Victoria Land lends itself to this task.2 I have not time to
dwell on the problems of meteorological exploration and can only

2 British Antarctic Expedition, 1910-13. Report on Maps and Survey, 1923.
354 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

point out that much has yet to be done in explaining the peculiar
Antarctic blizzards which rank among the fiercest winds on the face
of the globe. G. C. Simpson has given an explanation of these in
the Ross Sea, but are the blizzards of Wilkes and Coats Lands, which
occur under different topographical conditions, amenable to the same
explanation, or has W. H. Hobbs found the solution in his theory
of strophic winds associated with glacial anticyclones, a theory which
he applies also to Greenland, where he is at present investigating it ?

Recent observations in Northeast Land, Spitsbergen, confirm the
association of this general air circulation with a dome of ice-covered
land, but, as Sir Napier Shaw, L. C. W. Bonacina, and others have
pointed out, we require another term than anticyclone for this state
of affairs, since the high pressure is only a shallow surface effect
resulting from local conditions and not a true anticyclone developed
as the outcome of general atmospheric circulation independent of
local topography. Even the qualification of “ glacial ” does not re-
move a possible confusion of ideas. The supply of cold air from
polar regions toward lower latitudes appears to be independent of
pressure, inasmuch as the winds are katabatic winds flowing down
the slope of high land. It is orographical relief and not pressure
which supplies the driving force of the cold air currents of the
polar front.®

A further important meteorological problem, with strong geo-
graphical bearings, is the alimentation of the ice sheet. We know
that it is wasting by the calving of icebergs, by surface ablation,
and other processes, and that it has shrunk considerably since its
Pleistocene maximum, but we are at a loss to explain satisfactorily
how the precipitation in the heart of an anticyclone can ever have
been sufficient to allow such an ice sheet to grow. There is every
reason to believe that during the great Ice Age ice sheets did not
develop over the Arctic islands of Canada or over most of Siberia.
The temperatures were low, but moisture was insufficient. And yet
in the Southern Hemisphere the ice grew in the heart of a vast high-
pressure area.

Still another problem is that of oscillation of climate as expressed
by varying amounts of sea ice and variations in the intensity of cur-
rents. R.C. Mossman and others have shown that there is a corre-
lation between certain Antarctic records and those from places in the
Northern Hemisphere. There seems to be every likelihood that be-
fore long general weather forecasts of real value will be possible for

3’ W. H. Hobbs, The Glacial Antieyclones (1926). A valuable symposium on Arctic
meteorology is the collection of papers read at the first meeting of the International
Society for the Exploration of Arctic Regions by Airship, published in Petermann’s Mit-
teilungen, Ergiinzungsheft 191 (1927). A chart shows the route of the proposed expedi-
tion and the location of observing stations.
POLAR GEOGRAPHY—BROWN 355

some months ahead. At Buenos Aires, for example, the high corre-
lation coefficient of +0.88 is reached when the summer rainfall there
is correlated with the temperature of the South Orkneys for the
winter that began three and a half years earlier. In fact, statistical
correlation indicates that a very cold winter at the South Orkneys
will be followed after an interval of three and a half years by a
drought over the Argentine cereal belt; a very mild winter, after
the same interval of time, by bountiful rains.

Lastly, there is great need of oceanographical work in high south-
ern latitudes. This branch of research has been overlooked by most
expeditions in their hurry to reach their southern bases. Certainly
in the tempestuous seas of the fifties and sixties of southern latitude
it is uncomfortable and trying work and exasperating in delays and
loss of apparatus. The employment of echo sounding should, how-
ever, make it both easier and mere accurate.

There has been much careful and intensive work in the Antarctic
during this century, indeed since the voyage of the Belgica, but it has
merely touched the fringe of what there is to be done. The recent
work of the R. 8. S. Discovery in the seas to the east of South Georgia
should fill gaps in existing knowledge of the southern ocean, but de-
tails are not yet available.®

Antarctic expeditions are costly, far more costly than expeditions
to the Arctic. It is unlikely that an impoverished Europe will be
able to find the necessary funds for years to come. We must look
with hope toward the great new nations of the Southern Hemi-
sphere, some of whom have already shown a marked interest in the
Antarctic. It will be a sad day when man is so free from curiosity
about this earth that the last mysteries of its surface are not probed
because the task demands enthusiasm and money.

No pioneer problems of equal magnitude await the explorer in
north polar regions. There is small likelihood that any new land
of importance remains to be discovered. There is certainly no
“polar continent.” However, there are gaps to be filled. Nicholas
Land, found by the Russians to the north of the Taimir Peninsula
in 1913, has still to be investigated. Its full extent and its relation
to other Arctic islands are unknown. Northwest of it the Arctic
Ocean has never been penetrated except by the drifting St. Anna in
1912-1914. We hope that Russian investigators of the coast of
Siberia will include Nicholas Land within their scope of work.°

4Southern Hemisphere Seasonal Correlations, R. C. Mossman. Symons Meteorological
Mag., 48, 1913; and The Climate and Meteorology of the Antarctic and Sub-Antarctic
Regions, R. C. Mossman, Journ. Scot. Met. Soc., 1918, pp. 18-29.

5 Discovery Expedition. First Annual Report, H. M. S, O., 1927.

®¥For the latest map of the Russian Arctic coasts see The Russian Hydrographical Expe-
dition to the Arctic, N: A. Trausche, Geog. Rev. (New York), No. 3, 1925.
356 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

The Beaufort Sea to the north of Alaska and to the west of the
Canadian Arctic Archipelago, across which Amundsen, Ellsworth,
and Nobile made their daring flight in 1926, has never been pene-
trated. Its exploration is required in the interests of Arctic oceanog-
raphy, and the mystery of Peary’s Crocker Land should be finally
solved. Tidal observations of the Maud expedition off the Siberian
coast have been shown by H. U. Sverdrup to negative the probability
of extensive land to the north of Bering Strait and Alaska. Yet the
five hours’ retardation of the tidal wave in reaching Point Barrow,
Alaska, from the north, compared with its time of arrival at the
De Long Islands, northeast of the New Siberian Islands, indicates
the possibility of small islands in the Beaufort Sea or, more probably,
merely the existence of shallow water.’

In addition to Crocker Land, several elusive lands have been re-
ported in the Arctic Ocean, and from time to time have found their
way on to maps, in most cases only to disappear when confirmation
of their existence was not forthcoming. Experience has shown that
visibility plays strange tricks on the observer in polar regions. A
snow-covered land may merge completely in the background of sea
ice and gray sky or an unsuspected local fog bank may blot it out ata
few miles distance. No polar land can be said to be disproved until
its site has actually been sailed over. And even then one may ask,
Was the reputed site a true one? Its position may have been guessed
from a single long-distance sight, and guessed perhaps on a basis of
faulty observations. The drift of the /ram and the voyages of the
Taimir, Vaigach, and Maud may be held to have disposed of Sanni-
kov’s Land to the north of the New Siberian Islands. Keenan Land
to the north of Alaska has also gone. ‘There is little probability of
Andrejev’s Land being a reality, but no ship has yet penetrated the
area of sea where it was reported to lie (1763) to the west of Wran-
gel Island, in about the meridian of 170° W., between latitude 72°
and 73° N. There between the tracks, on the south of the Zaimér and
the Vatgach and on the north of the Jeannette and the Maud, occurs
a region of heavy impenetrable pack. Kellett’s Plover Land, a degree
or two north of Herald Island, north-northwest of Bering Strait,
was removed from the map as a result of several later voyages of
vessels that sailed over its reputed site and saw no land. But a
shadow of doubt has fallen on these corrections since in 1914, from
the high eastern end of Wrangel Island, the appearance of land was
noted on several days away in the east-northeast beyond Herald Island
in an area of the sea where the water on the continental shelf is
known to be very shallow. This appearance was given the name of

7The Tides on the North Siberian Shelf. H. U. Sverdrup, Journ. Wash. Acad. Sci., 16,
pp. 529-540, 1926. The flight of G. H. Wilkins in 1928 practically disproved Crocker
Land.

POLAR GEOGRAPHY—BROWN 357

Borden Land and may, if it really exists, be the long-lost Plover
Land. Inaccuracies in latitude and longitude are easily made in
hasty observations in high latitudes.*®

An even more alluring mystery can be solved only by the explora-
tion of that part of the Arctic Ocean between Spitsbergen and Franz
Josef Land from latitude 80° to 84° N. There is no record of a ship
traversing it, and there is more than one report of high land seen
to the northeast of the Spitsbergen group. This, if it exists, is
not Giles Land, which is farther south and relatively low, but it may
be an outlying island of the Franz Josef group.® There are, how-
ever, other problems of great interest in the north. The extent and
bottom features of the Arctic basin are still little known, and only in
a few places has the width of the remarkable continental shelf been
defined. North of Alaska, the New Siberian Islands, and Spits-
bergen, the edge has been charted and with less certainty north of
Ellesmere Island and the Franz Josef group. In other parts it is
still vague. When evidence is scanty it may seem rash to speculate
on the origin of the Arctic Ocean, but there are many features about
the Arctic basin which suggest that it is not comparable with the
basins of the Atlantic and Pacific, and that it is possibly a relatively
new feature of the earth’s crust. On the other hand, the discovery
in East Greenland of extensive series of Paleozoic rocks seems to
dispose of the idea of a former Arctic continent of great extent.

Another problem of importance and far-reaching influence is the
mysterious fluctuation in the extent of Arctic sea ice. The fluctua-
tions appear to be cyclic rather than progressive, but so far defy
satisfactory explanation. C. E. P. Brooks has recently pointed out
the influence of the amount of ice in the Labrador and East Green-
land currents on pressure distribution and consequent amount of
precipitation in the British Isles.*° Here at least is one direct link
between the Arctic and the most important factor in our climate.
But until we know more about Arctic climatic conditions and the
distribution of ice in the Arctic basin, we are not likely to find the
cause of these fluctuations.

5 Plover Land and Borden Land, V. Stefansson, Geog. Rev. (New York), April, 1921,
It may be noted that Keenan Land is the only one of these doubtful lands that Stieler
retains in his most recent Nordpolar map.

®Giles Land (also Gillies Land or Island), discovered in 1707, was rediscovered by
J. Kjeldsen in 1876 and explored by A. G. Nathorst in 1898. It lies in about latitude
80° N., due east of Spitsbergen. This is where Giles himself placed it. The area of sea
indicated was crossed by the Soviet icebreaker Krassin in her search for the crew of the
wrecked airship Italia in 1927. No land was seen.

10See the annual report on The State of Ice in the Arctic Seas, published by the
Danish Meteorological Office from all available records. It is necessarily incomplete
and leaves great areas untouched, especially the seas north of Asia and the Beaufort
Sea, where observations are most needed. C. E. P. Brooks, Pressure Distribution
Associated with Seasons in the British Isles, Quart. Journ. Roy. Meteorol. Soc., 52,
1926; W. Weise, Polareis und Atmosphiirische Schwankungen, Geogr. Ann., 6, p. 273,
Stockholm, 1924.

24034—29 24

358 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

Facts so far available point to a rotary surface movement with
overflows from an overcharged Arctic basin, by the Greenland Sea
and other less important outlets. This movement may account for
the tendency of ice-bound vessels in the Arctic basin to take a periph-
eral drift, as the Pram, Jeannette, Karluk, and Maud. It may also
explain the relatively smooth and unrafted ice reported from the
vicinity of the Pole. Again, the heavy ice to the north of Green-
land, which proved so baffling to the Nares expedition that it re-
ceived the title of paleocrystic ice, may be due simply to the heaping
and rafting against the land of the pack that has been swept past
the overflow of the East Greenland current. It can not, however,
be said that this circulation is proved. Many more observations are
required.

Fluctuations in the amount of ice in the overflow currents may
well be due to variations in the strength of these currents. These
variations may be associated with departures from the normal in the
amount of water poured into the Arctic basin from the great Siberian
and American rivers, which in its turn depends on causes far re-
moved from Arctic regions. The complexity of the problem is almost
baffling, but even before the chain of cause and effect is traced useful
work could be done in looking for correlations.

METHODS OF EXPLORATION

Every age has seen a change in the methods employed in polar
exploration, and it may be of interest to review the resources of the
explorer in the light of modern knowledge. In the early days of
Arctic exploration attempts concentrated on the hope of finding an
open sea route to the north. Hence the lines of attack were by the
two gulfs of warmth due to the northward-flowing waters of the
North Atlantic drift, Hudson Bay with Davis Strait, and, particu-
larly, the Greenland Sea. By the early part of the nineteenth century
the hopelessness of advance by that means was realized, and not
long after the prospect of an open-water route across polar regions
in a lower latitude faded. Then came the period of probing the un-
known north from a land base in a high latitude from which sledge
journeys could take their start. Eventually the North Pole was
achieved by this means, long after Nansen, throwing aside all ac-
cepted canons of polar travel, had found a new and daring method.
Instead of avoiding besetment he courted it; instead of battling with
the floes he made use of their drift.

Meantime, the age of steel prompted a new method of attacking
ice. The ice breaker was tried away back in 1899, when the Yermack
made an experimental voyage to the northwest of Spitsbergen. On
more serious exploration the Russians used ice breakers on the

POLAR GEOGRAPH Y—BROWN 359

Arctic coast of Siberia in the years immediately before the Great
War. But, though an ice breaker can deal with ice several feet in
thickness, it can not dispose of that ice; if the pack is close the ice
breaker will sooner or later become beset and helpless and at the
mercy of pressure due to wind and current. Even a powerful ice
breaker could be crushed by such enormous pressure. Only a ship
that rises is safe. For keeping harbors open and smashing new ice
the modern ice breaker is valuable, but it has no place in serious
polar exploration.

The polar pack ice is still the most formidable obstacle that the
explorer has to face. It may provide a laborious but uncertain road
for sledging, but because of its drift before current and wind it is
always dangerous to vessels, except those built on lines that defy
crushing. Such a ship can drift in safety with the moving pack,
but seldom can retain its freedom of action. Man to-day is little
better able to penetrate heavy pack than he was 300 years ago. The
ice-infested seas are still barred to commerce and the only advance
that has been made is in a knowledge of the position and drift of the
ice, so that navigation of the edge of the pack is relatively safe.

And now another method of advance has been tried. The baffling
pack ice can be avoided by progress through the air. Air transit in
the Arctic is not new; as long ago as 1897, S. Andrée made a hazard-
ous and fatal attempt, but in those days the aeronaut could do no
more than drift, and Andrée unfortunately drifted to destruction.
In recent years the airplane has appeared in the Arctic, and Amund-
sen and Nobile have used the airship. It was inevitable that avia-
tion should be tried in high latitudes, if for no other reason than its
spectacular daring, but so far its success has not been marked. That,
however, does not necessarily imply that aviation is never to be a
serious help in polar exploration. Amundsen’s flight in the Norge
gave a probable confirmation of what had already been deduced from
indirect evidence. He found no land where none was expected. He
saw nothing but ice-covered sea. Moreover, a rapid flight over snow-
covered land, even if the eye could distinguish that surface from
ice-covered sea, would tell little of importance. Byrd’s flight to the
pole and back was of even less value to exploration, for on his track
there was no possibility of land. The kind of exploration that is
now required entails patient observation and accurate measurement.
A quick-moving machine can not help in this, and there is always
the probability of mist to hamper the value and imperil the success
of aviation in the polar summer. Amundsen himself admits that
owing to “a tremendous sea of fog, in some places of extraordinary
density ” in the Beaufort Sea, he may have passed over islands of
low altitude without seeing them, so that on the only part of its
360 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

course where land can possibly exist the flight of the Vorge has left
us where we were, and the field is clear for the next explorer.
Even for reconnaissance the airplane has doubtful value, so much
depends on ground organization, which never can be perfect in polar
regions, and there is the even greater difficulty of satisfactory landing
places. On the long flight of the Vorge from Spitsbergen to Alaska
not a single landing place was seen, at least not one suitable to the
eyes of those who had experience of polar ice. Pack ice rarely offers
the requisite surface, and certainly can not be relied on to do so, while
among drift ice the necessary expanse of open water is seldom avail-
able for a hydroplane. The use of a lead may prove fatal by the
ice closing in on the machine. In his first attempt on the North
Pole in 1925 Amundsen very nearly lost his machines and the lives
of his expedition by landing in a pool of water. As it was, he had
to abandon one machine, and it was only by his skill and determina-
tion that he retrieved from disaster what was a fiasco as far as scien-
tific exploration was concerned, except for one sounding.
It should, however, be noted that G. H. Wilkins, from his flying
experience north of Alaska, maintains that landing places on pack
ice are numerous. He certainly made safe landings on two occasions
without much difficulty.
For the transport of stores, equipment, and collections the airplane
has little value because its use introduces an element of grave
uncertainty into the work of the expedition. The explorer must be
prepared for the journey on foot or by boat if his airplane fails
him. He must carry the necessary equipment, or he is incurring a
foolhardly risk. And in that case why take the airplane at all?
_ In one respect, however, the airplane can be successfully used in

polar work, that is in aerial survey of difficult country that lies
within reach of a base accessible by sea transport and provided with
a good landing place. The value of aerial surveys has been proved in
many parts of the world. The survey of the Irrawadi Delta in a
few weeks instead of the two or three years that ground work would
have entailed, is a case in point; and J. M. Wordie has instanced the
eastern edge of Greenland as a country where the aerial surveyor
could rapidly make a map of the most rugged and untraversable
country. The investigation of the movement of pack ice in Hudson
Strait, undertaken this year by the Canadian Government, is another
instance of the value of the airplane in Arctic work."

11 Few men have flown in the Arctic. Some of the most valuable fruits of experience
will be found in G. Binney’s With Seaplane and Sledge in the Arctic (1925), and
R. Amundsen’s My Polar Flight (1925) and The First Flight Across the Polar Sea (1927).
This address was written before the memorable flights of G. H. Wilkins in 1928 in both
the Arctic and the Antarctic. Those flights do not contradict the general conclusions in
this address.

POLAR GEOGRAPHY—BROWN 361

In the Antarctic, where I have pointed out the pioneer explorer
still has ample scope, long-distance flights may be of some value. The
ice cap offers the prospect of better landing than the pack ice. Yet
in view of its great expanse there is even less chance of retreating on
foot after a forced descent. The Argentine aviators, A. Pauly and
Zanni, propose to fly across Antarctica from Graham Land on the
Weddell Sea to Victoria Land or the Barrier edge on the Ross Sea
next December. Their success depends largely on the efficiency of
their machine. A forced landing will probably mean their total dis-
appearance, but a successful flight will certainly give some broad
results of value, although tantalizingly vague and inconclusive, as to
the structure of Antarctic. An American flying expedition under
Commander R. E. Byrd to the Ross Sea has also been announced.

Probably some reliable form of mechanical traction for sledges
would be more serviceable than aviation in serious exploration. Dogs
are useful for traction to men who are accustomed to manage them,
but their area of action is limited by the amount of food that they
require. Man haulage gives longer range, but is terribly destructive
of human energy. Machine-drawn sledges would require fuel, but
the carriage of light fuel would not seriously impede their radius
of use. The whole problem of mechanical transport really turns
on its reliability. So far its use has been a failure. But we live in
an age of rapidly increasing mechanical skill. Yet is it ever safe
to put absolute trust in a machine ?

There must be risk in all exploration, but can one ever reduce the
risk of the motor sledge breaking down to reasonable limits? The
wear and tear is tremendous, far greater than in a motor gliding
smoothly through the air. On a short journey a breakdown would
be merely a nuisance; on a long journey, far from the base, it might
well be fatal. In short, while a man knows his own capacity he can
never have an equal faith in the capacity of the machine. The use
of motor sledges is bound to come, and they will be very useful, but
undoubtedly they will introduce an element of uncertainty in the
journey. They will increase the chance of success as well as the risk
of failure.

Quite apart from means of transport, polar exploration has under-
gone changes in recent years. Equipment is better than it was of old;
food is better preserved, more varied, and more in accordance with
human requirements. But the greatest change has come in the pass-
ing of the fear of the Arctic. Men who know the polar regions are
no longer frightened of the cold and darkness and no longer shun
the food resources of polar lands and seas. The terror that the Arctic
inspired was a legacy of medieval superstition; the outcome, like
all superstitions, of ignorance. Before Europeans had ever experi-
enced a polar night, they thought that it must be fatal. The old
362 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

whalers in Spitsbergen could conceive of no greater horror than to-
stay there during the winter. There is a tale that an attempt to
found a winter settlement to guard the whaling stores failed because
the settlers, who could be obtained only by releasing convicts, begged,
on seeing Spitsbergen, to be allowed to return to gaol and even execu-
tion rather than stay and endure the unknown horrors of an Arctic
night. The legacy of fear is still part of Europe’s regard for polar
regions, but the explorer has conquered it and he knows well that it
requires no particular courage to face the polar climate. Fifty years.
ago expeditions dug themselves into winter quarters and stagnated
half the year. Nares considered it cruelty to ask his men to sledge
before April. But now winter is regarded by the explorer, as by the
Eskimo, as a useful period for sledging. The snow and ice have
better surfaces and the temperatures are not uncomfortably high.

Even more striking is the lightness of the modern explorer’s equip-
ment compared with the heavy load of old. In “ living off the land ”
and traveling lightly and quickly without supporting parties and
depots of stores, John Rae set an example 70 years ago which was.
later followed by Nansen, Isachsen, Stefansson, and others. On a
purely meat diet man can maintain his health and vigor for weeks and
months. If he can so break with his habits as to give up tea, coffee,
sugar, bread, and tobacco, his equipment in many of the more fav-
ored parts of the Arctic can be reduced to personal clothing, sleeping
sack, rifle, and ammunition. But the practice can not everywhere be
adopted. Even its more ardent advocate, Stefansson, had to abandon
it at times and in certain gameless areas. The Arctic is not friendly
everywhere; it can be very unfriendly, and it is rash to generalize
from the most-favored regions.

The Antarctic may be termed invariably hostile except for its
penguin rookeries tenanted for only a few weeks a year. Once the
ship is left in the Antarctic, a provisioned base is absolutely essential.
Journeys without stores would in all probability prove fatal. Ant-
arctic travel must be mainly over the land ice, which is wholly devoid
of any living thing. The sea ice, in the lack of landlocked channels
and basins, seldom affords a road for the traveler. Not only is it
very rough, piled and rafted, but it drifts even in midwinter. Seals:
are seldom accessible to the Antarctic sledge traveler, for compara-
tively rarely can he descend from the ice cap to the sea ice owing to
the steep ice cliffs.

Even in the Arctic it must be remembered that living off the land
demands the sacrifice to hunting of much time that could be more
profitably employed by a party of scientific men, while if hunters are
specially attached to the expedition, in addition to the scientific staff,
there is the liability, even certainty, of a large party exhausting the
game in any one locality and requiring to move on in search of food.

POLAR GEOGRAPHY—BROWN 363

Such contingencies would be detrimental to the real aims of the
expedition. Without neglecting the valuable resources of sea and
land, it will seldom be wise for an exploring party to dispense wholly
er even largely with transported stores, however great the tempta-
tion may be to lighten the load and thus widen the area of activity.
In a forced march of retreat, however, ability to find food and con-
fidence in its value are important.

A greater terror than the danger of lack of food in polar explora-
tion used to be the prospect of scurvy. That has practically gone.
Scurvy used to be considered inevitable sooner or later. No expedi-
tion entirely escaped it, and nearly all lost men and power of work
through its ravages. Much of the bad reputation which the Arctic
gained in the past must be attributed to scurvy. And its prevalence
on the Franklin expedition—it was really attributable for its total
loss—and on the Franklin search expeditions gave a grim aspect to
polar travel which it has not yet lost in popular opinion. There is no
excuse for the occurrence of scurvy on an Arctic expedition to-day,
although there may still be risk of it on a journey over the Antarctic
continent, but its total disappearance from the casualties the explorer
has to face can be a matter now of only a few years. The advance of
physiological science will no doubt result in scurvy being classed with
the rare or extinct diseases.

Thus, as knowledge grows, the power of the explorer increases, and
the old-time hardships that we read of seem curious fantasies or epics
of heroic men battling blindly with ignorance.

When Europe came to realize that there were no commercial sea
routes across the Arctic Ocean, a new motive, other than commercial
gain, fortunately inspired polar endeavor or it might have ceased
altogether. That aim was found largely in the attainment of the
pole. The actual attainment was of no scientific importance, but it
was of value as an ultimate objective and the lure of the pole led men
onward into the unknown, and thus it served science in its day.

Once the poles were gained, that lure vanished. There is to-day as
much need as there ever was for the penetration of the Antarctic
continent along a score of meridians or of the passage toward the
North Pole by more than one route across the Arctic Ocean. But the
feat has been accomplished, and so the aim no longer fires the popular
imagination. It fails to serve as a bait to secure the necessary finan-
cial backing for a well-found polar expedition. It may be regret-
table, but it is certainly true, at least in this country, that an expedi-
tion with purely scientific aims and no sensational journey or feat in
its program must appeal in vain for funds. These are seldom forth-
coming for the advancement of pure knowledge. Scott and Shackle-
ton fully realized this in putting their Antarctic plans before the
public. Bruce, on the other hand, deploring the necessity, refused to
364 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

accept it. And after all, high endeavor in the strenuous field of
polar exploration has a value of its own, even if that value be not
scientific. It is, however, unfortunate that in recent years more than
one expedition has been successful in raising funds, and others have
attempted to do so, for programs that were little else than spectacu-
lar and bore the smallest prospect of useful work. This is to be
deplored because it diverts funds from earnest work and sometimes
even brings discredit on polar exploration. Every serious worker in
polar research must regret the entry in the field, from time to time,
of men who have few qualifications for the task and see in it merely
an opening for spectacular notoriety or a measure of financial gain
by means of dramatic cinematograph films and newspaper articles.

I have tried to show that even if pioneer journeys have not ended,
exploration is entering on a new phase, that of fixed stations of at
least a year’s duration and preferably longer, where detailed re-
searches in meteorology, biology, and other branches of science can
be pursued. Many years ago Denmark led the way with such a
station at Disko in Greenland. Norway has at least one permanent
meteorological station in Spitsbergen, but the only permanent station
in the Antarctic regions is the Argentine Observatory at the South
Orkneys, founded in 1903 by W. S. Bruce, unless we look upon the
temporary marine laboratory of the Falkland Islands government at
South Georgia as an Antarctic station. There is room for more, and
it is to be hoped that some day there will be at least an oceanographi-
cal Jaboratory in the Arctic land, only a few days’ sail from our
shores, western Spitsbergen.

Meanwhile, we welcome the stimulus to real polar research afforded
by the Polar Research Institute at Cambridge and the new interest in
polar exploration evinced by the recent successful Cambridge expe-
dition to east Greenland and no less valuable Oxford expedition in
Northeast Land two years earlier. Such expeditions fill in details
that were overlooked in the age of pioneer journeys when the
scientific problems awaiting solution were not formulated. They can
in one season accomplish as much as the older expeditions did in a
year. We may look for useful work from the Cambridge expedition
now engaged in the survey of the little-known Edge Island, Spits-
bergen. Nor must we forget that for some years now the Royal
Canadian Mounted Police in their patrols between their far-flung
Arctic posts have been quietly conducting useful explorations. The
excellent work of the Danes in Greenland should also be noted, and
especially the exhaustive work on the Eskimo which K. Rasmussen
has extended westward to Bering Strait. Norway also is filling in
the details omitted by earlier explorers in Spitsbergen and publish-
ing a series of valuable monographs on that country.

POLAR GEOGRAPH Y—BROWN 365
SETTLEMENT OF POLAR LANDS

During recent years territorial claims have been made to all parts
of Arctic regions that were not formerly subject to sovereignty,
and even in the Antarctic great dependencies have appeared. This
is an expression of the growing belief that polar regions are not
merely desert wastes but have some economic resources of value to
man.

Fur and oil first brought Arctic regions into the areas of com-
merce. The advance by sea, as with the explorer searching for a
sea route to the east, was naturally by the two’ gulfs of warmth
into Davis Strait and the Barents Sea. The most approachable
Arctic lands were first exploited and first devastated by hunter and
trapper. Thus Greenland and Spitsbergen have suffered first. The
land approaches were naturally where continental land projects
farthest north, Canada and Siberia. Those routes led to a later
advance of the trapper, but to as ruthless an exploitation when once
it began. Hunting can not last; it is rapidly failing. Modern
weapons are too effective, and already the Eskimo are suffering
after a brief period of prosperity. But since the market for furs
will continue and even grow, and since the best furs will always be
Arctic winter skins, the demand must be met by breeding fur ani-
mals. Climate exercises a rigorous control on the commercial value
of the furs, a control from which there is no escape. Under wise
game laws the Arctic lands and seas may produce a steady crop of
furs, but the new form of exploitation will be rather an aspect of
stock raising than of hunting. Even the hunting of sea mammals
will suffer eclipse as the civilization of machines advances. The
whaler has now deserted most Arctic seas, the sealers are fewer, and
the walrus hunter has nearly exterminated his prey. The addition
of motor power to sloops has enabled the Arctic hunter to extend
his area of operations by penetrating the pack farther than sail
would admit. Arctic animal life has suffered as a result—as for
instance, the inroads on Spitsbergen reindeer in their relative safe
sanctuaries on the north and east.

Of all Arctic animals, at least of those that have a commercial
value at present, the polar bear will endure longest, not because he
is least desired, but because he is a sea mammal who lives in the
inner fastnesses of the polar pack and can be hunted only on its
fringes.

Exhaustion of game leads to a decrease in the number of hunters.
As far as this decrease concerns temporary hunters from the south,
it may lead to a slow revival in resources; but as regards the per-
manent inhabitants of Arctic America, the Eskimo, it has serious
effects. Their standard of living is reduced, want appears, and their
366 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

culture and their race languish. A century ago the Eskimo had
struck a balance between numbers and resources. They were per-
fectly attuned to their environment even if their area of settlement
oscillated a little on the confines where game was lable to fail as
numbers increased. Then the introduction by Europeans of more
effective weapons upset the balance. So nicely adjusted was their
equilibrium that the looting of iron from McClure’s abandoned
ship, /nvestigator, was probably the cause of the virtual extermina-
tion of the musk ox on Banks Island and its consequent abandon-
ment by the Eskimo. The exhaustion of game brought the Alaskan
Eskimo to the verge of starvation a few years ago, and if the United
States Government had not intervened might have wiped out that
branch of the race.

The resources of the Arctic are not, however, limited to hunting,
even if we include with hunting the breeding of fur-bearing ani-
mals. Outside Greenland, with its ice sheet covering 94 per cent
of the island, a comparatively small area of Arctic lands at present
bears permanent ice. The Canadian Arctic islands are free except
small ice sheets in the east, in parts of Ellesmere and Baffin Islands;
the Eurasian Islands have more, though there are large free areas
in Spitsbergen and the south island of Novaya Zemlya, while the
whole of the mainland areas of Siberia, Alaska, and Canada, which
can by any stretch of meaning be called Arctic, are free from per-
manent ice. Beyond the northern limit of trees there may be said,
at a rough estimate, to be about 5,000,000 square miles of ice-free
land, or considerably more than the total area of the United States.
Most of this is covered with some kind of tundra. The mainland and
some of the island areas have a close covering which in favored
places may attain a luxuriance and vigor of growth which has
little relation to latitude and contradicts all preconceived notions of
Arctic productivity. Thus western Ellesmere Island and _ north-
western Greenland are noted for their vegetation. In other places
the plant covering is open, and on some of the islands there are
areas which are practically desert and bear only a few mosses,
lichens, and scattered plants.

These tundras are the natural grazing grounds of caribou, rein-
deer, and musk ox. The musk ox go farthest north, being found
even in Ellesmere Island and northern and eastern Greenland, and
they are confined to the American Arctic. Neither animal—for of
the three caribou and reindeer are essentially the same—leaves the
Arctic in winter. They are natives of the north and do not suffer
from the winter cold and light snow. Their only enemy besides man
is the Arctic wolf. It preys successfully on the reindeer and is less
likely to attack the musk ox, which not only can fight the wolf with

POLAR GEOGRAPH Y—BROWN 367

its sharp horns but finds safety in numbers. The wolf seldom cares
to attack a herd.”

Musk ox and reindeer are complementary to one another in their
food requirements. The reindeer prefers grass and willow shoots
in summer and the lichens, known as reindeer and Iceland moss, in
winter, while the musk ox eats grass and shoots at all seasons. Now
grass and shoots are more abundant than lichens on the Arctic tun-
dras, so that the number of reindeer are limited by the winter feed,
while much grass remains surplus and could be utilized by musk ox.
The relatively restricted area of the musk ox to-day in Arctic
Canada is solely due to the ease with which it is hunted. Now that
it is protected by law, there is no reason why its range should not
increase considerably.

The reindeer has been domesticated from early times in the Old
World, even if we can not be sure that the reindeer of Stone Age
man in Europe were tamed and not merely wild herds. The pros-
perity and very existence of most peoples of the Old World tundras
from Lapland to Bering Strait to-day depend on the reindeer.
Lapp, Zirian, Samoyede, Ostyak, Tungus, Chukchee, and Koryak
are all reindeer breeders to a greater or less degree, and the reindeer
provides them with meat, milk, clothing, and leather. They alone
are the prosperous tribes, and their prosperity, as is the way of
prosperity, causes them to look down on the hunting and fishing
tribes such as the Yuchagir, Kamchadals, and some Samoyedes, who
have a hard struggle to survive. Yet it should be noted that even
among the Chukchee, who are the most successful reindeer breeders
in Siberia, the reindeer is only partially domesticated, and the herds
often run wild owing to the interbreeding with wild deer. The
herds of the Koryaks also frequently revert to the wild state.

In the New World, including Greenland, the caribou has never been
<lomesticated. The Eskimo are chiefly dependent on sea mammals
and fish. Sea mammals yield a greater supply of oil, their only
source of fuel and light, than caribou and musk ox. To the Eskimo
Jand animals are a secondary consideration, valuable in the summer
mnomadism as offering a change of food and variety of occupation,
but rarely now the staple of their existence. Even the Caribou
Eskimo, inland dwellers to the west of Hudson Bay, have never
tamed the reindeer, but exist by hunting the wild herds.

In his well-known efforts to dispel the prevalent misconception
about the Arctic, V. Stefansson has drawn a glowing picture of the
future of the Arctic prairies. His statements have met with some

2 The Canadian Government now offer £6 per pelt for wolves destroyed in the North-
-west Territories. The skins find a ready market. In 1926 about a thousand wolves
were thus accounted for.

143-V. Stefansson, The Northward Course of Empire (1922) ; The Friendly Arctic (1921) ;
Polar Pastures, The Forum, January, 1926, and other articles.
368 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

criticism, not invariably by men who know the Arctic. It may be
well to examine his arguments in some detail, since this matter
touches the future of the Arctic and its possible contribution to the
material welfare of man.

Experiments in reindeer breeding in Alaska were begun in 1891
with the introduction of a small herd of 16 deer from Siberia. Next
year 167 more were introduced. This was an attempt by the United
States Government to give a new means of livelihood to the Alaskan
Eskimo, who were in dire straits because game was exhausted. The
experiment was entirely successful. The herds have been doubling
themselves every three years, and the 1,280 deer introduced before
1902 have now increased to about 500,000. The United States De-
partment of Agriculture calculate that the grazing grounds of
Alaska can support over 3,000,000 reindeer at a low estimate. At
present the deer are a small variety, but it is hoped to increase their
size by interbreeding with wild caribou. This, however, must be
done carefully lest the herds become unmanageable.

There can be no doubt of the success of the experiment in Alaska,
and the forecast of an Alaskan production for the market, in less
than 20 years, of over a million carcasses of reindeer a year is prob-
ably no exaggeration. This is the equivalent of nearly 3,000,000
sheep, and so would be no small accession to the meat resources of
the United States.

It has been suggested that the Alaskan success shows what can
be done in Arctic Canada, the barren lands and islands, and possibly
also in parts of Greenland. Undoubtedly there are wide grazing
grounds that are now practically unoccupied, but it is easy to ex-
aggerate their potentiality. Estimates of productivity based on
the number of species of plants here and there or per square yard
have little value. Many of the plants are of no use to grazing ani-
mals and others are rare. It must never be forgotten that most
Arctic plants grow slowly and have poor means of reproduction, so
that Arctic prairies can easily suffer from overgrazing. One rea-
son for the wandering of the caribou and musk ox is their lability
to exhaust any but the richest grazing grounds to such an extent
that a year or two, or even more, are required for their recovery.

Siberian reindeer in a wild state commonly migrate southward
to the forest edge in winter, and even on the rich pastures of Lap-
land nomadism is essential. The Lapps know well that the sites of
the winter villages must be frequently changed in order to insure
enough lichen for the herds. Intensive pasturage on confined areas
is impossible.

Six years ago the Hudson’s Bay Co. acquired from the Canadian
Government a lease of 100,000 square miles of tundra in southern
Baffin Island and imported 500 reindeer from Norway to Amadjuak

POLAR GEOGRAPH Y—BROWN 369

on Hudson Strait. All the deer perished. Yet the failure of the
experiment must not be used as an argument against the possibility
of reindeer breeding in Arctic Canada. Siberian reindeer, for there
are many varieties of the reindeer, would probably have suited the
conditions better than the tamer and richer-feeding Norwegian
variety; and, furthermore, Baffin Island, as its small ice fields bear
witness, has a greater precipitation than most reindeer lands and a
humid climate seldom suits reindeer. The failure to acclimatize
reindeer in the Orkneys and the Scottish highlands many years ago
was attributed, no doubt rightly, to the dampness of the climate, for
the food supply was entirely adequate. Lastly, the wolves of Baffin
Island made serious inroads on the new flocks quite unprepared to
defend themselves from this unknown enemy. The wolf is a far
more serious enemy than man to the reindeer and more effective in
reducing numbers.

There is no reason to suppose that the domestication of reindeer,
starting with Siberian stock and gradually introducing the American
caribou, will be anything but successful in most parts of the Canadian
tundra, in the rich pasture lands of western Greenland, and the more
restricted areas of Spitsbergen. All these regions have supported
vast numbers of reindeer in the past and should do so again if exces-
sive hunting is curbed, wise game laws instituted, and the wolf ex-
terminated, as Canada is endeavoring to do. Already the killing of
reindeer in Spitsbergen is totally prohibited until 1934, the first
enactment of Norway’s rule in her Arctic possession."

Alaska is said to have pasturage for 4,000,000 reindeer. Basing his
estimate on this figure, Stefansson calculates that the Arctic tundras
as a whole are capable of supporting about 100,000,000 reindeer and
perhaps five times as many musk ox. This is probably an over-
sanguine estimate, for it must be remembered that the Alaskan herds
are mainly in the more fertile valleys of the south and southwest,
which have few, if any, equals in fertility in the tundras farther
north; but even if we reduce the numbers considerably, say by as
much as 50 per cent, there remains a possible food production from
the waste Arctic lands equivalent to some 1,000,000,000 sheep, or
more than ten times the total number of sheep that Australia now
supports.

This would, of course, take many years to accomplish, and nat-
urally will not occur until the temperate iands of the world are
more fully occupied than at present. But gradually, as world popu-
lation multiplies and food production has to be increased, the lands
that are not fit for cereal growth will command attention by their

144 Norwegian proposals for game laws are published in Naturfredning i Norge,
Arsberetning, 1926 (Oslo, 1926). See also Scottish Geog. Mag., May, 1926.
370 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

possibilities for pasturage. It is a geographical axiom that the herder
must always give way to the tiller of the soil with his more inten-
sive occupation. With the extension of dry farming there seems.
little likelihood of any considerable areas of temperate lands in
the long run being left to pastoral pursuits. But the Arctic tundras:
are entirely unsuited for agriculture by unfitness of soil and shortness.
of summer for ripening the grain. Their advantage as pasture land
is that the farmer can never displace the herdsman. As the world’s.
supply of beef decreases, the supply of venison and musk-ox flesh
will come more into demand.

A further important aspect of Arctic pasturage has been suggested
in the supply of leather and wool. The musk-ox wool has been showm
to have the qualities of merino and to be softer than cashmere, but
it is unlikely that it will be possible to shear flocks that have to resist
the rigors of a long Arctic winter or the pestilential irritation of the
mosquito in summer.

The reindeer industry in Alaska is largely in the hands of Eskimo.
It was started to maintain them, and 70 per cent of the flocks now
belong to Eskimo. In Siberia, where the reindeer are for native use
only, there being no export of meat as from Alaska, all the herds
are owned and managed by natives. In Arctic Canada when the
industry grows no doubt Eskimo and Indians will be largely em-
ployed to tend the flocks, but the slaughter of the beasts, the prepara-
tion of the meat and its export, as well as the transport arrangements
will no doubt be in the hands of Americans, Canadians, and Euro-
peans. Eskimo and white will meet even more than they do to-day.

The experience of the past in every quarter of the globe of the fate
of hunting peoples in contact with more highly organized races
gives room for legitimate doubt as to the ultimate survival, still less
the increase, of the different peoples of the tundra. The clash of
widely divergent cultures, to say nothing of the introduction of new
diseases, almost invariably has meant the extinction of the more
primitive people.

The same will probably occur in the Arctic. The latest reports.
from the Northwest Territories of Canada do not hold out much
hope for Eskimo survival. The Eskimo are depending more and
more on the police and trading post for supplies and help. Only
the remoter tribes seem to preserve their strength and independence.
The Hudson’s Bay Co. and the Canadian Government, through the
mounted police, are doing all they can for the Eskimo in sheltering
him from the evil effects of civilization. Yet the fact is admitted by
the police themselves that the sturdiest and most attractive Eskimo
are those who are not in contact with outposts of the white man’s

NS Nn Ne

POLAR GEOGRAPHY—BROWN 371

civilization.* Siberian natives in their greater isolation will no
doubt last longer, but they also show signs of failing.

Up to the present the tide of human migration has flowed and
ebbed on Arctic shores and has been mainly a seasonal movement,
marked even in the permanent residents by a great degree of no-
madism. But eventually the tide of white settlement will definitely
set northward, even to the Arctic seas, and in its flood destroy the
present inhabitants.

It is no more presumptuous to forecast a scattered population of
reindeer and musk-ox farmers in the “barren lands” of Arctic
Canada, the tundras of Siberia, and even in Greenland and Spits-
bergen too, a hundred years hence than it was a hundred years ago
to suggest sheep farmers in the plains of Australia or wheat fields in
the Peace Valley of Canada. Every land beyond the frontiers of
settlement has been a “ never-never land ” to unadventurous and un-
imaginative folk living in sheltered homes. But in most cases the
prediction has been falsified.

Prejudice and antipathy, which loom so strong at present, can be
ignored. When the Arctic calls for population and offers induce-
ment in the form of material gain, all difficulties of that kind will
vanish, just as the old-time horror of the Tropics disappeared as
knowledge grew and prospects of gain loomed through the heat. The
only question that remains unanswered is the adaptability of peoples
of European descent to life in the Arctic climate. At present there
is little evidence on which to base satisfactory conclusions, for nearly
all migration in historic times has been either within the temperate
zone or from temperate to tropical. There are few instances of mi-
grations from temperate to polar or even from warmer to cooler
climates.

The problem is one of considerable importance in the future of
human settlement for two reasons. First, because there is no real
evidence that the white races are suited for the Tropics—that is to
say, for permanent racial transference as apart from visits. All the
evidence that is conclusive points the other way and suggests that
only by a slow process of natural selection can the white races
ever find a sure footing in the Tropics. Long before that is
achieved the colored races will have effectively occupied the warm
lands.1e This means that the white races must turn, as in effect
they have been turning for several centuries, poleward in their
search for new homes. Secondly, the possibility of polar settle-

15 See Report of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, 1926, and K. Rasmussen, Across
Arctic America (1927).

16From this statement it does not, of course, follow that all regions within the
Tropics are necessarily uncolonizable by whites, since altitude may in certain places
compensate for the ill effects of a tropical climate. Nor does it follow that a few
exceptional families may not now and then persist in the Tropics for a generation or
two, though such instances generally involve the introduction of fresh blood.
372 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

ments affects, as I have tried to show, the future food production
of vast areas which at present enter little into the economic life of
the crowded populations of food-importing communities.

There are plenty of isolated cases to illustrate the healthiness of
polar climates and how a man can thrive in the Arctic for a year or
several years. But it is unsafe to found faith in polar colonization
on such cases. First, they are almost entirely cases of men, and
secondly of men in the prime of youth and of strong physique and
mentality at the outset. Witness the trappers of the Hudson’s Bay
Co., the fur traders of Siberia, or the adventurers in the Klondyke
and Yukon gold fields. It has even been argued that because a
negro accompanied Peary to the pole there is no reason why peoples
of the Tropics should not colonize the Arctic!

Successful colonization entails not merely the maintenance of
health and vigor during a shorter or longer stay in the new en-
vironment; it demands that race transference can take place and
that the transferred population can thrive with undiminished fer-
tility from generation to generation without the infusion of new
blood from the mother country. From this point of view the health
and energy of women and children is the important consideration.

The Danes in Greenland are the nearest modern approach to this
state of affairs, but though the Danish families thrive during their
stay in the north they do not regard Greenland as a permanent
home; they are exiles counting the years until they can return to
Denmark. At certain of the large mining camps in Spitsbergen
there are Norwegian families of several years’ uninterrupted resi-
dence with bright, healthy children born and reared in the far
north.

There are, unfortunately, no data bearing on climatic energy in
polar regions such as E. Huntington has collected for the United
States and some other countries. But if his conclusions are true,
that a low mean daily temperature is more conducive to high mental
energy than a high or even moderate one, then we can be suré that
the Arctic colonists will not at least suffer intellectual degeneration.
On the other hand, those of us who have experienced the extraordi-
nary physical energy which is one of the joys of life in polar cli-
mates must be a little skeptical of Huntington’s further conclusion
that a mean daily temperature of about 64° is the optimum for
physical activity. That figure would appear to be too high, but of
course it represents a value that is extraordinarily difficult to
measure.

The only example of real Arctic colonization that exists is that
of the old Norse colonies in southwestern Greenland founded in the
tenth century. At their height the two colonies must have con-
tained between 2,000 and 3,000 people, men, women, and children

|
.
.

POLAR GEOGRAPH Y—BROWN 373

scattered in about 280 farms, where they kept cattle, goats, sheep,
and horses, perhaps raised a few poor crops of little account, and
hunted bears, reindeer, and seals. There is no need to recall the
history of these settlements, how trade with Europe gradually
ceased, and how the Norsemen had entirely disappeared when late
in the sixteenth century communications with Greenland were
reopened.

Recent Danish researches at Herjolfsnes, near Cape Farewell,
have discredited the old belief that the colonies disappeared either
by Eskimo extermination or by fusion with the Eskimo races.'* It
now seems clear, at least as regards Oesterbygd, that the Norse
race maintained its racial purity and did not “go native.” The
general reluctance of the Nordic races to mix with widely divergent
stock was as noticeable then as it has been in later centuries. Ex-
amination of skeletons in the churchyard of Herjolfsnes reveals
the interesting facts that while clothes and ornaments, in graves of
the fifteenth century, show little trace of Eskimo influence, the
skeletons all show signs of rickets or other malformations and
stunted growth, but no sign of racial mixture with the Eskimo.
There is also a very high proportion of remains of infants and
young people. Evidently, therefore, the Norse colonies, at least
Oesterbygd, perished by exhaustion. Even if the climate were
changing for the worse during the existence of these colonies—and
such a change is by no means proved—there is no reason to sup-
pose that the habitual meat diet failed. The cessation of communi-
cations with Europe can not have affected the diet of the colonists
to any great extent. The King’s Mirror, describing conditions
when the colonies were prosperous, notes that most of the settlers
did not know what bread was. And what else could they get from
Europe to vary their meat diet?

The conclusion is, therefore, that the Norse colonists in Green-
land died out for want of new blood, or, in other words, that they
were not acclimatized to their Arctic home. From this it might be
argued that even the Nordics can never colonize the Arctic. Cer-
tainly no other race from temperate climates is likely to try, since
the Nordics alone show that distaste for gregariousness and that
capacity for enduring solitude which are essential qualities for the
task. We may even grant them a greater measure of physical
enterprise and love of wandering than other people.

The Greenland experiment is not, however, a sure criterion of
Nordic unsuitability for the Arctic. The pastoral settlement, which
is suggested, will be a slow colonization in which natural selection

17 See papers by P. Noérlund, F. C. C. Hansen, and F. J6nsson in Meddelelser om
Grénland, LXVII (1924), and by D. Brunn, ditto, LVII (1918).

240384—29 25

374 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

will have some say. Those suited will remain; others will move
away or perish. But the colonists will not be cut off from the world;
they will be in close touch with it. New blood will continually flow
in their veins, so that the unchecked course of natural selection
which operated in the old isolated Norse colonies and killed out the
more nervous and imaginative type, a type that is least adapted te
the Arctic, will not have free play. There is no reason why the race
should become impoverished by the elimination of its most progressive
element. Even though a diet solely of meat has proved wholesome
enough in the case of Eskimo and some explorers, it will not be nec:
essary for the Arctic colonists to subsist on it entirely; transport
facilities will bring every variety of food to their doors. If the
Norsemen suffered from insufficiency of certain ingredients in their
diet, a similar fate will not be the lot of the colonists of the future.
If they died out by lack of new blood and continual inbreeding, the
Arctic settlers of the future will be able to avoid that disaster.

Such is the legitimate forecast, as I see it, of the outer rim of the
Arctic of the future with its prosperous, though scattered, colonists
of pastoral interests and its fur farms here and there supplying high-
priced Arctic furs in limited numbers. But the settlement must wait
until the pressure of population on the world’s resources is even
greater than it is to-day. The remoter parts, those without rich
tundra and the ice-covered seas and lands must remain deserts visited
only by roving hunters and occasional explorers. In short, I see a
shrinking of the Arctic wildernesses, but never their disappearance.
I can not take as glowing a view of Arctic settlement as Stefansson
can or visualize the same attraction to population which he forecasts,
and I am sceptical of the value of Arctic lands as stations on the air
routes of the future. But even if he has overstated his case, his
long-sighted views have done something to dispel current miscon-
ceptions and reduce the area of polar wastes.

Of the possibilities of Arctic mining, little need be said. The sub-
ject is not purely a geographical one. Where minerals of value occur
they will sooner or later be mined, like the cryolite of Greenland, the
copper of Arctic Canada, the coal and gypsum of Spitsbergen. Geo-
graphical considerations undoubtedly affect the issue, but in the main
it is an economic problem. Difficulties of climate can nearly always
be overcome, and transport can generally be arranged if the mineral
will pay the cost. As coal increases in price, as it promises to do, the
Spitsbergen coal mines will pay well, and if gypsum finds new uses
and higher values the vast deposits of Spitsbergen will be mined on
a great scale. Similar considerations apply to Arctic copper. But
the Arctic lands as a whole, as far as we know, are not rich in mineral
wealth. The only one that will eventually have a large mining popu-

POLAR GEOGRAPH Y—BROWN 379

lation is Spitsbergen, and there manufactures may develop in rela-
tion to the gypsum and metallic ores.

The Antarctic has no human problems comparable with those of
the Arctic. It is true that whaling has recently invaded the Ant-
arctic, with the vessels in the Ross Sea, not to mention the sub-
Antarctic whaling in South Georgian and Falkland waters. But
this can be little more than a passing phase. Already some species
of whales show signs of depletion of numbers, and unless whaling is
so rigorously shackled by regulations as to make it of little profit
compared with the risk it entails the industry must kill itself in a few
years’ time. For the rest there is nothing of value in commerce in
the Antarctic—certainly nothing that it can possibly pay to exploit.
The stories of future Antarctic coal mines can be dismissed as a
dream without any solid foundation. It is fortunate. And those of
us who care for the wild waste spaces of the world are glad to think
of the Antarctic as free from invasion by our modern civilization
with its insistence on hurry and noise. We are glad to remember the
lonely places of the world and their matchless beauty, content to
know that to others they will bring the same fascination they did to
us in years gone by.
renee AP RANEY: com deh PEARS 8 | HUE

oie ret golfer near Sido een serie tata Pep M ECL CRBS tet Ab qonehs
pyto Dableiens: bap cies Bt ete

re sit dara Tre LD ar dee TET Oe BRE oiirtileedl ott:
teAy od? bepaint eiiaooet eich desigediy ei ouad atte birt oe

eft} (ried webhitoee Odo Joe leah: wee ale pee phdeaeony oath ewe, nie
jw cawdew bodblie bop osiguesd saaokia sind ote
ginsge sxoetybsorkds ) comme wien a sd sven shtdeed ogy Apt
at vuiledw eechun ben iodine Ro nevelgot Te teuiawesipeolnden 19
tiloxe Slik toy doesed olen anhiieletomyd bl nandes yileag Gut ee ao

ote itt Rash {ik jeneitoypien fae ond pitetom beh oulltiw distacem
Giwmrioinichai mii te yanilogetitiods Jean add 0d > ate
wily udidiow YLntahee-soljomntih oy
i an besafuwth;ed feroesagart itoo. otiot date pit Ee eerrotal aa
to ssest bak: isiscwtotet db Gaokebanot-bildawastpeii eso
asia od bel ots! bliovw: odt doves gS otanr Di: ot r0t ares oye Be
holhimilieks:mreBe te iw qe idigevab miovk.oott aa,ononink sdf to
UP -stinenion ob-helo ore Sih yest Da vrind so oeesiatagE ele tie
a cintado .yineodk eentdatons coord bar fiey endo. epdele eget
ot Gb gods codtesioast otoet dient Lived erode. o8 tags Womel
ee ES SERA, PEE BAT

Aiolyes Om RCE id igao gn sry de

BIRDS OF THE PAST IN NORTH AMERICA?

By ALEXANDER WETMORE

[With 11 plates]

When one considers that the number of forms of living birds
known at the present time is approximately 25,000, the fossil species
that have been discovered are remarkably few. ‘The most recent
synopsis of the fossil birds of the world, that of Koloman Lam-
brecht, published in 1921, includes only 700 species, part of them of
doubtful identity. The list has been increased only slightly in the
seven years that have passed since this publication. At the present
date (October, 1928) there have been described 155 species known
only as fossils from that part of continental North America which
lies north of Mexico (but including the peninsula of Lower Cali-
fornia), this being the area covered by the American Ornithologists’
Union in its official Check-List. To complete the roster of fossil
forms for this region we must add 108 species now living whose bones
are found in deposits of Pleistocene age, so that the list includes at
the date just mentioned 263 names. ‘The total is less than that for any
other group of vertebrates except the amphibia for this region. ‘The
fossil reptiles, according to data supplied by Dr. O. P. Hay, now
include 1,011, or nearly four times the number of birds, while the
amphibians (without reference to supposed members of this group
named from tracks alone) reach a total of 156.

That comparatively few students have taken up serious work on
our fossil birds may be due to three factors: First, the small numbers
in which fossil bird bones ordinarily occur; second, the incomplete-
ness of the specimens in most cases; and third, the lack in most mu-
seums of skeletal material of modern birds for comparative use.

It is true that there have been occasional deposits in Pleistocene
beds in North America where bones of birds have been found in
great abundance, as at Fossil Lake in Oregon, and in the pitch de-
posits at Rancho La Brea in California, but these are exceptional both
in number of individuals and in range of species represented. Ordi-

1 Presidential address delivered before the Washington Academy of Sciences, Jan, 10,
1928. Reprinted, with change of title and some additions and changes, from the Journal
of the Washington Academy of Sciences, vol. 18, No. 6, Mar. 19, 1928, pp. 145-158.

377
378 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

-

narily the careful collector of vertebrate fossils finds no bird remains
whatever, or at most recovers only a few fragments in the course of a
season’s explorations in the field. Most of those obtained are secured
incidentally in other excavations, the majority of bird bones being
small and easily overlooked, or of such form as to offer little promise,
so that when only partially exposed they may be disregarded by
the searcher for striking specimens. In a few deposits fossilized
feathers have been found (see pl. 9) and very rarely fossilized
eggs (see pl. 2) are encountered but such finds are unusual and
in most cases the specimens are in a highly fragmentary condition.

Bird remains in the fossil beds below the Pleistocene are charac-
teristically fragmentary or broken. Leg and wing bones are those
most usually encountered, with occasional parts of vertebrae, pelves,
sterna, or ribs. Seldom are more than the merest fragments of
skulls secured, and on relatively few occasions have complete skele-
tons been found (see pl. 1).

Birds as individuals exist in enormous numbers, and as there is
naturally a constant mortality among them it might be expected
that their fossil remains would be abundant. There is no reason to
suppose that birds were less common during the Tertiary than now;
in fact there is ground to believe that they may have been more
numerous prior to the Recent Period than in the present century.
Our present race of civilized man was not then developed to trouble
them; and there is no question but that the rising dominance of man
in the last hundred years has had far-reaching effect in reducing
the total number of birds, both by man’s personal activity in hunting,
and by the changes in ecological conditions that have attended his
agricultural and commercial developments. Many of our existing
species of birds are now able to maintain their living status only
through restrictions arranged for their benefit by those far-sighted
persons who realize the necessity for conservation in connection with
our remaining wild creatures.

It would seem then that in previous geologic ages there may have
been more birds present in North America than exist to-day. ‘That
few individuals seem to have been preserved as fossils is apparently
due to the fact that the bones of birds are so light that they are
easily destroyed. Most of the limb bones in birds have a hollow
center, with comparatively thin walls of dense, rather brittle struc-
ture, and when subjected to undue pressure are crushed or broken.
Most birds die through capture by some predator, or if overtaken by
disease are eaten promptly by some scavenger. As the majority are
of small or medium size they are often entirely consumed, and their
bones comminuted or destroyed by the strong digestion of the creature
that has found or captured them.

BIRDS OF THE PAST—-WETMORE 379

That this destruction is the usual course when birds die will be
attested by field naturalists when they reflect upon the hundreds and
thousands of living birds that are seen and the relatively small num-
ber of instances in which remains of dead birds are encountered.
Armies of predatory or scavenger creatures, many of them unnoticed
by the average individual, destroy the carcasses immediately upon
death.

The bones that in past ages through fortuitous chance have
escaped this destruction are frequently of little moment to the
paleontologist. Bones of the toes, ends of the ulna, broken bits of
the coracoid, or fragments and slivers from the shafts of long bones,
all of which are common as fossils, ordinarily offer no distinctive
characters, and, in the main, should be disregarded by the careful
student. Unfortunately through the enthusiasm of early workers
in the science these have served frequently as the basis of descrip-
{ion for names that are now stumbling blocks in modern paleonto-
logical studies.

In work in the field I have been interested in observing the skeletal
remains of birds, and have found that chance to-day seems to favor
the preservation of exactly the same type of fragments as those found
among Tertiary fossils. The body of a duck or a heron is eaten by
some coyote or vulture which tears out the breast and the viscera,
destroying part of the sternum, breaks the skull to obtain the brain,
and mangles the wings and thighs. The remaining portions dry
somewhat, and the flesh is removed either fresh or dried by the work
of insects. The broken skeleton that remains is light, and unless
anchored by vegetation, blows about with the wind or is swept by
running water. Bit by bit it falls apart and is scattered over the
space of several square feet. Occasional bones are buried, usually
in such a way that they may be subject to decay, or, less often, where
they may be preserved. Even where vertebrate scavengers are not
active, delicate portions and many of the more sturdy bones
disappear.

Imperfect preservation is common where predatory enemies are
absent. On the islets in the Hawaiian Bird Reservation thousands
upon thousands of birds of moderate size live without interference
from the usual enemies that prey upon birds in continental areas. It
might be expected that here complete skeletons would be preserved
in large quantity since there is the usual regular mortality among the
assemblage. I found, however, that even here the carcésses disin-
tegrated, while the thinner parts of skulls, sterna, and pelves, under
the combined effect of sun, rain, and wind-blown sand, were corroded
away, and the firmer bones were scattered by violent gales. On
Laysan Island many found a resting place in the concentrated saline
waters of a shallow, central lagoon, and here on investigation I found
380 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

a veritable cemetery of bird remains, mostly composed of the long
bones that are characteristic of fossil deposits. These thousands of
fragments were being steadily buried in the sands that blew in upon
them, so that the lagoon at Laysan may be a possible source of fossil
deposits for study in the remote future if then there still exist beings
interested or capable in such research. The situation on Laysan
suggests that similar conditions have operated on many oceanic
islands, and that there is opportunity for discovery of extinct forms
of life when these are found and properly exploited. Formation of
such large deposits seems to occur only under exceptional circum-
stances, it being more usual for scattered fragments to be preserved.

The certain history of the class of birds as known in North Amer-
ica at the present time must be considered to begin with the Cre-
taceous period of geologic time. It is true that there is one species
called Laopteryx priscus, described by Marsh from the Morrison
formation in southern Wyoming, that in late years, without par-
ticular reason, has been listed in the same family with Archaeop-
teryx of the Old World. As there is, however, some doubt that
Laopteryx is actually avian, its systematic position must be con-
sidered vague until it has been more carefully studied. Another
fragment, described by Emmons in 1857 as Palaeonornis struthio-
noides, from what are considered possibly Triassic beds in North
Carolina, is also so doubtfully avian as not to merit consideration
at this time.

The first fragment of a fossil bird from this continent of which
we have record, a part of a tibia, was secured by S. W. Conrad in
the extensive marl beds near Arneytown, N. J. This was mentioned
in 1834 by Doctor Morton in his “ Synopsis of the Organic Remains
of the Cretaceous in the United States,” as a species of Scolopaa,
but was not actually described until 1870 when Marsh bestowed upon
it the name Palaeotringa vetus. It is believed to be a primitive
member of the shore-bird group.

The birds of greatest interest found in the Cretaceous period are
species known to have teeth, first described from specimens found
by Marsh, and parties working under his direction in the Niobrara
beds of western Kansas. Of prime importance among these are the
members of the family Hesperornithidae, in which there are at pres-
ent recognized five species. Several practically complete skeletons
have been discovered, so that in spite of their antiquity these fossil
forms are fairly well known (see pls. 3 and 4). The species of
Hesperornis were diving birds with greatly elongated bodies, strong
legs, paddle-like feet, and long necks, with the jaws set with sharply
pointed teeth placed in continuous grooves. The vertebrae were
saddle-shaped like those of modern birds. The lower jaw had teeth
set along the entire length, but in the upper jaw, teeth were placed

BIRDS OF THE PAST—-WETMORE 381

on the maxilla alone, the premaxilla being smooth, so that appar-
ently even at this remote date there began a tendency to tooth re-
duction which has resulted in the toothless jaws found in modern
birds. The various species of Hesperornis lived in the shallow seas
that covered parts of the interior of our country in the Cretaceous,
and from their form seem to have fed on fish which they captured
by diving. They were so adapted for aquatic life that they had en-
tirely lost the power of flight. In fact the wing is known from
the humerus alone which is reduced to a slender, curved stylus, the
head of which has so slight an articulation on the scapular arch that
it is evident that it had little function. It is possible that the remain-
ing wing elements were represented by rudimentary bones but these
have not been identified, and if present at all they must have been
very small.

Early constructions of the skeleton represented Hesperornis in an
upright attitude, but on more careful examination of the articular
surfaces of the leg bones it was found that the legs projected at
right angles from the body so that it is doubtful if the bird could
stand on them at all. It appears that Zesperornis presented the most
highly specialized developments for aquatic life of any bird yet
known. It traveled through the water by propulsion of its tremen-
dously powerful feet, which are of such form and have such size in
relation to the remainder of the skeleton that it is probable that
at need the bird could develop the speed and agility in turning found
in the modern shark or porpoise. On land, if it ventured at any
time on terra firma, the bird must have progressed like a hair seal,
prostrate on the breast; it is possible that it built a nest of floating
vegetation in the water like the modern grebes, and seldom if ever
did more than flounder out on shore to rest in the sun. If its eggs
were placed on shore, we must suppose that they were deposited
near the water’s edge like those of loons.

Marsh, deceived by the flat sternum, on which there is no keel
for the attachment of flight muscles, characterized Hesperornis as “a
carnivorous, swimming ostrich,” while later authors have considered
it as perhaps ancestral to the modern grebes and loons. In point
of fact Hesperornis is so highly specialized that it is doubtful that
it may be considered ancestral to any modern form other than that
it represents a type of bird that lived at an earlier age. Resem-
blances to Hesperornis seen in modern species appear to be merely
those characterizing birds as a group, or are the preservation in a
few of ancient characters which in the Cretaceous may have been
developed in all forms of birds.

The second type of toothed bird, described from the Cretaceous
by Marsh, is /chthyornis, a genus in which seven species are at
present recognized. Jchthyornis victor (see pl. 5) and J. dispar,
382 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

the two that are best known, in body were about as large as a
domestic pigeon. The neck was long, and the head was large and
strong, with long jaws implanted with many small, sharply pointed,
recurved teeth set in sockets. The wings were large, long and strong,
the sternum heavily keeled, and the legs and feet comparatively
weak. The biconcave vertebrae, which have the form found in
fish and some amphibians, and are unlike those of any other bird,
were the most peculiar feature of the group. Jchthyornis was en-
tirely different from Hesperornis in that it was preeminently de-
veloped for flying. ‘That it flew by feathers, and not by means of
a skin membrane as do bats, is shown by tubercles for the attach-
ment of secondary feathers on the ulna, and the ankylosis of the
metacarpal elements into one bone to form a firm support for the
primaries, the long wing feathers on the outer part of the wing. As
a flying form it is apparently nearer the central stem from which
have come our modern birds than is Hesperornis. Ichthyornis,
however, shows primitive tendencies in that it still carried the am-
phicoelous or biconcave type of vertebral articulation, so that it
combines the ancient with the new, as a grandmother may don the
dress of a modern maiden. J/chthyornis has been postulated as
ancestral to modern terns or skimmers, but here again I believe that
resemblance is merely convergent, due to the restriction placed by
method in flight on the evolution of bodily form in birds. It is my
belief that birds of the Cretaceous had as varied form as those of
modern times, and that there is no direct linear connection between
the few fossils of this time yet known and existing groups.

Certain other Cretaceous fossils (Apatornis celer and Baptornis
advenus) from the Niobrara beds are placed among the toothed
birds. From the evidence of Hesperornis and Ichthyornis, the only
forms in which the jaws have been found, it would appear that teeth
may be a character to be expected in all ornithic forms of the Creta-
ceous, and that we should not, therefore, put any Cretaceous bird in
a modern family unless its skeleton is completely known.

There are described from New Jersey three species of a genus known
as Palaeotringa that are currently located in the modern family
Scolopacidae which contains the snipes, and three more of the genus
Telmatornis that are allocated in the family Rallidae among the
rails. Another, Laornis edvardsianus, is considered as an anserine
bird of the family Anatidae that contains the ducks, geese, and swans.
These were supposed for many years to be Cretaceous forms, but
recent studies indicate that the particular marl beds of New Jersey
from which they come are not Cretaceous, but are in reality Eocene,
so that the birds indicated must be transferred to the Tertiary,

With the beginning of the Tertiary period there is a sudden change
in our known fossil avifauna. Toothed birds have disappeared and

BIRDS OF THE PAST—WETMORE 383

the forms found are more like modern types, so that the greater
number of the approximately 25 species of fossil birds that have
been described from the Eocene of North America are now placed in
modern families. It may be said that a number of these have been
named from very inadequate material and that some, perhaps, may
not be birds, as the bones from which they have been described are
so fragmentary as to make it difficult to decide whether they belong
in the Class Aves or elsewhere among the vertebrates. Others on
further study may be found sufficiently peculiar to warrant their
separation as distinct from living families.

Diatryma steini from the lower Eocene (Lower Wasatch) of
Wyoming is one of the few fossil birds found that is represented
by a nearly complete skeleton (see pls. 6 and 7). This great bird
stood nearly 7 feet in height and was developed for a terrestrial life.
It possessed strong legs, and a heavy head, with a great arched bill,
and very small, almost aborted wings. Superficially it suggests the
remarkable Phororhacos of Patagonia, and probably was similar in
habit. It has been described fully by Matthew and Granger but has
not been carefully studied, so that its exact affinities are not certainly
known. It is placed at present near the cranes and rails, but does
not seem to have very close affinity with either.

Another form that is known from a nearly complete skeleton is
Gallinuloides wyomingensis from the middle Eocene (Green River)
of Wyoming, a gallinaceous form, typical of a special family re-
lated to the curassows and guans, fowl-like birds that live among
the branches of trees. Minerva saurodosis of the same age is appar-
ently a primitive owl, while Presbyornis is a shore bird placed in a
separate family from any of our modern species. It seems to have
resembled an avocet but probably was more aquatic and swam more
readily. Mautélornts was an auklike form that differs from modern
auks in that it seems adapted for wading as well as for swimming.
Other species that have been described from this age are so frag-
mentary as to be uncertain in character.

Bird remains from the Oligocene of North America are as yet few,
so that to date only six species have been recorded. Two of these,
a cormorant, and a supposed pheasant named by Shufeldt, are of
uncertain status. The only important deposit of this age that has
yielded much bird material to the present is one in Weld County,
Colo., where collectors from the Colorado Museum of Natural His-
tory in Denver, in exhuming great series of such strange mammals
as T’rigonias, Symborodon, and Archaeotherium, have uncovered a
few bones of birds. From these the writer has recently described
four species representing peculiar genera not known in modern times.
Phasmagyps patritus is a vulture related to the living black vulture
but about one-half larger. Palaeogyps prodromus, in the same family
384 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

(see pl. 1), is more like the California condor but is only two-thirds
as large. Palaeocrex fax isa large gallinule, apparently between two
and three feet in height, and Bathornis veredus is a species of the
shore-bird family of thick-knees or Cidicnemidae (see pl. 1).
Bathornis was peculiar in possessing a hind toe which is missing in
living representatives of the family. Further species of extinct
birds from the Oligocene will be awaited with interest since in that
age we may expect the earliest species that are at all closely similar
to those living to-day.

The 23 birds certainly allocated to the Miocene include a consid-
erable variety of forms. In Colorado, in the deposits known as the
Florissant lake beds, famous for the insect and plant remains
that they have produced during the past 50 years, there have been
found remains of several birds. A plover has been described as
Charadrius sheppardianus, while another species, a perching bird
about as large as a cedar waxwing or bluebird, has been named
Palaeospiza bella by J. A. Allen (see pl. 9). During a recent ex-
amination of the type of the latter species I have found that it is
representative of a peculiar family to be known as the Palaeospizi-
dae, which belongs near the base of the oscinine subfamily of the
perching birds, immediately above the larks, or Alaudidae.

Another avian species from these same Florissant beds has had a
curious history. In 1883 the paleobotanist Lesquereux proposed the
name Fontinalés pristina for a specimen that he thought was a bit of
a fossil moss. In 1916 Knowlton called attention to this species
indicating that the fragment on which it was based was not a plant,
but was in reality a bit of a feather. Fontinalis must, therefore, be
transferred to the avian list where it is placed in the group of incertae
sedis without much hope ever of ascertaining its proper relationships.

Among other Miocene fossils there have been found in the beds
of diatomaceous earth at Lompoc, California, a number of birds
from which Loye Miller has described six species, a shearwater, three
gannets and boobies, an auklet, and a shore-bird. These occur as
flattened impressions or silhouettes in beds of nearly pure diatomace-
ous material. The species thus far identified are mainly fish-eaters,
and in part may have come to a shallow Miocene bay to feed on
myriads of herrings whose remains abound in the same beds. The
most abundant bird is Puffinus diatomicus, a shearwater allied to the
living blackvented shearwater (see pl. 8). Zémosa vanrossemi is a
godwit much like the modern marbled godwit. Swla willetti, a booby
somewhat like the living red-footed booby, is of interest in that it
shows the same type of closed external nostril found in modern
Sulidz, indicating the great antiquity of this character. The bone
in these Lompoe specimens has been so altered that on exposure to
the air it crumbles and disappears, leaving only an impression that

BIRDS OF THE PAST—WETMORE 385

in turn is evanescent as the material in which it is formed is soft
and friable. .

The Miocene of the Sheep Creek and Snake Creek beds of north-
western Nebraska under exploration by the American Museum of
Natural History, Princeton University, the Carnegie Museum, and
Mr. Harold Cook, has yielded a fair number of bones of birds from
which I have described seven species, including a hawk, Buteo
typhotus, related to the modern red-tail, two small eagles, Geranoaétus
ales and G. contortus, of a genus not found outside South America in
a living state, and a kite, Protctinia effera. ‘There is also a peculiar
limpkin, Aramornis longurio, and a small paroquet, Conuropsis
fratercula, allied to the modern Carolina paroquet but smaller. One
may picture the area as a badlands section where hawks and eagles,
with nests on the sides of cliffs, dropped the bones of their prey on the
slopes below, to mingle with occasional bodies of the predatory birds
that had brought them to the place.

The Pliocene, like the Oligocene, has fossil birds poorly represented
as yet, as at present we know only 10 forms from within the limits of
this age. The upper Snake Creek in Nebraska, which is placed in the
lower Pliocene, has given us an eagle, and a species of chachalaca,
Ortalis phengites, a tree-haunting, gallinaceous type of a group not
found to-day north of the lower Rio Grande Valley. From these
same deposits I have received the humerus of a crane that is seemingly
identical with the existing sandhill crane, the first instance known of
remains of a bird still living to be found below the Pleistocene.
From beds ascribed to the Upper Pliocene in southern Arizona I have
identified a small goose, Branta minuscula, a tree duck, Dendrocygna
eversa, a sandpiper, Micropalama hesternus, and a dove, Chloroenas
macula.

Though a part of the birds of the Miocene and Pliocene are
peculiar many are identified in genera existing at the present time.
It is my own belief that these two ages mark the period of evolu-
tion of our modern genera of birds and that there has come com-
paratively little change in generic type since. In my opinion evolu-
tion among birds during the Quaternary has been concerned prin-
cipally with the development of those differences that characterize
species and subspecies, differences which in some cases have been
so pronounced that present usage, with its close perception of min-
utiae, concedes them as generic. When broad, comprehensive limits
are given generic groups, however, these seemingly have had their
origin in the latter part of the Tertiary.

It seems probable that the bird life of the Miocene and Pliocene
was even more varied and wonderful than that of to-day, and that
a larger number of species may have existed. We are told that
climatic conditions in that time had not developed such sharply
386 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

marked zonal characteristics as in the Recent period, so that though
the temperature was not oppressively warm it was modern and fairly
uniform at points much farther north than under modern condi-
tions. Forms that we consider now as subtropical, in the Miocene
and Pliocene ranged north into northern Nebraska, and probably
further. We are aware that the present number of species in tropical
and subtropical sections of America is much greater than in the
Temperate Zone. Ecuador for example, in the geographic limits at
present granted to it, has approximately the same area as the State
of California. The known bird life of Ecuador at the present time
according to Chapman, numbers 1,508 forms, more than for the
whole of North America north of Mexico, while that of California
at the end of 1924 (the latest published revision of the list) included
only 594 species and subspecies. By analogy we may suppose a rich
and highly varied bird life for the Miocene and Pliocene periods
in North America, a fauna that since has been in part exterminated,
and in part restricted to more southern latitudes. Further research
may be expected to increase considerably the list of fossil forms
known from this section of geologic time.

With advance into the Pleistocene we come to an age in which the
fossil avifauna becomes much better known through more numerous
occurrence and greater abundance of specimens. Fifty-one extinct
species have thus far been described from our Pleistocene beds, evi-
dence of a rich avifauna. There are in addition 108 species of birds
still existent whose remains have been identified in Pleistocene de-
posits, so that the entire group of this period includes 159 forms of
birds, more than half our present list, and a considerable number
when we consider the smaller figures yielded by our census in pre-
vious ages.

It may be remarked parenthetically that the more than 50 extinct
species that have been described from the Pleistocene are definite
indication of what has been said above of the probable abundance of
birds at the close of the Pliocene, since these forms undoubtedly had
their evolution prior to the Ice Age and were in existence at its
beginning. From somewhat meager information I am inclined to
regard the close of the Tertiary as the period of greatest diversity
and abundance in bird life in the earth’s history so far as North
America is concerned, and to believe that with the rigors of environ-
ment incident to the opening of the Pleistocene, and the even more
unfavorable conditions of the historic part of the recent period oc-
casloned by the increase of man over the earth, there has been steady
reduction and extermination among birds, a process that will con-
tinue in spite of protective regulation until most of the peculiar
forms have disappeared and only the more adaptable ones remain.

BIRDS OF THE PAST—-WETMORE 387

To return to our Pleistocene avifauna, we find several deposits that
have yielded abundant bird remains. The earliest known of these
important beds was that of Fossil or Christmas Lake, in the arid
section of Oregon, where deposits containing hundreds of bones of
birds have been explored. These, studied first by Shufeldt and later
by Miller, have given a varied list of birds, mainly aquatic, of which
a number have been described as species distinct from those existing
to-day, and many have been identified as identical with living forms.
Dr. O. P. Hay considers the age as first interglacial. Of the more
than 20 peculiar species only one, Palaeotetrix gillii, is now held to
be generically distinct from living birds. The flamingo, Phoeni-
copterus cope, is the most unusual species in the assemblage, as any
of the other genera might be expected in this area to-day. It may
be remarked that the flamingo is no criterion for particularly warm
climate at the time mentioned, since a somewhat similar species of
flamingo now ranges and nests in South America through Patagonia
where the summer weather is often cold and inclement.

The deposits of bird bones from this Oregon locality are found
in an old lake bed that from modern conditions might be supposed
to be similar to the small alkaline lakes now common in this area.
If this is true it is possible that the great abundance of bird remains
is indicative of a condition in the Pleistocene similar to one that has
destroyed hundreds of thousands of waterfowl in the western part
of the United States in recent years. The malady to which I allude,
the so-called “ duck sickness,” has been especially prevalent in the
past 20 years in the deltas of streams flowing into Great Salt Lake in
Utah, but is known in alkaline lakes in a number of other sections,
including the Malheur region of Oregon. Briefly, it appears that
birds, principally ducks and other aquatic species, become affected
by excessive concentrations of alkalis in the waters in which they
feed, and, unless they can have immediate access to fresh water, they
become paralyzed and die. Aquatic birds of various kinds have been
affected and the number of individuals known to have been thus
killed in the last 20 years has been tremendous, running literally into
the millions. The possibility of the accumulation of extensive de-
posits of bones of birds that may be preserved as fossils under these
conditions is easily evident.

The most famous deposit of Pleistocene vertebrate remains in the
New World is that of Rancho La Brea on the Californian coastal
plain only a few miles from the business center of the city of Los
Angeles. Here outpourings of asphalt from the depths of the earth
have been exposed in such a way that they have served to entrap
animals which were held in sticky embrace until death came to them,
and then, when decay had released their skeletons, to entomb the bones
in a bed of tar where many have been preserved in perfect condition.
388 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

The manner in which this pitch trap operated is seen in minor de-
posits that form to-day, as it is not unusual to find small mammals
or birds held fast in viscous asphalt seeps. Under careful explora-
tion the beds at Rancho La Brea have yielded bones to an aggregate
of many, many thousands, and have included very large numbers
of remains of birds. 'To the present time Loye Miller has published
identification of nearly 60 species, and there are unquestionably oth-
ers to come as the smaller forms, the passeriform or perching birds
in particular, have not yet been carefully studied. Two-fifths of the
forms from these deposits are extinct. Such scavengers as vultures,
which would be attracted to the bodies of dead animals, are repre-
sented in abundance, and include several extinct genera. Among
these the most curious is the great Z'eratornis merriami, which is
known from almost the complete skeleton, and represents the largest
of flying birds, exceeding in wing spread the modern condors (see pls.
10 and 11). Another species of great abundance was a gallinaceous
bird, Parapavo californicus, supposed at one time to be a peacock,
but now admitted as a species of turkey. The age of these deposits
is placed by Hay as first interglacial.

Asphalt deposits of similar kind have been found recently near
McKittrick, and near Carpinteria, Calif., giving additional in-
formation on the distribution of the avifauna of California in the
Pleistocene, which, in its abundance of vultures and large hawks
and entire lack of gulls, offers a decided contrast to that of Oregon.

Recent explorations in Florida, near Vero and Melbourne, in what
are supposed to be Pleistocene beds, have yielded remains of birds in
which are found the great stork known as the jabiru, and various
other species. Recently a valuable coliection gathered by Mr. W. W.
Holmes near the west coast has come into my hands for study, and on
preliminary examination is found to contain a considerable variety
of species. Most remarkable is a broken metatarsal of a male turkey
with a trifid spur core that may represent an unknown species.
Multiple spurs are known among certain pheasants, but have not been
recorded among the gallinaceous birds of North America. The
Holmes collection when fully identified will add considerably to
knowledge of the ancient Floridian avifauna as it embraces the most
comprehensive series of species of birds that has been found fossil in
the eastern United States.

Cave deposits that have been explored in California, Pennsyl-
vania, and Maryland, have contained remains of Pleistocene birds,
that need not be described in detail except to remark that caverns
offer a fertile field for investigation.

In closing it may be said that the discovery of additional forms
in the Cretaceous is uncertain but that any obtained will be impor-
tant. At the present time only two types are well known from this
BIRDS OF THE PAST—WETMORE 389

period, one of diver form, and the other of flying habit that ap-
parently fed on the wing over water. ‘These are both so specialized
that we may expect that other toothed birds existed though their
possible presence is now indefinitely indicated by fragments of a
few species of uncertain status. The Tertiary should give many
more species than now known, particularly in its Miocene and
Pliocene beds, and finally from the Pleistocene we may expect many
forms in addition to those already discovered. From cavern and
other deposits we may hope for more extinct species related to
modern birds, some peculiar and some with relatives living to-day
in South America.

It has been already intimated that the number of extinct species
of birds now known from North America is far less than is to be
expected. As the forms described by earlier students are passed
under review it is evident that much remains to be done to decide
their proper status. Many have been named from such insufficient
material that their systematic position is doubtful, while there are
a few in which the type material is a composite of fragments that
may contain remains from two or more families, so that selection
must be made to properly apply the name. Some that have been
called birds probably are not avian and eventually will be rejected
from our list. Progress is being made steadily in these matters,
and yearly the condition improves, so that our uncertainties become
fewer and fewer. Such glimpses as our few fossils give us of the
life of the past are fascinating and promise high return for the
most painstaking study. At the present rate with which new ma-
terial comes to hand we may possibly expect to see our knowledge
of palaeornithology in North America doubled in the next 20 years.

24034—29——26
ok ito pied we Soeutee rloniatt

ah RRS: orig blgtoute seinded, odes ‘at

: bar aipooiM, ati at, yhalebesg ado veed ansddses

be jones, jeg {ian payotoandaiel E atls eee ee

AHIR, CIS ERS Heo, abberavonnih | ebaoe:aeadh ova

od, baishyr egivega, toniine,-ox0me sity sqod! pany ry

matbond tan itaini sh edit Sretily anicootopd

Ase be eiteueted Ho whec hating yh ewe, an

20? we ‘Yoniézy,: a, neat, aildcanitdr hoshusidttvhgamlin ingedd

\ \..6d 3, Bh: pal. paul. set.eh mrad: POM: rer

oa beeen. Sy wtweb eee. meieaeorened bnchinoaady. dennotte ealitveltie \h

vebinob nt acoh od ot aniaawr depen tert dusting ageli irs

- \daeioMyrenct sane: ona hamed nued ate nent sie hadarts

came ert. whtalon ht} thoes wh peieao ata sind socked

igs Saal: steompsih ja pienghtone et: iamalen saggy att caoiake onic

i) gOldoal oe. dala oe totdicewh: wo do owl mot galenges ginigos” (oat y

fat ord tlt sno, custo off yg niglsodorg: brebuahadialaaee

yt dvioatex od Hiv. eertitexe bear ueeltatidd omer ghdndeing ahaid hstley:

pp genndbeen rend, sth 4 “beets, ohare gated eh meonerSh i capers stork
upon) welinleewony std dad) he aceon noni bed stilt

, al to at, oxigieliwek av a0 7a-eoequnilg de@) noah Reg

ouh)..1k. inde bsiel.ott eet), fom ttlaeion it oa dene aed 168 ;

‘eek PEOER Agi dive. Htign giant doragiaddé bh La bide sciienhletiaea

peghokyrocgl19) goa, obdoeqan: yldmace, ytu lew bined, oF ns tnt ;
RADY, ae inlgeteeputee fie bicpiorieapius Risen are q to.

hy wir Lae sek co Py liar exe teste ny Hun? 40 earart

Got Yaar. reat) oe eS ini 7 DOE Ae) ee a waits

ren ey es
“

okies Mant rai ha fe Sh as Lanes eee eh ee ymale wo gah
A i WEE hac tiat eyyila tiet eae Ow, hep even fal ‘a cn Tike ai
mOe reales, md Pete AD TM We Pe tay] iy tet bP vaitad unite i, bss WEG HON , e fe
” Hit fe he EA Hse bby ; Wess OR Sree iff Bor afk “a break j ‘he a
Dect ites, Cee ORR (1 EC TNRAN ie Hy CVV OR NS ¥ ned ioakcenalaligs aa), Oa
eciargs 0ob Pah eked Mediu, aang asad are a SEA “is 5

et RL es ies. Ok SY ‘ee a 4 uiinte Lid ee Le {actual bah al ig
Base icity Li akteak ated i |

Cia ohagomed tc ual Dyce, eoetallh enon «ie odor
véhie, aril Mormbend Tete, contelnte Fehtatns at AMA
bed demi, sad, lee oat bed te eal once ts ichaukes inte enys |
WHA Hotta Gali oe oe — ne
MeMecan cS Waly pe ‘yohinch Titi Vis ‘soca et -viaitonad ei i :
Patio Ceowynuiwnnt: ig. vine tale Ly sea eee: chepiwed wile ip io cage
cae Wks elas, ripen ast pet Ry be si Gove : Kony |

Abaieceaetr aad
Rec eS
Smithsonian Report, 1928.— Netmore PLATE 1

be
He
A j
Wit. =...
AA:
ANG

I tp
ty |

AT LEFT, TYPE SPECIMEN OF PALAEOGYPS PRODROMUS
WETMORE, A VULTURE: AT RIGHT, TYPE OF BATHORNIS
VEREDUS WETMORE, A THICK-KNEE. BOTH FROM THE
OLIGOCENE OF COLORADO

These bones show the characteristic fragmentary preservation of fossil
bird bones. (From original description published by the Colorado
Museum of Natural History)

Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Wetmore PLATE 2

eee

Two VIEWS OF A FOSSILIZED
BIRD’S EGG, FROM THE OLIG-
OCENE OF SOUTH DAKOTA

From a specimen in the U.S. National
Museum. Natural size
q45uU9[ Ul 499J 9 A[IBOU ST PAG SIU, “UINESN]AT [VMON *§ “Q 9Y4 UT UoUTOeds WOT

SNOILVWYHO4 SNOAOWLAYD WOYS Sdyiq GSHLOOL AHL SO ANO ‘HSYVIA) SITWOSY SINYOYSdSSH 4O NOLSISHS

€ aLv1d

d4OWISAA—'8ZHL ‘WWodey uvluosYyyIWS

(L06E “OD

sdypyd oanpoow &q poysipqnd “yseq oy fo spBuluy ‘seou7y “V ‘q Woi1g) *joo1e pueys JOU p[Nod pA oy} FVY4 Apoq oy} YALA e[3uB UB YONs 4B Jos d1v Joo] PBOIG OY L

SItvOaY SINYOYSdSSH ‘GHIG ONIAIG GSHLOOL AHL 40 NOILVYOLSSY

p 3LV1d aIOWIOM—'BZHl ‘J4odaYy UBIUOSYPIWS
Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Wetmore PLATE 5

al

Sl a

4 VE fe Ath anaheim

RESTORATION (FROM MARSH) OF THE TOOTHED BIRD ICHTHYORNIS VICTOR FROM
THE CRETACEOUS

The skeleton, aside from the teeth and the biconcave vertebriz, is quite similar to that of modern
flying birds
Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Wetmore PLATE 6

RECONSTRUCTED SKELETON OF DIATRYMA STEINI MATTHEW AND GRANGER,
A GIGANTIC, FLIGHTLESS BIRD FROM THE EOCENE OF WYOMING

From specimen in American Museum of Natural History. This species was more than 6 feet
tall. (Courtesy of the American Museum of Natural History)

(A10qs1y IMIN}VN JO unasnyy UvOLOULy

94} JO Asoqanod)
NMOHS NOL313yS SHL WO 4Jqviy

9 3LV1d NI

INIZLS VWAYLVIG =[e) NOlLVYOLSay

FRE eae
(UOUsUIYSB AA JO UOlNIY SU] oTsouIR

O 944 Jo As04.1n0,))
VINYOSINVD = [e) ANS00IW SHL WOYs ‘YAaTTIIA ‘H

‘SIOJVMIBIYS FULATT 04 TEUTTS ATASO[D sum sarod SITLL

“7 SNOINOLVIG SNNIS4ANd 40 NAWI03dS AdAL

o
ra
iS

(op)
Smithsonian Report, 1928.— Wetmore

A PERCHING BIRD

Taken from the ty
feathers may be s
parative Zoology)

pe specimen in the Museun

1 of Comparative
een distinctly,

Zoology.
Particularly in the tail.

Impressions of the
(Courtesy of the

Museum of Com-
Smithsonian Report, 1928—Wetmore PLATE 10

TERATORNIS MERRIAMI L. H. MILLER, A GIANT VULTURE WITH BROADER
SPREAD OF WINGS THAN THE LARGEST CONDOR, FROM THE PLEISTOCENE
ASPHALT BEDS OF CALIFORNIA

Photographed from a cast in the U. S. National Museum

(AlOSTFY [RANZVN JO WMsnNyY ULdLOULY oy} Jo Asoqyunog) *A0ASTFT [RAMN|RN JO uNasNpY wt

lOULY OY Ul “GUSIUY “Y sopley,y Aq Suryured v wo.i1y

SH39I1 HLOOL-YSEVS GNV SHLOIS GNNOYS ONIHOLVAA 14357 SHL Lv
GAH94Sd SINYOLVYSA | AYNLINA LVAYD AHL HLIM ‘VINYOSINVD ‘vayg V7] OHONVY LV 100d LIVHdSY ANSOOLSIST1dg V 40 NOILVYOLSSY

LL 3LW1d dIOWISAA—'BZHL ‘Woday uviuosyyws

MAMMALOGY AND THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

By Gerrit S. MILter, Jr.

Curator, Division of Mammals, United States National Museum

[With three plates]
i

Aristotle has said that all knowledge begins in wonder, and,
whether we accept his words as expressing the whole truth or only
a part of it, we can not fail to recognize that wonder acts as an
irresistible stimulus which drives men to exploring every detail of
the universe as truly as it sets a monkey to searching out every
corner of a cage. Modern knowledge is not the least of the results;
and numberless men have found in the gathering and arranging of
this knowledge the greatest of their intellectual pleasures. But while
men and monkeys have curiosity in common, men alone, so far as we
know, possess the attribute that, having done something because of
the satisfaction which comes from the doing, they feel constrained
to justify their work on grounds of religion, morality, or logic. Thus,
in the middle of the eighteenth century, we see Linnaeus, one of the
most enthusiastic and indefatigable students of nature that the world
has known, printing this invocation on the back of the title page
of his Systema Naturae:

O JEHOVA
Quam ampla sunt Tua Opera!
Quam sapienter Ha fecisti!
Quam plena est Terra possessione Tua!

Again, only 30 years ago, we find the Jesuit Father Heude, whose
greatest joy lay in studying the mammals of China and the Philip-
pine Islands, replying to strictures on the superabundance of his
publications in somewhat the following manner: That God had
created a multiplicity of mammals for the express purpose of testing
human ingenuity in finding and describing them, and that the
systematic papers complained of by the critics were only the answer
to this divine challenge, a duty imposed on their author by his office
as priest.

At present, utterances like those of Linnaeus and Heude are not in
fashion, but we hear much about the love of humanity as a moral

391
392 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

foundation for research, and also of the economic importance of
science as its logical justification. There is no need to doubt the
unselfish heroism of a Kissinger and a Moran, refusing pecuniary
gain and risking their lives to enable Walter Reed to prove how
yellow fever is transmitted; neither can we question the economic
benefits to humanity which have come through the work of an
Edison; but such conspicuous instances of moral and economic in-
centive must not be allowed to obscure the fact that these have rarely
been the main forces which have induced men to enter the field of
scientific endeavor. And, as in the general history of science the
moral and humanitarian values were not realized until a compara-
tively late day, so in the development of the individual worker they
seem normally to come to the fore at a period after the scientific
bent of the mind has first been fully established. Pasteur furnishes a
typical example. Few men have done more for the direct welfare
of humanity than he, yet we are told that before he ever dreamed of
his studies of fermentation and disease he was a glutton for work,
entering the Sorbonne long before the hour when the professor was
due to lecture in order to make sure of obtaining a good seat. It was
only in after years that this intellectual enthusiasm became directed
toward those problems immediately connected with human welfare
the solution of which established Pasteur’s imperishable fame.

There is nothing to be gained by denying that discovery for its own
sake has always been the mainspring of work in all branches of
scientific endeavor—including mammalogy, which I propose to dis-
cuss. This incentive requires no other apology than an indication of
how the knowledge thus gained has contributed to human advance-
ment. Indeed, an understanding of the relationships between the
obscure seeker nese facts and man’s well-being must anaes justify
the worker in pure research.

Advance of civilization and enlargement of human conceptions
have always shown a direct relation to the growth of this knowledge,
and, on the other hand, there is reason to believe that civilizations
may have been on more than one occasion checked or destroyed
because of the lack of it. It has been suggested that the culture of
Greece, for instance, may have declined and finally perished through
lack of knowledge about the interwoven life histories of a mosquito
and a one-celled creature so small that it is able to live in the red
corpuscles of human blood and by its activities there to cause the
energy-sapping disease, malaria. It is not every kind of mosquito
that can carry this parasite, and the whole subject of malarial sani-
tation therefore depends primarily on a knowledge of the species
and ranges of these insects, a nomO re which can only come from
studies of the kind usually known as “systematic.” A clear under-
standing of other interwoven life histories like that of mosquito-

MAMMALOGY—MILLER 393

man-malaria has wrought incalculable good, but in every instance
systematic work pursued first for its own sake has laid the founda-
tion on which the humanly useful structure could be raised.

In some of these life histories mammals play a part. The minute
organism which causes the deadly Rocky Mountain fever is brought
to the human body by an insect, a special kind of tick, which nor-
mally feeds on the blood of ground squirrels, marmots, and other wild
animals, but which may occasionally vary its diet by sucking the
blood of man. A knowledge of the kinds of mammals with which
this tick is associated, and their distribution, therefore becomes
highly important from the human point of view, because the disease
can be avoided by keeping away from the places where these animals
occur, or it can be eradicated by destroying the tick carriers. A
similar life chain is now well known, linking up man, rat, flea, and
plague. Let it be broken at any link and the disease must disappear.
The more practicable way is to eliminate the rat or other mammal,
such as the ground squirrel in California or the tarbagan (a large
marmot) in Mongolia, which may be a suitable reservoir for the
plague-carrying flea—a different insect from the fleas of cats and
dogs. But before this work can be successfully prosecuted it is neces-
sary to know what mammals may harbor this particular flea and,
by their distribution and habits, thus become menaces to human
health. Here mammalogy must be called upon for its knowledge of
species and their ranges. The importance of this knowledge will be
evident when it is realized that the rat tribe, instead of being limited
to the two or three rats and ratlike mammals known by most people,
actually consists of many hundred different kinds, each with its par-
ticular range, its particular mode of life, and its particular possi-
bilities of serving as an intermediary between fleas and men. So also
with the ground squirrels and other carriers of plague fleas. Their
number, as revealed by the study of mammalogy, and the intricacies
of their possible contacts with man, are vastly greater than is popu-
larly supposed. All of this mass of information must be made avail-
able to those who are carrying on campaigns of health.

Centuries ago public opinion forbade the dissection of the dead
human body. Dissection of animals and reasoning from analogy
were therefore the means by which our forefathers obtained their
first ideas of human anatomy and physiology. At present experl-
mentation on living men and women is similarly forbidden, though
the time is not very far past when surgeons were permitted to oper-
ate on criminals who might thus obtain pardon in view of their serv-
ice to humanity. To-day, therefore, we must have recourse to physio-
logical experimentation on mammals other than ourselves in
efforts to solve some of the most vital problems with which society
is confronted. As examples it is only necessary to mention the use
394 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

of mammals in the study of bacteriology, in experiments on the
transmission of disease, in investigating the relation of foods and
the glands of internal secretion to bodily development, and in at-
tempting to solve the enigmas of psychology, heredity, speciation,
isolation, and relation to environment. In all of this study an exact
knowledge of the specific identity of each animal under observation
is needed. Gradually it is being learned that species which are
nearly allied may, nevertheless, *react quite differently to a given
stimulus, such as heat, cold, hunger, or exposure to disease. A pri-
mary requirement in experimentation is therefore to know precisely
what kind of mammal is being used by every worker in the field, so
that results may be accurately compared. The specialist in bacteri-
ology, in psychology, or in genetics is unable to supply this informa-
tion himself; he must go to the mammalogist for it; and in so doing
he furnishes one more example of the way in which human advance-
ment is linked up with the seemingly unimportant pursuit of sys-
tematic study carried on for the intellectual satisfactions which it
brings.

Turning from these practical matters to the more theoretical as-
pects of zoology we find conspicuous instances in which generaliza-
tions have gone astray for lack of this fundamental knowledge. The
following are two good illustrations.

Darwin observed that the wild rabbits inhabiting the islet of
Porto Santo, one of the Madeira Islands, were smaller than those of
England. Knowing that the Porto Santo rabbits had been introduced
by the Portuguese about the year 1419, he concluded that a decrease
of “nearly 3 inches in length and almost half in weight of body ”
had taken place in four and one-half centuries. As it was supposed
in Darwin’s time, and for half a century later, that all the wild
rabbits of Europe belonged to a single race, this conclusion as to the
animals on the island seemed justified, and the story of the Porto
Santo rabbit found its way into many treatises on evolution. But
subsequent systematic study of the rabbits showed that there are in
reality two races, a large one in central Europe and a smaller one in
the Mediterranean region and the Iberian Peninsula. Being unaware
of this fact, Darwin compared the Porto Santo rabbit with the wrong
animal and so arrived at a false conclusion which has been given
wide circulation in popular textbooks. Recently a German author
was engaged on the problem of the changes which have taken place
in mammals under the influence of domestication. He believed that
domestication tends to bring about marked changes in the form of
the skull. As his most striking example of such a change he com-
pared the skull of the domestic ferret with that of the wild European
polecat. He had no difficulty in finding conspicuous differences,
which are clearly apparent in his published photographs of the two
MAMMALOGY—MILLER 395

skulls and which he unhesitatingly attributed to the effects of domes-
tication on one of the animals. Here, also, as in Darwin’s case, was
an attempt at generalization without accurate systematic knowledge.
Had the ferret been compared not with the European polecat but
with an Asiatic species which is probably the actual wild ancestor, no
such differences would have been found; in fact, the conclusion would
then have been reached that domestication had produced no per-
ceptible change. These concrete examples will serve as an index to
the importance of systematic study as the basis for all reasoning
about the history of life.

There are many other subjects of broad general interest to whose
understanding the study of mammals may contribute. Why, for
instance, do the different mammals live where they now exist?
Every one knows in a general way, that each kind of mammal has its
home territory outside of which it cannot be found; that polar bears
will not be seen swimming in the Amazon, and that elephants will not
be encountered in the woods of Maine. That the hippopotamus and
lon must be sought in Africa, the kangaroo in Australia, and the
walrus on the ice floes of the far north are facts within easy reach
of every reader; but there are relatively few persons who know that
the lion and hippopotamus have left their bones in England, that ele-
phants have lived in all parts of the United States, that remains of the
walrus have been found as far south as Charleston, South Carolina,
and that camels and wild horses of many kinds have flourished in
America, some of them north of the Arctic Circle, only to become
extinct before the arrival of the white man. Equally unknown, per-
haps, is the fact that we have no undisputed evidence that kangaroos
and duckbills ever occurred anywhere but in Australia and in some
neighboring islands.

The restriction of the ranges of wild animals occasioned by the
advance of civilization is now attracting so much notice that most
of us fail to realize how universally the same process is going on
without human interference, and how much more destructive to
particular forms of life is nature than man. Parts of the Sahara
were once wooded; with the drying up of these forests most of the
animals which inhabited them must have perished. <A similar
process on a smaller scale seems to be now under way in the Kalahari
region of South Africa. Many animals which lived in the central
United States or in southern Europe under congenial arctic climates
during the Ice Age have been killed or driven far to the north by the
change to warm conditions which they could not bear. The mere
spreading of forests over grassy steppes has undoubtedly been
responsible for the disappearance of many more mammals than have
ever been exterminated by man. On the other hand we have recently
396 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

learned that the opposite process is actively going on; that is, that
some mammals are now extending their ranges. In the northeastern
United States cottontail rabbits are moving northward and eastward ;
coyotes, in spite of organized campaigns for their extermination, are
spreading toward the north in Canada and Alaska and_ possibly
toward the east in the United States; even the slow armadillo has
pushed the limits of his territory northward across the State of
Texas during the memory of men now living.

All of this shows that the species of mammals, lke the lands on
which they live, are never still. Life moves about on the surface
of the earth in just the same way that this surface is continually
moving—being raised, worn down, wetted, dried, covered, denuded,
heated, cooled. The geographical distribution of mammals to-day
is the result of a long series of wanderings. Something of the his-
tory of the earth’s land masses can therefore be inferred from the
characteristics of the mammals which inhabit them. The striking
peculiarities which distinguish the pouched kangaroos and the egg-
laying duckbills of Australia from all the mammals known to occur
elsewhere point unmistakably to a long geographical isolation of
Australia; the similarity of the bears, wolves, hares, and ground
squirrels of Alaska to those of eastern Asia points to a very recent
land connection between these most nearly contiguous portions of
the eastern and western worlds.

Man in the early stages of his development, before the discovery
of artificial means for overcoming natural obstacles, was probably
subject to much the same limitations as other mammals. When
seaworthy boats were unknown he must have sought ancient land
connections to enable him to travel from island to island and from
continent to continent in precisely the same manner that elephants
and horses sought these natural highways. Hence an adequate
knowledge of the migration routes by which mammals have arrived
at their present homelands ought to throw light on the subject of
prehistoric human dispersal.

The great problems now facing mammalogy may therefore be
summed up by the words: Description, distribution, relationship,
history. Description is the fundamental work on which all subse-
quent structures must rest. To attempt the study of distribution,
of relationships, of history, or of the exact economic value of mam.
mals, without a previous accurate knowledge of the different kinds
would be as futile as to attempt to run a railway into a new country
without first surveying the land to be traversed.
MAMMALOGY—MILLER 397
II

Mammalogy, then, is more than the hobby of certain men endowed
with a strange curiosity. It is the scientific study of the mammalia,
the gathering and arranging for all who need them, of facts about
those animals which possess, at least during some phase of their
existence, hair and milk. The word mammalia appears to have
been first used about the middle of the eighteenth century, by the
Swedish naturalist Karl von Linné, better known as Linnaeus.
Strange as it may seem, there had not been, up to that late day,
any distinctive name by which to designate the great assemblage of
animals to which we ourselves belong, together with our relatives
the whales, duckbills, bats, apes, and others, the most obvious group
characteristic of which is that the young must be fed on milk.
The term quadruped could not be used, for this is equally applicable
to the hairless, milkless lizard and tortoise. Linnaeus therefore
took the Latin word mamma, the name for the gland by which
milk is secreted, and telescoped it with the word anzmalia, animals.
Mammalia, shortened from mammanimalia, was the result, and we,
in English, have made therefrom our vernacular word mammal;
by adding a Greek termination meaning discourse we have further
produced the technical term mammalogy. Other languages have
not followed our example. Instead of using some form of the
Linnaean word the French, for instance, call these animals “ mammi-
féres,” bearers of milk glands, while the Germans know them as
“ Saugethiere,” or beasts that suck.

As now used, the term mammalogy applies primarily to what is
known as the systematic study of mammals, the main object of
which is to find out exactly how many kinds of mammals there are
in the world, exactly where each kind lives, and exactly what are
the relationships of these creatures to each other and to their pre-
decessors now gone from the ranks of living things.

This may seem on the face of it not a large undertaking. The
average person not specially interested in wild life may know as
many as 20 or 80 different kinds of mammals; or, if he lives near
a good zoological garden, 50 or 75. Actually, in North America
alone we have discovered about 2,500 recognizably distinct kinds,
and the work of enumeration is not yet finished; from an area in
Eastern Africa scarcely one-tenth as large as North America, the
collections of the Smithsonian Institution include representatives
of no less than 526 kinds, all of them different from those found
in any part of the American continent. The Malay region with
its innumerable islands, and South America with its astonishingly
contrasted. jungles, plains, and mountains, swarm with special sorts
of mammals whose existence is unsuspected by anyone not a student
398 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

of the subject. When, generations in the future, the count shal)
have been completed, the total number will certainly be found to
exceed 20,000. Imagine behind these hving mammals the long lines
of extinct ancestral and related species reaching into the past and
preserved as fossils, and we may form some imperfect idea of the
ground to be worked.

The exploration of this ground by the mammalogist divides itself
into two major phases: The collection of material in the field and
the study of it in the museum. The difficulties of mammal collecting
are greatly increased by the fact that the majority of the mammalian
population is made up of small or nocturnal creatures which elude
direct observation. While the larger mammals can be shot, the
smaller ones must be trapped. For that purpose the well-equipped
collector goes into the field with an assortment of traps specially
selected for the capture of mammals of the most varied kind and
for use in the most varied situations. To use them effectively he
must exercise his ingenuity and apply his knowledge in deciphering
the records which mammals leave behind them; a path or runway
through the grass here; a tunnel under rotting leaves there; foot-
prints in snow, mud, or sand; holes and mounds which show where
some creature has been digging for roots or grubs, or to make a
shelter; piles of the emptied shells of seeds, nuts, snails, mussels, or
crayfish—in short, a complicated code of signs, the right interpreta-
tion of which will lead to success, and the misunderstanding of
which may bring amusing failure, as on one occasion when a collector
caught nothing but mole crickets after setting many traps in tunnels
which he supposed had been made by small shrews.

After being trapped or shot, a mammal must be prepared by the
removal of the skin and the drying of the skull or skeleton, as these
parts serve the most useful purpose in the subsequent studies.’
Many specimens, particularly of the smaller kinds, are kept entire
in alcohol. When field work has been pursued long enough in one
place to have furnished representatives of most of the mammals
which are found there, the collector moves on to a locality where
differences in soil, vegetation, or climate give promise that other
kinds may be found. In this way a systematic survey of an area
is made. After the specimens obtained in the field are received at
the museum it is necessary to arrange them so that they may be
available for study and safe from the danger of deterioration. To
begin with they must be catalogued, numbered, and labeled in ac-

1 Directions for Preparing Specimens of Mammals, a 22 page illustrated pamphlet, is
issued by the Smithsonian Institution (Bull. U. 8S. National Museum, No, 39, pt. N, ed. 5,
revised, 1925).
MAMMALOGY—MILLER 399

cordance with a system by which every separate part preserved—
skin, skull, skeleton, or any of the soft parts which may have been
placed in alcohol—can be identified as having come from a given
individual. Here the work of trained bookkeepers is needed.
Skulls and skeletons are next put through processes by which
their dried flesh is removed. This requires the services of special
preparators. When finally ready for permanent installation in the
collection the smaller bones are placed in glass tubes or pasteboard
boxes, the larger ones in trays or drawers; then all are arranged in
cases according to some scheme of classification which will permit
the ready finding of any individual specimen needed for examina-
tion. Skins of small mammals, up to about the size of a house cat,
are filled to natural size with tow or cotton and then dried lying
flat, back up, with the fore legs extended alongside of the neck, and
the hind legs drawn backward, parallel with the tail. This is
usually done in the field. Preservation in uniform, conventionalized
manner is essential to the comparison of specimens with each other.
Larger skins are tanned and laid away in drawers or trays or hung
from bars. Each is labeled with locality, date of capture, name of
collector, and the serial number which serves to identify the corre-
sponding skull or other parts. In a large museum, where the num-
ber of specimens runs into the scores of thousands and the growth
of the collection is rapid, a special force of assistants is required to
look after the details of installation and arrangement.

It must be understood in this connection that the mounted
specimens ordinarily seen by the visitor do not constitute the real
collection. The main object of a great museum is to promote re-
search, that is, to advance our knowledge of the world we live in,
and not merely to display beautiful examples of the taxidermist’s
art. Research requires an abundance of material in convenient
form for study—conditions which are not met by a few mounted
specimens locked in glass cases. The exhibition series is there-
fore nothing more than a group of selected individuals which can
be spared from the real collection. I say spared because practically
every skin which is mounted and placed on exhibition is condemned
to death from the slow but inevitable ravages of time and sunlight.

The study series, as the real collection is called, is kept in tightly
closed wooden or metal cases where light cannot penetrate and
where the specimens will be as safe from deterioration as human
ingenuity can make them. In the National Museum, which is under
the direction of the Smithsonian Institution, there were in June,
1928, about 214,000 specimens of mammals in the study collection,
while those on exhibition totaled barely 1,400.
400 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928
III

Study of a mammalian collection requires as a first step classifica-

tion of the material by orders, that is, determining whether a given
specimen represents, for instance, the great group of hoofed mam-
mals (ungulates), or the flesh-eaters (carnivores), or the gnawers
(rodents), or the trunk bearers (elephants), or the true flying mam-
mals (bats), or the fish-like mammals (whales and _ porpoises).
Next the specimens are sorted out into the successively smaller sub-
divisions of each order, that is, into families (as, among the flesh
eaters, the bear family, cat family, and dog family); into genera
(as, in the dog family, the true dogs, the foxes, the fennecs, and the
African hunting dogs) ; and into species (as the dog and wolf, two
species of the true dogs as distinguished from foxes, fennecs, and
‘African hunting dogs). Finally, each species is separated into its
subspecies or the local forms which it assumes in different parts
of its range (as the huge wolf of our northern forests, the smaller
wolf of the Arctic tundras, the dark-colored wolf of Florida, and
so forth.)

Subspecies are distinguished from each other chiefly by size, by
shades of color, and by slight peculiarities in the proportionate
lengths of various parts (feet, ears, tail), usually small differences not
involving deep-lying elements of structure and, more important still,
not always present in every specimen. Species are determined by
constantly present peculiarities of the same general type, possibly
ereater in degree than those which distinguish subspecies, and by
differences in actual color and in color pattern, quality and distribu-
tion of the fur, shape and size of the teeth, or of the individual parts
of the teeth, shape and size of the individual bones of the skull.
Genera are determined by still greater peculiarities in structure, often
including differences in the number of teeth, the number of toes, and
so forth, the essential feature of a genus being that it includes a
group of species either actually or as a reasonable possibility.
Families are determined by larger characters of the same kind as
those which distinguish genera, and each family is primarily a cata-
gory which includes or might include a group of genera. Finally,
the orders of mammals are distinguished from each other by various
combinations of the largest and most fundamental characters of all—
such as (a) the processes of reproduction (whether the young are
hatched from eggs laid in nests or whether they are born alive; and,
if born alive, whether they have or have not been first brought to high
development by a special nutritive organ); (6) the type of the limbs
and feet (whether hoofed, clawed, or serving as paddles, or as true
wings); and (¢) the type of the teeth (whether chiefly adapted to
grasping, as in dolphins, to cutting, as in cats, to chopping, as in
MAMMALOGY—MILLER 401

bats and moles, to grinding, as in elephants, cattle, and horses, to a
combination of cutting and grinding, as in rats and beavers, or to
all-round utility, as in men and pigs).

Systematic mammalogy therefore resolves itself into the investi-
gation of all of these features and of any others which may assist
in the accurate determination of different kinds, and in the grouping
of these kinds according to their relationships. In all of this part of
the study it is of prime importance to distinguish between those
peculiarities which are constant specific characters and those which
are individual features of the sort normally occurring in the two
sexes and in the various ages of one animal. Many specimens of each
mammal must be examined and compared before the differential
peculiarities can be clearly distinguished from those due to the diverse
sorts of individual variation. Many more are needed to determine
the status of local races, because a series from one place may be obvi-
ously different from a series from another, when one or two speci-
mens from each would be indecisive. After this more specimens of
each kind are needed from as many different localities as possible,
in order to determine the limits of geographical ranges. Field ob-
servations such as those which have contributed to our knowledge of
birds are of relatively little value in studying mammals, because
most mammals keep themselves hidden from human sight.

In mammalogy, as in every other branch of present day knowl-
edge, an important element in the routine of the active worker is the
task of keeping abreast with the ever increasing current of litera-
ture. Arising from the work done by members of museum staffs
and by individual students, given out through the channels of books,
periodicals, and the journals of scientific societies, finding its source
in the two Americas, in England, France, Spain, Belgium, Holland,
Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Germany, Italy, Hungary, Russia, the
Malay States, Java, Australia, and Japan, there flows a growing
stream of publications about mammals. To be ignorant of the in-
formation which these treatises, monographs, papers and notes con-
tain would be a fatal handicap to anyone who aspired to become a
serious student. One of the recognized elements of the work in our
larger museums therefore consists In maintaining a constant fa-
miliarity with the literature of mammalogy. a task which is lght-
ened by the aid of the Zoological Record (London), Biological Ab-
stracts (Menasha, Wisconsin), the cards issued by the Concilium
Bibliographicum (Ziirich) and the lists of current publications
which appear quarterly in the Journal of Mammalogy. Trouessart’s
Catalogus, Palmer’s Index Generum Mammalium and Sherborn’s
Index Animalium are other well known standard works. The more
umportant mediums of publication in which the essential part of the
recent literature has appeared are as follows: In Washington we
402 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

have the series of 51 numbers of North American Fauna founded by
Merriam in 1889 and issued at irregular intervals by the United
States Department of Agriculture; under the direction of the Smith-
sonian Institution many important monographs and papers have
appeared in the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, the
Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, and the Proceedings and
Bulletins of the United States National Museum; finally the Bi-
ological Society of Washington has provided a convenient medium
for issuing short papers in its proceedings. Next in importance
among American publications have been those issued by the Ameri-
can Museum of Natural History in New ‘York—Bulletins, Memoirs,
and Novitates. Contributions have appeared in many other places,
notably in Berkeley, Cambridge, Chicago, and Philadelphia, but
the essential part of the recent history of American mammalogy has
been written and printed in Washington and New York. In Eng-
Jand publication has centered in the Annals and Magazine of Natural
History and the Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London,
serials which have been issued in unbroken line for a century. In
Germany most of the important work has appeared in the Sitzungs-
berichte naturforschende Freunde zu Berlin and in Wiegmann’s
Archiv fiir Naturgeschichte. Other media of publication have been
the Arkiv for Zoologi in Stockholm, the Videnskabelige Meddelelser
fra Dansk Naturhistorisk Forening, and E. Museo Lundii in Copen-
hagen, Notes from the Leiden Museum in Holland, Annales du Musée
du Congo Belge in Belgium, Boletin de la Real Sociedad Espanola
* de Historia Natural in Spain, Atti della Societa Italiana di Scienze
Naturali, and Annali del Museo Civico di Storia Naturale di Genova
in Italy, the official publications of the museums in Tiflis and St.
Petersburg, the Bulletin of the Russian Academy of Science, the
Journal of the Bombay Natural History Society, and the Journal of
the Federated Malay States Museum, in Kuala Lumpur. Three
special periodicals are now devoted to the subject of mammalogy:
the Journal of Mammalogy, issued by the American Society of
Mammalogists, the Zeitschrift fiir Siugetierkunde published by the
Deutsche Gesellschaft fiir Siugetierkunde, and the Revue Frangaise
de Mammalogie, one of the official organs of the Société
Ornithologique et Mammalogique de France.

IV

The beginning of mammalogy dates from the middle of the
eighteenth century. At that time two naturalists, Linnaeus in
Sweden and Brisson in France, gathering together and summing up
the knowledge of vertebrates which had been accumulated during
two and a half centuries of world exploration, laid the foundation
MAMMALOGY—MILLER 403

on which the present structure has been built. Much information
had already been published, but the definite course of procedure
which we are following to-day was not established until Linneaus
perfected his system of classification and nomenclature and Brisson
applied to mammals an enlarged scheme of synoptically tabulating
the characters by which the different groups are distinguished from
each other. Trivial though such innovations may appear, they
actually proved to be of so much importance that mammalogy as a
special branch of zoology took its date from them, and the work of
earlier naturalists retired to a position of antiquarian interest. The
reason for this should be apparent to anyone who has grasped the idea
of the great number of mammals to be written about; the appearance
of any convenient scheme for handling the rapidly increasing mass of
facts, when hitherto no such devices had existed, would necessarily
mark an epoch. The system of Latin names perfected by Linnaeus
and regarded by the general public as a form of mystification is
nothing but a time-saving device, a tool so useful that, in the absence
of something better, the scientific study of mammals could not have
gone on without it. Such also was Brisson’s system of tabulation.
In the year 1758 Linnaeus was able to include only 86 mammals
in the tenth edition of the Systema Naturae, his boldly conceived
two-volume review of the living things of the world. A century later
Baird, the second Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, knew
220 kinds in North America alone, while now, 70 years after Baird
and 175 after Linnaeus, we are acquainted with about 2,500 kinds
in North America, or about 30 times as many as the whole world
was supposed to contain at the time when the modern study of mam-’
malogy began. To trace all the steps by which this increase of
knowledge has been made would be the subject for an entire book.
Here it will be possible merely to indicate some of the most important.
_ At first the subject was small and every author felt himself qualified
to describe all the mammals in existence. This feeling of self-suffi-
ciency arose from the ignorance which prevailed then. There were
few known mammals to write about, and the system by which they
were classified was so simple and artificial that there was no difli-
culty in referring each species to its proper place. Great museums
had not been established and specially equipped collecting expedi-
tions were undreamed of. The descriptions and notes made by
travelers and published as incidental matter in their accounts of
strange lands were the chief source on which the European naturalist
was forced to depend. Work done under such conditions was neces-
sarily incomplete, but it was also pleasing in its appearance of sim-
plicity. Indeed, the complicated nature of the facts could not be
suspected and it was therefore possible to regard each species and
each higher category as an entity unconnected with any other except
404 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

in the sense that the members of a lower category might be looked
upon as so many examples of the type represented by the larger group
to which they belonged. To illustrate: Lion, tiger, and puma were
examples of the cat genus; the cat genus, dog genus, and bear genus
were examples of the carnivore order; the carnivore order, rodent
order, and bat order were examples of the mammal class; the mam-
mal class, bird class, and reptile class were examples of the animal
kingdom. There was no thought of actual relationship by the bonds of
common descent, no idea that the boundaries supposed to separate spe-
cies from species or order from order had not always been as sharply
drawn as they appear to be now. For these early investigators the
animal kingdom was a definite and finished product, a thing made
up of parts as distinct from each other as the stones in a wall.
When once these parts should have been found, catalogued, and de-
scribed the work of mammalogy would be done. Under the influence
of conditions and conceptions such as these it was natural that
treatises on mammals should follow the Linnaean precedent of con-
cise synoptical treatment, briefest possible description, relatively
elaborate citation of the work of previous authors, and absence of dis-
cussion or speculation as to the meaning of the things which were
being catalogued. Books of this general type were published by
Boddaert (1785) in Holland, by Erxleben (1777), and J. B. Fischer
(1829) in Germany, by Desmarest (1820) and Lesson (1827) in
France, and by G. Fischer (1814) in Russia. A work which exceeded
all the others in size and in elaborateness of treatment was the great.
“ Siugthiere ” (Mammals) of the German Schreber, 13 quarto vol-
‘umes illustrated by 763 plates; the first volume appearing in 1775
and the last supplement, by A. Wagner, issued in 1855.

The period during which the writing of all-inclusive works on
the species of mammals by one man was supposed to be possible
ended about the middle of the nineteenth century. Since that time -
the largest units of publication have been monographs of single or-
ders, enumerations of the species of mammals known to occur in
limited areas, and treatises on the classification of mammals at large
with discussions of the derivation and interrelationships of the
higher groups. Notable works of this last kind have been written
by Flower and Lydekker in England (1891), Weber in Holland
(1904 and 1927-28), Gregory in the United States (1910) Cabrera
in Spain (1922), and Winge in Denmark (1923-24). Each of these
books stands as a landmark along the course of development of this
very important branch of the subject. During the past 40 years
a type of publication which was comparatively little known before
1850 has become dominant, namely the short paper containing de-
scriptions of a limited number of newly discovered mammals, lists
of the species found in particular areas, or the elucidation of special,
MAMMALOGY—MILLER 405

limited problems of classification, distribution, or relationship.
The advance in knowledge since 1890 has been so rapid that every
student knows that the preparation of a complete work on the mam-
mals of the world is beyond the capacity of any individual worker.
But fortunately, near the beginning of this period, Dr. E. L. Troues-
sart of Paris had the foresight to publish a Catalogus Mammalium
tam viventium quam fossilum, in which the results of the systematic
study of mammals during the 140 years following Linnaeus were
summarized. It contains the enumeration of 4,423 recognizably dif-
ferent kinds of living mammals together with references to the pub-
lications in which descriptions of each kind may be found. Since
1898, when the last part of the Catalogus appeared, not less than
8,700 new names have been added to the list of living species and
subspecies; and the process is continuing at an undiminished rate
of about 250 a year.

The recent development of mammalogy has been mainly dependent
on two factors—interest in the problems having to do with the
nature and history of the life which now exists in the world, and
the finding of a technique by means of which the study could be
successfully carried on. The interest was aroused by Charles Darwin
and the stimulating controversies which have never ceased to grow
from his writings; the technique was worked out by an Associate
of the Smithsonian Institution, Dr. C. Hart Merriam.

The effect which Darwin’s work has had on the general concept of
the life of our globe is too well known to require more than brief
mention here. Welding together, by the force of his genius for
observation and clear reasoning, the scattered existing ideas of an
evolutionary explanation of vital phenomena, he made it impos-
sible longer to regard the different kinds of animals and plants as
the fixed and rather simple elements in a finished and immutable
structure. Convinced by the evidence so clearly set forth by Darwin
the naturalist of to-day regards all living things of the past and
present as phases of one great life process whose history he is slowly
learning to trace—through a period covering millions of years—
and whose progress depends not on fixity and simplicity but on
capacities for never-ending change and for the production of results
complex beyond the possibility of realization by the untrained mind.

While the point of view from which the study of mammalogy had
been regarded was thus profoundly altered by the Englishman, Dar-
win, the means by which the new approach could be effectually made
were developed by the American, Merriam. His interest grounded by
the personal influence of Professor Baird and stimulated by the ex-
ample of the brilliant contemporary development of ornithology,
Merriam brought to the systematic investigation of mammals a mind

24034—29——_27
406 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

endowed with energy and foresight. And in his undertaking as in
many others, success was furthered by the coincidence of two unre-
lated events—the awakening of this interest and, the decision of a
manufacturing company, which had hitherto been making clothes
wringers, to put on the market a cheap and convenient mouse trap.
The “Cyclone” trap, the first of the now familiar small traps of
the deadfall type, made its appearance during the later eighties of
the last century, at exactly the time when Merriam was beginning to
realize that his predecessors from Audubon and Bachman through
Baird to Coues and Allen had not completed the study of mammals
in North America. Armed with an effective trap he was able to
apply to the investigation of mammals the principles which he had
learned from the study of birds, the salient features of which are
the bringing together and minute comparative study of large series
of specimens—all uniformly prepared—from every possible locality.
Had this not happened at this particular time, the recent history of
mammalogy would have been different throughout the world.

Before the time when the “ Cyclone” trap and its successors were
available, the kind of field work which I have briefly described was
unknown and the systematic collecting of the abundant smaller and
more interesting mammals was an impossibility. I remember my
own first attempts at field work, when the only traps to be had were
clumsy wooden objects stained bright red and shaped like a round
flat cheese with the side bored full of holes through which the victims
were expected to thrust their heads in order to be choked. Not in-
effective for house mice, these traps became exasperating failures when
carried out to the fields and woods. A summer’s industrious work
with them failed to procure me a single individual of the short-tailed
shrew or the red-backed mouse, two of the common mammals in the
woods near my home. Then came word of the new technique and
with it six dozen “Cyclone” traps. Immediately I was able to get
all the specimens that I could prepare.

In 1894 these methods were demonstrated at the British Museum,
where they were adopted by Oldfield Thomas, the man who has add-
ed more to the systematic knowledge of the mammals of the entire
world than any other one investigator. They rapidly spread to Ger-
many, France, Russia, and Japan, and they are now universally em-
ployed wherever mammals are studied.

The development of mammalogy in North America, like that of
so many other branches of natural science, is heavily indebted to the
explorations begun in the fifties of the last century, which preceded
the laying of the first transcontinental railroads. The surveying
parties sent out by the Federal Government were accompanied by
field naturalists who made collections of surprising extent and value.
The mammal specimens all came to the Smithsonian Institution,
MAMMALOGY—MILLER 407

where they were studied and reported on by Professor Baird, whose
Mammals of North America, which appeared in 1859 as Volume
VIII of the Pacific Railroad Survey Reports, gave the most ade-
quate summary of the North American fauna ever worked out by
the older methods. It remained the standard authority on the sub-
ject until Merriam, 30 years later, began to revolutionize our knowl:
edge of mammals. During the period between Baird and Merriam
the Smithsonian Institution dominated the field of mammalogy in
North America. Except for relatively small collections in the mu-
seums of Philadelphia and Cambridge no important mass of mate-
rial for study existed outside of Washington, and at that time the
Smithsonian was the only scientific agency in Washington engaged
on this particular branch of research. Important works which were
published during this period, either by the Smithsonian Institution
or under its inspiration, are Harrison Allen’s Monograph of the
Bats of North America (1864), J. A. Allen’s The American Bisons,
Living and Extinct (1876), Coues’ Fur-bearing Animals (1877),
Coues and J. A. Allen’s Monographs of North American Rodentia
(1877), J. A. Allen’s History of North America Pinnipeds (1880),
and ‘True’s Review of the Family Delphinidae [dolphins and por-
poises] 1889. Excellent though all of this work may have been when
judged by the standards of its time, the relatively small accretion
which it brought to our knowledge is shown by the fact that True as
late as 1885, was able to list only 363 mammals as ascertained to in-
habit North America. This is an apparent increase of 143 over the
220 of Baird; but to make the comparison a fair one the 146 bats,
seals, sea-cows, whales and porpoises, which True enumerated in his
paper, must be subtracted because they were not dealt with by his
predecessor. The advance made during these years is thus seen to be
insignificant compared to the sudden leap forward inspired by the
adoption of the new technique.

The present phase of mammalogy in North America began with
the founding, in 1886, of a Division of Ornithology and Mammalogy
under the United States Department of Agriculture. This division,
which subsequently grew into the Bureau of Biological Survey, was
organized by Doctor Merriam and directed by him until his resigna-
tion in 1910. One of the primary objects of the survey was to map
the geographical distribution of the mammals and birds of North
America, the related work on plants and insects having already been
provided for. At its outset this undertaking was met by the difficulty
that the kinds of mammals, when systematically collected, proved to
be more numerous than had been supposed. Consequently the first
step toward accurate mapping was necessarily to take a census of the
mammal population and find out exactly what and how many were
the kinds to be mapped. In 1885, as we have seen, the number was
408 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

supposed to be 363; by the end of the year 1900 it had been increased
to about 1,450. Subsequent counts showed 2,138 in 1911 and 2,554
in 1923.1

Merriam gathered about him during the nineties a corps of as-
sistants whom he trained in methods of work in both field and
museum—an invaluable experience, as I personally know. The group
of mammalogists thus formed, together with Dr. J. A. Allen of New
York, an older man than Merrian, but profoundly influenced by him
from about 1890 until Allen’s death in 1921, have been the workers
to whose efforts the advance in North American mammalogy has
been mainly due.

To review the details of actual present-day work in mammalogy
throughout the world would carry us beyond the limits of this article.
In general it may be said that the chief advances are being made by
the efforts of large museums and of governmental agencies; relatively
little is being accomplished by universities in the field of systematic
research in mammalogy, though ably conducted courses of instruc-
tion have recently been established, notably at Harvard, the Uni-
versity of Wisconsin, and the University of California; private
effort is resulting in the accumulation of many valuable specimens
and observations, but it has had no effect on the general course of
events except as it may have contributed to the development of
museums—witness the remarkable work of Dr. W. L. Abbott for
the Smithsonian Institution in exploring the Malay Archipelago,
and the generous subsidy of the Duke of Bedford to enable the
British Museum to carry on studies of mammals in China and Japan.

In the United States the most important agency, as far as the
study of North American mammals is concerned, has been and still
is the Biological Survey under the United States Department of
Agriculture. The United States National Museum, a branch of the
Smithsonian Institution, has avoided duplication of the work of the
survey and has turned its attention to the mammals of the West
Indies, Eastern Asia, the Malay region, Australia, Europe, and
Africa. In New York the American Museum of Natural History
is building up large collections from North, Central, and South
America, from China, Mongolia, and other parts of Asia, from Aus-
tralia, and from Africa. The Museum of Comparative Zoology in
Cambridge has made important contributions to our knowledge of
the mammals of China and Africa. In Chicago the Field Museum
of Natural History has accumulated extensive collections from west-
ern North America and from East Africa; it is now actively en-
gaged in South America. The Museum of Vertebrate Zoology of
the University of California, founded by private endowment, has

1 See the List of North American Mammals 1923, issued by the Smithsonian Institution
as Bull. U. 8. National Museum, No. 128, Apr. 29, 1924.
MAMMALOGY—MILLER 409

concentrated its efforts on the fauna of western North America.
No work of importance to the general development of recent mam-
malogy has been done by the museums of Canada, Mexico, or the
South American Republics. In Europe the greatest contribution to
the systematic study of mammals has been made by the British Mu-
seum. Adopting the new technique in 1894 and supported by gen-
erous contributions of money and personal services from men who
recognized the breadth and interest of the field thus opened, this
museum has built up a collection of mammals which surpasses that
of any other institution in the world in the number of different
kinds which it includes and in the general fullness and evenness with
which the faunas of every part of the globe are represented. Its
field is not limited to any particular region, though, like the Smith-
sonian Institution, it has avoided duplication of the work which
was being done by the Biological Survey. Next to the British Mu-
seum the most active European agency in the recent development
of mammalogy has been the Museum fiir Naturkunde in Berlin.
Here, under the stimulus of the late Prof. Paul Matschie, espe-
cially important collections of ungulates and primates have been
brought together; but the field of activity has not been limited to
these groups; it has covered the mammals of the world outside of
North America. France, a leader during the first half of the nine-
teenth century, has, throughout the present phase of mammalogy, re-
mained inactive except for the production of the Catalogus Mam-
malium, the book to which every general worker is more indebted
than to any other. In the remaining European countries much local
work has been done, but this does not here concern us. Contributions
to the broad development of mammalogy have come from Stockholm
(Africa, South America, Malay region), Leiden (Malay region),
Brussels (Africa), Madrid (South America, Africa), Turin (South
America), Genoa (Malay region), and Vienna (Africa). In Russia
the museums of St. Petersburg, Moscow, and Tiflis have directed
their efforts mainly to the working out of the Russian and northern
Asiatic fauna. One of the finest examples of successfully directed
field work in the Old World is furnished by the Mammal Survey of
India carried on by the Bombay Natural History Society in conjunc-
tion with the British Museum. Very important results have also
been obtained in the Malay region by carefully planned explorations
directed from the Federated Malay States Museum at Kuala Lumpur.

Though taking no part in the active development of the subject,
the Smithsonian Institution has been closely associated with the
recent advances in mammalogy. Merriam began his studies under
Secretary Baird, and throughout his active period in the Department
of Agriculture he was an honorary associate of the Smithsonian.
The great collection of mammals brought together by the Biological
410 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

Survey has been, from the first, cared for in the National Museum,
one of the branches of the Smithsonian. Finally the Smithsonian
Institution, by directing its efforts into fields related to those covered
by the work of the Biological Survey, but lying outside of the ter-
ritory in which the Survey could operate, has provided the material
for the better understanding of the mammals of North America in
their relationship to those of the world at large.

Vv

We have now gained a general idea of the relation of mammalogy
to human welfare, of what it is, how it is carried on and what the
course of its history has been. The question remains: What of its
future, particularly as this future concerns the Smithsonian Institu-
tion? To obtain its best and most rapid development and to con-
tribute most adequately to the general advance of learning, the
study of mammalogy should now be carried on in accordance with
definitely thought out plans and in full cooperation with paleon-
tology and physical anthropology, the two branches of research
most nearly related to it, branches which would merge with it in
an ideal system. This cooperation will in the end become necessary,
for the obvious reason that the underlying aim of all three is exactly
the same—the acquirement of systematic knowledge about mam-
mals—and an adjustment of results to a common standard must
sometime be made. At present we are applying one set of criteria to
the study of mammals preserved as skins, skeletons, or pickles,
another set to those preserved in rocks, and a third to those with
which we come in social contact. As a result the anomalies exist
that no attempt to determine the status of the races of men has
- ever been made by anyone intimately acquainted with modern study
of kindred problems in mammals at large, and that the opinions re-
garding generic, specific, and subspecific distinctions held by workers
on fossil mammals are, on the whole, incommensurate with those
which are being applied to the study of the living kinds. The
standards worked out in the field of mammalogy, in the restricted
sense of the word, are the ones which seem likely in the end to pre-
vail, because these standards have been established on the basis of the
most complete and varied mass of information,—recent mammals,
in the present state of our knowledge, being more numerous and
more available for study than their fossil relatives, while man,
zoologically speaking, is an insignificant unit in the class to which
he belongs. Coordination of effort, in the sense that the workers in
these three fields should recognize their common interests and should
freely use each other’s results, is not only desirable but inevitable.
Too strict a division of labor among different museums might, how-
MAMMALOGY—MILLER 411

ever, go so far as to eliminate the stimulus of a healthy spirit of com-
petition and thus impede progress instead of advancing it.

For three decades I have been associated with the Smithsonian
Institution as a member of the scientific staff of the National Museum.
From this point of view and in this capacity I have witnessed and
taken part in the history of the present phase of mammalogy. It is
only natural that in closing I should say something about the place
which the experience, resources, and men of the Smithsonian qualify
the Institution to take in the further development of the study. The
Smithsonian Institution is particularly fortunate in its freedom from
personal and local ties. It is a private institution, privately founded,
privately directed, and privately financed. At the same time the
guardianship of the Federal Government gives it security and sta-
bility. It is thus able to pursue its own course without regard to
immediate economic considerations. The absence of all the duties
which pertain to the business of teaching, either in the university
sense or in the broader and more popular sense of the educational
work now being done by many of our large museums, is a further
source of power to the Smithsonian Institution, permitting it to
concentrate its efforts on pure research. To make its influence most
felt in the future development of mammalogy, the Smithsonian
should aim at the establishment of definite lines of activity in partic-
ular sections of the field that are not now being sufficiently worked
by other agencies, and at a general coordination of the results
obtained by investigators throughout the world. And this, if it
procures the means, the Institution will do.
O51 iy Oe reese LS cou ae Ait weed Ms Vata A be!
" PKs i ih r Se aay
>! ant 5 rs Co . tat iy
OPER + ie \ eeu ot
i Ax vt j a) A 5)

x4 rr PR Tet iin a

oh By 5 A ve

oa a SE

iu rf logo a lt. 19 Tat
ae boaonary vad JL, Qhovanyen Bees. 94

saith a Hs valeaum gay AK sh ta Por: fe a

pda gat. poudy ae TL wuteolo mt sins

qhilewp uniaoadiinn® ald Yy soit pee i

wT .ghoda ad to dnmingolseshy qlee oft. a

igotth mobyork ati ai odnans riot, Nene if ie

obra ane in: at id
mt ad wii 'y eh ult, Aa pid ane
, eat ‘bu Hs ky Sage: PF"

ea at dials Dik, “bhiow “alt
Aya ce Cpa ee, th : sid
Us) CP ae Re Vb salou ob - i
cea: ae die a a), ea | ee nl wiaal vie nOeae aa
Te OU CM etme Om ads Ana bs Bd Br a
aper bee HN DY IR SEY: Moly abil AAs wilh ieutinnsy we,
Y eta Gan wae A ‘PS BS ay navel re i ; ; }
parting qiiaetal, ays NO, ARE) Ras ee ‘undo nae ae
stele | DELL bars ee ae, eh ere ‘onus eal
vb Mand Tuanty'/ Bed fi pation! tay Vise ally: ad she BR o> Hen
‘Wlieandd Weibel sabe ee’ ie tht ake ena uate y
aay ah othe coed! Que he) ane ee aa nanan Nise -
+ nis ace ea) Aled Wel ee OA radiated wa thes aa SAM
Knee ced: al ee ae Tite a iat leet vine ChT tela i at
iy Ae PERCE REE BS ae a hate We ie, Neve cad Def
Wi AVR ads ye Or Vea tad ‘hay Pts Nay BN ae Tr
gor ian. aie "ahi Fa, van Guede ie ane baa ae Herein:
Praia. Aye aie Meee hae vt mena! Naot i -
Va inp Ry Pua od Gh OE 2 gaia how ae LNA aN )
RMA belies 16 Oh SIRE AD EI GI ie
iS eo eT tal Hs ig chan

WNASNI IVNOILYN ‘Ss ‘fA

‘SIVWWVIA) 4O NOILOATIION AGNLS AHL 4O LYVd

L 3LV1d

J9II!IN—8Z61 ‘Hodey uvjuosyyiws
WNASNIN IVNOILVN WNASNIW IVNOILYN
'S "NM ‘SIVWWVIV 4O NOILOSTION AGNLS SHL NO AXYOM LY ‘SZ ‘S$ ‘N ‘SIVWWVIW 4O NOILOATION AGNLS AHL NI YSNYHOO VY ‘1

@ ALV1d AAIIIN—'8Z6L ‘4odey UBIUOSY]IWS
Smithsonian Report, 1928.— Miller

» U. S. NATIONAL Museum

A VISTA IN THE STUDY COLLECTION OF MAMMALS
ar

i

NOTE ON THE CONTROVERSY OVER HUMAN “ MISSING LINKS”

Few subjects are so interesting as the origin of man. Doctor Miller’s pains-
taking and judicial assemblage of the facts concerning the two sets of fossils
which have been most widely discussed in this connection and the diversity of
inferences therefrom must merit wide reading. In the author’s opinion “ we
should not hesitate to confess that in place of demonstrable links between man
and other mammals we now possess nothing more than some fossils so frag-
mentary that they are susceptible of being interpreted either as such links or
as something else.” He adds: “ Superficial or prejudiced readers might regard
this confession as having an important bearing on the subject of organic evolu-
tion in general and of man’s origin in particular; but no conclusion could be
more unjustified. The idea that all existing plants and animals are derived
through some process of orderly change from kinds now extinct is supported
by an array of facts too great and too well established to be weakened by
doubts cast on alleged family records of any one creature.’ His outstanding
conclusion, in his own words, is this: ‘‘ The things most needed now are more
fossils and many of them.” He also remarks: ‘As the result of 70 years af
effort these tireless workers have made exactly two ‘ finds ’—no more.

In such a case how great is the inducement to continue with more dtecuats
means, more exact methods, and more expert selection of localities the search
for the earliest relics of the human race!
C. G. ABBOT,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.

THE CONTROVERSY OVER HUMAN “MISSING LINKS ”

3y Gerrit §S. MILLER, Jr.

Curator, Division of Mammals, U. S. National Museum

[With five plates]

The ordinary nonscientifie person can not be expected to embrace,
and ought not to be expected to embrace, any scientific opinion until it
may be asserted of that opinion that the genuine scientific world is
fairly unanimous in giving its adherence to it. (Sir Bertram C. A.
Windle, Darwin and Darwinism, p. 7, 1912.)

Among recent subjects of animated scientific and popular contro-
versy both in and out of print there is perhaps none that has aroused
more widespread interest than the discussion of human “ missing
links.” Is man a creature unconnected with the rest of animate
nature? Or is he a direct descendent from ancestors which were not
human? And in the latter event can we point to any links which
actually connect him with a nonhuman ancestral stock and which

413
414 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

are fairly unanimously accepted by the genuine scientific world as
undoubtedly such links? Around these questions as a center the
controversy revolves, with no present indication that it is likely soon
to come to rest. To some persons the existence of human missing
links appears to be more than unlikely; to others it appears to be not
only likely but definitely established. Between these two extremes
stand those who believe that the links probably existed but that they
certainly have not yet been found.

From these points of view writers are tirelessly putting forward
their rival opinons. What I wish to undertake here is to summarize
these opinions and to set forth the facts which underlie them in such
form that the reader may be enabled to come to some conclusion
for himself. But before examining any actual fossils it will be
necessary to have a clear understanding of the nature and conditions
of our problem. I shall therefore begin by explaining what a true
missing link is understood to be. Then I shall quote some typical
examples of opinions which show how variously the subject can be
regarded when the links are supposed to have formed part of a chain
binding man’s history to that of other mammals. After this a very
brief account will be given of the main features which distinguish
the skeleton of man from that of the mammals which most nearly
resemble him. We shall then be in position to look intelligently at
the fossils and at the opinions of the experts who have studied them.

WHAT IS A MISSING LINK ?

About the meaning of the term “ missing link ” there is much popu-
lar misunderstanding. Many persons suppose that such a link must
have been something in the nature of a hybrid, a monster, or a
freak. Nothing could be more incorrect. Whether, as some author-
ities believe, evolution moves onward by the gradual changing of
whole populations of creatures, or whether, as others consider more
likely, it moves by a less uniform process in which individual pe-
culiarities play an important part, a missing link can never be any-
thing else than perfectly normal. At the time when it lived there
must have been many individuals like it; and the reason why some of
the links which have been found in groups of animals not related
to man are represented by only one specimen is that fossils, on the
whole, are rare.

The idea of the existence of “missing links” arose partly from
the discovery of connecting fossils and partly from the commonly
accepted theory of organic evolution. According to this the different
kinds of living animals and plants have not always existed in the
forms that we now see. On the contrary, they have all come to be
what they are by a process of “ modification of traits from genera.
“MISSING LINKS °—MILLER 415

tion to generation through internal and external factors ” (to borrow
the words of Dr. David Starr Jordan), a process which has been
going on since the beginning of life on the earth. As this process
has continued it has led to the production of ever new kinds of
plants and animals, which, on the whole, have tended to become more
complicated in structure and more perfectly fitted to use the world
around them. It follows that at any period of the world’s history
all the kinds of plants and animals then living are to be regarded
as the product of those which lived at earlier periods and that, if
all the creatures which ever lived could be passed in review, it would
be seen that the distinctions which now separate the different kinds
would gradually disappear as we looked farther and farther into the
past. This concept has been illustrated by comparison with a flat-
topped tree. If we looked at the top only (representing the pres-
ent), we should be able to see nothing more than a great number of
apparently unconnected twigs, but if we examined the lower parts
of the tree (representing the past), we should find that the twigs
went down and converged into a much smaller number of branches
and that these branches in their turn converged into a trunk, which
joined all parts into one organic whole. But while we can easily
study an actual tree and learn the true relationship of its terminal
twigs to each other and to the main trunk, the most that we can do
in tracing the genealogy of an animal is to attempt to fit together a
few fragments of the tree preserved as fossils. By fitting together
these fragments we are able to obtain some indication of the course
by which the present-day twigs have grown away from the older
branches and these, in their turn, from the main trunk. Men and
apes, according to this theory of evolution, are terminal twigs of a
single branch, and the “ missing links” which we are trying to find
are fragments from the lower parts of these twigs near the point
where they forked away from the older stem. Human missing links
might therefore be creatures of three different kinds—(a) races of
men which had not lost all their ape-like peculiarities, (b) races of
apes which had begun to take on human characteristics, or (c) races
which were neither exactly men nor exactly apes but which combined
the characteristics of both.

If a human “ missing link ” is to be found at all, it must be sought
among the fossil remains of mammals long ago extinct, since there
is no living animal known which possesses the required peculiarities.
Investigators know this, and they have long been diligently search-
ing in rocks and caves, in gravel pits, and stream beds. As the re-
sult of 70 years of effort these tireless workers have made exactly
two “finds *—no more—which are of such a nature that they can
be seriously regarded as furnishing the looked-for direct evidence
416 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

of man’s blood relationship with animals resembling in some general
manner the present-day gorilla and chimpanzee. ‘These two “ finds ”
are known, respectively, from the places where they were unearthed,
as the “ Java ape man” or “ Trinil man” (Pithecanthropus erectus
Dubois), and the “ Piltdown dawn man” (Loanthropus dawsoni
Smith Woodward). The former was discovered in 1891-92 near
Trinil, central Java, the latter about 20 years afterward at Pilt-
down, Sussex, England.

WHAT IS THE CONTROVERSY ?

So long as the discussion of missing links is limited to extinct
creatures which may have served to connect modern one-toed horses
with ancient five-toed ancestors or to connect straight shelled “ thun-
derstones ” with spirally coiled ammonites it arouses no particular
animosity. But when it extends to fossils which can be brought
forward as evidence that man is related to something simian, the
case is very different. Then it leads to the expressing of opinions
delivered from sharply defined and diametrically opposed points of
view. In other words, the subject becomes controversial, as may be
readily seen from a few especially characteristic and interesting
passages which I have selected from the abundant literature.

First I shall take up the writings of authors who do not believe in
evolution as apphed to man. To them the search naturally appears
foredoomed to failure. Sir Bertram C. A. Windle has admirably
expressed this mental attitude on pages 26 and 27 of the pamphlet
from which I have taken the sentence serving as a motto to this
article.

Then, in the next place, there is the question of the missing link or links.
“There is not, as is often assumed, one ‘ missing link’ to be discovered, but at
least a score of such links, to fill adequately the gap between man and apes;
and their nondiscovery is now one of the strongest proofs of the imperfection
of the geological record.” (Wallace, The World of Life, 1911, p. 247.) What
an amazing non-sequitur! Surely it might be claimed, with at least equal
justice, that the fact that the “missing links” have not turned up is some
sort of proof that they do not exist, at least in any quantity. See the force of
a parti pris! The venerable writer of the lines just quoted has in a paragraph
almost immediately preceding stated that “all evolutionists are satisfied that
the common ancestor of man and the anthropoid apes must [his italics] date
back to the Miocene, if not to the Eocene, period.’ So that the line of argu-
ment is this: Although no one has ever seen any trace of him, man and the
apes must have had a common ancestor at the time mentioned; nothing has
ever been found of that ancestor; therefore the geological record is imperfect.
It does not need any profound acquaintance with logic to see through that
syllogism.

At any rate, Wallace admits that there are a number of missing links, and
Branco, who as director of the Geological and Palaeontological Institute of the
Berlin University, may be accepted as a competent authority, tells us that in
MILLER 417

‘MISSING LINKS”

the history of our planet man appears as a genuine Homo novus. It is possi-
ble, he says, to trace the ancestry of most of our present mammals among the
fossils of the Tertiary period, but man appears suddenly in the Quaternary
period, and has no Tertiary ancestors as far as we know. Human remains of
the Tertiary period have not yet been discovered, and the traces of human
activity, which have been referred to that period, are of a very doubtful
nature, but Diluvial remains abound. Man of the Diluvial epoch, however,
appears at once as a complete Homo sapiens. And further to the question,
“Who was the ancestor of man?’ he replies, ‘‘ Palaeontology tells us nothing
of the subject—it knows no ancestors of man.”

The same train of thought is carried on by Erich Wasmann, in his
Modern Biology and the Theory of Evolution. (Translated by A.
M. Buchanan from the third German edition; St. Louis, 1923.)

What answer does palaeontology make to our question [with regard to the
ancestry of man]? She does not merely say “The missing link between man
and ape has not yet been discovered.” ... But palaeontology tells us far
more than this and, relying on the results of most recent investigations, she
gays: “We have the pedigree of the present apes, a pedigree very rich in
species and coming down from the hypothetical ancestral form of the oldest
Tertiary period to the present day. Zittel’s ‘“Grundztge der Paliontologie”
gives a list of no fewer than 30 genera of fossil Pro-simiae and 18 genera of
fossil apes, the remains of which are buried in the various strata from the
Lower Eocene to the close of the Alluvial epoch, but not one connecting link
has been found between their hypothetical ancestral form and man of the
present time. The whole hypothetical pedigree of man is not supported by a
single fossil genus or a single fossil species.”

How extraordinary! If man were really descended from a prehistoric ancestor,
common to him and to the apes of the present day, there must surely be some
fossil trace left of his branch of the genealogical tree and not only traces of
the branch leading to apes!

I should like to commend this scientific truth to the serious consideration of
all those who regard the descent of man from beasts as actually proved or who
hope that it will be actually proved in the near future. As a critical student of
nature, I am bound to express my fears that the upholders of this theory will
find themselves disappointed.

Coming to thoroughgoing evolutionists, we find that many of them
believe that human missing links have been demonstrably discovered.
This opinion is set forth in no unfaltering words by Sir Arthur
Keith in his presidential address before the British Association for
the Advancement of Science given at Leeds, August 31, 1927.1 He
says:

We now know, that as Darwin sat in his study at Down, there lay hidden
at Piltdown, in Sussex, not 30 miles distant from him, sealed up in a bed
of gravel, a fossil human skull and jaw. In 1912, 30 years after Darwin’s
death, Mr. Charles Dawson discovered this skull and my friend Sir Arthur
Smith Woodward described it, and rightly recognized that skull and jaw

were parts of the same individual and that this individual had lived, as was
determined by geological and other evidence, in the opening phase of the

1 Printed in Science, n. s. vol. 66, pp. 201-208, Sept. 2, 1927, and in Nature, vol. 120,
suppl., pp. 14—21, Sept. 3, 1927.
418 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

Pleistocene period. We may confidently presume that this individual was
representative of the people who inhabited England at this remote date.
The skull, although deeply mineralized and thick-walled, might well have been
the rude forerunner of a modern skull, but the lower jaw was so apelike that
some experts denied that it went with the human fossil skull at all, and
supposed it to be the lower jaw of some extinct kind of chimpanzee. This
mistake would never have been made if those concerned had studied the
comparative anatomy of anthropoid apes. Such a study would have prepared
them to meet with the discordances of evolution. The same irregularity in
the progression of parts is evident in the anatomy of Pithecanthropus, the
oldest and most primitive form of humanity so far discovered. The thigh
bone might easily be that of modern man, the skull cap that of an ape, but the
brain within that cap, as we now know, had passed well beyond an anthropoid
status. If merely a lower jaw had been found at Piltdown, an ancient
Englishman would have been wrongly labeled ‘‘ Higher anthropoid ape”; if
only the thigh bone of Pithecanthropus had come to light in Java, then an
ancient Javanese, almost deserving the title of anthropoid, would have passed
muster aS a man (p. 204). ... In a brief hour I have attempted to
answer a question of momentous importance to all of us—What is man’s
origin? Was Darwin right when he said that man, under the action of biologi-
cal forces which can be observed and measured, has been raised from a place
amongst anthropoid apes to that which he now occupies? The answer is yes!
and in returning this verdict I speak but as foreman of the jury—a jury which
has been empaneled from men who have devoted a lifetime to weighing the
evidence. To the best of my ability I have avoided, in laying before you the
evidence on which our verdict was found, the role of special pleader, being
content to follow Darwin’s own example—Let the truth speak for itself (pp.
207-208).

No less convinced of our positive knowledge is Prof. Henry F.
Osborn. His opinion, however, differs from the one expressed by
Sir Arthur Keith in a very important detail. According to Keith
and many other students, the line of human ancestry goes back to
creatures which would be recognized, if found, as members of the
same family as the living gorilla and chimpanzee. According to
Osborn such is not the case. He has clearly stated his views in a
paper entitled “ Dawn-Man Appears as Our First Ancestor,” pub-
lished in the New York Times, Sunday, January 9, 1927, section
XX, page 3.

I assign the Trinil man of Java, through my collateral researches, as of
the very dawn of the Age of Man, or Quaternary. Thus on the very thresho!d
of the Age of Man stand the two greatest achievements of prehistoric dis-
covery,—namely, the Trinil man of Java and the Piltdown man of Sussex,
England. The latter, aptly termed Hoanthropus (signifying ‘‘ dawn man’)
by Dr. Arthur Smith Woodward, F. R. S., has a brain so distinctively human
that the best anatomical authority places it very close indeed to the lower types
of the existing human brain. The degree of brain-power intelligence of the
Trinil man is therefore of the utmost concern: Is his brain power of the
same kind, perhaps a little better, than that of an ape, a chimpanzee, or a
. gorilla, or is it far superior to that of an ape and similar to that of a lowly
order of man? We have recently found the answer. ... Dr. Frederick
Tilney has been studying the psychology of the Trinil man through the evi-
‘MISSING LINKS °»—MILLER 419

dence revealed in a cast of the brain, which demonstrates beyond a doubt
that the scientific name Pithecanthropus applied by Dubois is a misnomer,
that the so-called Pithecanthropus was not an “ape man,” as the Greek word
implies, but a true “ pro-man” or “ dawn man.” 4

I am glad to be the first to befriend the dawn man from the long pre-Stone

Age and to remove from his reputation the bar sinister of ape descent.
The myth of ape ancestry lingers on the stage, in the movies, in certain
antinaturalistic literature, in caricature of our pedigree, even in certain
scientific parlance, but the ape-ancestry hypothesis is entirely out of date and
its place is taken by the recent demonstration that we are descended from
“dawn men,” not from ‘ape-men.” The crucial point in this demonstration
is the application of modern intelligence tests to the Trinil man of Java
through the expert observations of my Columbia colleagues, Prof. J. Howard
McGregor, anatomist, and Prof. Frederick Tilney, psychiatrist.

The Trinil man is a dawn man and not an ape man. He walked erect,
he thought as man, he probably spoke as a man, although his vocabulary was
limited. ... But in the dawn man was the potency of modern civiliza-
tion. A welcome gift from anthropology to humanity is this banishment of
the myth and bogie of our ape ancestry.

Other convinced evolutionists take a different stand. They fully
believe, for a variety of reasons, that man owes his present structure
to a long and gradual process of development away from nonhuman
ancestors, but they contend that we have not yet discovered fossils
which furnish direct evidence of this process. Prof. Martin Ram-
strém, in a paper published 10 years ago in the bulletin of the Geo-
logical Institution of the University of Upsala (vol. 16, pp. 261-304,
November 22, 1919), clearly expounded this view. His conclusions
I translate as follows:

Theories and working hypotheses are clearly necessary in scientific work.
But it seems to me not entirely right to “reconstruct” wniknown links in the
chain of evolution according to these hypotheses and then to lay such a “ restor-
ation” before the public in the literature and in museums. Without more
certain premises and foundations paleontology and anthropology become a
veritable land of Babel—everything becomes unsteady! After a few years
perhaps another investigator follows this same method of “reconstruction.”
He perhaps substitutes a contradictory opinion and discovers in his turn a
“proof” to support his way of thinking. And which of the two is right?

Let me give just two examples: Pithecanthropus and Hoanthropus. Eugene
Dubois’ find, made in a river bed and put together out of a mixture of fossil
bones, consisted of—

An apelike skullcap;
Several apelike teeth;
A manlike thigh bone.

Out of this was put together the transition form Pithecanthropus (Haecket).
And it was accepted by many as a proof of the theory that in the process of
human development the upright gait was the primary factor and the high
specialization of the brain was a secondary phenomenon. Literally the reason-
ing was as follows: ‘‘ The fact that the femur appears relatively more manlike
than the skull merely confirms the idea (auffassung), supported from several
directions, that in the morphogenetic transition from apes to men the adop-
420 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

tion of the upright walking attitude led the way. ... (Zeitschr. ftir Eth-
nologie, 1905, p. 748.) That was the idea about 15 years ago.

Now: Hoanthropus dawsoni, likewise an assembled river-bed find, includes—

A human brain case;
Some ‘‘ human” teeth;
An apelike lower jaw.

Thus an antithesis to Pithecanthropus. And at present Hoanthropus is taken
as the support for another idea about the course of human evolution. The
deduction at present is as follows: ‘‘So far from being an impossible combina-
tion of characters, this association of brain and simian features is precisely
what I anticipated in my address ... some months before I knew of the
existence of the Piltdown skull, when I argued that in the evolution of man
the development of the brain must have led the way. The growth in intel-
ligence and in the powers of discrimination no doubt led to a definite cultiva-
tion of the ssthetic sense which, operating through sexual selection, brought
about a gradual refinement of features.” (Nature, vol. 92, October 2, 1913,
pe131:)

Therefore, according to Pithecanthropus, the upright gait is the primary
element in the process by which man has come to be man.

According to Hoanthropus the development of the brain is the primary
element.

Who is right? Who stands on firm ground? Where are the definite proofs?

As to our conduct toward the public I wish in closing to call attention to
the memorable words of Professor Boule (L’Anthropologie, 1915, p. 184). Con-
cerning certain reconstructions of fossil men he says: “Our duty is to protest.
For such attempts, however agreeable they may appear in certain’ respects,
are of a nature to throw discredit on a science which is still having so much
difficulty in getting official recognition and which does not deserve to be thus
travestied.”’

Coming back to the subject two years later in a special article on the
Trinil “ find ” (Der Java-Trinil-Fund, Upsala Likareférenings For-
handlingar, n. s., vol. 26, Festskr. Prof. J. Aug. Hammar, art. 29, pp.
1-37, 1921), Professor Ramstrém continued:

The fossils were much scattered about, and it was not at all because of
their proximity of deposition that Dubois put together as parts of one individ-
ual the apelike skullcap and the manlike thigh bone. The latter was widely
separated from the former, lying 15 meters (50 feet) farther upstream and
nearer to the present river bed. As we can see from his original report, he was
led into this course because EH. Haeckel, in the anthropogenetic system pub-
lished in his Nattirliche Schépfungsgeschichte, had set up a hypothetical crea-
ture ‘ which walked erect and had a higher intellectual development than the
anthropoids, but was still unable to speak,” and had given it the name “ Pithe-
canthropus.” And when Dubois discovered the skullcap and the femur he
thought he had found the ‘“ manlike mammal which clearly forms such a link
between man and his nearest known mammalian relatives as the theory of
development supposes.” And further he says ‘“ Pithecanthropus erectus is the
transition form which in accordance with the teachings of evolution must have
existed between men and the anthropoids. He is the ancestor of man.”

It follows that the Haeckelian theory of human evolution became the motive
which caused Dubois to put the Trinil fossils together as an individual of the
transition type.
‘MISSING LINKS *—MILLER 421

The three points of view should now be easy to understand.

First. Missing links can not be expected to exist.

Second. Missing links have been found; beliefs that they have not
arise from ignorance.

Third. Missing links have not been found; beliefs that they have
arise from preconceptions.

IS ANY AGREEMENT POSSIBLE ?

To the question whether or not reconciliation is possible among
men whose opinions differ so radically the only answer seems to be
that nothing can bring agreement. short of the discovery of evidence
so convincing as to compel its general acceptance by the scientific
world.

What would be the nature of such evidence? As we can not
hope to find anything more than the skeleton of a missing link,
the evidence would be furnished by the structure of the bones and
teeth. To weigh such evidence it is necessary to know something of
the essential features which distinguish the skeleton of man from
that of monkeys and apes. These features are all related to the
two chief physical peculiarities of man—namely, the upright posi-
tion of the body and the large size and unusually great weight of the
brain. The upright position has set its stamp most conspicuously
on three parts of the skeleton—the foot, the pelvis, and the base of
the skull; the large brain has set its stamp on the size and shape of
the upper and posterior part of the skull. Man’s foot is character-
ized by its ability to act as the habitual support for the entire weight
of the body and its inability to grasp in the manner of a hand,
features which are particularly indicated by the bones of the heel
and of the great toe. His pelvis differs from that of the apes in
its bowl-like form suited to holding the superimposed viscera. The
base of his skull is so constructed that the points of support are
approximately beneath the center of gravity, and the whole mass
of the head can thus be balanced on the top of the upright vertebral
column, something which can not happen in any monkey or ape.
Finally, man’s brain case is greatly swollen in proportion to the
size of his face and jaws. Less fundamental peculiarities may be
found in the curved form of the human lower jaw, in the shape
und size of the teeth, in the structure of the bones in the leg, and
in the general lengthening of the leg and shortening of the arm.
Apes and monkeys, in contrast to man, habitually walk on all fours
when on the ground; their feet are so constructed that they are as
good grasping organs as their hands; the weight of the viscera,
when the animals are walking, is mostly slung beneath the hori-
zontal backbone and not mostly piled upon the pelvis; the supports

24034—29—_28
422 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

for their skulls are situated behind the center of gravity, so that the
head has to be constantly held in position by powerful muscles;
finally, the facial part of their skulls is relatively large and their
brain cases are relatively small.

Properly to qualify as a “ missing link,” a “ find” would have to
show that it was part of a creature which had some of the essential
characteristics of both humans and apes. It would not be necessary
that all parts should be intermediate to exactly the same degree, for,
as Sir Arthur Keith very properly points out, evolution has its dis-
cordancies, and in the course of racial development one organ com-
monly alters its structure at a different rate from another. But
there are two requisites which could not be dispensed with— first
that more than one part of the animal should be discovered, and
second, that these parts should have unquestionably belonged to-
gether. Why this is necessary may need explaining. Fossil skele-
tons are sometimes found with the bones practically undisturbed,
or, if somewhat scattered, all clearly of one kind with no admixture
of any other sorts. On the other hand, they may be found jumbled
together in what were once quicksands, pits, or crevices where ani-
mals of several kinds have perished, or in what were once stream
beds where loose bones of many sorts have been irregularly spread
or collected by the action of the water. When the bones of a fossil
skeleton retain their original position in the body of the animal the
evidence is clear; when they have become widely separated, and par-
ticularly when they have been mixed with remains of other creatures,
the evidence is perplexing. The reason why more than one part of
the supposed link must be known is this—namely, that one part of
an animal not infrequently resembles the corresponding part of an-
other to which it is not nearly related. This likeness without rela-
tionship is usually called “parallelism ” or “ convergence,” and it
is so common throughout nature that everyone who is occupied with
the classification of animals must be constantly ready to take it into
account. The similarities in general form between a porpoise and
a fish or between a snake and an eel are well-known examples of
parallelism. In their fundamental structure the animals of each
pair are profoundly different; but in their external form they are
remarkably alike. On the other hand, there are often found striking
resemblances between particular parts of two animals which are
unlike in general form. For instance, the crowns of the molar teeth
in one of the extinct North American peccaries deceptively resemble
the crowns of human molars, as has recently been brought out during
‘MISSING LINKS ’—MILLER 4.23

the discussion of the case of the famous “ Hesperopithecus”.2 The
shape of the skull and teeth in a marsupial from Australia and a
lemur from Madagascar is rodentlike, while in the rest of the body
both animals are very different from rodents. Parachute membranes
of almost identical structure have been developed by mammals of
four widely unrelated kinds. It follows, therefore, first that a single
tooth, bone, or fragment of a fossil-bone which resembles the cor-
responding part of the human skeleton does not necessarily pertain
to a creature nearly related to man, and second, that even if such
a single fragment were exactly intermediate in structure between
the corresponding part of man and of some particular kind of great
ape it would not furnish evidence of the existence of an animal whose
total structure was similarly intermediate. The only conclusion that
could be safely drawn from a single bone or tooth is this:—That the
specimen illustrates a stage of structural intermediateness, but this
stage might have been arrived at as readily without direct blood re-
lationship as with it. A good example of what I mean is furnished
by the molar teeth of man, chimpanzee, and gorilla. In their structure
the molars of the chimpanzee are intermediate between those of gorilla
and man, but every one knows that a chimpanzee is not a “link”
either missing or living; yet the characters of the teeth are such
that, if the chimpanzee were extinct and some of its molars were
the only known fragments of any fossil ape, the unearthing of these
teeth might easily be hailed as the discovery of a missing link.

With these circumstances in mind, it should be clear, I think, that
in order to bring the genuine scientific world into fairly unanimous
agreement it would be necessary to lay before it two or more parts
of a missing link, and that these parts should not only give trust-
worthy information about the structures most characteristic of man
but they should also have been found under circumstances showing
that they pertained to one individual. There is nothing special about
this criterion. It is the one used in the study of all fossils pertaining
to animals other than man.

In the light of the understanding which we have now gained,
what is the status of the two fossils which have caused so much con-
troversy? I wish to leave to the reader the pleasure of finding his
own answer to this question. My part will be to summarize what
is actually known about the “Java Man” and the “ Piltdown Man”
and to give an outline of what has been written about them.

2See Osborn, Amer. Mus. Novitates, No. 37, pp. 1-5, figs. 1-3, Apr. 25, 1922; Gregory
and Hellman, Amer. Mus. Novitates, No. 53, pp. 1-16, figs. 1-6, Jan. 9, 1923; Gregory,
Science, n. s., vol. 66, pp. 579-581, Dec. 16, 1927.
424. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

THE JAVA APE MAN OR TRINIL MAN
(Pithecanthropus erectus Dubois)

This “ find ” consists of a skullcap, a femur, and two lower molar
teeth. The specimens are represented in Plates 1, 2, and 3, and Plate
4, Figure 2. A third tooth, a lower premolar, has also been described,
but it has not figured conspicuously in the discussion.

Dr. Eugene Dubois, to whom the discovery is due, thus describes
the circumstances:

For the proper interpretation of these osseous remains the circumstances
under which they were found is quite as important a factor as the anatomical
considerations. I will therefore first give some particulars regarding theil
situation when discovered. ... At the place where the remains were
discovered at Trinil the strata, everywhere composed of volcanic tufa, lie
exposed in the clifflike declivity of the bank of a river of considerable size,
the Bengawan, or Solo. They usually consist here of a sandstone of slight con-
sistency which, in its deeper layers at about the level of the river during the
dry season, becomes coarser and coarser as more and more lapilli or voleanic
stones form part of its composition. The bones are found throughout the
entire thickness of the sandstone strata, being very numerous in the lower
half and most so in the stratum, about 1 meter thick, in which the lapilli
are found. In the conglomerate which lies under this I found but few, and
none at all in the subadjacent argillaceous layer. The four fragments of the
skeleton of Pithecanthropus were found in different years, because, on account
of the rise of the river during every rainy season, the excavations were neces-
sarily suspended and could not be resumed until the next dry season. Besides,
in the same working season one fragment was found later than the other,
because the stone had to be removed cautiously in layers and by marked-off
areas. The four fragments were, however, found at exactly the same level
in the entirely untouched lapilli stratum. They were therefore deposited at
the same time—that is to say, they are of the same age. The teeth were
distant from the skull from 1 to, at most, 3 meters; the femur was 15 meters
away. The quite sharp relief of their surface does not support the theory
that they have been washed out from some older layer and then embedded
for a second time. They were found at the place of their original deposit.
Besides, they all show exactly the same state of preservation and of petrefac-
tion as do all other bones that have been taken from this particular stratum
at Trinil. Their specific gravity (sp. gr. of compact tissue=2.456) is much
greater than that of unpetrified bones (sp. gr. of compact tissue=1.930). The
femur weighs 1 kilogram, therefore considerably more than double the weight
of a recent human femur of the same size; the medullary cavity is partly
filled with a stony mass. The eroded upper surface which the skullcap and
not the femur shows occurred in the bed where it was found, appearing on
many bones excavated near the skullcap, and is caused by infiltration of water
through the cliff at that place. Associated with these bones I also found very
numerous remains of a small axislike species of Cervus, frequently, also, the
remains of Stegodon. Farther away were found Bubalus, apparently identical
with the Siwalik species, Leptobos, Boselaphus, Rhinoceros, Felis, Sus, Hyaena,
that all appear to be of new species. Of species found in other situations of the
same stratum I will mention a gigantic Manis, more than three times the
length of the existing Javanese species; a Hippopotamus, belonging to the same
“MISSING LINKS °—MILLER 425

subgenus, Hezaprotodon, as the forms from the Siwalik and Narbada strata
of western India. Upon the evidence of these remains I determined that the
four skeletal fragments were of exactly the same age, and very probably
early Pliocene.

The first description of the Java man was published in a pamphlet
issued at Batavia, Java, in 1894. Throughout the scientific world
it was immediately read and commented on with intense interest by
zoologists and anthropologists alike. But the fact soon became ap-
parent that the only point of universal agreement among these read-
ers was their interest; their opinions differed to an astonishing de-
gree. Some accepted the belief of Dubois that the remains came
from one individual; others regarded the circumstances of the dis-
covery as giving no support to it. About the skullcap some agreed
with Dubois that it clearly represented a transition stage between
ape and man; others pronounced it human, and still others were as
fully convinced that it was simian. In April, 1896, Dubois gave a
summary of the opinions of 19 writers: 5 regarded the skullcap as
simian, 7 as human, and 7 as intermediate. Their names are of
enough interest to be reproduced here.

Simian Human Intermediate
R. Virchow. W. Turner. E. Dubois.
W. Krause. D. J. Cunningham. L. Manouvvrier.
W. Waldeyer. A. Keith. O. C. Marsh.
O. Hamann. R. Lydekker. EK. Haeckel.
H. ten Kate. Rud. Martin. A. Nehring.
P. Matschie. R. Verneau.
P. Topinard. A. Pettit.

The controversy which thus began has not yet ended. So many
writers have taken part in it that I shall make no attempt to list
them all or to give their views in detail. A summary will suffice. But
before presenting this summary, and as the best means for enabling
the reader to understand the violently conflicting opinions which he
will find in it, I shall quote rather extensively from the chapter en-
titled “ Pithecanthropus—The Ape Man” in Prof. Marcellin Boule’s
Fossil Men (translated by J. E. and J. Ritchie from the second
French edition, 1923).

If we possessed only the skull and the teeth, we should say that we were
dealing with a large ape; if we had only the femur, we should declare we were
dealing with a man.

A first and important question thus arises: Did the skulleap, the teeth, and
the femur, found separately and at more or less considerable intervals of time
and distance, belong to the same being? Dubois considered himself justified in
asserting that they did, because no remains of large primates have ever been
found in Java except in this spot at Trinil, and the simultaneous presence of
several species appears very improbable. Further, the various bones were scat-
tered at quite inconsiderable distances from one another. These are certainly
good arguments, but they are not conclusive. Some doubt remains, and will
426 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

still remain, until new and more fortunate explorations put us in possession
of less imperfect remains found in close association.

Great . Creat
Apes Mm a Loa) Monkeys Apes Men Monkeys
P Primate
Piss 1 Stem 2
Great
Apes Men Monkeys
Primate
Stem 3
Great Great
Apes Men Monkeys Apes Men [TA] Monkeys
Primate Primate
Stem 4 Stem 5

FIGURE 1.—Diagram representing different opinions as the relationships of the Java man, JM

The fact having been taken for granted that the Trinil remains belonged to
one and the same creature, attempts at restoration were undertaken. Dubois
and Manouvrier published reconstructions of the cranium and even of the whole
«“ MISSING LINKS »—-MILLER 427

skull. These attempts, coming from medical men, and being based principally
on human anatomy, are far too hypothethical, since we possess no data for the
reconstruction of the base of the skull, the whole face, and all the apparatus
of the lower jaw. It is astonishing to find a great palaeontologist like Osborn
also publishing attempts of this kind. Dubois ventured still further in the
realm of imagination when he exhibited at the International Exhibition of 1900,
in the Dutch Indies pavilion, a painted model of Pithecanthropus as he appeared
in life!

Various interpretations have been given of the facts which I have just sum-
marized as briefly but as accurately as possible. According to many scientists,
Dubois’ opinion that we have here a transition form between the anthropoid
apes and man is justified. Of such, I may mention in France, Manouvrier and
Verneau; in America, Marsh and Osborn; in England, Duckworth, Sollas, and
Keith; in Australia, Berry and Robertson; in Germany, Nehring, Schwalbe,
Haeckel, and others. Other German authors, Virchow, Krause, Waldeyer and
Ranke, the Italian Sergi, and the Swiss R. Martin, believe that Pithecanthropus
was simian in nature. Topinard in France, Houzé in Belgium, Lydekker,
Turner, and Cunningham in England, are inclined to regard it as a man.

To consider only the most important relic, the skulleap; unquestionably this
falls into place exactly, I might almost say ideally, between that of the large
apes, like the chimpanzee, and of a man of archaic characters, such as the
Neanderthal man.

But it must be distinctly stated, and in this case repeated, that resemblance
does not always imply descent. Even if, in the sum of his known characters
(poor at the best), Pithecanthropus actually forms a structural link between
the large apes and man, it does not necessarily follow that he must be re-
garded as a genealogical link, and this distinction is not, as has been asserted,
merely a question of words.

In order to come to a decisive conclusion regarding his true genealogical
relationships, we should require to possess at least the complete skull and lower
jawbone of Pithecanthropus; for all the reconstructions, with their more or
less marked anthropomorphism, which have been advanced by different authors,
will never help to solve the problem. In the present state of our knowledge,
I do not think that we are yet in a position to believe that there was any direct
descent between Pithecanthropus and man, such as the genealogical tree
prepared by Dubois would indicate. [Figure 1, diagram 2.]

It is certainly more satisfactory to admit that the evolutionary branch to
which the famous Javan fossil belongs was different from the human branch.
Naturalists have no longer any doubt that we are related to the apes; but it is
of some interest to try to define this relationship, especially when we meet
with a creature apparently more akin to us than any other. Dubois rightly
pointed out that if Pithecanthropus is, so to speak, only our granduncle instead
of our grandfather, he is none the less an ape man representing a stage in
human descent. The majority of scientists to-day adhere to this view. They
consider Pithecanthropus to be an extinct lateral twig of the human branch.
As such he is regarded by Keith, Gregory, and Osborn. [Figure 1, diagram 3.]

It is possible, however, to interpret these genealogical relationships in yet
another way. Following Dubois, several naturalists have laid stress on the
resemblance between the Pithecanthropus remains and the corresponding portions
of a gibbon’s skeleton. In that case, why not assume that Pithecanthropus rep-
resents a large form, a giant ape, related to the gibbon group?
428 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

This hypothesis is not new; it was clearly stated by several naturalists, par-
ticularly by Volz. The bone fragments are in its favor; the most recent geologi-
cal studies, tending to postdate the layer, also support it. The new argument
which I think I can bring forward in its favor is that we know several examples
of comparative cases.

In all countries during Pliocene and Quaternary times there were giant forms
of animals whose living representatives are now greatly reduced in size. In
addition to the great edentates of South America, Megatherium and Glyptodon,
which Cuvier named “ giant sloths’”’ and “ armadillos,’ to the enormous Aus-
tralian marsupial, Diprotodon, to a giant Pangolin found in Java in the same
layer as Pithecanthropus, to the Trogontherium of European Pleistocene de-
posits, which is really a sort of giant beaver; in addition, also, to the whole
series of large running birds of Madagascar and of New Zealand recently ex-
tinct, examples among the primates themselves are not wanting.

Pilgrim found in the Siwalik Hills the remains of a monkey which he named
Dryopithecus giganteus. Megaladapis, of the recent geological formations in
Madagascar, is none other than a giant lemur. Archaeolemur and Hadropithe-
cus, from the same layers, are also lemurs of larger size than the living forms;
but they show morphological characters of a higher order, denoting a tendency
toward the higher ape type, for the tendency toward greater perfection is not
exclusively confined to the human branch.

We may therefore consider that Pithecanthropus, discovered in the same
zoological region as the modern gibbons, may have been a large species either
of the genus Gibbon, or rather of a closely allied genus related to the same
group. This form might have been superior to its congeners, not only in size
but also in other morphological characters, and particularly in cerebral ca-
pacity, a character of the first importance in which Pithecanthropus truly ap-
proaches the human stock. ... It would thus represent a branchlet, more
highly specialized than the neighboring branchlets of the most highly de-
veloped gibbon branch, and it must soon have died out, perhaps because of this
very specialization. Pithecanthropus, then, does not belong to the ancestral line
of the genus Homo. The more or less “ human” characters of its skulleap, and
even of its femur, can only be looked upon as characters due to convergence
and not to descent. [Figure 1, diagram 4.]

This interpretation of the memorable Javan discovery does not lessen its in-
terest. I am tempted to say that, on the contrary, it increases it, since the
human line, while still retaining its independence, seems thus morphologically
less isolated than formerly from the neighboring lines. It leads us to the
admission that in other days there existed anthropoids higher than living
anthropoids, but inferior to the fossil men known to us, who themselves were
inferior to living man. ‘The physical relationship between ape and man here
asserts itself from a new point of view.

SUMMARY OF OPINIONS ABOUT THE JAVA MAN
(Pithecanthropus)

There is only one point on which all writers agree, namely, that the
skullcap is strangely different from the corresponding part of other
known mammals, both recent and fossil. In striking contrast we
find that there are not less than 15 points of disagreement.
«MISSING LINKS °—MILLER 429

(1)

The deposits in which the fossils were found are of Tertiary age
(lower to upper Pliocene, therefore old enough to be reasonably
expected to contain remains of a creature ancestral to man) (Dubois,
Hilber, Marsh).

The deposits in which the fossils were found are of Quaternary age
(lower to middle Pleistocene, therefore not old enough to be reason-
ably expected to contain remains of a creature ancestral to man)
(Branca, Obermaier, Pervinquicre, Ramstrém, Schuster, Volz).

(2)

The way the bones were deposited in the ancient stream bed counts
against the reference of all these parts to one individual (Ramstrom,
Virchow).

The way the skullcap, teeth, and femur were deposited in the an-
cient stream bed at considerable distances from each other does not
count against the reference of all these parts to one individual
(Branco, Dubois, Jaekel, Marsh).

(3)

The remains came from one animal (Dubois, Nehring, and many
others).

The remains did not certainly come from one animal (Matschie).

The remains came from two kinds of animal—teeth and skullcap
from a gibbon, and femur from a man (Krause) ; skullcap and femur
from a man, teeth from an orang (Topinard). Diagram 5, p. 426.

The remains came from two or perhaps three kinds of animal—
skullcap, one ape (Pithecanthropus); teeth another ape, not yet
named; and femur perhaps human (Obermaier).

(4)

The characters of the femur are those of ordinary man (Hepburn,
Houzé, Kolbe, Manouvrier, Martin, Turner, Vallois).

The characters of the femur are those of a peculiar man
(Hrdlicka).

The characters of the femur are those of a gibbon (Kollman,
Virchow).

(5)

The size of the femur is too great for the bone to have pertained
to the same individual as the skullcap (Virchow).

The size of the femur is not too great for the bone to have per-
tained to the same individual as the skullcap (Nehring).
430 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

(6)

The condition of the skullcap shows that the surface of the bone
was eaten away by acid after deposition (Dubois).

The condition of the skullcap shows that the surface of the bone
could not have been eaten away by acid, but that it must have been
worn down by violent stream action along with waterworn pebbles
before deposition (Houzé).

[If the skulleap had been subjected to stream action, it probably
had a different history from the femur, whose delicate, abnormal,
bony outgrowths show no evidence of rough treatment. ]

(7)

The characters of the skullcap are predominantly human (Cun-
ningham, Martin, Matschie, Houzé, Turner).

The characters of the skullcap are those of a microcephalous idiot
(Lydekker).

The characters of the skullcap are those of a Neanderthal man
(Topinard).

The characters of the skullcap are intermediate between those of
Neanderthal man and the higher apes (Schwalbe).

The characters of the skullcap are intermediate between those
of modern man and the higher apes (Nehring).

The characters of the skullcap are simian but with some features
that resemble man (Obermaier).

The characters of the skullcap are those of a gibbon (Krause,
Manouvrier).

The characters of the skullcap are not those of a gibbon
(Schwalbe, Weinert).

The characters of the skullcap are predominantly chimpanzeelike
(Eimer, in Branco, Ramstrém, Virchow).

The characters of the skullcap are no¢ predominantly chimpanzee-
like (Schwalbe).

(8)
The size of the brain alone is sufficient to show that the animal
approached man in structure (Dubois).

The size of the brain alone is not sufficient to show that the animal
approached man in structure (Ramstrém).

(9)
The creature was an imbecile (Manouvrier).
The creature was a microcephalous idiot (Lydekker).
The brain structure indicated by the cast of the inner surface of the

skullcap shows that the animal might have had some power of
speech (Dubois).
‘MISSING LINKS »—MILLER 431

The brain structure indicated by the cast of the inner surface of
the skullcap shows that the animal probably spoke as a man, al-
though his vocabulary was limited (Osborn).

The brain structure indicated by the cast of the inner surface of the
skulleap shows that the animal had actually learned to speak
(Tilney).

The brain structure as indicated by the cast of the inner surface
of the skulleap gives no positive information about the creature’s
mental capacities (Symington).

(10)

The fact that the two teeth exhibit different degrees of wear counts
against the reference of both to one individual (Krause, Virchow).

The fact that the two teeth exhibit different degrees of wear does
not count against the reference of both to one individual (Dubois,
Pearsall, Virchow, later opinion).

(11)

The unworn condition of the wisdom tooth counts against the
association of this tooth with the apparently aged skullcap as parts
of one individual (Krause, Martin, Virchow, Waldeyer).

The unworn condition of the wisdom tooth does not count against
its association with the skullcap (Dubois).

(12)

The character of the teeth are predominantly human (Houzé,
Martin).

The characters of the teeth are predominantly simian (Kolbe,
Nehring, Obermaier, Virchow).

The characters of the teeth (apart from size) are gibbonlike
(Manouvrier).

The characters of the teeth are, with unimportant exceptions,
within the limits of variation for the living orang (Miller, Topi-
nard).

The characters of the teeth are not definite enough to permit of
exact classification (Luschan, Ramstrém).

(13)

On the assumption that the remains were all those of one animal:

(a) The creature was a true transition form between ape and man
(Dames, Dubois, Haeckel, Jaekel, Manouvrier, Weilser). Diagram
2, page 426.

(6) The creature was human but with some definitely simian
characteristics (Cunningham, Keith).
432 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

(c) The creature was human without definitely simian character-
istics (Houzé, Martin, Petit). Diagram 1, page 426.

(d) The creature had a structure which removes it from a position
of direct human ancestry (Boule).

(e) The creature was essentially a gigantic gibbon or gibbonlike
ape (Boule, Kollman, Volz). Diagram 4, page 426.

(14)

The assumption that the animal was a gigantic gibbon or gibbon-
like ape involves insuperable difficulties (Dubois).

The assumption that the animal was a gigantic gibbon or gibbon-
like ape involves no insuperable difficulties. It is, moreover, sup-
ported by the fact that gigantic forms are known to have existed
in many groups of mammals during the Pleistocene and late Plio-
cene and by the circumstance that bones of a gigantic pangolin were
found in the same Trinil deposits (Boule, Branco).

The assumption that the animal is a gigantic gibbon can only be
made by persons ignorant of the principles of systematic zoology
(Schlosser).

(15)

The large size of the remains counts against their having per-
tained to a creature ancestral to man (Kollman).

The large size of the remains does not count against their having
pertained to a creature ancestral to man (all writers who regard
Pithecanthropus as a transition form).

THE PILTDOWN DAWN MAN

(Hoanthropus dawsoni Smith Woodward)

The original “ find ” consisted of four pieces (reconstructed from
nine fragments) of a cranium and an imperfect lower jaw bearing
two molar teeth. Afterward a pair of nasal bones and a canine
tooth were found and described, while still later two more frag-
ments of skull and a third molar tooth made their appearance.
The specimens (except the supplementary skull fragments) are
figured in Plate 5, and Plate 4, fig. 1. Mr. Charles Dawson, to whom
the first discovery was due, thus describes the circumstances:

Several years ago I was walking along a farm road close to Piltdown Com-
mon, Fletching (Sussex), when I noticed that the road had been mended with
some peculiar brown flints not usual in the district. On inquiry I was aston-
ished to learn that they were dug from a gravel bed on the farm, and shortly
afterwards I visited the place, where two laborers were at work digging the
gravel for small repairs to the roads. As this excavation was situated about
4 miles north of the limit where the occurrence of flints overlying the Wealden
strata is recorded, I was much interested and made a close examination of
the bed. I asked the workmen if they had found bones or other fossils there.
As they did not appear to have noticed anything of the sort, I urged them to
‘MISSING LINKS -—MILLER 433

preserve anything they might find. Upon one of my subsequent -visits to the
pit, one of the men handed to me a small portion of an unusually thick human
parietal bone. I immediately made a search, but could find nothing more, nor
had the men noticed anything else. The bed is full of tabular pieces of iron-
stone closely resembling this piece of skull in color and thickness, and, although
I made many subsequent searches, I could not hear of any further find nor dis-
cover anything—in fact, the bed seemed to be quite unfossiliferous. It was
not until some years later, in the autumn of 1911, on a visit to the spot, that
I picked up, among the rain-washed spoil heaps of the gravel pit, another and
larger piece belonging to the frontal region of the same skull, including a por-
tion of the left superciliary ridge. As I had examined a cast of the Heidel-
berg jaw, it occurred to me that the proportions of this skull were similar to
those of that specimen. I accordingly took it to Dr. A. Smith Woodward at
the British Museum (Natural History) for comparison and determination. He
was immediately impressed with the importance of the discovery, and we de-
cided to employ labor and to make a systematic search among the spoil heaps
and gravel as soon as the floods had abated, for the gravel pit is more or less
under water during five or six months of the year. We accordingly gave up as
much time as we could spare since last spring (1912), and completely turned
over and sifted what spoil material remained; we also dug up and sifted such
portion of the gravel as had been left undisturbed by the workmen. ... Con-
sidering the amount of material excavated and sifted by us, the specimens dis-
covered were numerically small and localized. Apparently the whole or greater
portion of the human skull had been shattered by the workmen, who had
thrown away the pieces unnoticed. Of these we recovered from the spoil heaps
as many fragments as possible. In a somewhat deeper depression of the undis-
turbed gravel I found the right half of a human mandible. So far as I could
judge, guiding myself by the position of a tree 3 or 4 yards away, the spot was
identical with that upon which the men were at work when the first portion
of the cranium was found several years ago. Doctor Woodward also dug up
a small portion of the occipital bone of the skull from within a yard of the
point where the jaw was discovered and at precisely the same level. The jaw
appeared to have been broken at the symphysis and abraded, perhaps when it
lay fixed in the gravel and before its complete deposition. The fragments of
cranium show little or no sign of rolling or other abrasion, save an incision
at the back of the parietal, probably caused by a workman’s pick. ... Besides
the human remains, we found two small broken pieces of a molar tooth of a
rather early Pliocene type of elephant, also a much-rolled cusp of a molar of
mastodon, portions of two teeth of hippopotamus, and two molar teeth of a
Pleistocene beaver. In the adjacent field to the west, on the surface close to
the hedge dividing it from the gravel bed, we found portions of a red deer’s
antler and the tooth of a Pleistocene horse. These may have been thrown
away by the workmen or may have been turned up by a plow which traversed
the upper strata of the continuation of this gravel bed. Among the fragments
of bone found in the spoil heaps occurred part of a deer’s metatarsal, split
longitudinally. This bone bears upon its surface certain small cuts and
scratches, which appear to have been made by man. All the specimens are
highly mineralized with iron oxide.

The first description of the Piltdown dawn man was read by Sir
Arthur Smith Woodward at a meeting of the Geological Society of
London on December 18, 1912. It was published in the Quarterly
Journal of the society. (Vol. 69, pp. 117-151, April 25, 1913.)
Regarding the skull and jaw as parts of one individual, the author
434 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

concluded that the race which the fossils represented was human, but
that it differed more widely from modern man than any race here-
tofore discovered and that it definitely marked the way by which
the line of human ancestry runs back to early anthropoid apes. On
page 139 he writes:

Our knowledge of the principles of palaeontology compels us to suppose that
the full-grown skull in the ancestral mid-Tertiary apes was of the immature
rounded shape just mentioned, although we have not yet been fortunate
enough to discover an example, and during the lapse of upper Tertiary time the
skull type in the whole race of apes has gradually undergone changes which
are more or less exactly recapitulated in the life history of each individual
recent ape. Hence it seems reasonable to interpret the Piltdown skull as exhib-
iting a closer resemblance to the skulls of the truly ancestral mid-Tertiary apes
than any fossil human skull hitherto found.

This announcement gave rise to a contest of opinion which is
probably unequaled in the history of paleontology. More than 75
writers have taken part in it, and one of them * has not hesitated to
declare that “ the Piltdown jaw is the most startling and significant
fossil bone that has ever been brought to light . . . because this jaw
and the incomplete skull found with it really and in simple fact
furnish a link—a form intermediate between the man and the ape.”
This may be an extreme view but it indicates something of the enthu-
siasm which has prevailed and which has brought about the result thus
described by Prof. H. F. Osborn in 1921.4 “ Over a few fragments
of bone, three teeth, and a portion of the jaw, the wise anatomists
of Great Britain, of western Europe, and of the North American
continent have expressed opinions of every variety.” In reviewing
these opinions I shall begin with a summary which I published in
1918:

First phase (1918): The mandible was admitted to be almost precisely that
of an ape, with nothing human except the molar teeth, which, however, ap-
proached the ape pattern in their well-developed fifth cusp and elongated shape.
It was neverthless regarded as having formed part of the same individual as
the skull. The animal to which this skull and mandible were supposed to
have belonged received the generic name Hoanthropus. To the objection that
such intimate association of the jaw and skull might not be justified, the reply
was made that it could only be said that its [the mandible’s] molar teeth
were typically human, its muscle markings “such as might be expected,”
and that it was found in the gravel near the skull. Further arguments in
favor of this association were based on the circumstance that such a com-
bination of characters in one individual would accord with previously ex-
pressed opinions about the probable history of the skull in man. (Woodward,
Quart. Journ. Geol. Soe. London, vol. 69, p. 185, April 25, 1913; Waterston, Quart.
Journ., Geol. Soc. London, vol. 69, p. 150, April 25, 1913; Woodward, Brit. Med.
Journ., vol. 2 for 1913, p. 762, September 20, 1918; Smith, Nature, vol. 92, p.
131, October 2, 1913; Waterston, Nature, vol. 92, p. 319, November 18, 1913;
Keith, The Antiquity of Man, p. 459, 1915.)

8 Sir E. Ray Lankester, Diversions of a Naturalist, p. 284, 1915.
é Natural History, vol. 21 (1921), p. 577, February, 1922.
‘6 MISSING LINKS *-—MILLER 435

Second phase (1915-16) : The characters of both the jaw and the teeth were
regarded as not merely in a general way simian, but as definitely those of a
chimpanzee. Certain features of the jaw were seen to be out of harmony with
the skull, according to the associations of structures observed in all hitherto
known primates. In the absence of conclusive evidence to prove that these
previously unknown associations of structures had existed in one animal, each
set of fragments was referred to the genus which its characters demanded.
The name Hoanthropus was restricted to the human remains; the chimpanzee
represented by the jaw was described as Pan vetus. (Miller, 1915; Matthew,
1916; Gregory, June, 1916, and July, 1916; Osborn, 1916.)

Third phase (1917) : The jaw has obvious peculiarities which make it human
in spite of the fact that it presents many points of likeness to that of a chim-
panzee. All supposed disharmony between the jaw and the skull is imaginary.
The molar teeth are human; radiographs and other evidence show that they
differ conspicuously from the corresponding teeth of all great apes. (Pycraft,
1917, with approval of Woodward, Smith, Keith, Underwood, and Broom.)

The subsequent phases of the controversy have been so varied that
they can not be grouped under any single caption.

Miller (1918) has shown that the characteristics relied on by
Pycraft to prove that the jaw is human are merely features which
men and apes possess in common, and that their presence can not
be regarded as proof that the jaw and skull could have pertained
to one individual.

English writers have on the whole remained true to Smith Wood-
ward’s idea that all parts of the Piltdown find pertain to a single
individual which, though human, retains so many ape-like features
in the jaw and teeth that it can truly be regarded as a link connecting
the human line with the anthropoid stock. One of them, Hunter,
has, however, attempted to lessen the difficulties by pointing out that
in his opinion “an examination of the cranial fragments in detail
shows a greater harmony between the anatomical features of the jaw
and cranium than has usually been believed to exist.” (See addenda,
p. 465.)

In America the original Woodwardian view has been reverted to
by Osborn and Gregory and has received additional support from
McGregor. On the contrary, Hrdlicka regards the association of
the jaw with the skull as exceedingly difficult of acceptance. Ac-
cording to him it is not unlikely that each represents a peculiar
human type. It is particularly instructive to compare the opinions
of Professor Osborn and Doctor Hrdlicka, because both men have
had the privilege of examining the original specimens in the British
Museum. Professor Osborn says (Natural History, vol. 21 (1921),
pp. 581-582, 590, February, 1922) :

Seeing is believing, and the writer eagerly looked forward to a return to
the British Museum after so many years of absence and to the opportunity of

examining these precious documents, an opportunity which was most cordially
extended to him by Doctor Woodward. After attending on Sunday morning,
436 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

July 24, 1921, a most memorable service in Westminster Abbey, a building
which enshrines many of the great of all time, the writer repaired to the
British Museum in the afternoon to see the remains of the now thoroughly
vindicated “dawn man” of Great Britain. From a steel fireproof safe these
few precious fragments of one of the original Britons, which had been
preserved in this manner from the bombs thrown by German aviators, and
which will probably be thus guarded from thieves for all future time, were
taken out and placed on the table by Doctor Woodward, so that full and
free opportunity was given for the closest comparison and study. At the
-end of two hours, in which also worked flints and a large implement of cut
mastodon thigh bone were examined, the writer was reminded of an opening
prayer of college days, attributed to his professor of logic in Princeton Uni-
versity: “ Paradoxical as it may appear, O Lord, it is nevertheless true,” ete.
So the writer felt. Paradoxical as it appears to the comparative anatomists,
the chinless Piltdown jaw, shaped exactly like that of a chimpanzee and
with its relatively long narrow teeth, does belong with the Piltdown skull,
with its relatively flat, well-formed forehead and relatively capacious brain
ease! .. . In eonclusion, the writer desires not only to recant his former
doubts as to the association of the jaw with the skull, but to express his
admiration of the great achievement of his life-long friend, Arthur Smith
Woodward, in making the discovery and in finally establishing beyond question
the authenticity of the ‘dawn man” of Piltdown. We have to be reminded
over and over again that nature is full of paradoxes and that the order of
the universe is not the human order; that we should always expect the
unexpected and be prepared to discover new paradoxes.

Writing in the American Journal of Physical Anthropology (vol.
5, pp. 837, 347, December, 1922), Doctor Hrdli¢ka thus describes the
impressions which he received:

During his recent trip to Europe, and thanks to the courtesy of Dr. Smith
Woodward, the writer was able to submit the original of the lower jaw of
Piltdown to a detailed personal examination. This revealed a number of
features which have either not been mentioned as yet or have not been enough
accentuated in previous reports, and which throw further and it seems conclu-
sive light upon the mooted question as to the human or nonhuman nature of
the specimen.

The first strong impression which the specimen conveys is that of normality,
shapeliness, and relative gracility of build rather than massiveness. When,
after studying the specimens for a good part of two days, the observer took
in hand the thick Piltdown skull, there was a strong feeling of incongruity and
lack of relationship, and this feeling only grew on further study. As a rule
there exists a marked correlation between the massivity of the skull—particu-
larly if, as in this case, the upper facial parts were involved in the same—and
the lower jaw. <A finely chiseled mandible of medium or submedium strength
belongs as a rule to a skull that is characterized in the same way, and vice
versa. To connect the shapely, wholly normal Piltdown jaw with the gross,
heavy Piltdown skull into the same individual, seems very difficult. After pro-
longed handling of both the jaw and the skull there remained in the writer a
strong impression that the two may not belong together, or that if they do
the case is totally exceptional.

An individual, or even genetic, specific, association of the Piltdown jaw
with the massive remains of the two Piltdown skulls is, it may be repeated
once more, exceedingly difficult of acceptance. The more the lower jaw is
studied and understood the less in harmony it appears with the skulls, and
‘MISSING LINKS ?—MILLER 437

it is not unlikely that these latter belong to totally different, possibly chrono-
logically younger, human individuals.

The opinion of French authorities has remained in agreement
with the early expressed view of Boule that the jaw belonged to an
ape and that consequently there is no reason to regard it as a part of
the man whose brain case was deposited in the gravel where both
were found. Discussing the subject of “Man and the gibbon,”
Ernest-Robert Lenoir remarks of the Piltdown jaw that this curious
bone enjoyed a period of great notoriety, but that since it has been
shown to the satisfaction of most naturalists that the fossil is only
a remnant of an anthropoid, silence has gradually fallen on this find.

Turning to other European countries we find that the dissociation
of the jaw from the skull has been upheld by Ramstrém in Sweden,
Mollison and Schwalbe in Germany, and Giuffrida-Ruggeri in Italy.
On the contrary, Kleinschmidt, in Germany, accepts all the frag-
ments as parts of one individual and finds that the cast of the mandi-
ble clearly shows the horseshoe-shaped form of the human jaw. An
entirely new opinion has been put forward in Italy by Fabio Fras-
setto. According to him the jaw and skull came from one individual,
a human being with an oranglike mandible.

By most writers who do not regard the mandible as human, this
bone and its teeth have been compared with the corresponding parts
of living great apes. The nearly unanimous conclusion has been that
both the bone and the molars possessed the characters which could be
looked for in an extinct member of the genus now represented by the
African chimpanzees. Support of another view (apparently first sug-
gested by Sera in 1917) has been brought forward by Doctor
Hrdli¢ka. He regards the jaw and teeth as those “ of either a human
precursor or very early man” (Amer. Journ. Phys. Anthrop., vol. 5,
- p. 846), but he finds in the molars a striking resemblance to the corre-
sponding teeth of extinct apes called Dryopithecus, whose fossil re-
mains have been discovered in southern France and southern Ger-
many. After tabulating the measurements of some of the teeth of
these extinct apes (Amer. Journ. Phys. Anthrop., vol. 6, p. 214, May,
1923), he says:

The conditions shown in this table are a serious surprise. Here is a line
of large apes from ancient western Europe, the lower molars of which, in shape
and in one case even in size, resemble more than those of any other group of
primates or man the teeth of the Piltdown jaw. What is this? The general
resemblance in type and size, as well as the marked difference in relative
dimensions of the fossil teeth in question to and from those of man have been
brought to our attention by W. Branco [in 1898]; but their remarkable close-
ness in the relative and in one case also in the absolute dimensions to the teeth
of the Piltdown jaw is a new fact. What is its meaning? Are the resemblances

merely accidental, or do they have deeper foundation? . . . The Piltdown
being was not a Dryopithecus, but may have had ancestral relations with some

24034—29-———_29
438 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

species of this genus or family as close as those with the champanzees, if not
even closer. A theory that the Hoanthropus may have evolved from such apes
as represented by the Bohnerz molars, and that perhaps all man’s evolution
took place in western Europe, is a very seductive one and may possibly prove
true, but it would be premature to give undue weight to this hypothesis.

The opinions which we have thus far been considering pertain
chiefly if not entirely to the material described by Dawson and Smith
Woodward in their first paper. We may now turn to those which
specifically pertain to the later finds.

The next discoveries at Piltdown date from the summer of 1913.
About them Mr. Dawson writes (Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. London,
vol. 70, p. 85, April 25, 1914) :

While our laborer was digging the disturbed gravel within 2 or 3 feet from
the spot where the mandible was found, I saw two human nasal bones lying
together with the remains of a turbinated bone beneath them in situ. The
turbinal, however, was in such bad condition that it fell apart on being
touched and had to be recovered in fragments by the sieve; but it has been
pieced together satisfactorily by Mrs. Smith Woodward.

All the gravel in situ excavated within a radius of 5 yards of the spot
where the mandible was found was set apart and searched with especial care,
and was finally washed and strewn as before mentioned. It was in this spread
that Father Teilhard de Chardin, who worked with us three days last sum-

mer, on August 30, 1913, discovered the canine tooth of Hoanthropus, hereafter
described.

Dawson died in 1916. On February 28, 1917, Sir Arthur Smith
Woodward read before the Geological Society of London a paper
entitled “ Fourth Note on the Piltdown Gravel, with Evidence of
a Second Skull of Hoanthropus dawsoni.” In it he described the
third set of Piltdown finds—namely, a left first lower molar tooth,
a skull fragment from the supraorbital region of the right frontal
bone adjacent to the middle line, and a small piece of the middle part
of an occipital bone. The tooth and the piece of frontal were parts
not represented among the previously known fragments; the piece
of occipital duplicated a part of the original find, thus demonstrat-
ing the existence of a second skull. The circumstances of this dis-
covery and the conclusions drawn from them are told as follows:

One large field, about 2 miles from the Piltdown pit, had especially attracted
Mr. Dawson’s attention, and he and I examined it several times without
success during the spring and autumn of 1914. When, however, in the course
of farming, the stones had been raked off the ground and brought together
into heaps, Mr. Dawson was able to search the material more satisfactorily
and early in 1915 he was so fortunate as to find here two well-fossilized pieces
of human skull and a molar tooth, which he immediately recognized as belong-
ing to at least one more individual of Hoanthropus dawsoni. ... From the
new facts now described it seems reasonable to conclude that Hoanthropus
dawsoni will eventually prove to be as definite and distinct a form of early man
as was at first supposed, for the occurrence of the same type of frontal bone

with the same type of lower molar in two separate localities adds to the
probability that they belonged to one and the same species (pp. 3, 6).
‘MISSING LINKS »—MILLER 439

By the two later sets of discoveries there were added to the origi-
nal fragments a pair of nasal bones with an accompanying tur-
binate, two pieces of brain case, and two teeth. About them the
history of the first find repeated itself. The parts of the skull were
universally accepted as human, and no objection was raised to re:
garding them as having pertained to a second member of the same
thick-skulled race as the original discoveries. But the teeth afforded
subject matter for unending controversy. Woodward considered
the canine to be a right lower tooth; other writers insisted that its
proper place was in the left upper jaw. All agree that it is larger
than any known human canine and that its tip must have extended
beyond the level of the other teeth after the manner of an ape’s
canine. Regarding it as a part of the dawn man, Woodward said
of this tooth: “In shape the canine resembles the milk canine of
man and that of the apes more closely than it agrees with the per-
manent canine of any known ape. In accordance with a well-known
palaeontological law, it therefore approaches the canine of the hypo-
thetical Tertiary anthropoids more nearly than any corresponding
tooth hitherto found.” ‘Those who regard the original H’oanthropus
as a mixture of fragments pertaining to a man and an ape naturally
consider the canine tooth as simian. Finding little difference be-
tween it and the canine of an adult female chimpanzee, they are for
the most part content to associate it with the jaw and the molars.
One author, however, declared that this association is not justified
and that “the pulp cavities show that the canine and the molars
belonged to individuals differing greatly in age. The skull arfd jaw
were parts of one (human) individual, but the canine is the lower
milk tooth of an unknown “humanoid anthropoid.” (Lyne, Proc.
Roy. Soc. Medicine, London, vol. 9, Odont., p. 50.)

But perhaps the most surprising differences of opinion are those
to which the left lower molar has given rise. This tooth, it will be
remembered, was, according to Sir Arthur Smith Woodward, “ dis-
covered by Mr. Dawson in the same locality as the two pieces of
bone ” pertaining to the third and last set of fragments. ‘This asso-
ciation he regarded as very important because of its bearing on the
Piltdown controversy. For, in his own words, “ from the facts now
described it seems reasonable to conclude that Hoanthropus dawson
will eventually prove to be as definite and distinct a form of early
man as was at first supposed; for the occurrence of the same type of
frontal bone with the same type of lower molar in two separate locali-
ties adds to the probability that they belonged to one and the same
species.” On its face this argument appears to be a powerful one.
Unquestionably, if a tooth identical in structure with those of the
original mandible but pertaining to another individual were found
associated with parts of a second Piltdown skull the case for uniting
440 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

all the previous finds as parts of one creature would be greatly
strengthened. This view of the case is enthusiastically taken up by
Professor Osborn, who writes (Natural History, vol. 21, pp. 580-
581):

Scepticism as to the association of the chimpanzeelike jaw with the skull
was very widespread. In the original description Smith Woodward himself
proclaimed the resemblance of the jaw to that of a chimpanzee. The present
writer was one of the American school of sceptics who finally reached the
opinion that this was an instance of the accidental association of two wholly
unrelated fossils. It would have been difficult to dislodge this opinion, so
widely entertained in Europe and America, but for the overwhelming confirma-
tion afforded to Smith Woodward by the discovery, announced in 1917,* of the
remains of a second Piltdown man, not in the original quarry but at another
exposure of the Piltdown gravels about 2 miles distant, a discovery made by
the original finder, Dawson. If there is a Providence hanging over the affairs
of prehistoric men, it certainly manifested itself in this case, because the three
minute fragments of this second Piltdown man found by Dawson are exactly
those which we should have selected to confirm the comparison with the original
type—namely (1) a first lower molar tooth, (2) a bit of bone of the forehead
near the right eyebrow, (8) the middle part of an occipital bone of the skull.
Both the grinding tooth and the eyebrow region are absolutely distinctive.
Placed side by side with the corresponding fossils of the first Piltdown man
they agree precisely; there is not a shadow of difference. As shown in the
accompanying photograph, published by permission of Dr. Smith Woodward, the
two grinding teeth differ only in respect to age. The first Piltdown man was
more advanced in years and the teeth were more worn; the second Piltdown
man was younger and the teeth were unworn; but they present precisely the
same characters. Smith Woodward very quietly published this confirmatory
evidence without, however, alluding in any way to his critics or yielding to the
natural temptation of writing “I told you so,” a phrase which would certainly
have appeared from a less patient and dignified pen.

Professor Osborn, who examined the actual specimen, tells us
that the newly found tooth must have belonged to a second Piltdown
man because its crown is unworn, its different degree of wear prov-
ing it to have pertained to a much younger individual than that
which had possessed the original jaw with its smoothly ground-down
molars. Sir Arthur Smith Woodward declared that the tooth agrees
“very closely with that of the original specimen of Hoanthropus
dawsoni,” but that it is “more obliquely worn by mastication.” He
further says that “ both the outer cusps are worn down to the dentine,
the anterior exposing a slightly larger area than the posterior cusp.
The small fifth cusp . . . is also worn down so as to expose
a very small area of dentine,” a description which would apply
rather well to the teeth in the original jaw. Not degree but kind
of wear is for him the determining feature of the tooth. In view
of these contradictions of statement, unusual interest attaches to

Woodward, A. S. Fourth Note on the Piltdown Gravel with Evidence of a Second
Skull of Hoanthropus dawsoni. With an appendix by Prof. G. Elliot Smith. (Quart.
Journ. Geol. Soc., London, Vol. 73, 1917, pp. 1-10, pl. I, figs. 1, 2.
‘MISSING LINKS ”»—MILLER 44]

the opinion of a third authority who has studied the material at first
hand. Doctor Hrdlicka, whose experience in such matters is second
to that of no living man, tells us (1922, p. 346) that

The additional molar tooth of the Piltdown remains is in every respect so
much like the first molar of the Piltdown jaw that its procedure from the
same jaws seems certain, and it would seem probable that the account of its
having been discovered at a considerable distance away might be mistaken.
The tooth agrees with those of the jaw perfectly not only in dimensions and
every morphological character, but also in the degree and kind of wear. A
duplication of all this in two distinct individuals would be almost impossible.

Doctor Hrdlicka’s suggestion that there may be some mistake in
the published history of this tooth has met with no response. In
thinking about it we must remember that Dawson personally de-
scribed the circumstances of both of the earlier finds, but that the last
set of discoveries was announced after his death and unaccompanied
by any direct word from him.

Deliberate malice could hardly have been more successful than the
hazards of deposition and recovery in so breaking the Piltdown
fossils and losing the most essential parts of the original skull as
to allow free scope to individual judgment in fitting the pieces to-
gether. This is particularly obvious when we look at the attempts
to reconstruct the brain case. The four pieces of the original cranium
lack some of the most important areas of contact with each other.
Hence it has been possible for each student to widen or narrow
the intervening areas according to his personal interpretation of the
probabilities, and so to produce brain cases of narrower or broader
form and of greater or less capacity. The resulting variations have
been exhaustively discussed by Sir Arthur Keith in the second
volume of his Antiquity of Man (new edition, 1925, pp. 514-602).
According to the different reconstructions the form of the cranium
may be completely human in striking contrast to the apelike jaw,
or it may have partially simian features which cause this contrast
to become less; its height may vary more than an inch, and the
capacity of its brain cavity may range from 1,070 to 1,500 cubie
centimeters.

SUMMARY OF OPINIONS ABOUT THE PILTDOWN MAN

(Loanthropus )

There is only one point on which all authors agree—namely, that
the fragments of the brain case and the nearly complete nasal bones
pertain toa man. In striking contrast we find that there are not less
than 20 points of disagreement.
442 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

(1) ;

The deposits in which the remains were found are of Pliocene age
(Moir).

The deposits in which the remains were found are of Pleistecene
age (Dawkins, Freudenberg and others).

(2)

The fact that the remains were found in stream-deposited material
counts against the reference of all to the same individual (Miller,
Ramstrém).

The fact that the remains were found in stream-deposited mate-
rial does not count against the reference of all to the same individual
(Jaekel, Keith, Pycraft, Woodward, and others).

(3)

The fragments all pertain to one creature, a man (Broom, Keith,
Pycraft, Smith, Underwood, Woodward, and others).

The fragments pertain to two creatures—the skull to a man, the
jaw and teeth to an ape (Miller, Ramstrém, Waterston, and others).

The fragments pertain to two creatures—the skull and jaw to a
man, the canine tooth to an ape (Lyne).

The fragments pertain to two individuals, each a particular kind
of man (Hrdlitka, Puccioni).

(4)

The canine is a permanent tooth (Woodward and most writers).
The canine is a milk tooth (Lyne).

(5)

The degree of wear of the canine tooth is too great for the tooth
to have been a milk tooth (Underwood).

The degree of wear of the canine tooth is not too great for the
tooth to have been a milk tooth (Hopson).

(6)

The canine tooth came from the upper jaw and is most lke the
permanent upper canine of a female chimpanzee (Miller).

The canine tooth came from the lower jaw and is most like the
lower milk canine of men and great apes (Woodward).
“MISSING LINKS ”—MILLER 443

(7)

The left lower molar pertaining to the third set of fragments
is worn in the same manner and to the same degree as the correspond-
ing tooth in the original jaw (Hrdlitka).

The left lower molar pertaining to the third set of fragments is
worn in a different manner from the corresponding right tooth in the
original jaw (Woodward).

The left lower molar pertaining to the third set of fragments is
not worn at all (thus differing conspicuously from the worn corre-
sponding tooth in the original jaw) (Osborn).

(8)

The specimens pertaining to the third set of fragments give addi-
tional support to the belief that the association of the jaw with
the skull is justified (Gregory, Hellman, Osborn, Woodward).

The specimens pertaining to the third set of fragments give no
additional support to the belief that the association of the jaw with
the skull is justified (Hrdlicka).

(9)

The jaw is straight lke that of an ape (Woodward and most
other writers).
The jaw is horseshoe-shaped lke that of a man (Kleinschmidt).

(10)

The jaw more nearly resembles that of the Kaffir than that of the
chimpanzee (Pycraft with approval of Broom, Keith and others).
The jaw more nearly resembles that of the chimpanzee than that
of the Kaffir or any other race of man (Miller and many other
writers).
(11)

The jaw was chinless (Woodward and most writers).
The jaw may not have been completely chinless (Dixon).

(12)

The jaw appears to be almost precisely that of an ape (Wood-
ward).

The jaw is that of a chimpanzee (Boule, Miller, Ramstrém).

The jaw is utterly unlike that of any chimpanzee (O’Donoghue).

The jaw has many characters which make it human in spite of the
fact that it presents many points of likeness to that of a chimpanzee
444 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

(Pycraft, with approval of Broom, Keith, Smith, Underwood, and
Woodward).

The jaw is more like that of Neanderthal man than chimpanzee
(Puccioni).

The jaw is oranglke (Frassetto).

The jaw is essentially a human jaw (Broom).

(13)

The molar teeth in the jaw are simian and within the variation
limits for the corresponding teeth of great apes (Miller, Ramstrém,
and others).

The molar teeth in the jaw differ conspicuously from those of all
the great apes (Pycraft).

The molar teeth in the jaw are definitely those of a chimpanzee
(Miller, Ramstrém, and others).

The molar teeth in the jaw are as unlike chimpanzee teeth as
teeth can well be (Keith).

The molar teeth in the jaw find their nearest analogy in the teeth
of the extinct apes of the genus Dryopithecus (Hrdlitka).

The molar teeth in the jaw are human (Pycraft, Smith, and
others).

(14)

The molar teeth in the jaw are ground down by a transverse
movement which is physically impossible for any chimpanzee to
accomplish (Broom).

The molar teeth in the jaw are ground down in the same manner
as in a chimpanzee in the United States National Museum (Miller,
Pycraft, 1918).

(15)

Taking the jaw and its teeth together the characters are nearest
those of a young orang (Frassetto).

Taking the jaw and its teeth together the characters are nearest
those of a chimpanzee (Miller, Ramstrém, and others).

(16)
The chimpanzee represented by the jaw was different from the
living African species (Miller).
The chimpanzee represented by the jaw can not be distinguished
from living African species (Ramstrém).

(17)

The presence of a hitherto unknown ape in England in the
Pleistocene period involves an upheaval of paleontological teaching

(Smith).
MISSING LINKS ”—-MILLER 445

The presence of a hitherto unknown ape in England in the Pleisto-
cene would not be in any way extraordinary (Boule).

(18)

Admitting that all the parts pertain to one creature, this is—

(a) A direct ancestor of modern man (Sutcliffe).

(6) A direct ancestor of Neanderthal man (Pilgrim).

(c) A representative of a line not leading to modern man or to
Neanderthal man (Keith, Osborn, Smith).

(qd) A missing link between man and the higher apes (Dawkins,
Lankester).

(19)

The brain case of which the original fragments formed a part
was essentially the same as that of modern man in both form and
capacity, the latter about 1,400 cc. or more (Keith).

The brain case of which the original fragments formed a part was
in general similar to that of modern man, but was lower, broader,
and with less capacity, the latter about 1,100 cc. (Woodward).

The brain case of which the original fragments formed a part was
unlike that of modern man in its remarkable breadth and small
capacity (about 1,170 cc.) ; it differed, moreover, in details of struc-
ture which make it fall into harmony with the chimpanzee-hke jaw
(Smith and Hunter).

(20)

Loanthropus is a valid genus distinct from Homo, and the name
is appropriate because the creature lived at humanity’s dawn (Wood-
ward and most writers who accept the association of the fossils as
parts of one individual).

Foanthropus is not a valid genus distinct from Lomo, and if it
were the name would not be appropriate because a creature living so
recently could not pertain to humanity’s dawn (Boule, and others).

CONCLUSION

Having now reviewed the salient points in the controversy over
human “ missing links,” we are probably in as good position as we are
ever likely to be to form a definite opinion about the lessons taught
by the discoveries of Dubois and Dawson—that is to say, so long as
the specimens which these men found mark the limits of our knowl-
edge. For the intense scrutiny to which the fragments have been
subjected seems to have wrung from them the last secrets which
they can have held. Two facts, if no others, must be admitted to
stand out from the maze of opinion which we have been trying
to follow—namely, that these fossils have furnished an unparalleled
446 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

stimulus to investigation, and that the things most needed now are
more fossils and many of them.® While awaiting these further dis-
coveries we should not hesitate to confess that in place of demon-
strable links between man and other mammals we now possess
nothing more than some fossils so fragmentary that they are sus-
ceptible of being interpreted either as such links or as something
else. Superficial or prejudiced readers might regard this confession
as having an important bearing on the subject of organic evolution
in general and of man’s origin in particular; but no conclusion could
be more unjustified. The idea that all existing plants and animals
are derived through some process of orderly change from kinds
now extinct is supported by an array of facts too great and too well
established to be weakened by doubts cast on alleged family records
of any one creature. To understand how true this is we can, perhaps,
do nothing more enlightening than to reread and meditate upon the
second paragraph of the General Summary and Conclusion of
Darwin’s Descent of Man, a passage which, because of the footnotes
that subsequent research has added to it, is even more full of meaning
to-day then it was when first published 58 years ago:

The main conclusion arrived at in this work, and now held by many
naturalists who are well competent to form a sound judgment, is that man
is descended from some less highly organized form. The grounds upon which
this conclusion rests will never be shaken, for the close similarity between
man and the lower animals in embryonic development, as well as in innumerable
points of structure and constitution, both of high and of the most trifling
importance—the rudiments which he retains and the abnormal reversions to
which he is occasionally liable—are facts which can not be disputed. They
have long been known, but until recently they told us nothing with respect
to the origin of man. Now, when viewed by the light of our knowledge of
the whole organic world, their meaning is unmistakable. The great principle
of evolution stands up clear and firm when these groups of facts are con-
sidered in connection with others, such as the mutual affinities of the members
of the same group, their geographical distribution in past and present times,
and their geological succession. It is incredible that all these facts should
speak falsely. He who is not content to look, like a savage, at the phenomena
of nature as disconnected, can not any longer believe that man is the work
of a separate act of creation. He will be forced to admit that the close
resemblance of the embryo of man to that, for instance, of a dog—the con-
struction of his skull, limbs, and whole frame, independently of the uses to
which the parts may be put, on the same plan with that of other mammals—
the occasional reappearance of various structures, for instance, of several
distinct muscles. which man does not normally possess, but which are common
to the quadrumana—and a crowd of analogous facts—all point in the plainest
manner to the conclusion that man is the codescendent with other mammals
of a common progenitor.

5 La solution du probléme de nos origines et surtout la détermination précise de notre
lignée exigent de nouvelles découvertes de fossiles, de nombreux fossiles! (Boule.)
Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Miller PLATE 1

TWO VIEWS OF THE JAVA SKULLCAP

Photographs of cast in the U. S. National Museum. About x J

r)
Smithsonian Report. 1928.—Miller PLATE 2

_—

Two VIEWS OF A PLASTER CAST OF THE INTERIOR OF THE JAVA
SKULLCAP

Photographs of a specimen in the U. 8. National Museum. About X lg. (The
cross-hatched area in the side view is not a part of the cast)
Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Miller PLATE 3

Two VIEWS OF THE JAVA THIGH BONE

Photographs of a cast in the U.S. National Museum. About X 4
Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Miller PLATE 4

FIGURE 1.—PILTDOWN TEETH

The teeth in the jaw (below) compared with the subse
quently described specimen (above)

FIGURE 2.—JAVA TEETH

The photographs (natural size) on this plate were made from the original specimens by
Prof. J. H. McGregor, to whose kindness we owe the opportunity to use them here.
They have been previously published in Natural History, 1921 and 1925
Smithsonian Report, 1928._ iller

PLATE 5

TH

E PILTDOWN SKULL, JAW

AND CANINE TOOTH
Photograph of casts in the We

S. National Museum.

mm
‘¢ MISSING LINKS MILLER 447

BIBLIOGRAPHY

Not the least extraordinary feature of the controversy over human
“ missing links ” is the abundance and diversity of the literature in
which writers have put forward their contending views. While the
general reader will probably find enough to satisfy his curiosity in
the summary of opinions which I have presented, the more technical
student may wish to consult the original sources. I have therefore
prepared a rather extended bibliography of the Java man and the
Piltdown man. Under neither heading have I attempted to assemble
a complete list of titles, but I believe that the lst includes the more
essential articles which have appeared up to the end of the year
1928, including all those which are alluded to in the text of this
article. For the Piltdown man I published two bibliographies in
my papers of 1915 and 1918. In the present list I am entering all
the titles which I have found since then. They are marked with
asterisks.

THE JAVA MAN, PITHECANTHROPUS

ApLorr, P. Hinige Besonderheiten des menschlichen Gebisses und ihre stam-
mesgeschichtliche Bedeutung. Zeitschr. f. Morph. und Anthrop., Vol. 10, pp.
106-121, 1907.

Pithecanthropus is an anthropoid in no way ancestral to man (p. 107).

AMOEDO, O. Les dents du Pithecanthropus erectus de Jaya. C. R. Ass. Francaise
Adv. Sci. 1901, pp. 1193-1197, figs. 1-2. 1902.

The worn tooth is an anterior (not second) molar.

Berry, Epwarp W. The age of Pithecanthropus erectus. Science, n. s., Vol.
37, pp. 418-420, March 14, 1913.

Notice of Schuster, 1911. Age of deposits undoubtedly Pleistocence, but
the more exact dating undertaken by Schuster not justified.

Berry, RicHarp J. A. and Rospertson, A. W. D. The Place in Nature of the
Tasmanian Aboriginal as Deduced from a Study of his Calvarium. Part 1:
His Relations to the Anthropoid Apes, Pithecanthropus, Homo primigenius,
Homo fossilis and Homo sapiens. Proc. Roy. Soe. Edinburgh, vol. 31, pp.
41-69, Dec. 8, 1910.

Important comparisons. Accepts Pithecanthropus without question but
deals with cap only.

Bouie, MARceELrLin. Fossil Men (translated by J. EB. and J. Ritchie from the
second French edition, 1923).

Pithecanthropus, pp. 93-110.

Branoa, W. Vorliiufiger Bericht iiber die Ergebnisse der Trinil-Expedition der
Akademischen Jubiliiums-Stiftung der Stadt Berlin. Sitzungsber. k. p. Akad.
Wissensch., Berlin, 1908, pp. 261-273.

Preliminary notes on the Selenka expedition. The Pithecanthropus beds
are of Pleistocene age.
448 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

Branco, W. Die menscheniihnlichen Zaihne aus dem Bohnerz der schwibischen
Alb. Jahreshefte d. Ver. f. Vaterland. Naturk. in Wtirtemberg, Stuttgart,
vol. 54, pp. 1-144, 1898.

Pithecanthropus, pp. 98-112. No reason to suppose that the remains
pertained to more than one individual, a fossil anthropoid ape with an
unusually large brain. Each known genus of great apes has some feature
in which it more nearly resembles man than does any of its relatives with-
out thereby becoming a “link”; Pithecanthropus is best regarded as an
ape in which the brain mass is the feature which thus parallels man.

CUNNINGHAM, D. J. Dr. Dubois’ So-called Missing Link. Nature, vol. 51, pp.
428-429, Feb. 28, 1895.

“The so-called Pithecanthropus is in the direct human line, although
it occupies a place on this considerably lower than any human form at
present known.” It can not be a link between man and the anthropoid
apes.

CUNNINGHAM, D. J. Dr. Dubois’ “ Missing Link.” Nature, vol. 53, pp. 115-116.
December 5, 1895.

Skulleap is human though with resemblances to that of gibbon; teeth
more human than simian; femur human.

Dames, W. Pithecanthropus, ein Bindeglied zwischen Affe und Mensch. Deut-
sche Rundschau, vol. 88, pp. 868-384, September, 1896.

Regards the Java specimens as all pertaining to one animal, a true in-
termediate between man and apes. Tabulates the opinion of 23 authors
(p. 375).

DENIKER, J. L’Age du Pithécanthrope. L’Anthropologie, vol. 19, pp. 260-269.
1908.

The animal is Quaternary and therefore not ancestral to man.

DietericH, W. O. Zur Alterbestimmung der Pitheecanthropus-Schichten. Sitz-
ungsber. Gesellsch. naturforsch. Freunde, Berlin, 1924, pp. 184-189, 1926.
Dupsors, E. Pithecanthropus erectus. Hine menschenaehnliche Uebergangsform
aus Java, pp. 1-39 [40], pls. 1-2, text figs. 1-3. Batavia, Java, 1894. (Origi-
nal not seen; citation from the apparently photographic ‘ Nachdruck ” issued

by G. E. Stechert & Co., New York, 1915.)

Dusors, E. Pithecanthropus erectus, betrachtet als eine wirkliche Uebergangs-
form und als Stammform des Menschen. Verh. Berl. Gesellsch. Anthrop. in
Zeitschr. fiir Ethnologie, vol. 27, pp. 723-740, December, 1895.

Dusors, EH. Pithecanthropus erectus, eine Stammform des Menschen. Anatomi-
scher Anzeiger, vol. 12, pp. 1-22, figs. 1-10, Apr. 14, 1896.

Dusois, E. Pithecanthropus erectus, eine menscheniihnliche Uebergangsform.
C.-R. Troisiéme Congr. Internat. Zool., Leiden, pp. 251-271, pl. 2, 1896.

Dunors, E. On Pithecanthropus erectus: a transitional form between man and
the apes. Sci. Trans. Royal Dublin Soc., ser. 2, vol. 6, 66. 1-18. February,
1896. Modified from the paper read at Leiden, September 21, 1895.

Duszors, E. Quatorziéme conférence annuelle transformiste. Le ‘“ Pithecan-
thropus erectus” et Vorigine de lhomme. Bull. Soc. Anthrop., Paris, ser. 4,
vol. 7, pp. 460-467, 1896.

Dusois, HE. Niiheres tiber den Pithecanthropus als menscheniihnliche Ueber-
gangsform. Monatsschr. fiir Anat. und Physiol. vol. 13, pp. 1-26, 1896.
Dusois, E. Remarks Upon the Brain-Cast of Pithecanthropus erectus. Proc.

fourth Internat. Congr. Zool., Cambridge, 1898, pp. 78-95, 1899.
I found the cephalization of Pithecanthropus erectus to be nearly the half

of that occurring in man and nearly the double of that occurring in the
anthropoid apes.

“MISSING LINKS »—MILLER 449

Dusois, E. Pithecanthropus erectus—A form from the Ancestral Stock of
Mankind. Ann. Rep. Smithsonian Inst., 1898, pp. 445-459, pls. 1-2, figs.
144, 1899.

A translation of Dubois’s paper of Apr. 14, 1896. Some of the original
illustrations are omitted, and some new ones are added.

Dusois, EH. Enige van nederlandschen kant verkregen uitkomsten met betrek-
king tot de kennis der Kendeng-Fauna (Fauna van Trinil). Tijdschr. Kon.
Nederl. Aardrijkskund. Genootsch. Amsterdam, ser. 2, vol. 24, pp. 449-458,
May 15, 1907.

Dusors, E. Das geologische Alter der Kendeng- oder Trinil-Fauna. Tijds. K
Ned. Aardrijksk. Genootsch., Amsterdam, ser. 3, vol. 25, pp. 1235-1270, pl. 39,
1908.

The fauna is not Quaternary but late Pliocene.

Dusoris, E. Over de Plaats von Pithecanthropus in het zodlogisch systeem.
Arch. Mus. Teyler, Haarlem, ser. 3, vol. 1, pp. 142-149, 1912.

Dusois, E. On the Principal Characters of the Cranium and the Brain, the
Mandible, and the Teeth of Pithecanthropus erectus. Versl. Wiss. Nat.
Afd. K. Akad. Wet. Amsterdam, vol. 27, pp. 265-278, 1924.

Dusois, E. On the Brain Quantity of Specialized Genera of Mammals.
Versl. Wiss. Nat. Afd. K. Akad. Wet. Amsterdam, vol. 27, pp. 430-437, 1924.

Dusors, E. Figures of the Calvarium and Endocranial Cast of a Fragment
of the Mandible and Three Teeth of Pithecanthropus erectus. Versl. Wiss.
Nat. Afd. K. Akad. Wet. Amsterdam, vol. 27, pp. 459-464, 11 plates, 1924.

Dusors, E. Over de yoornaamste onderscheidende eigenschappen van den
schedel en de hersenen, de onderkaak -en het gebit van Pithecanthropus
erectus. Versl. Wiss. Nat. Afd. K. Akad. Wet. Amsterdam, vol. 33, pp. 135-148.
1924.

Dvusots, E. On the Principal Characters of the Femur of Pithecanthropus
erectus. Proc. K. Akad. Wet. Amsterdam, vol. 29, pp. 730-748, 33 figs.,
1926.

Ebert, J. Ueber das Alter der Kendeng-Schichten mit Pithecanthropus erectus
Dubois. Neues Jahrb. Min. Geol. und Paliiont., Stuttgart, Beilagebd., 25,
pp. 648-662, 1908.

The deposits are lower Pleistocene (Unterdiluvial)

GIESELER, W. Ueber die hauptsiichlichsten morphologischen Charaktere der
Pithecanthropus Calotte. Anthrop. Anz., Stuttgart, vol. 3, pp. 117-119, 3 plates,
1926.

GIESELER, W. Neuere Forschungen zum Pithecanthropus-problem. Forschungen
und Fortschritte, Berlin, vol. 4, pp. 150-151, 1 fig., May 20, 1928.

GIUFFRIDA-RUGGERI, V. La posizione del bregma nel cranio del “ Pithecanthro-

pus erectus” e la tendenza neo-monogenista in Germania. Atti Soc. Romana
Anthrop., vol. 10, pp. 20-88. 1904.
GIUFFRIDA-RucGERI, V. Il Pithecanthropus erectus e lorigine della specie
umana. Revista di Scienza, Bologna, year 1, vol. 2, pp. 297-303. 1907.
GREGORY, WILLIAM K., and HrELiMAN, Mino. Further Notes on the Molars

of Hesperopithecus and of Pithecanthropus. Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist.,
vol. 48, pp. 509-526, Dec. 4, 1923.
450 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

GREGORY, WILLIAM K., and HELLMAN, Mito. The crown patterns of fossil and
recent human molar teeth and their meaning. Natural History, vol. 26, pp.
800-309, figs. 1-9. 1926.

HAEcKEL, Ernst. Systematische Phylogenie der Wirbelthiere, part 3, pp. 633,
634, 1895.

Dubois’ Pithecanthropus is placed among the great apes (Menschenaf-
fen), of which it is said to be the one most resembling man (p. 633) and
perhaps belonging to our direct ancestors (p. 634). The femur may be
human (p. 633). Haeckel’s Pithecanthropus alalus (pp. 601, 641) is a
hypothetical ancestral form.

HAECKEL, Ernst. On Our Present Knowledge of the Origin of Man. Ann. Rep.
Smithsonian Inst., 1898, pp. 461-480. 1899. A discourse delivered at the
Fourth International Congress of Zoologists at Cambridge, England, Aug.
26, 1898. Translated from the author’s edition in German printed at Bonn,
1898.

“The Pithecanthropus erectus of Dubois is in fact a relic of that extinct
group to which as long ago as in 1886 I gave the name Pithecanthropus.
He is the long-sought ‘missing link’ in the chain of the highest primates ”
(p. 469).
HeEpBuRN, D. The Trinil Femur (Pithecanthropus erectus) Contrasted with the
Femora of Various Savage and Civilized Races. Journ. Anat. Physiol. norm.
path., ser. 3, vol. 11, pp. 1-17, figs.

All characters of the femur are within the limits of human variation.

Hitper, V. Alter der Pithecanthropus-Schichten. Centralbl. fiir Mineral. Geol.
u. Paliont., Stuttgart, 1921, pp. 149-154, Mar. 1, 1921.
The age of the deposits is upper Pliocene as originally determined by
Dubois.
Hovuzt, HE. Le Pithecanthropus erectus. Bull. Soc. Anthrop. Bruxelles, vol. 15,
pp. 18-55. 1896.

Skull, teeth, and femur are all human. It therefore makes no difference
whether they pertained to one individual or not (p. 22).

HrpuicKa, ALES. The Most Ancient Skeletal Remains of Man. Ann. Rep. Smith-
sonian Inst., Append., 1913, pp. 491-552, 1914.

Pithecanthropus, pp. 495-501, pls. 2-5, text figs. 1-2. The impression
which a comprehensive study of the whole skullcap carries to the observer
is that it represents a hitherto-nnknown primate form, which, whatever it
may eventually be identified with and whether or not man’s direct an-
cestor, stands morphologically between man and the known anthropoid
apes, fills an important space in the hitherto existing large void between
the two, and constitutes a precious document for the natural history of
man. ... The femur plainly belonged to a strong being maintaining erect
or near-erect posture and marching mostly or entirely biped, as man

(p. 501).
JAEKEL, OTTO. [Remarks on Pithecanthropus.] Verh. Berl. Gesellsch. An-
throp., in Zeitschr. fiir Ethnologie, vol. 27, pp. 747-748, December, 1895.

No difficulty in associating the remains as parts of one individual. Take
together they constitute the best transition form known to date.

Kate, H. Ten. [Notice of Dubois’ paper in Verslag van het mijnwezen over

het 3° kwartaal 1892. Extra bijvoegsel der Javansche Courant No. 10, Ba-
tavia, 1893, p. 10 sq.] Nederl. Koloniall Centraalblad, Amsterdam, vol. 1,
pp. 82-838, November, 1894.

The remains are those of an anthropoid.
«MISSING LINKS »-—MILLER 451

KeitH, A. Pithecanthropus erectus—A Brief Review of Human Fossil Re-
mains. Science Progress, vol. 3, pp. 348-369, July, 1895.

Regards the fossils as indicating ‘‘a human race more primitive than
any hitherto discovered.”

Keriru, A. The Problem of Pithecanthropus. Nature, vol. 87, pp. 49-50, July
13, 1911.

Keiry, A. The Antiquity of Man. New Edition, 1925.

Pithecanthropus, pp. 419-487.

KeirH, A. Darwin’s theory of Man’s Descent as it Stands To-day. Science,
n. s., vol. 66, pp. 201-208, Sept. 2, 1927; Nature, vol. 120, suppl., pp. 14-21,
Sept. 38, 1927. (The presidential address before the British Association for
the Advancement of Science given at Leeds on Aug. 31, 1927.)

KiaAAtsoH, H. Der gegenwiirtige Stand der Pithecanthropus-Frage. Zool. Cen-
tralbl., vol. 6, pp. 217-235, April, 1899.

Summarizes literature to date (44 titles). Accepts reference of fossils
to one individual, a creature related to the gibbons but distinctly approach-
ing the human type in the great capacity of the cranium, Femur is not
strictly human, but the animal which possessed it walked erect.

Kotpr, H. Ueber den angeblichen Affenmenschen, Pithecanthropus erectus
Dubois. Naturwiss. Wochenschr., vol. 10, pp. T0-72. Feb. 3, 1895.

No sufficient proof that the remains came from one animal. The femur
is human, the tooth simian, the skull cap is intermediate in character.

KOLLMAN, J. [Remarks on Pithecanthropus.] Verh. Berl. Gesellsch. Anthrop.,
in Zeitschr. fiir Ethnologie, vol. 27, pp. 740-744, December, 1895.

The animal is a gigantic gibbon. Human ancestral forms are not likely
to have been gigantic.

KoLLtMAN, J. Neue Gedanken tiber das alte Problem von der Abstammung des
Menschen. Globus, vol. 87, pp. 140-148, Feb. 238, 1905.

Pithecanthropus undoubtedly belongs to the anthropoid apes—the rep-
resentative of a line which reached the end of its adaptability and then
became extinct, leaving no descendants.

KRrausE, W. Pithecanthropus erectus, eine menscheniihnliche Uebergangsform
aus Java. Verh. Berl. Gesellsch. Anthrop., in Zeitschr. fiir Hthnologie, vol.
27, pp. 78-81, 1895.

Skull and teeth those of an ape, femur human.

KRAUSE, W. [Remarks on Pithecanthropus.] Verh. Berl. Gesellsch. Anthrop.,
in Zeitschr. fiir Ethnologie, vol. 27, p. 440, 1895.

It is doubtful whether the wisdom tooth is of the same age as the other
remains.

KRAUSE, W. Rekonstruktion des Schiidels vom Pithecanthropus erectus Dubois,
Verh. Berl. Gesellsch. Anthrop., in Zeitschr. ftir Ethnologie, vol. 28, p. 362,
1896.

Exhibition of a drawing in which the skull is reconstructed like that of
a gigantic gibbon. The lower jaw would be 11% times as long as the human
jaw and the radius would have had a length of about 1 meter. Such an
excess of size over that of related living species is an ordinary occurrence
among extinct mammals.

LecHE, WILHELM. Der Mensch, sein Ursprung und seine Entwicklung, Jena,
1911.

Pithecanthropus, pp. 358. Whether or not the creature stands in man’s
ancestral line is an unanswerable question.
452 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

LuscHAN, F. von. [Remarks on Pithecanthropus.| Verh. Berl. Gesellsch.
Anthrop., Zeitschr. fiir Ethnologie, vol. 27, p. 81, 1895.

The skulleap does not resemble that of the gibbon more than it does
that of other forms. The femur resembles in general that of man, but, if
correctly figured, would indicate a greater pelvic breadth than in modern
man. No reason to doubt that femur and skullcap came from one
individual.

LYDEKKER, RICHARD. Review of “ Pithecanthropus Erectus, eine Menschenaehn-
liche Uebergansform aus Java” by HE. Dubois. Nature, vol. 51, p. 291,
January 24, 1895.

“With regard to the skull... there appears every reason to re-
gard it as that of a microcephalous idiot of an unusually elongated type”.

Mair, R. Ueber die Bregmagegend und die Lage des Bregma mit besonderer
Berticksichtigung des Pithecanthropus. Zeitschr. Morph. Anthrop., Stuttgart,
vol. 22, pp. 435-480, 1 pl., 20 text figs., 1922.

Manovvetrer, L. Discussion du “ Pithecanthropus erectus” comme précurseur
présumé de lhomme. Bull. Soc. Anthrop. Paris, ser. 4, vol. 6, pp. 12-47, 1895.

The skullcap, tooth and femur can not be regarded with certainty as
having pertained to one individual or one species, but there is no theo-
retical impossibility in such a view. Impossible to demonstrate either a
human or simian origin of the fossils. The question must remain open
pending further discoveries.

MANovuvRiER, L. Deuxiéme étude sur le “ Pithecanthropus erectus” comme
précurseur présumé de homme. Bull. Soc. Anthrop. Paris, ser. 4, vol. 6,
pp. 553-651, 1895.

Concludes, after direct examination of the specimens, that all pertained
to one individual, a representative of an anthropomorph race approaching
the lowest living human races and the race of Spy on the one hand and
the anthropoid apes on the other, in such a manner that, until there is
proof te the contrary, we may regard the “missing link” as found.

Manovveirer, L. Le Pithecanthropus erectus et la théorie transformiste. Revue
Scientifique, ser. 4, vol. 5, pp. 289-299. Mar. 7, 1896.

MANovuvrigER, L. Réponse aux objections contre le Pithecanthropus. Bull. Soc.
Anthrop. Paris, ser. 4, vol. 7, pp. 896-460, 1895.

Manovuvetier, L. Quatorziéme conférence annuelle transformiste. Le “ Piihecan-
thropus erectus” et Vorigine de 1Homme. Bull. Soe. Anthrop, Paris, ser. 4,
vol. 7, pp. 467-4V8, 1896.

Manovuvrier, L. On Pithecanthropus erectus. Amer. Journ. Sci., ser. 4, vol. 4,
pp. 213-234. September, 1897. Translation, by MacCurdy, of parts of three
articles.

MarsH, O. C. On the Pithecanthropus erectus, Dubois, from Java. Amer.
Journ. Sci., ser. 3, vol. 49, pp. 144-147, 3 figs. (from Dubois), February, 1895.

MarsH, O. C. On the Pithecanthropus erectus, from the Tertiary of Java.
Am. Journ. Sci.,ser. 4, vol. 1, pp. 475-482, June, 1896.

Describes discovery. He saw the specimens at Leiden in 1895. Convinced
that the deposits were Tertiary and that all parts came from one indi-
vidual. Agrees with the conclusions of Dubois.

Martin, R. Kritische Bedenken gegen den Pithecanthropus erectus Dubois.
Globus, vol. 67, pp. 2138-217, March, 1895.

The remains are human; skull of the Neanderthal type; wisdom tooth
wholly human; femur human.
‘6 MISSING LINKS »—MILLER 453

Martin, R. Weitere Bemerkungen zur Pithecanthropus-Frage. Ziirich, pp.
1-18, 1 pl., March, 1906.

Reviews literature to date and reaflirms his earlier views with slight
modifications.

(MatscHig, P.] Anthropopithecus (sic) erectus Eug. Dubois. Naturwiss.
Wochenschr., vol. 9, pp. 59-60, Feb. 4, 1894.

Matscuig, P. Noch einmal Anthropopithecus (sic) erectus Hug. Dubois. Natur-
wiss. Wochenscrift, vol. 10, pp. 81-82, Feb. 17, 1895.

The fossils are not certainly all parts of one individual. Femur not ape;
teeth not very different from human; skullcap essentially human, perhaps
pathological.

MatTrHew, W. D. The Ape-Man of Java. Natural History, vol. 28, pp. 577-588,
7 figs., December, 1928.

It is simpler to assume that the fragments all belonged to one species.
“The probabilities are that the Pithecanthropus was in some respects
nearer to man, in others to one or another of the great apes, and had like-
wise some peculiarities of its own” (p. 586).

McGrecor, J. H. Recent Studies on the Skull and Brain of Pithecanihropus.
Natural History, New York, Vol. 25, pp. 544-559, figs. 1-9, 1925.

Discusses restorations of the skull and endocranial cast. Reproduces
original photographs of the teeth, 4 views of each (fig. 10).

Missperc, W. A. Over het in 1926 te Trinil gevonden en ten onrechte als rest
van het schedelkak van een praehistorischen mensch beschouwde fossil.
Geneesekundig Tijdschrift voor Nederlandsch-Indie, Afl. 1, Deel. 67, pp. 1-7,
1927.

MILLER, Gerrit S., Jr. Notes on the Casts of the Pithecanthropus Molars. Bull.

Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., Vol. 48, pp. 527-530, figs. 14-15, Dec. 4, 1923.

Photographs of casts compared with the corresponding teeth of 16
Bornean orangs. So far as can be judged from this comparison, the Java
teeth have no characters which would separate them generically from the
orang or indicate any relationship with man.

se

NEHRING, A. Menschenreste aus einem Sambaqui von Santos in Brasilien, unter
Vergieichung der Fossilreste des Pithecanthropus erectus Dubois. Verh. Berl.
Gesellsch. Anthrop., in Zeitschr, fiir Ethnologie, vol. 27, pp. 710-721, figs. 1-4,
1895.

All the parts belong to the same species which represents a “ Mittelform ”
between the lowest human races and the highest anthropomorphs. The form
of the skulleap is approached by that of a human skull from a prehistoric
deposit near Santos, Brazil.

Neueing, A. Hin Pithecanthropus iihnlicher Menschenschiidel aus den Samba-
quis von Santos, in Brasilien. Naturwiss. Wochenschr., vol. 10, pp. 549-552,
November 17, 1895. Text slightly different from that of previous paper.

NEHRING, A. Die Capacitiit des Schiidels von Pithecanthropus erectus. Natur-
wiss. Wochenschr., vol. 11, pp. 844-345, July 12, 1896.

No reason to place the genus in a family distinct from the Hominidex.

NEvIANI, A. I] Pitecantropo o la scimmia-uomo e la teoria dell’ evoluzione.
Rivista di sociologia, Roma, vol. 3, pp. 205-233, 1896.

NEvIANI, A. Il Pitecantropo e la origine naturale dell’ Uomo. Livy. Ital. Sci.
Nat., vol. 16, pp. 118-117, 135-139, 1896; vol. 17, pp. 12-18, 38-44, 1897.

OBERMAIER, Huco. Der Mensch der Vorzeit, 1912.

Pithecanthropus, pp. 870-875. Concludes that the skullcap came from
one kind of ape (Pithecanthropus proper), the teeth from another, not yet
described, while the femur may have been human.

24034—29——_30
454 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

OsBorN, Henry F. Men of the Old Stone Age. New York, ed. 2, 1916.
Pithecanthropus, pp. 72-84, figs. 29-41.

Ossorn, H. F. Dawn-Man Appears as Our First Ancestor. The New York
Times, Sunday, Jan. 9, 1927, Sec. XX, p. 3, figs. 5.

The Trinil man is a dawn man and not an ape man. He walked erect,
he thought as a man, he probably spoke as a man, although his vocabulary
was limited. . . . A welcome gift from anthropology to humanity is
this banishment of the myth and bogie of our ape-ancestry.

PEARSALL, W. BootH. The teeth of Pithecanthropus erectus. British Dental
Journal, vol. 28, pp. 869-874, figs. 1-3, August 15, 1907.

The teeth are accepted as human; the worn molar is m* left, the unworn
molar is m* right. Both could have come from one individual.

PERVINQUIERE, L. Le Pithécanthrope et l’homme fossile de la Chapelle-aux-
Saints. Rev. Sci., Paris, ser. 5, vol. 11, pp. 39-41, Jan. 9, 1909.

Pithecanthropus was a contemporary of quaternary man and therefore
not a human ancestor. The fossil is interesting but so fragmentary as to
provide an open door to discussions.

Pettit, A. Le Pithecanthropus erectus. L’Anthropologie, vol. 6, pp. 65-69,
February, 1895.

Gives several reasons for rejecting Dubois’ view and regarding the re-
mains as human.

RAMSTROM, MARTIN. Der Java-Trinil-Fund “ Pithecanthropos”’ oder kénnen die
“ Hoanthropos”’- and Pithecanthropos-Funde uns zuverliissige Aufschliisse
liber die Anthropogenesis geben? Upsala LiikarefOrenings Foérhandl., N. F.,
vol. 26, Festskr. Prof. J. Aug. Hammar, art. 29, pp. 1-87, 1921.

ROSENBERG, HE. [Remarks on Pithecanthropus.] C.-R. Troisiéme Congr.
Internat. Zool., Leiden, 1895, p. 272, 1896.

Expresses doubt as to whether the femur differs from that of man, Th®
skulleap indicates that its possessor did not walk erect.

ScHLOSSER, M. Die neueste Litteratur tiber die ausgestorbenen Anthropomor-
phen. Zool. Anzeiger, vol. 23, pp. 289-801, May 28, 1900.

Pithecanthropus, pp. 299-301. The known material is insufficient to
supply a basis for positive conclusions. So far as it goes it merely proves
that Pithecanthropus is more widely separated from the great apes than
from man. Can not be a gigantic gibbon.

Scuuster, J. Ein Beitrag zur Pithecanthropus-Frage. Sitzungsber. k. bayer.
Akad. Wissensch., Miinchen, Math.-phys. Klasse, Jahre. 1909, Abhandl. 17,
1910.

Scuuster, J. Monographie der fossilen Flora der Pithecanthropus-Schichten.
Abhandl. k. bayer. Akad. Wissench., Miinchen, Math-phys. Klasse, Vol. 25,
Abhandl. 6, 1911.

ScHwarse, G. Studien itiber Pithecanthropus erectus Dubris. 1. Theil.
1. Abtheilung. Zeitschr. fiir Morph. u. Anthrop., vol. 1, pp. 16-228, 1899.

The skulleap can not be that of a large gibbon, nor can it be referred
to a member of any of the other living genera of anthropoids; on the con-
trary it rather nearly resembles the corresponding part of Neanderthal
man in the majority of its characters.

ScHWALBE, G. Studien zur Vorgesch. des Menschen. Zeitschr. fiir Morph. und
Anthrop., vol. 9, Sonderheft, pp. 5-228, pls. 1-4, text figs. 1-18, May 26, 1906.

Regards Pithecanthropus as a member of the Hominidae and a direct
ancestor of Neanderthal man, which in turn is a direct ancestor of modern
man. The line thus formed diverged from the line of the great apes
in the Miocene, and the common stock for both may be represented by
Dryopithecus (p. 24).

‘MISSING LINKS ”—MILLER 455

ScHWALBE, G. Studien tiber das Femur yon Pithecanthropus erectus Dubois,
Zeitschr, Morph. und Anthrop., vol. 21, pp. 289-860, 1921.

Femur has slight peculiarities but is human. It is more probable
that all specimens came from one individual than that the femur is human
and the skull simian.

SELENKA, M., und Dusots, E. Die fossilen Ziihne von Trinil. Tijdschr. K.
Ned. Aardr. Gen. ser. 2, vol. 26, pp. 398-401, 1909.

SELENKA, L., und BLANCKENHORN, M. Die Pithecanthropus-Schichten auf Java.
Geologische und palaeontologische Ergebnisse der Trinil-Expedition, Leipzig,
1911, 310 pp., 32 pls.

Sotntas, D. J. ‘“ Pithecanthropus erectus” and the Evolution of the human
Race. Nature, vol. 53, pp. 150-151, Dec. 19, 1895.

If the Neanderthal skull be lifted a little upward in the scale of time,
a curve can be made to pass through it, the European and Javan skulls,
and this when prolonged downward will approximate to the stem either
of Pliopithecus . . . or... . Dryopithecus.

SYMINGTON, J. Endocranial Casts and Brain Form: A Criticism of Some
Recent Speculations. Journ. Anat. and Physiol, vol. 50, pp. 111-130, Janu-
ary, 1916.

The author concludes ‘that the simplicity or complexity of the cerebral
fissures and convolutions can not be determined with any degree of ac-
curacy from endocranial casts, even on complete skulls much less on
reconstructions from imperfect skulls.” Therefore the ‘“ deductions with
reference to the primitive and simian features of the brains of certain
prehistoric men [made] from an examination of their endocranial casts
are highly speculative and fallacious.”

TILNEY, FrepERIcK. The Brain from Ape to Man. New York, Paul B. Hoever,
vols. 2, pp. XXVII+1120, figs. 539, 1928.

Of Pithecanthropus the author writes, p. 875 (italics in the original) :
He had learned to speak—to communicate in verbal language.

TopINARD, P. [Review of] Prof. Sir William Turner. Sur la description de
M. Dubois des restes récemment trouvés 4 Java et attribués par lui a un
Pithecanthropus erecius. L’Anthropologie, vol. 6, pp. 605-607, October, 1895.

The skulleap is that of a Neanderthal man; the femur is perhaps
feminine, the molar tooth is probably from an extinct species of orang
(p. 607).

TURNER, SIR W. On M. Dubois’ Description of Remains Recently Found in Java
and named by him Pithecanthropus erectus. With Remarks on the So-called
Transitional Forms Between Apes and Man. Journ. Anat. Physiol. norm.
path., ser. 2, vol. 9, pp. 424445.

Femur unqualifiedly human. Probably did not belong with the skullcap.

VALLOIS, H. V. Sur quelques caractéres du fémur du Pithécanthrope. C.-R.
Acad. Sci. Paris, vol. 168, pp. 739-741, 1919.

In the relative dimensions of its lower epiphysis and the obliquity of its
diaphysis the femur has all the characters of recent man; it differs from
the femurs of the anthropoids and especially from that of the gibbon.

VERNEAU, R. Encore le Pithecanthropus erectws. L’Anthropologie, vol. 6, pp.
725-726, December, 1895.

We have the right to conclude that the animal was an intermediate
between man and the living great apes. The teeth are not human; the
skulleap is not truly human; the femur appears to be really human but did
not come from same individual as the other parts.
456 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

VircHow, Rup. [Remarks on Pithecanthropus.] Verh. Berl. Gesellsch.
Anthrop., in Zeitschr. fur Hthnologie, vol. 27, pp. 81-87, 1895.

The circumstances of the find do not support the belief that the fossils
pertained to one individual. The skullcap is much like that of a gibbon;
the only character of the femur which distinguishes it from the femur of
a gibbon is its excessive size.

VircHow, Rup. Pithecanthropus erectus Dubois. Verh. Berl. Gesellsch.
Anthrop., in Zeitschr. fur Hthnologie, vol. 27, pp. 336-337, 1895.

Regards the Trinil deposits as lower Pliocene.

VircHow, Rup. Pithecanthropus erectus. Verh. Berl. Gesellsch, Anthrop., in
Zeitschr. fiir Ethnologie, vol. 27, pp. 485-440, pls. 6-7, 1895.

Skull that of a great ape. The abnormal bony outgrowths on the femur
indicate a condition so serious as to give support to the idea that this
bone may have pertained to a man who was nursed by his family and

fellows; but the idea of a successful cure in an ape is not excluded, and the
question must be decided by the structural characters of the bone.

VircHow, Rup. Weitere Mittheilungen tiber den Pithecanthropus erectus Dub.
Verh. Berl. Gesellsch. Anthrop., in Zeitschr. fiir Ethnologie, vol. 87, pp. 648—
656, 1895.

The ape character of the skull is obvious. The teeth may have come

from one individual, but they are ape’s teeth and not a man’s. The skull-
cap is too small to have accompanied the femur as part of a man.

VircHOow, Rup. [Remarks on Pithecanthropus.] Verh. Berl. Gesellsch. Anthrop.,
in Zeitschr. fiir Ethnologie, vol. 87, pp. 744-747, figs. 1-3, 1895.

Skulleap closely agrees with that of a gibbon when reduced to same
size (fig. 1). According to the structure of the femur, there is no difficulty
in regarding it as that of a gigantic gibbon.

VircHow, Rup. Exostosen und Hyperostosen yon Extremitiitenknochen des
Menschen, in Hinblick auf den Pithecanthropus. Verh. Berl. Gesellsch.
Anthrop., in Zeitschr. fiir Ethnologie, vol. 37, pp. 787-793, pl. 9, 1895.

Closer comparison of the abnormal growths on the fossil with those on
human femurs has shown some noticeable differences.

VircHow, Rup. [Remarks on Pithecanthropus.] C.-R. Troisi¢éme Congr. Inter-
nat. Zool., Leiden, 1895, p. 272, 1896.

Inclines to the idea that the femur is human, because of its diseased
condition, but admits that the characters of the bone make it resemble
the femur of the gibbon.

Voiz, W. Ueber Pithecanthropus erectus Dub. Hine menscheniihnliche Ueber-
gangsform aus Java. Jahres-Ber. schles. Ges. vaterl. Cultur, Sitz. d. zool.
bot. Sect., vol. 74, pp. 5-8, January, 1896.

Pithecanthropus is a gibbonlike ape, about the size of a man, evidently
more highly organized than living anthropoids, but still an ape. ‘The gap
between man and ape is in no wise closed by this find.

VoLz, W. Demonstration eines Schiidel-Abgusses von Pithecanthropus erectus.
Jahres-Ber. schles. Ges. vaterl. Cultur, Sitz. d. Naturwiss.-Sect., vol. 75,
pp. 10-16, January, 1897.

WALpEYER, W. [Remarks on Pithecanthropus] Verh. Berl. Gessellsch. Anthrop.,
in Zeitschr. fiir Ethnologie, vol. 27, p. 88, 1895.

Skulleap is so like that of the gibbon that the animal might be referred

to a member of the same genus. Femur much like that of a man. No
reason to refer the two bones to one individual.

‘¢ MISSING LINKS »—MILLER 457

WerTH, E. Der fossile Mensch. 1921. Pithecanthropus, pp. 88-119, figs.
36-50.

WEILSER, Lupwic. Der Pithecanthropus erectus und die Abstammung des
Menschen. Verhandl. naturwiss. Vereins in Karlsruhe, vol. 13, Abhandl., pp.
551-576, 1900.

The remains belong together and represent a link between man and the
common ape-human stock.

Wernert, H. Zur Klarung des Pithecanthropus-Problems. Die Umschau, vol.
28, pp. 768-772, Oct. 4, 4924.

Special consideration of the frontal sinus. Conclusion reached that
structurally Pithecanthropus is nearly intermediate between chimpanzee
and man, but that this fact does not indicate genetic intermediateness.

WEINERT, H. Der Affenmensch von Java in neuer Darstellung. Naturwis-
sensch., Berlin, vol. 13, pp. 188-193, 5 figs., 1925.

THE PILTDOWN MAN, EOANTHROPUS

AntTHoNny, R. Les restes humains fossiles de Piltdown (Sussex). Revue An-
thropologique, vol. 28, pp. 2938-306. September, 1913.

AVEBURY, LorD. Prehistoric Times, 7th ed., pp. 1-623, text figs. 1-283. New
York and London, 1913.

Piltdown man, p. 337. ‘The lower jaw, if found by itself, would cer-
tainly have been referred to an anthropoid ape.

BARRELL, JOSEPH. Probable Relations of Climatic Change to the Origin of the
Tertiary Ape Man. The Scientific Monthly, vol. 4, pp. 16-26. January, 1917.

“Most unexpectedly, however, a jaw of a chimpanzee has been un-
earthed from the Pleistocene of England in association with the Piltdown
human cranium, Homo dawsoni.”

*BIRKNER, F. Die Funde von menschlichen Knochenresten bei Piltdown in
Sussex (England). Korr.-Blatt d. Deutsch. Gesellsch. f. Anthrop. Ethnol. u.
Urgesch. vol. 44, p. 102. December, 1913.

Boule, MARCELLIN. La paléontologie humaine en Angleterre. L’Anthropologie,
vol. 26, pp. 1-67, figs. 1-21. April, 1915.

Bouse, M. Studies on the Hvolution of Primates. L’Anthropologie, vol. 28,
pp. 157-159. April, 1917.

Review of Gregory, June 16, 1916. Eoanthropus, p. 158. The jaw is
that of a chimpanzee.

Boutrt, M. The Jaw of Piltdown Man. L’Anthropologie, vol. 28, pp. 483-435,
October, 1917.

Review of Miller, 1915. Accepts conclusion that the jaw is that of a
chimpanzee.

*BouLE, MARCELLIN. The Piltdown Jaw. L’Anthropologie, vol. 29, pp. 566-568.
January, 1920.

Review of Miller, 1918. Declares himself more and more convinced that
the skull and jaw pertain to different creatures, a man and an ape.

* Broom, R. The Hvidence Afforded by the Boskop Skull of a New Species
of Primitive Man (Homo capensis). Anthrop. Papers Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist.,
vol. 28, pt. 2, pp. 67-19, figs. 1-5, 1918.

“TI regard the [Piltdown] jaw as essentially a human jaw * * *
the molar teeth are “ground down by a transverse movement which is
physically impossible for any chimpanzee to accomplish. There does not
seem to me the slightest reason why we should hesitate in regarding the
jaw as belonging to the same individual as the skull” (p. 78).
458 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

* CAMERON, JOHN. A Contribution to the Evolution and Morphology of the
Human Skull, Including a Comparative Study of Certain Fossil Hominidae.
Trans. Roy. Soe. Canada, ser. 3, vol. 12, pp. 149-183, figs. 1-15, 1918.

DAWKINS, Boyp. [Discussion of the Piltdown skull.] Abstr. Proc. Geol. Soc.
London, session 1912-18, pp. 28-24. Dec. 28, 1912. (See also Quart. Journ.
Geol. Soe. London, vol. 69, pp. 148-149. March, 1913, issued Apr. 25, 1913.)

Accepts association of skull and jaw. Concludes that Hoanthropus is
“a missing link between mn and the higher apes, appearing at that stage
of the evolution of the higher mammalia in which it may be looked for—
in the Pleistocene age. The modern type of man had no place in this
age.”

DAWSON, CHARLES, and Woopwarp, ARTHUR SMITH. On the Discovery of a
Palaeolithic Human Skull and Mandible in a Flint-Bearing Gravel Overly-
ing the Wealden (Hastings Beds) at Piltdown, Fletching (Sussex). Abstr.
Proc. Geol. Soc. London, session 1912-1913, pp. 20-22. Dec. 28, 1912.

DAWSON, CHARLES, and WoopWArD, ARTHUR SMITH. On the Discovery of a
Palaeolithic Human Skull and Mandible in a Flint-Bearing Gravel Over-
lying the Wealden (Hastings Beds) at Piltdown, Fletching (Sussex).
Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. London, vol. 69, pp. 117-144, pls. 15-21 (wash
drawings; for photographs see Woodward, 1915), figs. 1-10. March, 1918.
Read Dec. 18, 1912; issued Apr. 25, 1913.

DAWSON, CHARLES, and WoopwArD, ARTHUR SMITH. Supplementary note on the
discovery of a palaeolithic human skull and mandible at Piltdown (Sussex).
Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. London, vol. 70, pp. 82-98, pls. 14-15, figs. 1-8. Apr.
25, 1914.

* DieTRICH, W. O. Neues vom Hoanthropus Dawsoni Smith Woodward. Natur-
wiss. Wochenschrift, n. F., vol. 15, pp. 714-715. December 10, 1916.

Dixon, A. F. Note on the fragment of the lower jaw from Piltdown, Sussex.
Nature, vol. 99, p. 399. July 12,1917. (Abstract of paper read before Royal
Dublin Society, June 26, 1917.)

Eviot, G. F. Scotr. Prehistoric Man and His Story. London and Philadelphia,
1915, pp. I-XIV, 1-398, 64 illustr. and diagrams.

* FRASSETTO, Fapio. Lezioni di anthropologia, vol. 1, Milano, 1918.

Piltdown man, pp. 340-348. The mandible is regarded (p. 342) as more
like that of the orang than the chimpanzee, particularly in the form of
the inner side of the symphysis and in that of the ascending ramus.

* WRASSETTO, Faso. New Views on the “Dawn Man” of Piltdown (Sussex).
Man, vol. 27, pp. 121-124, pl. G. July, 1927.

* TREUDENBERG, W. Prihistorische Anthropologie. Neues Jahrb. Mineral.,
Geol. u. Paliiont., 1915, vol. 1, pp. 416-420.

GIUFFRIDA-RUGGERI, V. Dawson (Ch.) e Woodward (A. §.). On the Discoy-
ery of a Palaeolithic Skull and Mandible in a Flint-Bearing Gravel Over-
lying the Wealden (Hastings Beds) at Piltdown, Fletching (Sussex). Arch.
Antrop. e Etnol., Firenze, vol. 48, pp. 184-186. 1918.

GIUFFRIDA-RuGGERI, V. La successione @ la provenienza delle razze Europee
preneolitiche e i pretesi Cro Magnon delle Canarie. Revista Ital. di Paleont.,
Perugia, vol. 22 (1916), pp. 59-67. Mar. 28, 1917.

*GIUFFRIDA-RUGGERI, V. Uniciti del philum umano con pluralita dei centri
specifici. Rey. Ital. di Paleont., Perugia, vol. 24, pp. 1-15. 1918.

Eoanthropus especially (pp. 11-12). Concludés that the jaw should be
treated as that of an ape.

“MISSING LINKS »—MILLER 459

*GIUFFRIDA-RUGGERI, V. La controversia sul fossile di Piltdown e l’origine del
philum umano. Monitore Zool. Ital., vol. 30, pp. 7-18. 1919.

GREGORY, WILLIAM Kine. The Dawn Man of Piltdown, England. Am. Mus.
Journal, vol. 14, pp. 189-200, figs. I-II. May, 1914.

GREGORY, WILLIAM Kine. Studies on the Evolution of the Primates, parts 1
and 2. Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., vol. 35, pp. 289-855. June 16, 1916.

GREGORY, WILLIAM Kine. Note on the Molar Teeth of the Piltdown Mandible.
Amer. Anthrop., n. s. vol. 18, pp. 884-887, fig. 47. July-September, 1916.

*GREGORY, WILLIAM Kine, and HELLMAN, Mito. The Crown Patterns of Fossil
and Recent Human Molar Teeth and Their Meaning. Nat. Hist., vol. 26, pp.
300-309, figs. 1-9, May—June, 1926.

Photographs of Piltdown jaw and teeth, figs. 5, 6. Jaw accepted as
human. Of the teeth it is remarked that “the crown pattern of the Pilt-
down molars... is identical with that of all the known species of
extinct apes named Dryopithecus and allied genera from the Miocene of
Europe and India” (p. 305).

*HOLLISTER, N. International Zoology and the International Code. Science, n. s.,
vol. 48, pp. 12-138. July 5, 1918.

Discussion of the Piltdown jaw shows that authors who do not follow
the International Code use no less than three generic names for the chim-
panzees.

Hooton, E. A. The Evolution of the Human Face and its relation to Head
Form. Dental Cosmos, vol. 58, pp. 272-281. March, 1916.

Piltdown skull (pp. 277-278) accepted as “. . . an entirely human
braincase . . . and paradoxically enough associated with it a long,
narrow, and very Simian jaw.”

HrpricKa, A. The Most Ancient Skeletal Remains of Man. Ann. Rep. Smiths.
Inst., 1913, pp. 491-552. 1914; Hoanthropus, pp. 501-509, pls. 5-8.

*Hrpuicka, A. The Piltdown Jaw. Amer. Journ. Phys. Anthrop., vol. 5, pp.
337-347. December, 1922.

*Hrpricka, A. Dimensions of the First and Second Lower Molars with their
Bearing on the Piltdown Jaw and on Man’s Phylogeny. Journ. Phys.
Anthrop., vol. 6, pp. 195-216. May, 1923.

*HuNTER, JOHN I. New Light on the Controversy of the Piltdown Jaw and
Cranium. pp. 1-11. 1924? Separate from? (Summary of address given
before the Soc. Dent. Sci. N. S. W.)

*JIJON, J. y CAAMANO. The Piltdown Jaw. Bol. Soc. Ecuatoriana Estud. Hist.
Amer., Quito, vol. 1, pp. 184-185. September, 1918.

JOHNSTON, H. H. [Review of Osborn’s Men of the Old Stone Age.] The Geo-
graphical Journal, vol. 48, pp. 349-350. October, 1916.
Remarks that the author “...seems...to be a little perverse in

quoting the absurd suggestion... that the Piltdown jaw and teeth do
not belong to the Piltdown calvarium....”

KeitH, A. Ape Man or Modern Man? The Two Piltdown Skull Reconstruc-
tions. Illustrated London News, vol. 148, p. 245, figs. 1-6. Aug. 16, 1913.

KEITH, A. [Discussion of new reconstruction of skull of Hoanthropus.] Abstr.
Proc. Geol. Soc. London, session 1913-14, p. 30. Dec. 31, 1913. (See also
Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. London, vol. 70, p. 98, Apr. 25, 1914.)

KeitH, A. The Significance of the Discovery at Piltdown. Bedrock, vol. 2, pp.
435-458, figs. 1-8. January, 1914.

KeitH, A. The Reconstruction of Fossil Human Skulls. Journ. Royal Anthrop.
Inst. Gt. Brit. and Ireland, vol. 44 pp. 12-31, figs. 1-16. January-June, 1914.
460 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

Keriru, A. The Antiquity of Man. New Hdition, 1925.

Eoanthropus, pp. 486-709.

*KLEINSCHMIDT, O. Realgattung Homo Sapiens (L.) Wine naturgesch. Monogr.
des Menschen. Berajah, Zoogr. infinita, 1922, pp. 1-80.

Homo sapiens dawsoni (pp. 7-9). The cast of the mandible clearly shows
the horseshoe-shaped form of the human jaw (p. 8).

LANKESTER, Ray. [Discussion of the Piltdown Skull.] Abstr. Proce. Geol.
Soe. London, session 1912-18, pp. 22-28. Dec. 28, 1912. (See also Quart.
Journ. Geol. Soe. London, vol. 69, pp. 147-148. March, 1913. Issued Apr.
25, 1913.)

LANKESTER, Ray. The Missing Link. Diversions of a Naturalist, ch. 30 (pp.
275-291), figs. 24-30 (mostly after Woodward); preface dated June 16,
1915. (Previously published in London Telegraph. )

“The Piltdown jaw is the most startling and significant fossil bone that
has ever been brought to light ... because this jaw and the incomplete
skull found with it really and in simple fact furnish a link—a form inter-
mediate between the man and the ape” (p. 284).

*LENoIR, ERNEST-Rogert. L’Homme et le gibbon. Rev. Anthrop., vol. 36, pp.
427-460. December, 1926.

*LULL, RIcHARD SWAN. Organic Evolution, a Text-Book, pp. I-XVIII, 1-729,
pls. I-X XX, figs. 1-253. New York, 1917.

Piltdown man, pp. 681-682. Accepts dissociation of jaw from skull,
Uses name Homo dawsoni for former (fig. 251) and Pan vetus for latter
(fig. 248).

Lyne, W. Courtney. The Significance of the Radiographs of the Piltdown
Teeth. Proc. Roy. Soc. Medicine, London, vol. 9, Odont., pp. 33-51, 60-61,
figs. 1-7. February, 1916. a

MatrHew, W. D. Recent Progress in Vertebrate Paleontology. Science, n. s.
vol. 48, pp. 108-110 (with Hastman, C. R., and Gregory, W. K.). Jan. 21,
1916.

MATTHEW, W. D. Note on the Association of the Piltdown Skull and Jaw.
Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., vol. 35, pp. 348-850, June 16, 1916.

“But the argument from association is quite too slight to outweigh
any... contrary evidence, and certainly not adequate to base on it the
erection of a new type of primate combining characters hitherto found dis-
sociated in district generic types” (p. 350). (See Smith, May 25, 1916,
and Woodward, February, 1916.)

Miniter, Gerrit S., Jr. The jaw of the Piltdown man. Smithsonian Misc.
Coll., vol. 65, No. 12, pp. 1-31, pls. 1-5. Nov. 24, 1915.

Mitier, Gerrit 8., Jr. The Piltdown jaw. Amer. Journ. Phys. Anthrop., vol.
1 (January-March, 1918), pp. 25-52, pls. 14. July 9, 1918.

Moir, J. Ret. Pre-Palaeolithie Man in England. Science Progress, vol. 12, pp.
465-474, January, 1918.

Piltdown individual, pp. 470-474. “Thus we find in this unique fossil a
combination of human [cranial] and simian [mandibular] characters, such
as have been looked for by evolutionists ever since Darwin first enunciated
his famous theory regarding the ancestry of modern man” (p. 470).

*MoLiison, TH. Die Abstammung des Menschen. Die Naturwissenschaften,
vol. 9, pp. 128-140. Feb. 25, 1921.

Hoanthropus, p. 187-138. Skull and jaw do not belong together.

MILLER 461

“MISSING LINKS”

* MoLLison, TH. Neuere Funde und Untersuchungen fossiler Menschenaf-
fen und Menschen. Zeitschrift fiir die gesammte Anatomie, Abt. 3, Ergebn.
der Anat. u. Entwicklungsgesch. vol. 25, pp. 696-771. 1924.

Eoanthropus, pp. 715-724. Reviews (imperfectly) literature to date, and
concludes that jaw and skull do not belong together and that a chimpanzee-
like animal might have lived in Europe during one of the interglacial
periods.

* O’DoNOGHUE, C. H. [Review of Tull [=Lull], Organic Evolution.] Science
Progress, vol. 13, pp. 162-163. July, 1918.

“(The Piltdown jaw] is utterly unlike that of any chimpanzee, as a
brief examination of the actual specimen will show. If the jaw does not
belong with the skull . . . we have a jaw of an entirely new genus of
anthropoids ” (p. 162).

OSBORN, HENRY FAIRFIELD. Men of the Old Stone Age, pp. I-X XVI. 1-545, pls. 8,
text figs. 268. November, 1915.

Joanthropus, pp. 180-144. The Piltdown race represents a side branch
of the human family which has left no descendants at all (p. 144).

OSBORN, HENRY FATRFIELD. Review of the Pleistocene of Europe, Asia, and
Northern Africa. Ann. New York Acad. Sci., vol. 26, pp. 215-315. July 31,
1915.

OsBorN, HENRY FAIRFIELD. Men of the Old Stone Age, 2d edition. February,
1916.

Hoanthropus, pp. 1380-144, 512. Accepts the conclusion that the jaw is
that of a chimpanzee.

* OSBORN, HENRY FAIRFIELD. The Dawn Man of Piltdown, Sussex. Natural
History, vol. 21, pp. 577-590, figs. 1-15. February, 1922.

Returns to the view that the jaw is human.

* Osborn, H. F., and Grecory, W. K. The Dawn Man (an authorized interview).
McClure’s Magazine, vol. 55, No. 1, pp. 19-28. March, 1923.

Pincrim, Guy E. New Siwalik Primates and Their Bearing on the Evolution of
Man and the Anthropoidea. Rec. Geol. Surv. India, vol. 45, pp. 1-74, pls.
1M, figs. 1-2.

Accepts association of skull with jaw and places Hoanthropus on line
leading to Homo neanderthalensis. (See Keith, 1915, and Sutcliffe.)

* PItgRIM, Guy BH. A Sivapithecus Palate and Other Primate Fossils from
India. Palaeont. Indica, n. s., vol. 14, pp. 1-24, pl. 1. 1927.

It would appear that the symphysis of both Hoanthropus and the Heidel-
berg jaw are in some ways intermediate between the Haritalyanger jaw
[Stwapithecus himalayensis Pilgrim] and that of the chimpanzee.

Puccioni, Netto. Appunti intorno al frammento mandibolare fossile di Pilt-
down (Sussex). Archivio per l’Antropologia e la Etnologia, vol. 48, pp.
167-175. 1913.

PycraFtT, W. P. Ape Man or Modern Man? The Two Piltdown Skull Recon-
structions. The Case for Dr. A. Smith Woodward’s Reconstruction. TIllus-
trated London News, vol. 148, p. 282. Aug. 23, 1913. Four figures.

PycrarT, W. P. The Jaw of the Piltdown Man—a Reply to Mr. Gerrit S.
Miller. Science Progress, vol. 11, pp. 389-409, figs. 1-4. January, 1917.

* PyorArT, W. P. Discussion [of paper by Woodward]. Quart. Journ. Geol.
Soe. London, vol. 73, p. 9. Apr. 6, 1918.

* RAMSTROM, MARTIN. Om underkiiken i Piltdown fyndet (‘“ Ho-anthropus’’).
Svenska Likaresillskapets Handlingar, vol. 42 (1916), pp. 1223-1256, figs.
1-6. (German synopsis, pp. 1255-6.)

462 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

* RAMSTROM, MArtTIN. Der Piltdown-Fund. Bull. Geol. Inst. Upsala, vol. 16,
pp. 261-304, figs. 1-12, 1919.

*RAMSTROM, Martin. Der Java-Trinil-Fund “ Pithecanthropos” oder kénnen
die ‘“ Hoanthropos”- und ‘“ Pithecanthropos”- Funde uns zuverlissige
Aufschliisse tiber die Anthropogenesis geben? Upsala Likarefoérenings For-
handl., N. F., vol. 26, Festskr. Prof. J. Aug. Hammar, art. 29, pp. 1-37. 1921.

Rurot, A. Quelques découvertes récentes relatives aux races humaines primi-
tives. Bull. Soc. Belge Geol., Proc.-Verb., vol. 27, pp. 5-6. 1913.

ScHWALBE, G. Kritische Besprechung von Boule’s Werk: “ L’Homme fossile
de la Chapelle-aux-Saints.” Zeitschr. fiir Morphologie und Anthropologie
vol. 16, pp. 227-610. Jan. 31, 1914.

Piltdown skull and jaw, pp. 603-4. Not willing to accept the suggestion
that skull and jaw did not beloing to one individual, but considers the
facts too uncertain to form basis of positive opinion.

*ScHWALBE, G. Die Abstammung des Menschen und die 4lteren Menschen-
formen. Die Kultur der Gegenwart, pt. 3, sect. 5, Anthropology, pp. 223-336.
1923.

Sera, G. L. Un preteso Hominida miocenico: Sivapithecus indicus. Natura,
vol. 8, pp. 149-1738. 1917.

Eoanthropus, pp. 170-171. Accepts association of jaw with skull. The
teeth, on account of their height, would perhaps be better compared with
those of a primitive Dryopithecus than with those of a chimpanzee.

Serer, G. La mandibola umana. Revista di Antropologia, Roma, vol. 19, pp.
119-168, numerous text figs. 1914.

Serer, G. L’Evoluzione organica e le origini umane, pp. I-XXII, 1-240.
Torino, 1914. Hoanthropus, pp. 192-198 and note on p. 236.

Accepts association of skull with jaw, and concludes that the form of
the mandible is enough to make the Piltdown man a new type, a new
branch, and therefore a new genus.

*Serci, G. Problemi di scienze contemporanea (Nuova serie). Chapter entitled
“ Paleantropologia,” 1916.

Hoanthropus, pp. 111-117. The teeth are human; the symphsial region of
the mandible has a form which is neither human nor anthropoid, The
skull and jaw belonged to one individual, and the genus Hoanthropus is
valid.

SmirH, G. Exxtiot. Appendix [to paper by Dawson and Woodward]. Abstr.
Proc. Geol. Soe. London, session 1912-13, p. 22. Dec. 28, 1912.

SmituH, G. Evxiot. Preliminary Report on the Cranial Cast [of Piltdown skull].
Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. London, vol. 69, pp. 145-147. March 1913. Issued
Apr. 25, 1918.

SmirH G. Etxtiot. The Piltdown Skull. Nature, vol. 92, p. 181. Oct. 2, 1913.

Smiru, G. Ertior. The Controversies Concerning the Interpretation and Mean-
ing of the Remains of the Dawn Man Found Near Piltdown. Nature,
vol. 92 pp. 468-469. Dec. 18, 1918.

SmirH, G. Ettiot. The Controversies Concerning the Interpretation and Mean-
ing of the Remains of the Dawn Man Found Near Piltdown. Mem. and Proc.
Manchester Lit. and Philos. Soc., vol. 59, pp. VII-IX. Mar. 31, 1914.

“That the jaw and cranial fragments . . . belonged to the same
creature there had never been any doubt on the part of those who have
seriously studied the matter” (p. VIII). The author believes that “ When
man was first evolved the pace of evolution must have been phenomenally
rapid.” He alludes to “the turmoil incident to the inauguration of the
Pleistocene Period” (p. IX).

“MISSING LINKS °»—MILLER 463

SmitH, G. Extior. Man of the Dawn. Sydney Morning Herald, July 3, 1914,
p. 9.

“| . if that [Piltdown] jaw had been found without any teeth,
or if it had been found separate from the skull, no one would have hesi-
tated to call it an ape’s jaw.” (See Smith, 1917.)

SmiTH, G. Extior. Discussion [of a paper by Lyne]. Proc. Roy. Soc, Medicine,
London, vol. 9, Odont., pp. 56-58. February, 1916.

“To bring a hitherto unknown ape into England in the Pleistocene
period involves an upheaval of paleontological teaching.”

SmitrH, G. Ettiotr. New phases of the Controversies Concerning the Piltdown
Skull, Proce. Manchester Lit. and Philos. Soc., vol. 60, pp. XXVITI-XXIX.
May 25, 1916.

“In considering the possibility that more than one hitherto unknown ape-
like man or man-like ape expired in Britain side by side in the Pleistocene
period and left complementary parts the one of the other, the element of
improbability is so enormous as not to be set aside except for the most
definite and positive anatomical reasons. The author .. . emphasized
the fact that the skull itself revealed certain features of a more primitive
nature than any other known representatives of the human family” (p.
XXIX). (See Matthew, June 16, 1916.)

SmiryH, G. Excior. “Man of the Old Stone Age.’ Amer. Mus. Journ., vol. 16,
pp. 319-325. May, 1916.

Review of Osborn. Piltdown skull, pp. 321-322. “But the acceptance
of the view that the jaw is an ape’s and the cranium a man’s would involve
the supposition that a hitherto unknown and extremely primitive apelike
man, and an equally unknown manlike ape, died on the same spot, and
that one of them left his skull without the jaw and the other his jaw with-
out the skull. Not only so, but it would involve also the admission that an
anthropoid ape was living in England in middle Pleistocene times. .. .”

SmitH, G. Exrtior. The Problem of the Piltdown Jaw: Human or Subhuman?
EKugenics Review, vol. 9, p. 167, July, 1917.

Review of Pycraft, 1917. “By means of the large collection of data
relating to details of the anatomy of the teeth and jaws of chimpanzees
and men he has proved quite conclusively that the Piltdown jaw. . . be-
longed to a primitive member of the human family .. .” (See Smith,
July 3, 1914, and Boule, 1920.)

Sorzas, W. J. Ancient Hunters and their Modern Representatives. Ed. 2,
London, 1915, pp. I-XIV, 1-591, 314 figs.

Piltdown man, pp. 49-56. “Some have regarded such a being as an im-
probable monster and have suggested that the jaw may not have belonged
to the skull, but to a true ape. The chances against this are, however, so
overwhelming that the conjecture may be dismissed as unworthy of serious
consideration. Nor on reflection need the combination of characters pre-
sented by Hoanthropus occasion surprise. It had, indeed, been long pre-
viously anticipated as an almost necessary stage in the course of human
development” (p. 54).

SPURRELL, H. G. F. Modern Man and His Forerunners, pp. I-XXII, 1-192, pls.
1-5, text fig. 1. London, 1917.

Piltdown man, p. 44 and pl. 5. ‘The Piltdown man, though by far the
most apelike human remains yet found, has much in common with modern
man... while he certainly has no place in the direct line of Neanderthal
man’s descent.”

Surcuirre, W. H. A criticism of some modern tendencies in prehistoric anthro-
pology. Mem. and Proc. Manchester Lit. and Philos. Soc., vol. 57, no. 7, pp.
1-25, pls. 1-2. June 25, 1914.
464 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

SyMInGTON, J. On the Relations of the Inner Surface of the Cranium to the
Cranial Aspect of the Brain. Edinburgh Medical Journal, vol. 14, pp. 85-100,
figs. 1-21, February, 1915.

“Tt is unfortunate that the facts they [endocranial casts of prehistoric
skulls] reveal are so few in number and so lacking in precision, but it is
surely better to admit frankly the limitations of our knowledge than to re-
construct primitive brains on such slender data” (p. 100).

Symineton, J. Endocranial Casts and Brain Form: A Criticism of Some
Recent Speculations. Journ. Anat. and Physiol., vol. 50, pp. 111-180. Janu-
ary, 1916.

Concludes: ‘That the simplicity or complexity of the cerebral fissures
and convolutiens cannot be determined with any degree of accuracy from
endocranial casts, even on complete skulls, much less on reconstructions
from imperfect skulls” (p. 180).

Tuacker, A. G. The Significance of the Piltdown Discovery. Science Prog-
ress, vol. 8, pp. 275-290. October, 1913.

*TotpT, C. Ueber den vorderen Abschnitt des menschlichen Unterkiefers mit
Riicksicht auf dessen anthropologische Bedeutung. Mitth. Anthrop. Ge-
selisch. Wien, vol. 45, pp. 248-249. 1915.

TomMES, CHARLES 8. A Manual of Dental Anatomy, ed. 7, pp. I-VI, 1-616, figs.
1-300. 1914.

Koanthropus, pp. 586-588. “There is doubt whether it is justifiable to
create a new genus for this man... hence... the name should be rather
Homo piltdownensis” (p. 586). ‘The contour of the front of the mandible
is exactly that of a young chimpanzee. The [molar] teeth, however, are
quite human” (p. 586).

Unperwoop, ArtHUR S. The Piltdown Skull. British Journal of Dental Sci-
ence, vol. 56, pp. 650-652, 3 plates (not numbered). Oct. 1, 1918.

*Virncnow, Hans. Zahnbogen und Alveolarbogen. Zeitschr. fiir Hthnologie, vol.
48, pp. 277-295. 1916.

WaLkuorr, Dr. Entstehung und Verlauf der phylogenetischen Umformung der
menschlichen Kiefer seit dem Tertiar und ihre Bedeutung fiir die Pathologie
der Ziihne. Deutsche Monatsschr. ftir Zahnheilkunde, vol. 31, pp. 947-979,
figs. 1-9. December, 1918.

Piltdown jaw (pp. 971-979). Accepts association of skull and jaw. Re-
gards the jaw as a confirmation of his views on the origin of the chin.
WATERSTON, Prof. [Discussion of the Piltdown skull.] Abstr. Proce. Geol. Soe.
London, session 1912-13, p. 25. Dec. 28, 1912. (See also Quart. Journ. Geol.

Soc. London, vol. 69, p. 150. March, 1918. Issued Apr. 25, 1913.)

WATERSTON, Davip. The Piltdown Mandible. Nature, vol. 92, p. 319, figs.
1-3, Nov. 18, 1913.

Compares with chimpanzee and concludes that “... it seems to me to
be as inconsequent to refer the mandible and the cranium to the same
individual as it would be to articulate a chimpanzee foot with the bones of
an essentially human thigh and leg.”

* WeRTH, E. Die Auflisung des Eoanthropus Dawsoni. Zeitschr. fiir Ethnolo-
gie, vol. 48, pp. 261-264. 1916.

* WertTH, HE. Das Problem des tertiaren Menschen. Sitzungsber. Gesellsch.
naturforsch. Freunde zu Berlin, 1918, pp. 1-82, figs. 1-9. Hoanthropus,
pp. 21-26. Apr. 30. 1918.

*WERTH, H. Der fossile Mensch. 1921. Hoanthropus, pp. 803-808, fig. 640.

Woopwarp, A. SmirH. The Piltdown Skull. Brit. Med. Journ., vol. 2 for
1918, p. 762. Sept. 20, 1913.

“6 MISSING LINKS MILLER 465

Woopwarp, A. SmirH. The Pilidown Skull. Nature, vol. 92, pp. 110-111.
Sept. 25, 1913.

Woopwarp, A. SmiruH. Note on the Piltdown Man (Hoanthropus dawsoni).
Geol. Mag. n. s., Dec. 5, vol. 10, pp. 438-484, pl. 15. October, 1913.

Woopwarp, A. SmirH. A Guide to the Fossil Remains of Man in the British
Museum, pp. 1-33, pls. 1-4 (photographs), figs. 1-12. 1915.

Woopwarp, A. SmirH. Discussion [of a paper by Lyne]. Proc. Roy. Soe. Medi-
cine, London, vol. 9, Odont., p. 52. February, 1916.

“Tt seems to me most improbable—almost ineredible—that when we find
a unique primate skull in the same place as an absolutely new primate
jaw and close to an entirely new primate tooth we are dealing with the
remains of three distinct animals.” (See Matthew, June 16, 1916.)

* WoopwWARrpD, A. SmitH. Fourth Note on the Piltdown Gravel, with BHvidence
of a Second Skull of Hoanthropus dawsoni. With an Appendix by Prof.
Grafton Elliot Smith. Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc., London, vol. 73, 1917, pp.
ITO pled figss 2. Apr 6), £918:

* WoopwaArbD, A. SMITH. Presidential Address. Proc. Linn. Soe. London, pp.
27-34, 1923.

Diagram on page 80 to show “that if the milk dentition of modern man
were modified by the complete extrusion of the canines this would re-

semble the permanent dentition of the Piltdown fossil man more closely
than does the permanent dentition of any ape.”

ADDENDA

Too late to use it in the body of the text I have seen the following
book in which both of the “ missing links” have been given a new
interpretation—namely, that they are the remains of African ne-
groes, migrants from the Nile region.

CHURCHWARD, ALBERT. Origin and Evolution of the Human Race, pp. I-XV,
1-511, pls. 1-77, London, 1922.
“ Pithecanthropus was a pigmy [African] ... Personally I have not
the slightest doubt that the Piltdown skull [and jaw] belonged to a Non-
Hero Cult Nilotic Negro” (pp. 26, 499).
The following reference was omitted from its proper place on page
448:

* DRENNAN, M. R. A Contribution to the Piltdown Problem. Nature, vol. 120,
p. 874, 1 text fig., Dec. 17, 1927.

By a new system of calculation the capacity of the brain case is deter-
mined as 1415 cc.
WHAT IS KNOWN OF THE MIGRATIONS OF SOME OF
THE WHALEBONE WHALES

By REMINGTON KELLOGG
Division of Mammals, United States National Museum

[With two plates]

Some of the living cetaceans are great travelers and apparently
wander at will over the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, while others
pursue a fairly definite route at stated intervals. Some may appear
off the coasts of two or more continents in the course of their migra-
tions, while others follow but one coast on their northward and
southward runs. In the South Atlantic, humpbacks, finbacks, and
blue whales frequent the icy waters off the Antarctic Continent dur-
ing the southern summer and migrate northward along the coasts
of South America and Africa in the fall and winter. In the North
Atlantic some of the humpbacks and finbacks seem to follow the
North American coast for some distance on their northward run past
the islands off the European coast. There are a few whales which
exhibit decided preferences for definite areas, while others apparently
travel where they will. The bowhead (Balena mysticetus), which
frequents the Arctic seas, and the pigmy whale (Weobalena mar-
ginata) of New Zealand waters are restricted to limited oceanic
areas. ‘The extent of the migrations of some whales is largely a mat-
ter of conjecture, but the evidence points to the conclusion that an
occasional individual or school travels from the South Pacific to the
North Pacific and vice versa. Sei whales have been taken in Japa-
nese waters with ectoparasites of South Pacific origin according to
Andrews (1916, pp. 322, 331). Information from other sources indi-
cates that whales may occasionally pass from one ocean to another
south of Cape Horn and Cape of Good Hope. It is quite likely that
there may be an interchange or intermingling of individuals in the
herds that pass the Antarctic summer in the Strait of Bransfield, for
this latitude is the feeding ground of those that migrate southward
along the Atlantic and Pacific coasts of South America. The pre-
sumption is that these newcomers will later accompany their respec-
tive schools northward to the calving grounds and to the summer

home of those particular whales,
467
468 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

The possibilities for wide dispersal of cetaceans are exceptionally
great, in view of the absence of physical barriers, and apparently
the chief controlling factor is the food supply. Hence it may appear
rather surprising that some of the larger whales, such as the gray
whale, the humpback, and the bowhead, should follow definite routes
in their migrations. The kind of plankton eaten by whalebone
whales, according to Bigelow (1926, p. 99), is largely determined by
the fineness of their straining apparatus. This consists of a row
of contiguous blades of baleen hanging downward from the roof of
the mouth on each side. These blades of baleen have internal mar-
ginal fringes of intermatted bristlelike fibers which function as a
sieve when the animal is feeding and thus prevent the egress of
plankton too large to pass through the interspaces with the outrush
of water when the mouth is closed. Mysticetes with coarse comblike
whalebone, such as the finback, the blue whale, and the humpback,
can capture the large euphausids, but the smaller calanids escape
with the outpouring water. The unusually fine bristles of the sei
whale and the North Atlantic right whale sift out the smaller calanid
copepods as well as the larger shrimplike euphausids. But whales
with coarse-fringed whalebone seem to be much more adept in cap-
turing fish than those with fine-fringed whalebone.

Some of the whalebone whales consume enormous quantities of
these euphausids, and on the Antarctic whaling grounds most of
them feed almost exclusively upon these minute crustaceans, Even
the blue whale, the largest mammal that has ever lived, seems to be
dependent upon such small prey. Prof. G. O. Sars found that the
stomach contents of a blue whale taken in the Norwegian Sea con-
sisted chiefly of a small shrimplike crustacean (Zhysanoessa in-
ermis), and Collett (1877, p. 161) reports that occasionally one is
taken that has eaten nearly 1,200 liters of Thysanoessa. The shrimp-
like Thysanoessa and Meganyctiphanes in the North Atlantic and
Euphausia in the Antarctic seem to constitute the bulk of the food
of the blue whale. The food of finbacks may vary according to local
conditions, for the stomach of one (Cornwall, 1928, p. 11) taken
near Vancouver Island was filled with a small squid (Gonatus fab-
rici). Méorch (1911, p. 666) has pointed out that the distribution of
finbacks in the North Atlantic depends upon the seasonal appearance
of plankton, capelan (Madllotus villosus), and herrings. Bryde’s
whale (Balenoptera brydez) does not seem to be wholly dependent
upon the occurrence of euphausids according to Olsen (1918, p.
1085), as it is generally seen near the shore feeding on fish, such as
herring and mackerel, but in one instance sharks over 2 feet in length
were found in a stomach, and in another case no less than 15 pen-
guins (Spheniscus demersus) and “ malagass” (Sula capensis). ‘The
same writer states that copepods (Calanide) are the chief source of

MIGRATIONS OF WHALES—KELLOGG 469

food for the sei whale (Balwnoptera borealis). The stomach con-
tents of several sei whales (Collett, 1886, p. 261) killed off East Fin-
mark in July consisted entirely of the copepod, Calanus finmarchi-
cus, but along West Finmark they were feeding on euphausids. The
bowhead often feeds on pelagic mollusks (Lilljeb6rg, 1866, p. 308)
such as the pteropods, Clio and Zimacina, in addition to copepods of
the genus Calanus.

While the available data seem to indicate that the migrations
of whales are governed to some extent at least by the plankton
supply and hydrographic changes, their annual journeys take them
to localities favorable for reproduction and growth of young. It
is also possible that the food prerequisites of any given area may
remain favorable, but that the whales for some inexplicable reason
have gone elsewhere. The seasonal north and south migrations
may also under certain conditions extend east and west. If this is
confirmed, the fact will further complicate the study of the biology
of these pelagic mammals.

The underlying causes for the marked seasonal fluctuations in
the abundance of whales on many of the whaling grounds is little
understood at present. By tracing the movements of waters sur-
rounding the feeding grounds of whales it may be possible to dis-
cover the physical and biological factors that regulate these fluctua-
tions. Oceanographic investigations have repeatedly shown that
there is a direct connection between the physical and biological
conditions of the feeding grounds and the presence or absence of
pelagic animals. It has been shown that there are certain mass
movements of water which may alter any set of conditions. The
chemical content of sea water varies from time to time and from
place to place according to the influence of ocean currents and ocean
drift. Sufficient quantities of certain kinds of food necessary to
support the long-continued presence of large numbers of whales
require favorable hydrographic conditions. An excellent illustra-
tion of the influence of hydrographic factors on the propagation of
plankton is brought out by the observations of Hardy (1928, p.
771) in the vicinity of South Georgia.

It is generally accepted that ocean currents result from differences
in the specific gravity of water, and that masses of water will flow
from the place where it is relatively light to another region where
it is proportionately heavy. Prevailing winds, rotation of the earth,
and tides also exert an influence on the movement of masses of water.
Some of these currents are cold and others warm. Physical differ-
ences such as salinity and temperature make oceans a complex of
water masses. Observations have shown that there is an upper layer
of cold fresh water and a lower layer of salty water at the entrance

24034—29——31
470 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

to the Baltic. Subtropical seas, as, for instance, the Red Sea and
the Persian Gulf, have water above the normal salinity, while Hud-
son Bay and the Baltic Sea are below normal in salinity.

The Gulf Stream in the North Atlantic undergoes a periodical
expansion and contraction, and the flooding which accompanies these
gigantic pulsations periodically influences hydrographic conditions
in the waters bordering northern Europe. The maximum flooding
of the North Atlantic by the Gulf Stream, according to Jenkins
(1921, p. 75), occurs in August. The ice-chilled Nova Scotian
current which floods westward into the Gulf of Maine every spring
is an overflow of the pool that develops from Cabot Strait out over
Banquereau Bank with the melting of field ice from the Gulf of St.
Lawrence, and this surface drift, which flows past Cape Sable into
the Gulf of Maine, originates some 300 miles eastward. (Bigelow,
1927, pp. 681, 832.) Between Cape Sable and Cape Cod the surface
water is chilled to its minimum for the year in the last week of
February and the first few days of March. At this time the surface
temperature of the coastal belt is as low as 35.6°, while the central
and offshore reaches 36.5° and 38.3° F. In mid-August the surface
readings may reach 68° F. During the month of February the
surface temperatures of the Irish Sea range from 40.6° to 46.7° F.
and in August from 55.6° to 62.2° F. (Jenkins, 1921, pp. 64-65.)
According to the chart of isotherms of surface temperatures pre-
pared by Fowler (1912, chart 4), the surface temperature of the
Caribbean Sea is 80.6°, the Mediterranean 62.6° to 69.8°, Gulf of
Biscay 59°, Norwegian coast 48.2° to 41°, Iceland 41° to 42.8°, and
Spitzbergen 32° to 30.2° F.

From these data it would appear that neither salinity nor tem-
perature by themselves interpose any appreciable barrier to the
migration routes of whales, for in the North Atlantic whales leave
the Caribbean Sea with its surface temperature of 80° F. and
journey northward toward Greenland waters, where the surface
temperatures of the water range from 32° to 30.2° F. On the North
American side they enter water chilled by pack ice and icebergs
issuing from Davis Strait, and on the European side they reach
the icy waters in the vicinity of Spitzbergen. These physical factors,
however, do indirectly determine to some extent the migration routes
of whales, for unless hydrographic conditions are favorable plankton
will be too scant to feed the animals that are dependent upon it
for their sustenance. The Gulf Stream is bounded on the left by
cold water, the temperatures of which are reported to be from
50° to 57° below that of the Gulf Stream. Favorable conditions
for growth of plankton are created where the cold polar current
mixes with water of higher temperature. And it is along the
border layers of these great currents of icy water that the produc-

MIGRATIONS OF WHALES—KELLOGG 471

tion of plankton reaches its maximum wherever there is a sufficient
actinity of light, nutritive salts, and an intermingling with warmer
currents.

Vegetation is the ultimate source of food for pelagic animals,
and plants are dependent for their existence in part upon sunlight
to assimilate carbon and in part on the presence of certain nutritive
solutions of salts. Sea water of low temperature has a somewhat
higher gaseous content and is richer in nitrogenous compounds. By
synthesis of water and carbonic acid under a certain actinity of light
the microscopic plants that obtain their food directly from inorganic
substances in sea water are able to combine elementary nitrogen
salts with carbohydrate and produce proteids. Microscopic diatoms
form the bulk of the vegetation of the colder seas, and they float
at or near the surface. Microscopic animals known as peridinians
and dinoflagellates are often very abundant. Immense swarms of
a small shrimplike crustacean (Huphausia superba) make their ap-
pearance with the approach of Antarctic spring on the whaling
grounds, and these euphausids are dependent upon diatoms for
their sustenance. (Kemp, 1928, p. 191.) Euphausids are known
to feed on copepods, cladocera, and peridinians, as well as diatoms.
The duration of life of plankton varies in accordance with the
temperature of the water, and in sea water of low temperature there
exists a vastly larger number of coexisting generations than in warm
oceans or in shallow coastal waters of low salinity. Hence in Boreal
and Antarctic waters there is an astonishing abundance of minute
pelagic animals (plankton) in the upper layers during the spring
and summer months, and for this reason the whales congregate in
these regions at this season of the year. In late fall or early winter,
with the chilling of the surface water and descent of their favorite
food, many of these whales migrate toward the Tropics.

Information relating to the migrations of whales has been as-
sembled from many sources. Some of these data while suggestive
need corroboration, and this is especially true of migration records
based on whales from which foreign makes of harpoons have been
recovered. ‘There are many instances on record of the finding of
harpoons which were readily identifiable as the type employed
by whalers operating in other parts of the world. Taking into con-
sideration the extent of the voyages of many of the whaling vessels
during the past century, particularly our own New England whale-
men, it is obvious that too much stress should not be laid on this sort
of evidence. The whalers of the past century had little actual
knowledge of the migrations of whales, but they were acquainted with
localities where whales were accustomed to appear in considerable
numbers at definite seasons, and so planned their voyages that they
472 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

could visit one or more of these areas if necessary to complete their
cargo.

By plotting the operating seasons on these whaling grounds, the
ship logs giving the locations and. dates of the whales taken, the
records of shore stations giving the time of arrival of the whales in
their vicinity, and the observations of experienced whalemen on
schools migrating in definite directions, as well as those of naturalists
who have given some thought to this problem, we find that there is
a surprising amount of evidence bearing on the seasonal north and
south migrations of whales to and from their breeding grounds.
It is hoped that more accurate information on the extent of the
migration of whales will result from the use of disks by the Diés-
covery expedition (Kemp, 1928) in the vicinity of South Georgia and
that this practice may be extended to other regions.

HUMPBACK (MEGAPTERA NODOSA)

The accumulated evidence indicates that the humpback whales of
the northern and southern latitudes undertake migrations along well-

Ficurp 1.—Humpback whale [Megaptera nodosa (Bonnaterre)]. Outline drawing.
Notice the long fore flipper and the widely spaced throat grooves

defined courses at definite seasons, and this is especially true in
southern latitudes. Generally speaking, the southern humpbacks
leave the Antarctic polar seas in the autumn, pass the winter in the
Tropics, and return to the Antarctics in the spring. The northern
humpbacks leave the Tropics in the spring or early summer, journey
toward the Arctics before the summer is far advanced, and return
southward in late fall or winter. These migrations are rather
closely connected with the breeding habits of the species.

Females with calves apparently work their way toward the sum-
mer feeding grounds at a much slower rate and arrive somewhat
later in the season than bulls and nonbreeding cows. Surprising as
it may seem, there is evidence that some of the humpbacks in the
North Atlantic may remain in the open Arctic seas through the
winter months. Humpbacks journeying westward from the eastern
portions of the Arctic Ocean (Risting, 1912, pp. 438, 440) have been
observed passing along the coast of Finmark in the months of Jan-
uary, February, and the early part of March. During the same

a

'

SOU! Z 109) Zp ‘YIUIT “G68T “6 ISNBNY Uo ‘puL[puNoJMAN ‘Avg sUIB IIJON ‘UOI}RIg WIIY SYoous 7e “OH Sulpey AA urea4g 1oqReyD 943 Aqu

((AYYSLVNNOG) WSOGON VYSLdVDSIA!) YOWEdWNH AIVIA

eTBL

| ALW1d

830||24—'8Z61 ‘Hodey uBluosyyiws
MIGRATIONS OF WHALES—KELLOGG 473

period according to Hinton (1925, p. 89) numbers are found off
Bear Island, Jan Mayen, and to the north of Iceland. Neverthe-
less, the New England whalers were accustomed to hunt for hump-
backs in the vicinity of the Cape Verde Islands during the winter
months. In April or early spring some of these northern wintering
schools may migrate southward to join those that have given birth
to calves in the warmer portions of the North Atlantic. From
March to May females with new-born calves have been observed in
the vicinity of the Azores, the Cape Verde Islands, and off the north-
western coast of Africa. On their northward migration, the hump-

HUMPBACK

—

“s,  AUG.- SEPT.
p . Ful

c Us
{ Kf AUSTRAUA ~
——=

8

Ficurp 2.—Distribution map for the humpback whale, with supposed migration
routes in north and south latitudes ;

backs pursue a general course from southwest to northeast. In May
they are seen approaching the Shetland and Faroe coasts, but large
numbers have suddenly appeared at Varangerfjord (Eastern Fin-
mark) as early as February and March. Large herds of humpbacks
are often seen in June and July some 60 miles due west of Rona’s
Voe. (Millais, 1906, p. 236.) Toward autumn, according to Risting
(1912, p. 442), the humpbacks move northward toward the seas
around Bear Island and below Spitzbergen. Later with the chilling
of the surface water and the descent of the capelan, the humpbacks
move to the more open parts of the Arctic Ocean, where some pass
474 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

the winter months feeding on herring shoals. The pregnant females
and some of the others migrate to the Tropics.

On the western side of the North Atlantic there is a surprising
frequency of occurrences at unexpected seasons. Depletion in num-
bers may have made the normal migrating seasons less apparent.
Humpbacks with calves have been observed as early as February in
the vicinity of Bermuda and the Lesser Antilles. At Barbados,
humpbacks sometimes appear as early as January, and the season
usually extends from March to May, and all have left by June, ac-
cording to Lindeman (1880, p. 85). They also occur in the vicinity
of Tobago, Grenada, and St. Lucia during the same season. (True,
1904, p. 62.) The early New England whalers were accustomed to
find large numbers of humpbacks congregated in the waters in the
vicinity of the Island of Trinidad and the Gulf of Para. Available
data indicate that those in the Caribbean Sea generally have left it
by May.

The northward movement continues until late summer. From
Massachusetts to Maine on the New England coast humpbacks first
begin to appear on their northward migration in April and are fol-
lowed by others in May. Large herds of humpbacks “ on passage ”
and moving at a rapid pace have been seen in April some 200 miles
east of the North American coast. Humpbacks also have been ob-
served off the New England coast in June, July, and August. Those
that have been observed in these waters during the summer months
may either be females with calves or stragglers from the main north-
ward migrating schools. Capt. J. W. Collins noticed unusual num-
bers of northward migrating humpbacks on May 17, 1877, south of
Newfoundland in latitude 44° 16’ north and longitude 58° 59’ west.
(Clark, 1887, p. 22.) Guldberg states that humpbacks are rarely en-
countered off Newfoundland in the months January to April, but
then they commence to appear. A humpback and its calf were taken
in Hermitage Bay, Newfoundland, in June, 1903. (Millais, 1906,
p. 238.) Humpbacks occur in the vicinity of Iceland in May and
June. It would seem that some of these humpbacks penetrate Davis
Strait and Baffin Bay off the Greenland coast (Brown, 1875, p. 84),
for they have been taken in Disco Bay in late summer and early
autumn, and that they then proceed southward in advance of the
drifting ice which issues from Baffin Bay. Large numbers of south-
ward migrating humpbacks were seen by Captain Larsen in Sep-
tember about 70 miles southeast of Cape Farewell. (Millais, 1906,
p. 235.) True (1904, p. 111) was informed that humpbacks arrive in
large numbers in the vicinity of Snooks Arm, Newfoundland, later
in the year than August, and from other sources we learn that they
pass Newfoundland on their southward run in late September and
October. Southward migration seems to be a gradual process at

MIGRATIONS OF WHALES—KELLOGG 475

present, with those that have ventured farthest north gradually re-
placing those that have been delayed or those that have pursued a
more leisurely journey. Humpbacks have been observed along the
New England coast, but well off shore, as late as October, and there
is at least one December record for Massachusetts. (Allen, 1916, p.
309.) We have little actual knowledge in regard to the remainder of
their southward trip, except that in former years numbers passed
through the Charleston whaling grounds.

Two annual movements of humpbacks in southern seas are de-
scribed by Collett (1912, p. 607) and Risting (1912). They point
out that the migration of humpbacks to and from South Georgia
each year takes place at definite seasons. Although humpbacks ap-
pear first off South Georgia in October, the largest herds arrive in
November, December, and January. (Hinton, 1925, p. 90.) Then
the humpbacks commence to leave and by the middle of May all have
vanished. From May to September they undertake extensive breed-
ing migrations toward the north along South American and South
African coasts to warmer oceanic regions near the Equator. Hump-
backs occur off the coast of Africa from 3° north latitude to 7° south
latitude from June to September. (Clark, 1887, p. 22.) At Sal-
danha Bay north of Cape Town humpbacks are most abundant at
the end of June and in October. Therefore it would seem that
these periods mark the height of the northward and southward mi-
grations, respectively. (Hinton, 1925, p. 190.) Humpbacks arrive
at Port Alexander, Benguela, early in June, and the majority have
passed by the middle of July. The northward run extends from
May until the end of July; the return journey extends from the
middle of August to the middle of November. The cold northward
flowing Benguela current on the west coast of Africa appears to
form the only path through the tropical seas to the Equator traversed
by these whales, and this cold polar current has an essentially lit-
toral course. Thus the humpbacks go northward for pairing and
giving birth to their young. The young are born near Cape Lopez,
French Equatorial Africa; the Bay of Biaffra off the Cameroons;
and elsewhere to the south off Portuguese West Africa. They again
appear off Benguela from August to October. Their return journey
is a feeding migration to the subpolar waters, where with the ap-
proach of the Antarctic spring in November a rich growth of plankton
makes its appearance, the result of a peculiar combination of light
and cold of the polar summer. The bulk of the southern hump-
backs, according to Collett, are present on the great feeding places
of the south polar sea during the summer months, December to
March. Humpbacks are distributed from Bransfield Strait south to
Matha Bay along the western coast of Graham Land, individuals
476 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

having been observed by Liouville (1913, pp. 3, 33-35) off Peter-
mann Island on November 7 and in Matha Bay on January 13, 1909.

Other schools of humpbacks follow the eastern coast of Africa
northward past Durban, Inhambane (Mozambique), Angoche Islands,
and the Island of Mauritius to the Indian Ocean, but humpbacks have
been taken as far north as the southern coast of Arabia and Baluchis-
tan. Females with young have been observed in the warm south-
ward-flowing Mozambique current as early as June and July in the
vicinity of Durban. The southward run to the Antarctic regions
commences in August, and the last humpbacks are seen off Linga
Linga, Inhambane, in October. (Hinton, 1925, p. 190.) They have
been taken off Durban as late as November. Some of these hump-
backs spend the Antarctic summer south of Crozet and Kerguelen
Islands, as there is little or no evidence to suggest that they form part
of the herds that congregate in the vicinity of South Georgia. It is
nevertheless true that whalers operating off Cape of Good Hope re-
ported seeing humpbacks on a westerly migration. (Hinton, 1925,
p. 189.) Humpback whales were seen near the edge of the pack
ice in the vicinity of 25° east longitude and 67° south latitude on
February 6, 1831, by Biscoe. (Racovitza, 1903, p. 119.)

A somewhat similar migration occurs along the eastern coast of
South America. This takes the humpbacks on their northward run
through the “Brazil Banks,” a favorite whaling ground about 1774,
to the tropical waters where the young are born. On the downward
run to the Falklands they seem to follow the southward-flowing
Brazil current.

From Scammon (1874, p. 43) we learn that he observed during
the years 1852 and 1853 that large numbers of humpbacks resorted to
the Gulf of Guayaquil, coast of Peru, to calve. The height of the
season was during July and August, after which the schools com-
menced their southward run along the cold northward-flowing Peru
current to the South Shetlands and the waters off Graham Land in
the Antarctics. Humpbacks formerly were taken all along the coast
of Ecuador and Colombia from Guayaquil to the Bay of Panama.
The season along Ecuador began in February, and the whaling
vessels worked southward until they reached the Gulf of Guayaquil
in June.

After spending the summer in the icy waters of the Ross Sea and
along the pack ice north of Victoria Land the first humpbacks of the
season pass the Bay of Islands, New Zealand, on their northward
run about the middle of April. (Lilhe, 1915, p. 110.) The bulk of
the herds pass this locality in May and in early June. They proceed
northward at least as far as the Kermadecs, the Friendly Islands, the
Fiji Islands, and the New Hebrides, and bring forth their young in
subtropical seas. Humpbacks with calves are found in the vicinity

MIGRATIONS OF WHALES—KELLOGG 477

of the Kermadecs from August to the end of November. (Oliver,
1922, p. 565.) The season on the reefs around the Friendly Islands
(174° W. long. and 21° §8. lat.) includes August and September.
(Scammon, 1874, p. 43.) Then the southward movement begins, and
they again occur after the middle of September in small numbers off
the Bay of Islands, but the majority pass in October and by the
middle of December they occur farther south. (Lillie, 1915, p. 110.)
During the Antarctic summer whaling operations for humpbacks are
carried on in the vicinity of Campbell Island. Ross (1847, p. 191)
reported seeing great numbers of humpback whales in Ross Sea
(172° 20’ E. long. and 71° 50’ S. lat.) on January 14, 1841, yet Lillie
states that humpbacks do not go farther south than the outskirts
of the pack ice.

On their northward run some of the herds of humpbacks pass near
Tasmania and along the western coast of Australia and journey as
far northward as the Rosemary Islands, 20° 380’ south latitude.
Others do not migrate so far north, and the cows have been known
to give birth to calves in Geographe Bay on the coast of southwest
Australia. Humpbacks are found along the western coast of Aus-
tralia from June to November and occasionally in December.
(Clark, 1887, pp. 22, 208.)

On the American side of the North Pacific numbers of humpback
whales with calves a few days old have been observed in December
in Banderas Bay, Jalisco, Mexico. (Scammon, 1874, p. 48.) In
May, 1855, Scammon (1874, p. 48) reported seeing large numbers
of humpbacks, some with large calves and others with smaller ones,
at Magdalena Bay, southern Lower California. The humpbacks
begin their northward run along the coasts of California in March
and April, and continue to work their way northward past Vancouver
in May and June, and the Baranoff Islands until as late as Septem-
ber. A young humpback and its mother were killed near Sechart,
Vancouver, on June 16, 1908. (Andrews, 1916, p. 73.) Some of
these schools feed in the vicinity of the Aleutian Islands in August
and September, while others pass through Bering Sea to Bering
Strait. Humpbacks have been taken in Bering Sea at least as late
as September 17. The northward migration is prolonged into mid-
summer by occasional stragglers, for small numbers are taken at
Eureka, Calif.,in June and July. They appear again along the Cal-
ifornia coasts in late fall on the down run, appearing off the Bay of
Monterey from October to November, but the largest numbers pass
southern California in the months of December, January, and Feb-
ruary. The cows and their calves usually keep well out to sea, but
the bulls come closer inshore.

Published data in regard to seasonal migrations of humpbacks
along the Pacific coast of Asia are very limited. Whalers formerly
478 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

hunted for humpbacks in the vicinity of the Marianne (or Ladrone)
Islands and the Marshall Islands during the winter months. We
learn from Andrews (1916, p. 77) that humpbacks were observed late
in January at the southern end of Formosa, and that others were
taken at Oshimi, Japan, in February (Andrews, 1916, p. 60). Dur-
ing the same month humpbacks were observed near Ulsan, Korea.
This indicates that some of the migrating whales pass through the
Japan Sea to Okhotsk Sea (Bolau, 1895, p. 18) and that others follow
the Pacific side of the Japanese Islands to the Kamchatka coast.

In reviewing what has been said it may be noted that the northern
herds pass the Arctic Circle to reach their feeding grounds, while
the bulk of the southern herds rarely pass the Antarctic Circle on
account of the pack ice.

BOWHEAD (BALAENA MYSTICETUS)

Bowheads are migratory animals and change their station accord-
ing to season. They approach the pole in the summer and appear in

oT

Ficure 3.—Bowhead or Greenland whale [Balaena mysticetus Linnaeus]. Outline

drawing. Notice the relatively great size of the head and the absence of throat
grooves

the winter near shores where they are never seen during the milder
seasons. Formerly their range extended from Spitzbergen westward
to eastern Siberia, but the Holland whalers exterminated the bow-
heads in the Spitzbergen area before 1800. Large numbers of spring
migrants coming from the southwest were observed by Dutch sailors
who wintered on the Island of Jan Mayen in 1633-34. The first bow-
heads were seen on March 27, and from then on they were observed
daily until the end of April. From Southwell (1898, p. 401) we
learn that the migrating bowheads reached Prince Charles Foreland,
Spitzbergen, by the middle of May and that they remained in the
vicinity until the end of June, when they disappeared for the season
in a northwesterly direction. After the middle of June they fre-
quented the seas from 72° to 75° north latitude and 138° west longi-
tude off the east coast of Greenland. During August and early in
September the southward migrating bowheads followed the shallow
water of the east coast of Greenland. Thus on the east side of Green-

MIGRATIONS OF WHALES——-KELLOGG 479

land bowheads were found as far north as the border of the perman-
ent polar pack ice, and in the winter they were found in the vicinity
of 65° north latitude.

From Eschricht (1866, p. 15) we learn that bowheads keep close
to the ice and remain with ice floes or near solid ice even during the
coldest part of the year. They rarely quit the ice edge, and as soon
as the ice is disrupted in the spring, they force their way north-
ward through the field ice. The preference of this whale for ice and
waters filled with ice floes seems to explain their absence in winter
from the ice-free sea south of Sukkertoppen. Bowheads have been
met with off the entrance to Hudson Strait and Resolution Island
in April, May, or even as late as the middle of June, and as the ice
retreats the old males enter Davis Strait on their northward journey
to Disco Bay.

The records of the West Greenland whaling stations indicate that
females and young were less numerous than males on the northward
run, although there were instances where females and young were
taken in May and July. This and other data led Southwell (1898,
p. 406) to conclude that the females and their young followed the
western border of the pack ice in Davis Strait. There seems to be
some connection between the wanderings of the bowhead and the
motion and drift of the ice in Baffin’s Bay. Their arrival on the
coast of Greenland is contemporaneous with the arrival of huge
masses of drifting ice issuing from Baffin Bay, locally known as
“west ice.” Some of those that have followed the west Greenland
coast are found as far north as Omenak Sound (71° N. lat.) in June.
When the land floes have broken up, they cross Baffin Bay to join
those that followed the western shore and wait for the breaking up
of the ice in Lancaster Sound some time in July. These bowheads
spread out over Prince Regent’s Inlet and the deep channels inter-
secting the Northern Archipelago where they spend the summer.
Brown (1875, p. 80) reports that “those killed early in the year at
Pond’s Bay are chiefly young animals.” Bowheads have also been
met with in the most northerly parts of Baffin Bay (75° te 78° N.
lat.) in July and August. Baffin saw many whales at Wolstenholme
Sound (78° N. lat.) at the entrance of Smith Sound in July, 1616, and
Ross in 1818 met with whales between 75° and 76° north latitude late
in July and on August 16.

When the ice begins to form in the fall, the bowheads commence
their southward migration and the males generally follow the west-
ern shore. (Southwell, 1898, p. 406.) Many of these bowheads have
been “running ” in Eclipse Sound and Pond’s Inlet from the end of
June to late in August, but they reach Home Bay and Cape Hooper
about the middle of September. (Brown, 1875, pp. 79, 80.) They
keep close to the ice and work southward to Cumberland Gulf, where
480 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928 |

they remain until the accumulated ice drives them farther south.
When bowheads were more numerous in the sixteenth and seventeenth
centuries, they apparently followed the ice down to the Strait of
Belle Isle and the St. Lawrence and remained there during the
winter months. (True, 1904, pp. 12, 48.) In more recent years the
southern lmit of their winter range seems to have been approxi-
mately 58° north latitude off Labrador.

On the west coast of Greenland bowheads appear annually, with
great regularity at definite seasons, and enter the larger sounds. The
ice conditions there are different from those on the opposite side of
the strait, and hence the seasonal occurrence of bowheads is somewhat
different. According to the records of the old Danish fishery the
bowheads on their southward migration make their appearance be-
tween Proven and Upernavik (72° and 73° N. lat.) late in September

BOWHEAD

FigurE 4.—Distribution map for the bowhead whale, with supposed migration routes
in north latitudes. Adapted from Southwell (1898)

or early in October and remain until December, when they depart.
They reach Disco Bay in December and some remain there until
June, while others proceed southward to Holsteinsborg and Sukker-
toppen. At Holsteinsborg the first bowheads appear during the last
days of November or early in December, and occasionally a few
remain as late as March. In severe winters bowheads were more
numerous than normally in the larger sounds and fjords at Sukker-
toppen during the months of December, January, and February.

It has been observed that the females and the young rarely m-
grate southward along the west side of Davis Strait in the autumn.
The evidence assembled by Southwell (1898, pp. 409, 410) would
seem to indicate that they follow a more westerly route than the
males, and that they reach their winter feeding grounds through
Hudson Strait. On August 15, 1829, Sir John Ross noticed many
immature whales off Bellot’s Strait at the upper end of the Gulf
MIGRATIONS OF WHALES—-KELLOGG 481

of Boothia. Markham observed bowheads heading along the inlet
into the Gulf of Boothia from which Fury-and-Hecla Strait would
be the only southern exit. Richardson observed bowheads in Fox
Channel near the shores of Melville Peninsula, in Frozen Strait,
and in Hudson Strait. During Parry’s stay off the coast of Melville
Peninsula bowheads were observed from August 5 to 28, but none
were observed going north earlier in the year. From these data
it is obvious that females and immature whales have been observed
migrating southward on an inside passage and that the sequence
of dates for the several intervening localities fits in very well with
the postulated route. It is also true that in former years bow-
heads were found in Hudson Bay, especially in the vicinity of
Southampton Island and near Cape Fullerton (64° N. lat. and
86° W. long.) in considerable numbers from July 15 to August 1.
(Clark, 1887, p. 18.) The Hudson’s Bay Co. at one time operated
a fishery on the coast of Eiwillick. It was the opinion of Dr.
Robert Brown (1875, p. 81) that the western herds of bowheads
were accustomed to pass the winter and bring forth their young
in March and April in the broken water off Labrador and Hudson
Strait.

I have been told by Mr. Charles D. Brower of Point Barrow,
Alaska, that in the fall of the year the bowheads pass at that point
on their southward run from September to November, depending
upon ice conditions, and that on the Siberian side of Bering Sea
they remain until November. Then the bowheads seem to journey
westward toward Wrangell Island, off the Siberian coast. These
bowheads spend the winter in drifting or field ice which joins the
open water of the Pacific coasts about the Kuril and Aleutian
islands. They occur in the vicinity of St. Paul’s Island, Bering
Sea, in October. (Scammon, 1874, p. 68.) As the ice breaks in the
spring of the year bowheads pass Cape Navarin (62° N. lat.) on
the Kamchatkan coast in the latter part of March and Cape Hope
on the Alaskan coast in April and May. Bolau (1895, p. 8) re-
marks that the North American whalers met with the first whales
near the ice at about 60° north latitude and that they were accus-
tomed to follow their prey near the shore along the retreating ice
edge. Earlier in the season many bowheads were found near Kara-
gin Island south of latitude 59° north on the coast of Kamchatka.
The region between St. Lawrence Island and East Cape was likewise
favorable for whaling. About the 1st of May bowheads were
found in the Gulf of Anadir, and when the ice broke up in Bering
Strait early in June they forced their way northward into Bering
Sea. Brower’s observations show that bowheads pass by Point
Barrow, Alaska, from April te June, and that they proceed eastward
to the mouth of the MacKenzie, to Bailey Island on Lady Franklin
482 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

Bay, and to Banks Land. They are known to be present off Point
Franklin until as late as August 15. Bolau (1895, p. 8) is the
authority for the statement that whalers sought bowheads as far
north as 72° north latitude, where, according to Pechuel Lésche,
they appeared to vanish beneath the ice. The young are born in
May, for the most part north of Bering strait.

GRAY WHALE (RHACHIANECTES GLAUCUS)

The gray whale is found only in the North Pacific. This whale
differs from other whalebone whales in that it has a habit of coming
close inshore among the rocks and beds of kelp, and it has been ob-

GRAY WHALE

PS ASIA SES ‘ 1
i (oxsorsx ef BERING SEA y |
e |

SEA Ve
a Wy,
1 oon =o. J
fees WW v ALEUTIAN \S-
!

* HAWAIIAN IS,
MARIANNE 13. a
= MARSHALL IS.
ee

Ficurn 5.—-Distribution map for the gray whale, with supposed migration routes in
the North Pacific

served wallowing in surf which broke among the rocks. It makes
regular migrations from hot latitudes to beyond the Arctic Circle.
Along the western coast of North America, according to Scam-
mon (1874, p. 22), the gray whale does not migrate farther south
than 20° north latitude, that is, about the latitude of the State of
Jalisco in Mexico. The females enter the lagoons of the lower coast
of Lower California and bring forth their young in the interval be-
tween December and March. By April the gray whales have passed
Monterey on their northward run. On their northward journey
they follow the coast, passing Vancouver and the Queen Charlotte
Islands, and finally arrive in the ice-filled waters of the Arctic Ocean.
During the summer months they congregate in the Bering Sea and

MIGRATIONS OF WHALES—KELLOGG 483

farther northward in the Arctic Ocean, where they force their way
through the field of ice and scattered floes. In October and Novem-
ber they again appear off the coast of Oregon and California on
their southward migration to their tropical winter haunts. In
1851, according to Scammon (1874, p. 23), it was estimated that 1,000
whales passed the shore stations of southern California daily be-
tween December 15 and February 1 on their downward run. To-day
they are well-nigh exterminated along the North American coast.

Records obtained from the Vega whaling expedition operating at
Magdalena Bay, Lower California, during the years 1924 to 1926
show that the gray whales do not arrive until about December 28.
The southward migration reached its height about January 22 and
ended about February 16. This expedition left Magdalena Bay on
April 7 and did not meet with the northward migrating schools. The
Vega expedition, however, resumed their operations at Nathalia Bay,
Kamchatka, and from July 27 to August 22 noted gray whales in
considerable numbers. (Risting, 1928, pp. 80-89.)

Toward the end of November, according to Andrews (1914, p.
235), gray whales appear at Ulsan, in southeastern Korea, on their
southward migration. Pregnant females arrive first and they are
followed by the males. By the end of January all the females have
passed. The young are born in the bays among the numerous small
islands at the extreme southern end of the Korean Peninsula.

On the northward migration they again appear at Ulsan (40
miles north of Fusan) in southeastern Korea, about the middle of
March, and by the middle of May all have passed by. Gray whales
are also found during this period at Broughton Bay on the coast
of Korea, and they migrate past the east coast of Sakhalin Island.
(Tago, 1922.) These herds pass the summer in the Okhotsk Sea.

BLUE WHALE (SIBBALDUS MUSCULUS)

Blue whales spend a large portion of each year in migration, but
rarely gather in large schools. In the North Atlantic they move in
early spring from the waters off the banks east of Newfoundland
in a northeasterly direction to the Arctic Ocean, where according to
Collett (1912, p. 586) they spend the summer. The return migra-
tion occurs in the autumn.

Blue whales seem to be partial to cold water and to avoid the
tropics. In southern latitudes they approach the borders of the
pack ice and traverse the cold northward-flowing currents. Off the
North American coast they frequent the ice-chilled Nova Scotian
current and the icy water that flows from the St. Lawrence as well
as that which owes its origin to the Labrador current, but blue
whales have been stranded as far south as Ocean City, N. J., and
it is possible, as Allen (1916, p. 255) remarks, that they may follow
484 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

the cooler inshore waters as far south as the Carolina coast. Not-
withstanding the fact that blue whales have commonly been held to
be ice-loving animals, an exceptionally large individual entered the
harbor at Cristobal, the northern entrance to the Panama Canal, in
January, 1922. (Harmer, 1923, p. 1085.) The stranding of a large
blue whale in December, 1916, on the south coast of the Preanger
Regencies, Java, is recorded by Reuter (1919). An 84-foot whale
which was washed ashore on Amherst Island, a small island south
of Ramri Island, off Burma, during the last rains of 1851 may have
been a blue whale, although it has been named Balaenoptera indica.
These occurrences would seem to indicate that the tropical seas
are traversed from time to time by blue whales, and that there may
be an occasional intermingling of the northern and the southern
herds.

Blue whales are rare visitants to the New England coastal wa-
ters, but as early as February they have been observed migrating
eastward off the coast of Newfoundland, and in late March or April
they pass Iceland. On March 1, 1903, Captain Nilson (Millais, 1906,

Ficurp 6.—Blue whale [Sibbalduws musculus (Linnaeus)]. Outline drawing. Notice
the short fore flipper and the narrowly spaced throat grooves

p. 253) saw over 200 at intervals between Banquereau and St. Pierre
Bank off Newfoundland. Blue whales are fairly common in March
off Newfoundland and occur also in the Gulf of St. Lawrence after
the ice goes out. From June to mid-August they follow the “ kril,”
but a few return in late August, and small numbers stay until Novem-
ber. From March to November blue whales are found off the west
coast of Greenland, generally south of the Arctic Circle.

In March and April at Faroe blue whales are observed coming
from the southwest on their northward run. (Thompson, 1918, p.
234.) Other migrating blue whales pass the west coast of Ireland
and the Hebrides in May and June. The records for the Scottish
stations show that June to October is the main season for blue whales
(Thompson, 1918, p. 232), but Haldane (1908, p. 69) remarks that
they seem to be more common off Faroe, Iceland, and Finmark than
they are off Scotland. The accumulated records indicate that blue
whales are most abundant in the vicinity of the British whaling sta-
tions from June to September; for Iceland, June and July; and for
Finmark, from June to August. (Harmer, 1927, p.66.) Off Iceland
at the beginning of the season in June blue whales are seen coming up

|
;
|
|
|
i
MIGRATIONS OF WHALES—KELLOGG 485

trom the westward, and they move past toward the east. (Thomp-
son, 1918, p. 233.) The records of the whaling stations show that
the blue whales appear in the cold water off the Finmark coast from
May toJune. Varangerfjord was a favorite resort in the summer as
late as 1880. Here blue whales rarely made their appearance as early
as May, but generally about the middle of June, and they left by the
middle of September. (Southwell, 1905, p. 414.) Thus during the
summer months, June, July, and August, they are found in the Arctic
Ocean and the North Sea off the coasts of Greenland, Iceland, Spitz-
bergen, Bear Island, and Finmark, and thence along the whole Mur-
man coast to Nova Zemlya and the White Sea. Their departure from
northern regions in the autumn seems to be correlated with the fall-
ing off of their food supply and not with a lowering of the surface
temperature.

In autumn, particularly in August or early September, they mi-
grate from the eastern Arctic Ocean toward the west and south in
the open sea between Iceland and Faroe and at this season are found
along the western coasts of the Hebrides and Ireland. In October
and November migrating blue whales appear off the coast of New-
foundland. It is believed that they pass the winter in the open seas
between the eastern coast of North America and the Azores.

Very little is known in regard to the migration of blue whales in
the South Atlantic. They are known to occur in fairly large num-
bers in the open seas west of South Georgia during the month of
December and are present in the vicinity of South Shetland in Feb-
ruary and March. As early as December 30, 1892, blue whales were
seen in the vicinity of Erebus and Terror Gulf, Graham Land.
(Bruce, 1915, p. 494.) Blue whales were observed on December 31,
1909, in Bransfield Strait and they had advanced as far south as the
Bay of Matha by January 14. (Liouville, 1913, pp. 4, 338-35.) On
January 19, 1910, blue whales were noted as far south as 108° 17’
west longitude and 69° 15’ south latitude. Again on February 24,
1898, Racovitza (1903, p. 46) reported seeing a blue whale in the
open sea at 81° 31’ west longitude and 69° 31’ south latitude.

No records for blue whales off the coast of equatorial Africa were
found, but Mérch (1911, p. 664) states that they are found near the
west coast of Africa in the summer. Great numbers of blue whales
have been observed off Saldanha Bay, Southwest Africa, in July,
and a female with a newborn calf was taken on September 14, 1912
(Hinton, 1925, p. 192). The records of the whaling station at Sal-
danha Bay show that blue whales were taken from May 21 to Oc-
tober 10 in 1910.

At South Georgia some blue whales remain in the vicinity through-
out the Antarctic winter. According to Risting (1928, pp. 21-22)

24034—29——_32
486 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

blue whales are more numerous than finbacks at the beginning of
the whaling season in October. The arrival of blue whales seems
to fluctuate from year to year, possibly owing to conditions prevail-
ing along migration routes, for Risting found that the influx cul-
minated in December in three of the years for which statistics were
available, in January during another year, and in February during
the fifth year. Again in 1925-26 large numbers of blue whales ap-
peared in March.

Blue whales arrive before the finbacks at glia! Shetlands. In
October and November off the South Shetlands the blue whales
follow the retreating ice edge southward and enter Bransfield Strait
as soon as conditions permit. Here the southward migration reaches
its greatest maximum from December 20 to January 15, after which
the blue whales force their way southward along Graham Land
into waters with more abundant ice. With the approach of Ant-
arctic winter, ice forms rapidly in the straits and sounds, and it
is then that the whales retire from their feeding grounds and trek
northward toward more temperate waters. (Risting, 1928, pp.
29-93).

The periodical appearance of blue whales on the west coast of
Africa corresponds to the season when they are less numerous in the
Antarctic. They appear off the southernmost point of Africa as
early as April, where they are taken by whalers operating out of
Saldanha Bay. Proceeding northward they pass Walfisch Bay
sometime in May, and farther northward along the Angola coast
they are most numerous in July, August, and September. On their
southward run they again appear off Saldanha Bay in August, Sep-
tember, and October, although blue whales are taken at that station
from April until December. (Risting, 1928, pp. 23-26.)

Captain Bryde observed what he thought was a blue whale south
of Abrolhos Bank, north of Rio, Brazil, in about 22° south latitude
(Hinton, 1925, p. 68), and they are reported to be present during the
summer off the coast of Chile.

In referring to the rarity of records for blue whales in New Zea-
land waters, Oliver (1922, p. 562) remarks that they are exceedingly
abundant in the Antarctic Ocean. Blue whales were observed on
December 5 at 169° 18’ east longitude and 63° 3’ south latitude, and
again on February 10 at 164° 38’ east longitude and 63° 22’ south
latitude by Bull (1896, pp. 130, 202). This explorer (1896, p. 161)
saw numerous blue whales south of the Antarctic Circle on January
18, 1895, in the vicinity of 177° east longitude and 68° south latitude.
Wilson reported seeing many blue whales on March 4, 1904, off the
Balleny Archipelago, 156° 20’ east longitude and 67° 30’ south lati-
tude. (Liouville, 1913, p. 36.) The Terra Nova expedition also met
with blue whales in die Ross Sea in January and February. (Lillie,

MIGRATIONS OF WHALES—KELLOGG 487

1915, p. 115.) On February 1, 1911, blue whales were sighted at
166° 17’ west longitude and 78° 38’ south latitude. In March they
were seen near 67° south latitude and 161° east longitude. Thus it
is evident that blue whales frequent the pack ice and the ice-chilled
. seas in the latitude of Victoria Land and Wilkes Land south of New
Zealand during the Antarctic summer and that their northward
migration, if such occurs, does not closely approach the New Zealand
coastal waters. Waite has recorded occurrences of blue whales in
Spencer Gulf and Corvisart Bay on the coast of South Australia.

The taking of blue whales in San Bartolome Bay and near Asun-
cion Island, Lower Calif., between latitudes 27° and 28° north are
reported by Scammon (1874, p. 72). The same writer refers to the
presence of large numbers of these whales off San Quentin and off
Cedros Island, Lower Calif., in July. On July 17, 1928, several blue
whales were sighted by W. L. Cruickshank, captain of the British
tanker Z’rinculo, in the Pacific Ocean off Nicaragua at 11° 32’ north
latitude and 91° 58’ west longitude. The records of the whaling
stations on the Pacific coast indicate that blue whales occur at all
seasons off the coast of California. From May to September blue
whales are found close to the shore, where low surface temperatures
result from the upwelling of cold bottom water with the prevailing
offshore winds. In recent years blue whales have been infrequent
visitants along the California coast, for not more than five were
taken at Moss Landing from January 16, 1919, to May 3, 1922. An
80-foot blue whale was harpooned off southern California in the
vicinity of San Clemente Island on July 15, 1927. They occur more
frequently off Vancouver Island, for three were taken at Rose Harbor
and seven at Haden Harbor in 1927. They first appear off Kyuquot,
Vancouver, in March. (Andrews, 1916, p. 24.)

Blue whales are most abundant off the coasts of Japan during the
winter and are infrequently killed during the summer. (Andrews,
1916, p. 327.)

FINBACK (BALAENOPTERA PHYSALUS)

The migration routes of finbacks are not so well known as those
of humpbacks, and the observed facts of gestation indicate that their
journeys do not have any especial connection with their breeding
habits. Their diet is subject to seasonal change and includes herring,
capelan, and at times plankton. Climate seemingly has little in-
fluence in curtailing their wanderings, for finbacks appear to be in-
different alike to Tropic and Arctic temperatures, and travel where
they will.

Finbacks are distributed over the North Atlantic according to
season from Spitzbergen and Greenland southward to the Azores.
Although they are much swifter swimmers than the humpbacks,
they go to and from the same northern oceanic regions. On the
488 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

northward migration large numbers of finbacks have appeared in
the Gulf of Maine early in March. (Clark, 1887, p. 230.) Other
good-sized schools have been observed in May and June. Finbacks
approach the south coast of Newfoundland as early as June. Off
the northern coast of Newfoundland and Labrador they appear in
mid-July and are most numerous in August. An unusual abundance
of finbacks was noted on the Grand Banks near Newfoundland on
July 18,1885. (True, 1904, p. 65.) They are common summer visi-
tors to Davis Strait and the cod banks off the west coast of Green-
land. (Brown, 1875, p. 83.) Finbacks have been observed near Ice-
land as early as March, but most of them are taken along the Green-
land ice in July and August. (Southwell, 1905, p. 408.) They become
Jess numerous toward autumn. We are told by Hinton (1925, p.
128) that almost all of the whales passing the west coast of Ireland
(Belmullet) in May appear to be moving in a northeasterly direc-
tion. From June to September finbacks follow the “ Kril” off
Rona’s Voe and then disappear in a southwesterly direction. (Mil-
lais, 1906, p. 247.) Finbacks seem to occur at all seasons on the coast
of Norway in mild winters, and strandings on the British coast
have been reported from January to December. (Harmer, 1927, p.
64.) They follow the herring shoals in the winter along the west
coast of Norway and the capelan in their visit to the Finmark coast
in the spring. (Hinton, 1925, p. 127.) During the summer months
large numbers of finbacks congregate in the vicinity of Spitzbergen
and Bear Island. Pairing has been observed on the Murman coast
during May and in the vicinity of Finmark from January to March.
(Hinton, 1925, pp. 118, 119.)

Thousands of finbacks have been observed near the close of the
whaling season between Iceland and Faroe according to Haldane
(1907, p. 11). Toward September finbacks pass Ireland in a south-
westerly direction and they have been observed heading south in the
Bay of Biscay in October. They are also known to occur in the
vicinity of the Azores and in the Mediterranean Sea. Southwell
(1905, p. 411) is the authority for the statement that the finbacks
leave the Newfoundland coast in October, and yet Millais (1906, p.
247) was informed by whalers that numbers of humpback, finback,
and blue whales winter among the field ice on the Grand Banks off
Newfoundland. It would seem that the summer feeding grounds of
some of the finback and blue-whale herds may be occupied during the
winter months by those that have spent the summer in the far north.

As regards the South Atlantic, Morch (1911, p. 665) states that
great numbers of finbacks congregate in the waters along the Brazil
coast between south latitudes 12° and 18° every year during the
period from May to November. They occur in the vicinity of South
Georgia from November 15 to as late as the last week in May.

Co  -  e
ray

soyouy 2 100] 09

6 ALW1d

‘

q43u0'T]

“66

ST

OT ysnsny UO ‘puL[puNoJMON ‘Avg omreg OJON ‘UO1WeIg WIV SYOOUS 4B “OD Burley M UIeIAg Joqey Aq UoyYRY,

(CNNI7]) SNIWSAHd VYALdONAVIVG) MOVENI4 SIVWS4

8S0\|94—'8Z6L ‘Wodey ueBlUuosYy}IWS
MIGRATIONS OF WHALES—KELLOGG 489

Finbacks were observed by Morch (1911, p. 667) off South Shetland
in February and March. Risting’s tables (1928, pp. 22-23) show that
finbacks are taken off South Shetlands from November until May.
The largest numbers are taken during January, February, and March.
In 1921 the Norwegian companies alone took 862 in January, 964 in
February, and 399 in March. The records show that 361 were taken
in April, 1925. According to Liouville (1918, pp. 4, 44-45)
finbacks were first seen on December 31, 1909, in Bransfield Strait,
and on January 24 others were observed off the southern end of Ade-
laide Island. From January 16 to 18, 1909, finbacks were reported
as far west as 108° 07’ west longitude and 69° 15’ south latitude.
Great numbers of finners were seen on December 16, 1892, at 51° O1’
west longitude and 59° 24’ south latitude by Bruce, while on board
the Balaena and during this vessel’s stay in the vicinity of the Erebus
and Terror Gulf, Graham Land, finners were seen from January 4
to February 7, 1893. (Bruce, 18938, pp. 493-494.) Numbers of fin-
backs have been reported to occur in the vicinity of South Georgia
during the Antarctic winter, but numerically they are far below the
normal summer abundance on these feeding grounds. These observa-
tions tend to substantiate migration at more or less regular intervals
to other fields. (Risting, 1928, p. 20.)

For some inexplicable reason the finbacks appear to approach the
western coast of South Africa from the north, and they are to be
found moving southward off Saldanha Bay from March to June, al-
though they are present in lesser numbers all the year round. (Hin-
ton, 1925, p. 192.) As with the blue whales, finbacks are taken off
Saldanha Bay on the west coast of Africa as early as April, but the
whaling statistics indicate that they are most numerous in May, June,
and July. Curiously enough the statistics for Walfisch Bay and for
the Angola coast indicate that the bulk of the finbacks do not go as
far north as the blue whales, for comparatively few individuals are
taken at these stations. Judging from the catch during the seasons
1919 to 1925, finbacks are least abundant off Saldanha Bay in August
and from then on increase in numbers until about the middle of
November. (Risting, 1928, pp. 23-26.) On the east coast of Africa
finbacks are said to be scarce, and yet in the years 1923 to 1927 more
than one-fourth of all the whales caught off Natal were finbacks.

Finbacks are known to occur off the coasts of Peru and Ecuador,
but there is little detailed information in regard to their seasonal
abundance along the western coast of South America.

Oliver (1922, p. 562) states that finbacks are occasionally cast
ashore on the New Zealand coast and mentions one stranded at Port
Underwood on June 10, 1874. A list of the reported occurrences of
whales, mostly unidentified as to species, for the Ross and Victoria

quadrants of the Antarctic seas are tabulated by Racovitza (1903,
490 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

pp. 114-117), but no records for finbacks are included. Neverthe-
less, Bull (1896, p. 112) reports seeing many finners in the vicinity of
the Royal Company Islands on October 20, 1894, and again at 164° 08’
east longitude and 64° 18’ south latitude on February 9, 1895 (p. 202).
Then, too, Wilson on March 4, 1904, observed finbacks off the Balleny
Archipelago, 156° 20’ east longitude and 67° 30’ south latitude.
(Liouville, 1918, p. 86.) Lillie (1915, p. 116) reports that finbacks
are very scarce in the Ross Sea and that “it is evidently not fond
of ice-covered seas.” He states that a finback was taken in October,
1912, off the Kermadec Islands. _ - '

In the North Pacific finbacks follow the coast on their northward
run from Lower California to the Bering Sea. They appear off
Kyuquot, Vancouver, as early as March. They have been taken in
Frederick Sound off the southern end of Admiralty Island in August,
and large numbers were observed off the south coast of Kadiak by
True on September 3, 1895. Individuals are commonly taken off
the California and Oregon coasts in May, June, July, and August.
On the western side of the Pacific finbacks are taken off Aikawa,
Japan, in May and June (Andrews, 1916, p. 820), but they are most
abundant during the winter months.

SEI WHALE (BALAENOPTERA BOREALIS)

Sei whales have a roving disposition and occur sporadically in
large numbers from time to time at widely separated localities.
Great numbers were observed east of North Cape, Finmark, in 1885
and again in 1898. In the year 1885 they first appeared about the
middle of May, but the bulk of them came early in July. At this
time they were observed from the Tromsé coast to Varangerfjord,
and also aléng the Murman coast. (Collett, 1886, p. 260.), The
last of them were seen on September 8. A similar invasion (Hal-
dane, 1907, p. 12) occurred in 1906 off the coast of Scotland and
Shetland. Unusual numbers appeared in the vicinity of South
Georgia in February, 1914 (Hinton, 1925, p. 173). Millais (1906,
p- 277) was informed by Captain Nilsen that sei whales made their
appearance in August and September on the south coast of New-
foundland and that large numbers were observed in Placentia Bay
in August, 1903. Sei whales have been taken along the eastern
coast of North America from Florida to Labrador, East Iceland,
Europe, Africa, the Falklands, South Shetland Islands, Chil, Java,
the Island of Solor in the Timor Archipelago, Japan, and on the
west coast of North America.

In the North Atlantic, sei whales pass South Innishkea Islands,
West Ireland, from the last half of May to the middle of June, and
are also found along the coasts of Scotland and Shetland between
the middle of June and the middle of July. In traveling northward

MIGRATIONS OF WHALES—KELLOGG 491

past the Shetlands, they are in the warm Gulf Stream which sweeps
in past North Cape, Finmark, where they first meet the Arctic cur-
rent. From here they spread out along the Finmark coast, though
some also visit the Arctic Ocean between Spitzbergen and Nova
Zemlya in the summer. There are stranding records for France,
Holland, and Germany. Sei whales have been reported to occur
as far south as Cape Blanco, Africa. (Andrews, 1916, p. 312.)
This whale has been known to strand on the Florida coast in May
and on the Virginia coast in March. There is an August record
for Chatham Island, Mass.

Sei whales appear off Port Alexander, Benguela, about the middle
of June and disappear in September and October. (Olsen, 1913,
p. 1083.) Their visit to the Falkland Islands includes most of the
months of February and March. Capt. H. G. Melson wrote Andrews
(1916, p. 319) that he had passed thousands of sei whales between the
Falklands and 20° south latitude off Cape Frio, Brazil.

Sei whales were reported to have been seen (Liouville, 1913, p.
110) off the Bay of Matha, in Bransfield Strait, and abreast the South
Shetlands. Liouville also credits Amundsen with the discovery of
this species in the Bay of Balens close by the great barrier of the
Ross Glacier and believes that the sei whale approaches closer to the
South Pole than any other whale. There is a strong possibility that
the piked whale may have been confused with this species.

Morch (1911, p. 665) records the occurrence of sei whales off the
coast of Chili. The Terra Nova Expedition met with sei whales dur-
_ ing the month of October, 1910, along the northern limit of the drift
ice south of Australia from 111° 18’ east longitude to 160° 3’ east
longitude (Lillie, 1915, p. 117), but none was observed in the Antarc-
tics. A young female was taken off the Bay of Islands, New Zealand,
in the winter.

We have very little definite information in regard to their seasonal
occurrence along the western coast of North America. Sei whales
have been taken in the vicinity of Vancouver Island and one was
taken at Moss Landing, Calif.

In the North Pacific it would seem that some of the sei whales pass
the winter in the waters off the Indian Archipelago, for they occur in
the vicinity of the Island of Solor in May. Leaving the southern
islands of Japan, they work their way northward from April onward.
June and July are the months when they occur in the greatest abun-
dance along the eastern Japanese coast, but they rarely occur in the
Japan Sea. (Andrews, 1916, p. 321.) In the North Pacific off
Aikawa, Japan (approximately 40° north latitude), the sei whales
came in early June and left before the 1st of September.

Since Aikawa, Japan, is fully 2,000 miles south of North Cape,
Finmark, their northward migrations in the Pacific and Atlantic
492 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

Oceans may have some relation to favorable conditions for the propa-
gation of plankton resulting from the flooding of warmer oceanic
drifts with icy Arctic water. An Arctic current extends southward
past Kamchatka, the Kuril Islands, and Hondo, the largest of the
Japanese islands, to some distance south of Aikawa, while along
the main islands of Japan south of Tokyo runs the warm “ Kuro
Shiro” or black current. (Andrews, 1916, p. 321.) The northward
migrating sei whales meet the northern Arctic current at 40° north
latitude off the Japan coast and at 70° north latitude off the Finmark
coast.

Some of the sei whales which visit the northern coasts of Japan
during the summer months spend the winter near Oshima and Niki-
shima in southern Japan in comparatively warm waters, while others
proceed farther southward. One was stranded on the coast of Java
in October.

The foregoing summary is rather brief and no attempt has been
made to go into the subject in any great detail. It is believed that
the available data indicates seasonal migrations and that the tabula-
tion of the logs of whaling vessels would greatly increase our knowl-
edge of the movements of these pelagic mammals.

LITERATURE CITED

ALLEN, GLOVER M., 1916. The Whalebone Whales of New England. Mem. Bos-
ton Soe. Nat. Hist., vol. 8, No. 2, pp. 107-322, figs. 12, pls. 8-16. September,
1916.

ANDREWS, Roy C., 1914. The California Gray Whale (Rhachianectes glaucus
Cope). Mem. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., n. s., vol. 1, pt. 5, pp. 229-287, figs. 22,
pls. 19-27.

ANDREWS, Roy C., 1916. Whale Hunting with Gun and Camera. D. Appleton
& Co., New York—London, pp. XXII+883, with illus.

AnprEws, Roy C., 1916. The Sei Whale (Balenoptera borealis Lesson). Mem.
Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., n. s., vol. 1, pt. 6, pp. 289-388, figs. 38, pls. 29-42.
BicELtow, Henry B., 1926. Plankton of the Offshore Waters of the Gulf of

Maine. Bull. Bur. Fisheries, Washington, vol. 40, Doc. 968, pp. 1-509, figs 134.

BicELow, Henry B., 1927. Physical Oceanography of the Gulf of Maine. Bull.

Bur. Fisheries, Washington, vol. 40, Doc. 969, pp. 511-1027, figs. 207.

Botau, Hernricu, 1895. Die Geographische Verbreitung der wichtigsten Wale
des Stillen Ozeans. Abhandl. aus d. Gebiete der Naturwiss., Hamburg, vol.
13, pp. 1-22, with folding map.

Brown, Rosert, 1875. On the History and Geographical Relations of the
Cetacea Frequenting Davis Strait and Baffin Bay. In T. R. Jones [editor].
Manual of the Natural History, Geology, and Physics of Greenland and the
Neighbouring Regions. London, pp. 69-93.

Bruce, W. S., 1915. Some Observations on Antarctic Cetacea. Report on the
Scientific Results of the Voyage of S. Y. Scotia. Scottish National Antarctic
Expedition, Edinburgh, vol. 4, Zoology, pp. 491-505, pls. 2.

Butt, H. J., 1896. The Cruise of the Antarctic to the South Polar Regions.
Arnold: London, p. 248, with illus.
MIGRATIONS OF WHALES—KELLOGG 493

CrarK, A. Howarp, 1887. The Whale Fishery. The Fisheries and Fishery
Industries of the United States, sec. 5, History and Methods of the Fisheries,
vol. 2, pp. 8-218, pls. 183-213.

CoLLeTT, Rozert, 1877. Bemerkninger til Norges Pattedyrfauna. Nyt Magazin
for Naturvidenskaberne, vol. 22, pp. 54-168.

Cottert, Rogert, 1886. On the External Characters of Rudolphi’s Rorqual
(Balenoptera borealis). Proc. Zool. Soc. London, No. 17, pp. 243-265, figs.
A-G, pls. 25-26.

Cottert, Ropert, 1912. Norges Pattedyr, Kristiania, pp. x+744, with illus.

CorNwatt, Ira I., 1928. Collecting at Cachalot Whaling Station. Canadian
Field Naturalist, vol. 42, No. 1, pp. 9-12. January, 1928.

Escuricut, D. F., and J. REINHARDT, 1866. On the Greenland Right Whale
(Balena mysticetus Linn.) with Especial Reference to Its Geographical Dis-
tribution and Migrations in Times past and Present, and to Its External
and Internal Characteristics. Ray Soc., London, for 1866, pp. 1-150, figs.,
pls. 6.

FiLower, G. H. [editor], 1912. Science of the Sea. London: John Murray, pp.
XVIII+452, with illus.

HALpANE, R. G., 1905. Notes on Whaling in Shetland, 1904. Annals Scottish
Nat. Hist., Edinburgh, No. 54, pp. 65-72, fig. 1, pl. 1. April, 1905.

HaA.paANngE, R. C., 1907. Whaling in Scotland. Annals Scottish Nat. Hist., Edin-
burgh, No. 61, pp. 10-15, pl. 1. January, 1907.

HaLpange, R. C., 1908. Whaling in Scotland for 1907. Annals Scottish Nat.
Hist., Edinburgh, No. 66, pp. 65-72, April, 1908.

Harpy, A. C., 1928. Whaling Research. Nature, London, vol. 121, No. 3054, p.
471. May 12, 1928.

HarMer, S. F., 1923. Cervical Vertebre of a Gigantic Blue Whale from
Panama. Proc. Zool. Soc. London, pp. 1085-1089.

Harmer, S. F., 1927. Report on Cetacea Stranded on the British Coasts from
1913 to 1926. Publ. No. 10, British Museum (Natural History), pp. 91, text
figs. 42, maps 7. February 26, 1927.

Hinton, Martin A. C., 1925. Reports Left by the Late Maj. G. HE. H. Barrett-
Hamilton Relating to the Whales of South Georgia. London, pp. 56-210,
with 1 table.

JENKINS, J. T., 1921. A Textbook of Oceanography. London: Constable & Co.,
Ltd., pp. x +206, with illus.

Kemp, STANLEY, 1928. The Discovery Expedition. Nat. Hist. Mag., London, No.
6, pp. 183-197, figs. 2-9. April, 1928.

LILLIn, D. G., 1915. Cetacea. British Antarctic (‘Terra Nova’) Expedition,
1910. Natural History Report, Zoology, vol. 1, No. 3, pp. 85-124, pls. 8.

LittsErorG, W., 1866. Synopsis of the Cetaceous Mammalia of Scandinavia
(Sweden and Norway). Ray Soc., London, for year 1866, pp. 219-309, figs.

LINDEMAN, Moritz, 1880. Die Seefischereien, ihre Gebiete, Betrieb and Ertrige
in den Jahren, 1869-1878. Dr. A. Petermann’s Mittheilungen aus Justus
Perthes Geographischer Anstalt, Gotha, Ergiinzungsheft Nr. 80, pp. VI-+1-95,
maps.

LIOUVILLE, J., 1918. Cétacés de l’Antarctique. Deuxiéme Expédition Anarctique
Francaise (1908-1910), Paris, pp. VI+276, pls. 15.

Miuars, J. G., 1906. The Mammals of Great Britain and Ireland. London,
vol. 3, pp. XII+384, illus.
494 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

Morcu, J. A., 1911. On the Natural History of Whalebone Whales. Proc. Zool.
Soe. London, pp. 661-670, figs. 160-163.

OLivER, W. R. B., 1922. A Review of the Cetacea of the New Zealand Seas.
Proc. Zool. Soe. London, pp. 557-585, pls. 4. September, 1922.

OLSEN, MRIAN, 1913. On the External Characters and Biology of Bryde’s
Whale (Balenoptera brydei), a New Rorqual from the Coast of South Africa.
Proe. Zool. Soe. London, pp. 1073-1090, pls. 109-113, December, 1913.

Racovirza, E. G., 1903, Cétacés. Resultats du Voyage du S. Y. Belgica en
1897-1898-1899, Anvers, Zoologie, pp. 142, pls. 4.

Reuter, W., 1919. An account of a Finback-Whale (Balenoptera spec.)
which was Washed Ashore on the South-Coast of the Preanger Regencies in
December 1916. Treubia, vol. 1, Livr. 3, pp. 1-1-88, pls. 1-20, December,
1919.

Ristina, SicurD, 1912. Knolhvalen. Norsk Fiskeritidende, Bergen, November,
11 Hefte, pp. 437-449, figs. 5.

Ristine, Sraurp, 1928. Whales and Whale Foetuses. Statistics of Catch and
Measurements Collected from the Norwegian Whalers’ Association 1922-1925.
Rapports et Procés-Verbaux des Réunions, Conseil Permanent International
pour lVexploration de la Mer, Copenhagen, vol. 50, pp. 1-122. December, 1928.

Ross, JAMES CLARK, 1847. A Voyage of Discovery and Research in the
Southern and Antarctic Regions During the Years 1889-48. Murray: Lon-
don, vol. 1, pp. LII-+366, illus.

Scammon, C. M., 1874. The Marine Mammals of the Northwestern Coast of
North America, Described and Illustrated; Together with an Account of
the American Whale Fishery. San Francisco and New York, pp. V+3819,
pls. 27.

Sars, G. O., 1875. Om “Blaahvalen” med Bemaerkninger om nogle andre
ved Finmarkens Kyster forekommende Havdyr. Forh. Vid. Selsk. Christiania
(1874), pp. 227-241.

SouTHWELL, THomas, 1898. The Migration of the Right Whale (Balena
muysticetus). Natural Science, vol. 12, No. 76, pp. 897-414, with 2 maps.
June, 1898.

SOUTHWELL, THoMAS, 1905. Some Results of the North-Atlantic Finwhale
Fishery. Ann. & Mag. Nat. Hist. London (7), vol. 16, pp. 403-421. October,
1905.

THompson, D’ARCY WENTWoRTH, 1918. On Whales Landed at the Scottish
Whaling Stations, Especially During the years 1908-1914. The Scottish
Naturalist, Edinburgh, No. 81, pp. 197-208; No. 82, pp. 221-230; No. 82,
pp. 230-2387.

TOWNSEND, CHARLES H., 1887. Present Condition of the California Gray
Whale Fishery. Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., vol. 6, pp. 346-350, pls. 6-7.

TRUE, FREDERICK W., 1904. The Whalebone Whales of the North Atlantic,
Compared with Those Occurring in European Waters, with Some Observa-

tions on the Species of the North Pacific. Smithsonian Contr. Knowl., vol.
33, No. 1414, pp. 1-331, figs. 97, pls. 50. June, 1904.
ECOLOGY OF THE RED SQUIRREL’

By A. Brooker KLUGH

Queen’s University, Kingston, Ontario

[With five plates]
INTRODUCTION

The red squirrel (Sctwrus hudsonicus and subspecies) is one of the
commonest and most generally known mammals over a large part
of North America. Under the name “ Adjidomo” it has figured in
Ojibwa and Cree myths and in Longfellow’s “ Hiawatha,” and by the
name of chickaree, common squirrel, barking squirrel, red squirrel,
and l’ecureil rouge, it has been cited in early accounts of the country.

The present paper is the result of eight years’ somewhat intensive
study of this species in Ontario, Quebec, New Brunswick, and Prince
Edward Island, covering the typical form (hudsonicus) and geo-
graphical races loguaw and gymnicus, and an attempt is made to
bring together the facts concerning the life-history, habits, food,
relationships to other animals, economic importance, and psychology
of this species which are to be found in the literature. Some details
concerning the daily life of the red squirrel, and many points in con-
nection with the psychology of this species which I have accumulated,
are due to the fact that I had one individual under almost constant
observation for months at a time for a period of two years and
another for a year. These squirrels made their headquarters in a
large sugar maple which stands in my garden, the lower branches
of which are on a level with my upstairs balcony and the upper
branches on a level with the window of my top flat. During these
periods other red squirrels came into this tree more or less frequently,
so that an opportunity was afforded to obtain data on the relations
of one individual to others of its species.

1Contribution from the Zoological Laboratory, Cornell University. Reprinted by per-
mission, with slight changes in the illustrations, from Journal of Mammalogy, vol. 8, No.
1, February, 1927,
495
496 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928
ALBINISM AND MELANISM

Neither albinism nor melanism is common in this species. Bell
(1898) says, “ Melanism and albinism, or any variation whatever, is
extremely rare. I obtained a specimen at Athabaska Lake which is
pure white beneath, from nose to tail, the second half of which is also
perfectly white.” Adams (1873) writes: “On the reliable authority
of Mr. Boardman I learn that there is a district on the south coast of
the province [New Brunswick] where all the squirrels belonging to
this species are black.” Quoting a-letter from Mr. Savage, Miller
(1900) says, “ Mr. John Bergtold of Browmansville, Erie County,
N. Y., captured an adult and three young, all of which he kept alive.
The adult and two of the young were perfect albinos; the other
young was normal in color.” Prof. J. N. Gowanloch, of Dalhousie
University, informs me that he came across a case of partial, or
“pie-bald,” aivinism in this species. Seton (1909) reports a pair
of albinos on the authority of Paul Doherty.

HABITATS

The red squirrel is at home throughout its range wherever there
are trees. The spruce forest, the pine forest, the maple-beech
woods, and the mixed forests were its original habitats, but it now
occurs in agricultural districts where the trees are reduced to farm
wood lots, groves, orchards, and groups of shade trees, as well
as in parks and in cities, towns, and villages where shade trees are
numerous.

HOME RANGE

It is not an easy matter to determine the exact home range of any
animal, but from my observations in the case of individuals which
had some diagnostic characteristic I should say that the home range
of the red squirrel is usually small, about two hundred and fifty
yards square. Seton (1909) puts the home range of this species at
less than ten acres, and says, “ Many a one passes its whole life in an
orchard of from four to five acres.” Seton quotes Paul Doherty
to the effect that a pair of albinos were always to be found within
80 feet of their nesting tree. Richardson (1829) would imply
that the home range of this species is extremely restricted, as he
says “It does not appear to quit the tree beneath which it burrows
by choice, unless when it makes an excursion in spring in search
of a mate.” This is, however, certainly erroneous.

There is not any question but that, under unusual circumstances
such as scarcity of food, the red squirrel makes excursions some dis-
tance outside what may normally be regarded as its home range.
THE RED SQUIRREL—-KLUGH 497

That a restricted home range is decidedly advantageous is readily
seen, as within this area the squirrel knows every tree and limb, every
jump from one tree to another, and every hole, either in a tree or in
the ground, so that its chances of escape when pursued by an enemy
are much enhanced.

ABUNDANCE

The abundance of this species varies, not only from place to place,
but apparently also from one season to another. In the original pine
forests of Ontario, at the time the first cutting operations were going
on, I should place the abundance of the red squirrel at not more than
one to every 20 acres, and in the original maple-beech woods about
the same. In the spruce woods of New Brunswick there are, as
nearly as I can ascertain, about two squirrels to every hundred yards
square. At Grand Bend, Ontario, on the shore of Lake Huron, in
a piece of country with a mixed forest consisting of pine, hemlock,
cedar, oak (red and white), beech, maple, butternut, and hickory, I
found more red squirrels in the spring of 1923 than I have seen at any
other place, and a census showed nine squirrels to the acre. Merriam
(1884) says, “In seasons when mast is plentiful there seems to be a
squirrel for every tree, bush, stump and log in the entire wilderness,
besides a number left over to fill possible vacancies. When, on the
other hand, the nut crop has been a failure, a corresponding diminu-
tion in the numbers of squirrels is observable, and they are sometimes
actually scarce.” The superabundance just quoted must certainly be
2 most unusual circumstance. The greatest local abundance which
I have seen was 17 red squirrels in a group of 5 butternut trees in
early September in a region in which these trees were scarce, and
neither before nor since have I seen anything like such numbers
gathered together.

Dice and Sherman (1922) report the numbers found in different
habitats in Michigan as follows: black ash swamp, 1; cedar swamp, 3;
black spruce-tamarack bog, 2; hemlock forest, 1; white pine forest, 1;
wet hardwood forest, 9; dry hardwood forest, 7; shrub stage of hard-
wood forest, 1; paper birch-aspen woods, 3; early hardwood stage of
forest, 1.

MIGRATION

The red squirrel is certainly nonmigratory except under very un-
usual circumstances. Such circumstances seem to prevail in the
Adirondacks as Merriam (1884) says: “ James Higby tells me that
in June, 1877, he saw as many as 50 crossing Big Moose Lake, and
that they were all headed the same way—to the north. I am in-
formed by Dr. A. K. Fisher that at the southern end of Lake George,
in early autumn, it is sometimes an every day occurrence to see red
squirrels swimming across the lake, from west to east—never in the
498 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

opposite direction. The chestnut grows abundantly on the eastern
side of the lake, but is comparatively scarce on the western, and these
extensive migrations always take place in years when the yield of
chestnuts is large;” and again, quoting Winslow C. Watson, “ ‘The
autumn of 1851 afforded one of these periodical invasions of Essex
county.”

MATING

In Ontario red squirrels mate in March and at this time there is
more chasing about among the branches than at any other time.
Seton (1909) says that in Manitoba they mate late in March or early
in April. Nelson (1918) notes that the males fight in the spring and
sometimes inflict serious injuries on one another.

Whether they pair for life or even for a single season is a doubtful
point. Seton has seen two adults at work building a nest, and notes
that the two albino squirrels mentioned above were seen together all
summer and winter. Certainly neither the male which I had under
observation for two years, nor the female which I observed for over a
year, had a mate associated with it, though the latter brought one
young to the tree with her during late June and early July.

NESTING

The nests of the red squirrel are of two kinds: nests made in holes
in trees or stubs, and the large outside nests made of leaves and other
materials. Both kinds serve as winter homes, but the young are
usually born in a cavity in a tree, frequently in one excavated by the
flicker.

In the far north where the timber is small the outside nests are used
almost exclusively. Osgood (1900) says of the red squirrel of the
Yukon, “ Its globular nests of grass, moss, bark and refuse are com-
mon and are usually found situated near the trunk of some slender
spruce, 10 or 20 feet from the ground. Sometimes several will be
found in the same tree, and half a dozen or more are very often to be
seen at the same time.”

Cram (1901) says of these outside nests:

When convenient, he chooses the nest of some large bird for a foundation,
and in this builds a structure of moss, bark, pine-needles, and dead leaves, with
walls several inches in thickness, and a soft nest of dry grass and feathers in-
side. The bark used is of two sorts, the rough outer bark of different trees,
broken into small pieces, and what appears to be the inner bark of the red
cedar, torn into narrow strips, or ribbons to bind the whole together. The nar-
row opening at one side is provided with a hanging curtain of moss or some
similar substance, easily pushed aside by the inmates, but immediately falling
back into place and effectually concealing the entrance. If unable to find a
bird’s nest situated to their taste, the squirrels arrange a loose platform or
framework of twigs in a convenient crotch and build their nest on that.
THE RED SQUIRREL—KLUGH 499

Some of the nests which I have examined in Ontario and New
Brunswick were very compactly and firmly built, while others were
somewhat loosely put together.

YOUNG
In Ontario, New Brunswick, and Manitoba, the young are usually

born early in May, but many broods are considerably later. I have
on several occasions seen young squirrels but little more than half-
grown in September and October, and at Lake Missanag on Septem-
ber 6 I saw an adult and five half-grown young on the trunk of a
large dead hemlock, in which, at a height of about 25 feet, was their
nesting-hole. These late occurrences of young may possibly indicate
a second brood, though, if this is the case, it is certainly the exception
and not the rule.
Speaking of S. hudsonicus richardsoni, Bailey (1918) says:

In June the four to six young are born in the big grass nests up among the
branches of the trees or in well-lined hollow trunks. For a long time they are
naked and helpless, and apparently they do not usually come out of the nests as
half-grown squirrels until the latter part of July. They are carefully watched
and nursed and fed by the mother squirrel until they have learned the ways of
the woods, and by the latter part of August have scattered out, each storing
his own winter supplies or all working and storing together as a family for the
winter’s supply about the old parental tree. Usually the families do not
entirely break up until the following spring.

Seton (1909) says:

A home nest which I had found at Carberry, Manitoba, June 24, 1882, was
20 feet up in an abandoned Flicker’s hole in a poplar stub. It contained five
young. They were blind, naked and helpless, and had no sign of aural orifice.
They measured about 414 inches long, including the tail, which was 114 inches.
While I was up the stub the mother dashed up and down the far side, running
over my hands and arms, in her distress for their safety, quite reckless for her-
self. I put the young back, intending to come again and watch their develop-
ment. But the mother had other plans for them. She removed them at once,
and I did not discover their new abode.

And, again, speaking of a female which raised her brood for sev-
eral years in a box set in a thin hemlock near his house, “ In June I
often see the little ones following the old one in a sort of procession
through the trees. This is no doubt their training.”

Cram (1901) thus describes the young:

The young squirrels are most absurd looking little beasts at first, like mini-
ature pug dogs, blind and naked, and with enormous heads. In a few days
their fur begins to show like the down on a peach, and as a fringe of short hair
along each side of the tail, which at length assumes something of the flattened
aspect of that worn by their elders, but without displaying much of the
fluffy, shadowy quality of the ideal squirrel tail until late in the follow-
ing autumn. Although they do not remain long in the nest, they are seldom
seen abroad until fully grown, or very nearly so, which is rather remarkable
when you come to consider the number that are brought up each summer in
500 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

every pine grove or thicket where these squirrels are abundant. Occasionally
you may see a family of them playing timidly about among the branches, but
without displaying any of the self-confident recklessness of their elders, quick
to take alarm at the slightest hint of danger and scurry back into concealment.

I have seen two squirrels about two-thirds grown following an
adult in early October in Ontario, but they had passed the stage of
timidity mentioned above; plate 2, figure 2 is a photograph of one of
them, which shows curiosity personified. In July in New Brunswick
I have seen an adult and four young feeding together in the
tamaracks.

LENGTH OF LIFE

There are, as far as I know, no data on the length of life of the
red squirrel in the wild condition, but Charles Macnamara informs
me that one which he caught when a few months old, and had in cap-
tivity, lived for nine years. The account of this squirrel, as given by
Mr. Macnamara follows:

When I was a young fellow, while walking along a woodland path with some
friends one day about the middle of May, we noticed a small red squirrel with a
rather large head, playing on an upturned root. As we came closer to look at
him, he sprang to the ground and, apparently taking me for part of the scenery,
ran up my leg and under my coat to my shoulder. When I caught him in my
hands he did not seem much afraid and made no attempt to bite; and I carried
him home wrapped up in a handkerchief in my pocket.

When the squirrel was offered food, it was seen that he was too young for
anything but milk, and so he was fed for some weeks—I do not now remember
just how long—by dipping a shred of sponge into milk and giving it to him to
suck. Presently he began to lap from a saucer and to eat a little milk-soaked
bread. Next he began to nibble at nut kernels, and finally toward the end of
the summer he could gnaw open walnuts and filberts for himself. This all hap-
pened some 25 years ago and I can not recall exact dates, but my recollection
is that at what I judge to be four or five, perhaps six, months of age, he was
eating adult squirrel food.

For about a year he was quite tame and harmless, and was permitted to
run about the house a good deal. But he began to bite people occasionally
without the slightest provocation—just for the fun of the thing; and loving to
explore cupboards and drawers, if the opening was not wide enough to let
him in, he would try to enlarge it with his teeth. One day he was caught eating
his way into an expensive bureau, and an incensed household demanded his
confinement.

The tea chest that had heretofore been his home was replaced with a box
three feet long by two feet deep and high, with a wire-netting front and netted
windows at either end. A little box, eight inches by four inches by four inches
with a small arched door in the end, nailed in one of the upper corners served
as a sleeping place. This cage was kept on a verandah all summer, and was
moved into a hallway in winter. He was a very cleanly little creature, and I
never noticed the slightest smell from him. He always frequented one par-
ticular corner of his cage in answer to nature’s calls, and, by my putting a little
dry earth there, renewed every few days and keeping the floor covered with
fresh sawdust, his cage was always fresh and clean.
THE RED SQUIRREL—-KLUGH 501

These were narrow enough quarters for such an active animal as a squirrel,
but a system of exercise he invented kept him in good condition during what
was probably a long life fora squirrel. <A “ daily dozen” was not nearly enough
for him; he took a daily thousand. Dashing across the floor of his cage, he
flew up the wire netting front, and flung himself, back downward, across the
ceiling, and then down the back of the cage and across the floor and up the
netting again, going round and round so rapidly that he appeared not more
than a streak. He would keep this up for 5 or 10 minutes at frequent intervals
all day, and his steady thump, thump, thump, became a familiar sound around
our house. He had a habit of bringing out a large mass ef the cotton-waste
of his bed and carrying it in his mouth while he was going through these
gyrations.

He seemed to know me better than anyone else, and I grew very fond of him.
One day, coming home at dark from an outing, I was told the sad news that he
was missing. Somehow he had scratched open the back door of his box, and
he had last been seen dashing through the raspberry bushes in the garden, with
our big tom cat close behind him.

I went to bed with a heavy heart and got up before sunrise to look for his
remains. It did not seem possible that he could have escaped, and I did not
expect to find more than his tail. The dew on the shrubs in the garden soaked
me, but I found no trace of the squirrel. I wandered disconsolately out of the
garden and across the yard, and was standing aimlessly in an open shed when
I heard a slight noise overhead. There was my squirrel on a beam above me,
and when I held up my hand to him, he came down a post with the usual
red squirrel hesitations, and leaped onto my arm. The call of the wild was not
for him. He preferred his safe comfortable cage where there were plenty of
Grenoble walnuts and no fierce cats.

One winter all the hair came off his back from neck to tail, exposing his
livid blue skin. I rubbed a little vaseline on him, but hesitated to apply any
remedy, as like all animals, and some primitive peoples, his sole idea of thera-
peutics was to lick the place, and I was afraid of poisoning him. But after
some months the hair grew in again as thick and healthy as ever. His usually
excellent coat was a little darker than that of the average wild squirrel. He
was fed principally on filberts, almonds and walnuts, and his pampered appe-
tite showed little interest in the local hickory and beech nuts or acorns. The
only wild food he really seemed to like was pine cones. He got quite excited
when he caught sight of them and seemed greatly to enjoy tearing them to
pieces.

The ancestral habit of his race to lay in a stock of food for the winter was very
strong in him. Although he was never hungry for five minutes in his life, he
acted as if a dire famine was threatening. The nuts given him every day
were always rather more than he needed, and he carefully stored the surplus
in his sleeping compartment, gradually accumulating such a hoard that there
was scarcely room enough left for him to get in himself, and he had to sleep with
his tail hanging out. I used then to shut him out of the compartment and
remove the nuts by a back door. This always caused a great fuss. He was
being robbed of his hard-won store, and he would surely starve to death next
winter! He chattered and scolded, and scratched frantically at the slide that
shut him out of his bedroom, and dashed around the cage in great excitement.
He did not quiet down until he was let into the compartment again and given
a few nuts to start a new hoard.

He never made any determined attempt to gnaw his way out of the cage—
which was made of half inch ash, and would not have been hard to eat

24034—29——_33
902 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

through—except in his sleeping chamber, where I eventually had to fit a
piece of tin to stop him. His idea was probably to enlarge the chamber and
not to escape. His teeth were always in good condition, but his claws used to
grow long and curved inwards, so that I had to cut them every few months.

Up to his fifth or sixth year his activity was as great as ever. Then he be-
gan to show signs of age. In his youth he used to leap straight into the door
of his bedroom; later I set a branch diagonally from a lower corner of the cage
up to the door, and for a long time he could climb this nimbly enough. As his
infirmities increased he gave up his circling exercise and at last I had to re-
place the branch with a flat board with grooves cut across it, up which he used
to hobble to bed.

The direct cause of his death I think was lead poisoning contracted from
some freshly painted furniture which was placed near his cage to dry. He may
have reached out and licked the paint, or perhaps the fumes were enough to
kill him in his decrepitude. As well as I can remember, he was in his ninth
year when he died.

PERIODS OF ACTIVITY

The red squirrel in Ontario is active at all seasons, except for per-
iods of a day or two at a time in extremely stormy, cold weather in
the winter. Merriam says of it in the Adirondacks: “ He remains
active throughout the continuance of excessive cold. When fierce
storms sweep over the land he retires to his nest, to appear again
with the first lull of the wind, be the temperature never so low.”
Dice (1921), however, reports that in Alaska “ When the temper-
‘ ature drops below —30° F. very few squirrels are active and they
become dormant at lower temperatures.”

The red squirrel’s daily period of activity in summer is usually
from sunrise until twilight. I have found that very few are about
earlier than sunrise, and I have never seen one abroad after dark.
Others, however, report that these squirrels are sometimes active
at night. Merriam (1884) says “ He may sometimes be discovered
in the darkest hours of the night, stealing softly over the ground—
bent, doubtless, on some errand of dubious propriety. Moonlight
evenings he is often active, though not so noisy as during the day,
and in early autumn vies with the flying squirrel in nocturnal nut-
husking exploits.” Nelson (1918) states that it ‘ sometimes continues
its activities during moonlight nights, especially when nuts are ripe
and it is time to gather winter stores.” Judging by the two squir-
rels I have had under constant observation, this species is not an
early riser in the winter, as neither of them put in an appearance at
their tree, around which much food was stored, until well after
daylight.

RESTING

The red squirrel is usually spoken of as being “ constantly active,”
but this is not absolutely correct, as both individuals which I have
observed closely rested for a time each day in spring, summer, and
autumn, the period of rest, and sometimes of sleep, being usually
THE RED SQUIRREL—KLUGH 503

between 1.30 and 8 o’clock. I have seen other squirrels in various
parts of the country thus resting in the early afternoon, and the
squirrel’s reputation for “constant activity ” is probably based on
the fact that they are readily seen when they are active, and have
not been noticed when they are not.

The resting attitudes are various, but there are two chief ones.
In one of these the animal spreads itself out on a limb, with the tail
lying out behind (Pl. 3, Fig. 1) and the chin resting on the limb; in
the other, the squirrel squats down, rests the chin on the limb and
folds the tail close over its back (Pl. 3, Fig. 2). Variants of these
positions are that the tail may be folded down over the back in the
first position and that it may be stretched out behind, or hanging
to one side, in the second. <A less usual resting position, the animal
fitted into a fork with the front of the head resting on the limb, is
shown in plate 3, figure 38. Sometimes, but as far as I have observed
very rarely, the squirrel may go sound asleep in any of these positions.
As a rule it closes its eyes only for a few minutes at a time, but on
the other hand it may remain for half an hour or more without open-
ing the eyes widely.

After resting, the squirrel almost invariably stretches, first one
hind leg and then the other, and yawns widely, curling the tongue
upward like a dog.

SUNNING

In the winter and early spring the red squirrel often selects a more
or less sheltered spot and basks in the sun, sometimes for an hour
or more at a stretch.

ACTIVITY IN THE TREES

The agility of the red squirrel on the trunk, limbs, and the finest
twigs of the trees is remarkable. Sometimes it bounces about among
the branches like an animated rubber ball, moving at such a rate that
it becomes a mere blur. It travels about in the trees at such a
speed, in such an apparently reckless manner, and ineplaces where its
hold seems so precarious, that the wonder is not that it falls occa-
sionally, as it does, but that it does not fall a dozen times a day. I
have seen a squirrel sitting apparently entirely unconcerned on one
of the topmost twigs of a 70-foot elm, when a stiff wind was swaying
the upper branches through an are of about four feet, eating an elm
bud held up in its forepaws. It travels with ease on the underside
of limbs, both large and small.
504 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

LEAPING

The red squirrel makes long leaps from tree to tree, but these are
always made when the landing place is lower than the point from
which it takes off. A jump which one of the squirrels I had under
constant observation made many times a day was a distance of 8
feet with a drop of 2 feet, and I noticed that it never tried the return
leap. The most remarkable leap I have seen a squirrel make was a
distance of 5 feet with a rise of 3 feet. Seton says that after meas-
uring many bounds recorded in the snow, and made by squirrels
pursued by dogs or hunters, he does not think that they can leap more
than five feet on the level. In these cases the soft snow probably 1m-
pairs the efficiency of their “ take-off.”

In leaping, the squirrel extends its legs and flattens its body, while
the tail is straight and stiff behind it. In most cases the leap is very
cleanly made, but sometimes, in cases where the object from which it
has jumped is insecure or springy, or when the squirrel leaps with a
bulky load, its leap is not so well controlled, and it makes desperate
efforts by movements of the tail and legs to maintain its direction
while in the air. In such cases it often makes anything but a

eraceful landing.
FALLING

The red squirrel very rarely falls, but occasionally does so. I have
never actually seen one fall, though I have witnessed their having very
narrow escapes from accidents upon many occasions. I once came
across a young squirrel, which had apparently fallen from a high limb
of an elm onto a cement sidewalk. It was squatting on the walk,
looking very dazed, and rubbed its head with its fore paws repeat-
edly. Mrs. Klugh has seen a squirrel fall from a branch of the tree
in our garden on two occasions. In both cases the squirrel was an
intruder and was being vigorously pursued by the squirrel which
“owned ” the tree. In neither case did the squirrel alight on its
feet, but in one case came down so heavily on its side as to apparently
“knock the wind out of it” and it was some minutes before it re-
covered sufficiently to crawl] to the tree and climb up; and in the other
case the squirrel fell on its back on a sheet of ice and appeared to be
badly shaken. The fall in each of these cases was a distance of about
30 feet.

Gosse (1840) describes how a squirrel in a grove of tall slender
trees was chased from tree to tree for half an hour by shaking the
trees violently. ‘He several times missed his hold, but always caught
a bough in his fall, except once, when he came rather heavily to the
ground from one of the topmost branches; he was instantly on his
feet again and up in a tree before I could come near him.”
THE RED SQUIRREL—KLUGH 505

Cram (1901) says:

On still winter days you may see_,them springing about among the elastic
branches (of the hemlock), clinging to the very tips of the finely divided sprays
at a perilous height in their endeavors to reach the cones that are hung on such
exasperatingly slender twigs, hardly large enough even for a squirrel’s foot to
grasp; and not infrequently a misstep will send one of them headlong down
toward the earth, usually to save himself by catching hold of one branch or
another on the way down. If there should chance to be no branches beneath
him, he spreads himself out, like a flying squirrel, to a remarkable degree of
flatness and strikes so lighly as to escape all injury, even on hard snow crust
or 1ce.

That the tail acts not only as a rudder in leaping, but to a certain
extent as a parachute in the case of a fall, is probably true. Seton
(1909) says that the loss of the tail “is a serious handicap, as is
proved by the fact that a tailless squirrel rarely survives. The loss
seems to limit its jumping power, and when it falls it suffers a heavy
jar, from which the tail would have saved it”; and speaking of a
squirrel which had its tail stripped off by a trout: “The animal was
not obviously crippled, and yet, as usual, the tailless one disap-
peared.” He also mentions a red squirrel which was found dead
under a tree by Francis Dickie in Manitoba. “The tail was gone,
except half an inch of stub, which looked as if it had been chewed
Olney

ACTIVITY ON THE GROUND

Though decidedly an arboreal species the red squirrel is quite at
home on the ground. Except under very unusual circumstances it
rarely gets very far out into the open, and its usual route in traveling
over the ground is from near the base of one tree to the proximity
of the base of another, the intervening space, if of any considerable
extent, usually being covered in a succession of long, rapid bounds.
Its activities on the ground are usually connected with food or
drink, or to get from one group of trees to another. Some of its
storehouses are holes in the ground, usually beneath a tree or stump,
and it buries nuts here and there in the soil.

TUNNELLING IN SNOW

In winter the red squirrel makes extensive tunnels under the snow.
These tunnels are made sometimes to connect one storehouse with
another, sometimes to get at food material which is lying on the
ground. One year, when my sugar maple had produced a very large
crop of keys, the squirrel constructed a system of interconnecting
tunnels with several entrances and exits to reach his food supply.
Cram (1901) says, “ Often, instead of burrowing down repeatedly to
each little pile of cones, they dig radiating tunnels along the surface
of the ground, from the first one opened to the others near it, drag-
506 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

ging the cones laboriously along their winding galleries to the sur-
face and away over the snow to some favorite stump before atiempt-
ing to open them.” In digging these tunnels the squirrel does not
bring any snow to the surface, but packs it against the walls, and
makes a shaft to the surface either at the end of a tunnel or where
two tunnels connect.

SWIMMING

That red squirrels swim well has already been shown in the section
on migration, as Big Moose Lake, which they are reported as swim-
ming across, is about a mile and half wide, and Lake George, at
the point they crossed, about two miles wide. Cole (1922) saw a
red squirrel swim to shore after having crossed White Sand Lake,
Wis., and was told by a boatman that they had been doing this
for some days past. “The individual we saw swam calmly and
evenly with the head well up, shoulders nearly submerged, but rump
and tail high. It did not seem at all fatigued when it reached the
land.”

A very peculiar incident is thus described, in a letter to me, by
Allan Brooks:

I was walking along a big mining ditch about 9 feet wide in which the
water was running swiftly when I saw a curious animal coming down the bank
on the other side. Presently I saw it was a red squirel staggering under the
load of a two-thirds grown young one wrapped round its neck just back of the
head. It came straight for the water and swam across, landing in front of
me, and climbed the bank to my feet. Here it first caught sight of me, threw
off the young one, jumped into the water, swam over, ran up the bank and into
the woods. The young one ran up me, stopped on my chest just below my
chin for a second or two, then ran down into the water, Swam across, ran up
the bank and off into the woods after its mother.

MANUAL DEXTERITY

Though the squirrel lacks a “thumb” its dexterity with its fore
paws is much greater than in the case of most mammals. By taking
them between its paws, it handles both large and small objects with
precision and certainty. It can turn a smooth and slippery nut
round and round in its paws, and only very rarely does it let any-
thing drop.

I have on three occasions seen a squirrel reach out and pull off a
bud with a single paw, in doing so folding the toes against the palm.
I have also seen a squirrel pick rose hips with one paw and convey
them to its mouth.
THE RED SQUIRREL—-KLUGH 507
BALANCING OF OBJECTS

The red squirrel is an expert in balancing objects on branches.
Usually it selects either a crotch, or the somewhat flat surface at the
point at which a horizontal branch comes off from a limb, as the
place of deposition. When placing anything in position it shifts it
a trifle to one side or the other with its paws or its muzzle, and does
not leave the object until it is as securely lodged as possible. I
noticed that when one of the squirrels I had under observation hung a
long strip of ham rind (an article of diet with which it could hardly
have had previous experience) on a branch, it shifted it until the
two ends hung equally on each side of the branch.

PLAY

Adult squirrels frequently play together, their recreation taking the
form of a game of “ tag” in which the utmost vivacity and agility is
displayed. A good deal of what is commonly reported as a game of
tag is, however, really not play but the chasing of one squirrel by
another when the former has been poaching on its preserves, and
it is only when the same squirrel is alternately pursuer and pursued
that one can be sure that it is really a game.

The squirrel which I had under observation for 2 years, and which
was at least 3 years old toward the end of the period of observation,
frequently indulged in play by itself. When the first snowfall came
it plunged about in the snow, dashed through the deep piles on the
large limbs, and quite evidently enjoyed itself thoroughly. It fre-
quently went through a remarkable performance which one must
classify as a game since it certainly served no useful purpose. At the
top of the trunk of the maple, at the point at which the main limbs
are given off, there is a trough-shaped, vertical cavity some eighteen
inches long with a pocket-shaped bottom. The squirrel often got in
this cavity, turned over and over in a series of somersaults, sliding
down the trough on its back at each backward turn. It sometimes
also seized and held onto its tail and rolled about in the pocket.

DIET

The diet of the red squirrel is extremely varied, and naturally dif-
fers considerably in various parts of the country. One reason for the
wide range and abundance of this species, and for its ability to in-
habit a region under the changed conditions produced by civilization,
is unquestionably its omnivorous propensity.
508 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

The two staple articles of diet of the red squirrel, taking the whole
of its range into consideration, are undoubtedly the seeds of conif-
erous trees, and nuts. By far the greater part of the red squirrel’s
range lies in the Canadian and Hudsonian zones, which are vast
areas of spruce and fir forests, and there are unquestionably more
squirrels which feed most extensively and for a longer period each
year on the seeds of these conifers than upon any other kind of food.
In the typically Canadian zone country in New Brunswick this spe-
cies feeds very largely on the seeds of white spruce (Picea canadensis)
and red spruce (P. rubra) from the middle of August until May,
and some idea of the immense quantities consumed may be obtained
from the huge piles of scales to be found in the spruce forest and
the large areas which are covered with these scales. Osgood (1900)
speaking of Alaska, says, “The ground is often strewn for some
distance with the scales of spruce cones which they have stripped.
Near Lake Marsh I found one such place 20 feet square which was
covered 6 inches deep with scales.” Bell (1898) says, “'The seeds
of the black and white spruce constitute their grand staple in the
North.” The seeds of practically all the other conifers, in their re-
spective regions, furnish the red squirrel with a large part of its
sustenance. ‘The seeds of the cedar (Z'huja occidentalis) are eaten
extensively in New Brunswick, Quebec, and Ontario, and the seeds
of the hemlock (Z’suga canadensis), which remain in the cones on the
trees all winter, are eaten throughout the winter in northeastern
North America. Seton (1909) states that “In the country about
Kenora (northern Ontario) the principal autumn (and therefore
winter and spring) food of the squirrel is the seeds of the jack pine.”
The seeds of the white pine (Pinus strobus) are consumed extensively
throughout the range of this tree, and Cram (1901) says, “The
white pine is usually rather sparing in its yield; but once in every
10 or 15 years, perhaps oftener, nearly every tree in the forest bears
enormously, even the younger ones showing scattered clusters here
and there, while those that have stood for generations present a
roughened, shaggy aspect from the thickly crowded cones at their
summits. At such times the red squirrels seem determined to gather
every cone before it opens and scatters its seeds to the winds.”
Bailey (1918) mentions the lodgepole pine, Douglas spruce, Engel-
mann spruce, mountain white pine, white-barked pine, western tama-
rack, and western balsam as furnishing the chief food supply of S.
hudsonicus richardsoné in the mountains of northwestern Montana.

Farther south all kinds of nuts, within their respective ranges, con:
stitute the main food of the red squirrel, since they are not only
eaten at the time of their ripening, but are hoarded for consumption
during the winter and spring. But nuts never bulk as largely in
the menu of the southern squirrels as do the seeds of conifers in the
THE RED SQUIRREL—-KLUGH 509

diet of those of the North, because, firstly, there are few, if any,
localities where nut-bearing trees occur in which some species of
conifer does not occur and furnish part of the squirrels’ food, and,
secondly, nowhere do nut-bearing trees form the dense, pure stands
that the spruce does in the north. Beechnuts, hickory nuts, black
walnuts, butternuts, chestnuts, and hazel nuts are all eaten both
fresh and stored wherever they occur. Bell (1898) says, “ North-
ward of the zone of butternuts, and beechnuts, etc., the hazel extends
a long way—say, to a line drawn from Lake St. John (on the Sague-
nay) to Lake Athabaska, curving southward of James and Hudson
Bays—and affords a large proportion of their food.”

In the mixed forests of the Alleghanian faunal area the acorns of
the white, red, and burr oaks, and the keys of the sugar maple and
soft maple constitute a very considerable proportion of the food of
this species,

In the spring the red squirrel eats the buds of a large number of
trees, both when they are swelling and when they are partially ex-
panded. It is probable that it takes the buds of any deciduous tree,
and of some conifers, such as the spruce, but the buds which I have
actually seen it eat are those of the sugar maple, soft maple, elm,
beech, ironwood, yellow birch, hybrid willow (Salix alba x fragilis),
poplar (P. tremuloides), and spruce, and the staminate catkins of
the tamarack and red oak. When feeding on buds of the sugar
maple and elm, and on the staminate strobili of the tamarack, I have
on several occasions seen squirrels hang down by their hind feet
from a twig to reach buds on the tips of the twigs beneath them,
usually pulling themselves up again to the branch above to eat the
bud, but sometimes consuming it while hanging head downward.

In spring and early summer the red squirrel sometimes cuts off
leaves of the sugar and soft maples, eats part of the petiole, and
drops the rest of the leaf.

The red squirrel eats the bark of the smaller branches of some
species of deciduous trees, especially that of the sugar maple, at all
seasons of the year, even in summer when green food is abundant.
It is thus not by any means entirely a “starvation ration,” as has
been supposed, but is eaten apparently merely as a change from other
articles of diet. Seton says that in Manitoba: “ The third principal
food supply is the thinnest greenish outer bark of the quaking
aspen or poplar. This it does not store up, but gather as it is
needed in time of famine” and Burroughs (1900) says “ But the
squirrels of this locality evidently got pretty hard up before spring,
for they developed a new source of food supply. A young, bushy-
topped maple, about 40 feet high, standing beside a stone fence near
the woods was attacked and more than half denuded of its bark.
The object of the squirrels seemed to be to get at the cambium
510 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

layer. The ground was covered with fragments of bark, and white,
naked stems and branches had been scraped by fine teeth.”

The red squirrel is not a markedly frugivorous species, but occa-
sionally it eats some fruits of various kinds. I have seen it eat the
fruits of the wild gooseberry (bes cynosbati), black elderberry
(Sambucus canadensis), red elderberry (S. racemosa), raspberry
(Rubus strigosus), bunchberry (Cornus canadensis), wild straw-
berry (Fragaria virginiana) and wild rose (Rosa lucida), but only
on rare occasions. It takes apples more frequently than any other
kind of fruit, especially those that are left hanging on the trees all
winter, usually biting off and throwing away the skin and pulp and
eating the seeds, but sometimes eating some of the pulp. The oniy
case of depredations on cultivated fruits which has come to my
attention was reported to me by Dr. A. H. Leim, who told me that
at Fergus, Ontario, he has seen this species take strawberries before
they were ripe, eating the green side and leaving the riper side,
next green gooseberries, carrying them off; then white and red
currents, which they ate; then green apples, about one-half grown,
which they both ate and carried off.

The red squirrel is very partial to mushrooms of many species,
both eating them in the fresh condition and storing them in large
quantities. I have seen squirrels eating Pleurotus ostreatus, Colly-
bia radiacata, Canthrarellus cibarius, Russula of many species,
Boletus of several species, Lepiota naucinoides, Morchella esculenta,
M. conica and Clavaria aurea. Whether the red squirrel eats the
poisonous species, such as Amanita muscaria and A. phalloides, and
whether, having done so, disastrous consequences ensue, is a point
upon which there are no exact data. I have in several cases noticed
large numbers of very fine specimens of Amanita muscaria entirely
untouched in habitats in which red squirrels were common. On
the other hand, one day I saw a squirrel sitting on a fence eating
a piece of mushroom which looked much like a piece of A. muscaria.
When I went close the squirrel dropped the piece of mushroom,
and nearby I found a specimen of A. muscaria with a piece of very
similar size taken out of it. This is at best only circumstantial
evidence, and the sequel remains entirely unknown.

Roots of some woodland plants and underground stems are ap-
parently eaten to some extent by the red squirrel. I have seen them
digging for something in the spruce forests of New Brunswick, but
whether for roots or insect larvae or pupae I could never determine.
Osgood (1900) says that in the Yukon “little excavations in the
moss show where the Chickarees have been digging for roots.”

A peculiar food-habit of the red squirrel was reported to me by
Dr. A. H. Leim. In July he saw the squirrels eating the seeds from
the heads of timothy (Phlewm pratense) and orchard grass
THE RED SQUIRREL—KLUGH 511

(Dactylis glomerata) which they could reach from the posts of a
fence. Having obtained all those which they could reach from the
posts, they started out along the three-strand barbed wires, ard
from there they got those that they could reach with their mouth
or with their front paws. One squirrel, apparently a young one,
went out along a wire, swung down, retaining a hold on the wire
with its hind feet, caught a head with its front paws, pulled it back,
bit it off, and then either raised itself to the wire from which it was
suspended or dropped to the wire below. He also observed them
jumping from the ground, catching a timothy head, and bearing
it to the ground. One squirrel would persist in this occupation for
half a day at a time.

The red squirrel at times takes animal food, the kinds most fre-
quently eaten being insect larvae, young birds and bird’s eggs. I
have seen them eat the larvae and sometimes the pupae of several
kinds of insects. Cram (1901) says, “‘ Occasionally you will see one
clinging to the side of some dead pine or hemlock, and lstening,
woodpeckerlike, to the sounds made by the insects at work beneath
the surface. When he has succeeded in locating his prey, he tears off
the loose bark with his teeth in great ragged pieces, and presently
pounces upon and drags forth a flattened white grub an inch or
more in length, which he devours with great apparent relish.”

That this species eats the eggs and young various species of birds
is shown by many data presented in ornithological literature, and
this will be referred to later. Personally, I have never yet seen a
red squirrel take either an egg or a youug bird, and certainly these
items constitute an insignificant portion of the food of the average
red squirrel.

STORAGE OF FOOD

The red squirrel stores immense quantities of food, chiefly the seeds
of conifers, nuts, and mushrooms. During late summer and autumn
the chief activity of this species is the storage of food. It also stores
food temporarily at all seasons of the year.

This species practices three methods of storage: carrying things off
to one of its main hoards, burying each object separately, and arrang-
ing them in a fork of a tree. Food materials are pretty definitely
classified into two categories: hard objects and soft. Hard things,
such as nuts and seeds, it either carries to one of its storehouses or
buries; soft things, such as fungi, fruits or pieces of meat, it arranges
about the branches of a tree. Thus it does not bury or put in piles
anything which will mold or decay readily.

The squirrel’s main hoards are made either in cavities in trees or
stubs, or in vaults underground, beneath the roots of a tree or a
stump, or under a bowlder. It has several such storage places, and, as
512 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

far as I have observed, when a squirrel is storing a number of things
consecutively it takes them to two, or more, of these hoards alternately.

In the case of both cones and nuts the squirrel cuts them from the
trees just before they are fully ripe. This is necessary in the case of
most cones (the main exception being those of the hemlock) as the
seeds are shed as soon as fully mature, but the same necessity does not
exist in the case of nuts. But as Seton says in speaking of the cutting-
down of chestnuts before they are fully ripe: “'The explanation lies
in the fact that the red squirrel has been evolved to prey on the seeds
of conifers. If these are left to ripen fully they take unto themselves
wings and fly away, whereas by cutting the cone just before it opens
the squirrel makes sure of the prize.”

Bell (1898) says, in connection with the harvesting of the cones of
the white spruce in the north:

Their mode of obtaining a supply of cones is ingenious. The cones grow
principally at the tops of the spruce trees, and the largest and finest are always
to be found there. The Chickaree selects a tree which, either because of the
steepness and density of its upper parts, or because of its leaning to one side,
makes it certain that the cones, if detached, will fall to the ground; then he
cuts off the heavily-laden branches and lets them drop. This is done with an
impatient rapidity. These branches seldom lodge in the branches below, but
should a squirrel on his way down notice one of them in a hopeful position
toward the extremity of a bough, he will sometimes run out and give it a second
send off. ;

Professor J. N. Gowanloch informs me that at Gimli, Manitoba, the
red squirrels in August cut the green cones of the balsam (A. bal-
samea). A single squirrel to a tree would spend three hours or more
cutting off cones and then in the afternoon would carry off the cones
and deposit them in holes under the roots of trees.

Speaking of squirrels harvesting the cones of the white pine Cram
(1901) says:

They begin work late in July, while the cones are still green and solid with the
seeds embedded near the center. In the hot July sunshine they hurry at their
work, cutting off the cones and tossing them over their shoulders well out beyond
the surrounding branches to the ground. Whenever the cone of the twig that
supports it is cut or scarred, a drop of glistening, transparent sap oozes forth,
turing on exposure to the air to the most tenacious kind of pitch; and it is truly
wonderful that the squirrels can manage to keep themselves so clean while en-
gaged in their harvesting. But the majority of them show hardly a trace of
pitch, though now and then you will run across one with little wisps of fur
stuck together, especially about the face and néck and in the longer hairs of his
tail, evidently having been particularly unfortunate or careless in his work.
Every little while they descend to the ground to bury the cones they have cut
off, two or three in a place, covered with pine needles to a depth of several
Inches.

Audubon and Bachman (1846) say: “The quantity of nuts and
seeds it often lays up in its storehouses is almost incredible. On one
occasion we were present when a bushel and a half of shellbarks
THE RED SQUIRREL—KLUGH 513

(Carya alba) and chestnuts were taken from a hollow tree occupied
by a single pair of these industrious creatures.”

Paulmier (1904), referring to this species in the Adirondacks,
says: “ Later still, when the beechnuts, which form his staple food,
are ripe, he collects immense quantities of them, biting off the yet
green nuts, so that they fall to the ground, where he afterwards col-
lects them in heaps and stores them away.”

Hahn (1909), speaking of S. h. /oquax in Indiana, says: “ Much of
its time is spent on the ground where it gathers acorns and nuts and
buries them under leaves and under the soil. Some supplies are stored
in hollow trees also, although snow is no hindrance to its finding and
securing buried treasure.”

Bailey (1918) thus refers to the harvesting of the cones of several
species of evergreens in the mountains of Montana:

Before the seeds are fully matured in the cones they begin to serve as food for
the squirrels, and when well ripened the cones are cut from the pine, spruce, and
fir trees in such numbers that the woods often resound with their steady thump-
ing on ground and logs. During autumn great numbers of cones are cut off and
stored in little pockets or holes in the ground, under logs, rocks, or brush heaps,
or in the piles of old cone scales at the base of the feeding trees, where they can
be readily found under the deep snows of winter.

Two friends of mine one evening found a red squirrel’s hoard of
butternuts in a hollow tree in northern Frontenac County, Ontario,
and filled a bushel-and-a-half bag with the nuts from this single
hoard. They left the nuts in the bag some yards from the tree, and
returned with a wheelbarrow the next morning to fetch them. But
the squirrel had been there before them, chewed a hole in the sack,
and removed every nut to some other storehouse, which they were
unable to locate.

The red squirrel buries single nuts and acorns here and there in
the soil. When it buries a nut it scratches out a hollow with its
fore paws, places the nut therein, shoves it is as far as possible with
its nose, and then covers it with a few swift strokes from the right
and left with its fore paws. It performs this operation with great
rapidity, but does it so well that when it has buried a nut in a location
where there is moss and dead leaves there is no trace of any disturb-
ance. In fact upon several occasions I have noted as nearly as
possible the exact spot at which I had seen a nut buried, but upon
going to the place I was unable to find the nut.

Nuts are sometimes stored singly in the crotches of trees, or
wedged under a flange of bark of rough-barked trees. Gibson
(1903) has noted this habit, and says. “ The shell-bark hickory is
the squirrel’s favorite storehouse. A quick stroke with axe or sledge
will often dislodge numbers of nuts which have been packed away
and wedged beneath the bark by these provident little fellows.”
014 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

Mushrooms are stored in large numbers by squirrels, which hang
them in the forks of trees, and I have seen trees which contained as
many as 20 mushrooms thus suspended. Dice (1921) reports an
unusual case of mushroom storage: “ A red squirrel in 1911 had its
nest on a shelf in an old cabin north of Tanana (Alaska). This
squirrel had collected a great number of mushrooms and stored them
on the shelves. Those not entirely dry were spread out separately
from the others. Every open can in the cabin was packed tightly
with the dried fungi.”

Any article of food may be temporarily stored in a crotch of a
tree, quite frequently something which the squirrel has partially
eaten, and it will return a few minutes, a few hours, or some days
later, take it out, and either finish it, or eat more of it and store.
it again, usually in another place.

The squirrel’s highly developed hoarding instinct sometimes ren-
ders it a nuisance about the habitations of man. It sometimes makes
repeated visits to corn-cribs and carries off considerable quantities of
corn, and I have known a squirrel to carry off most of the grains in a
small sack of wheat. Gilpin (1870) says, “'The winter camps of the
loggers become infested with them. The men scarce left their
camps for their work then the silent structure is attacked by an army
of invaders; every hole, every crack and orifice is pryed into, an
entrance is made, and perhaps half a barrel of hard bread has been
removed by these pilferers before the men return for the night.”

CARRYING CAPACITY

The red squirrel can carry off cbjects of considerable size and
weight. One morning the squirrel that I had under observation
entered the pantry through the open window. ‘There it discovered
a dish of boiled potatoes, some of which it hid behind cans on the
pantry shelves, while it carried the others up the maple and arranged
them in crotches. Some of the potatoes which it carried up the tree
weighed a quarter of a pound. The heavily laden branches of the
cedar which the squirrel cuts from the tree are bulky and quite
heavy, and the characteristic method of carrying such an object, the
head being held high, is shown in Plate 4, Figure 1.

DRINKING

I have only on two occasions seen a squirrel in the woods drink,
once from a pool in a little stream and once at the edge of a tem-
porary woodland pool; but the squirrels which I have had under
observation frequently drank quite copiously from a saucer of water,
and I have also seen them drink melted snow in the spring. This
species frequently eats snow in the winter.
THE RED SQUIRREL—KLUGH 515

The favorite beverage of the red squirrel is unquestionably the
sap of the sugar maple, and in early spring in the maple-beech
woods, in the mixed forests, and wherever this tree occurs, they
spend a large part of their time drinking sap. They obtain this sap
in three ways: From that which runs down the underside of branches
which have been broken off by the winds of late autumn and winter,
from the holes drilled by the yellow-bellied sapsucker, and from
incisions which they make for themselves. The former source of
the sap flow is by far the most important, as a heavy flow of sap
often proceeds from the ends of these broken branches, and in avail-
ing themselves of it the squirrels hang on to the underside of limbs,
both small and large, as shown in Plate 5, Figure 1. In maintaining
this position on the under side of large limbs they rely chiefly on
their hind legs, and there is a decided outward bend in these legs at
the tarsal joint which evidently enables the claws to catch the crevices
of the bark more effectively. When the squirrel hangs from a small
branch, both fore and hind feet are clasped about the branch, so
that the toes nearly meet on top of the branch.

Stone and Cram (1902) refer to the incisions which the squirrels
make for themselves: “ In tapping the maple they gnaw saucer-shaped
cavities in the upper side of a branch and drink the sap which fills
them, coming back a dozen times a day for the sweet refreshment.”
{ have occasionally seen squirrels thus engaged.

In drinking sap they lap it up, their tongues going at a tremendous
rate. They also lick the icicles of sap which have formed during the
night.

WASHING

After eating anything sticky or greasy the squirrel licks its fore
tas) t=) =)
paws very thoroughly, and then rubs them repeatedly over its nose,
often spending five minutes thus cleaning up.

SCRATCHING, COMBING, AND RUBBING

During autumn and winter the squirrels which I have had under
observation did not seem to be much troubled by external parasites,
but toward spring they had a busy time with them. They scratched
and bit themselves frequently, and often for some time at a stretch,
causing the shedding hair of the winter coat to fly in all directions.

The red squirrel often rubs its jaw and throat along a limb, in this
respect reminding one very much of the actions of a cat.

This species not infrequently combs its tail; in doing this it sits up,
brings its tail forward between its hind legs and runs the hairs
through its teeth.
516 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928
ENEMIES

The chief enemy of this species in the northern woods is the pine
marten, whose climbing ability and agility in the trees equals that of
the squirrel. Both in the north and further south, weasels and hawks
and owls are the red squirrels’ enemies. Fisher (1898) lists the gos-
hawk, Cooper’s hawk, red-tailed hawk, red-shouldered hawk, broad-
winged hawk, and barred owl as including this species among their
food.

RELATION TO GRAY SQUIRRELS

Wherever the red and the gray (or black) squirrel inhabit the same
territory the red always chases the gray and the latter runs without
putting up a fight, though it is nearly twice the size of its fiery pur-
suer. A report which has wide currency among trappers and hunters
is that the red squirrel castrates the gray. Seton says that this is
“an ancient, picturesque, and sanguinary myth,” and I was of the
same opinion until I was told by Prof. Manley Baker that he had
actually seen a red squirrel seize the scrotum of a gray squirrel, and
tear it open, on at least a dozen different occasions. He did not think
that the act was the result of a deliberate attack for that purpose,
but that the red squirrel seized and hung onto the most posterior part,
aside from the tail, of the fleeing gray squirrel’s anatomy. Professor
Baker also stated that he had shot more than 40 gray squirrels which
had been castrated.

RELATION TO BIRDS

There is plenty of data in ornithological and mammalogical litera-
ture to prove that the eggs and young of many species of birds are
destroyed by red squirrels. Merriam (1884) says: “I have myself
known him to rob the nests of the red-eyed vireo, chipping sparrow,
robin, Wilson’s thrush, and ruffed grouse, and doubt not that thou-
sands of eggs are annually sacrificed, in the Adirondack region alone,
to gratify this appetite.” Mearns (1878) says that the red squirrel
is the worst enemy of the robin, and many other writers cite cases of
depredations on robins’ nests. Seton mentions a case of a red squirrel
eating a young flicker. B.S. Bowdish, in a letter which was the only
response I received to a note in the Journal of Mammalogy asking for
first-hand information on the destruction of young birds or bird’s eggs
by red squirrels, says:

I had, about 15 years ago, an experience in personally seeing a red squirrel
enter a bird house on a pole, bring out a third-grown young bluebird, and sitting
on the roof of the house, open the bird’s skull and devour the brains, throwing
the body to the ground and repeating until the family of young bluebirds had all
been destroyed. I have watched a nuthatch building a nest in a cavity, and a

week or so later, found the same cavity occupied by a squirrel’s nest with the
intruder in possession thereof.
THE RED SQUIRREL—-KLUGH 517

Nelson (1918) says: “ During the breeding season he spends a large
part of his time in predatory nest-hunting and the number of useful
and beautiful birds he thus destroys must be almost incalculable. One
close observer believes that each squirrel destroys 200 birds a year.”

The passages cited above, and many others of similar purport in
ornithological literature, would lead one to believe that the red squir-
rel is a serious menace to bird life. But there is another side to the
picture. Seton says: “ Nevertheless there is a remarkable individ-
uality shown among squirrels in this particular. A family of five
lived in a grove of six or seven small trees near my house. In this
grove a yellow-throated vireo reared her young under the squirrels’
very noses. ‘They must have seen the birds, yet did them no harm.
William Brewster has described to me a similar case in which he
saw the squirrels leap daily over a robin’s nest, but offer no harm to
the eggs or the callow young.” Thoms (1922) under the title “Are
Squirrels Bird Enemies?” answers this question in the negative, cit-
ing a case of a red squirrel pouncing on a mourning dove on her
nest and when she flew off eating the eggs, and of a squirrel throw-
ing young orioles out of their nest, as the only two cases of squirrels
molesting birds in his ornithological experience of 20 years, and con-
cludes that “ depredations perpetrated by red squirrels do not lessen
in any appreciable degree the number of birds.” Cram (1901) says,
“The red squirrel has been generally accused of being an inveterate
robber of birds’ nests, and I am afraid there is a good deal of ground
for the accusation; still, I have never observed him plundering a
nest, nor do the small birds generally exhibit any great alarm or
anxiety at his presence in the proximity of their homes.” ‘To this
I can add that in 25 years ornithological experience, and in 8 years
rather intensive study of the red squirrel, I have not come across
a case of depredations on nests by squirrels, but on the other hand
I have seen three cases where broods of robins were successfully
raised in places which a red squirrel visited every day.

Summing up this matter, the facts appear to be as follows: The
red squirrel does, more or less frequently, eat both birds’ eggs and
young birds. People who happen to witness such attacks are usually
interested mainly in birds, and often especially in the particular pair
whose nest is raided, so that the occurrence makes a deep impression.
Any such estimate as “ each squirrel destroys 200 birds a year ” is, to
say the least, a gross exaggeration, as at this rate the number of birds
in localities where squirrels are abundant would be seriously reduced,
which is not the case. Birds and squirrels have existed together in
North America long before man came on the scene, and the settlement
of the country has not rendered conditions more favorable to squir-
rels and less so to birds, but, if anything, the other way round. It is

24084—29——_34
518 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

probable that only certain red squirrels are bird-eaters, just as only
certain tigers are man-eaters, and such individuals should be de-
stroyed as soon as evidence against them is obtained.

Another phase of the relation between squirrels and birds is that
hawks and owls prey on the red squirrel, as has been mentioned in
the section on enemies.

A third phase of this relationship is that some birds, such as the
white-breasted nuthatch, downy and hairy woodpeckers, bronzed
erackle, blue jay, and house sparrow, rob the red squirrel of the food
it has stored in the forks of trees. Both the squirrels I have had
under observation lost a large part of their stored food in this way,
not so much because most of the food was eaten by the birds, but be-
cause the birds in attempting to eat it knocked piece after piece of
food out of the forks. Both these squirrels were frequently called
upon to defend their stores against these marauders, and when two
or more of the birds came into the tree at once they had a very busy
time, chasing first one and then another. In chasing these birds the
squirrels showed wonderful agility, and many times could, I believe,
have caught one of the birds if they had so desired, but in such cases
they always jumped short so as not to actually alight on the bird.

Cram (1901) mentions another phase of the squirrel’s relation to
birds. He says:

I have never known him to take part in the general outcry against a hawk or
owl. . . . But let him catch a glimpse of an unoffending partridge quietly
gathering berries or scratching among the pine needles, and he immediately
pretends to fall into an utterly uncontrollable rage. He slowly approaches the
bird with short, scratchy starts, down the tree trunk, keeping on the opposite
side as much as possible, and peering out from behind the rough bark and pro-
tecting branches, as if fully aware of his danger and determined on not expos-
ing himself more than necessary, and ever and anon retreating panic-stricken,
back into the shadow, to renew the attack from an opposite direction, barking
huskily. . . . It is wholly out of the question to suppose for a moment that
he can have any cause for resentment against the grouse family; and yet, so
universal is this habit of scolding and threatening them on every occasion that
I find I have gradually fallen into the way, when shooting grouse, of allowing
the squirrels to point out my game for me to a certain extent, finding that
three times out of four I can tell from the way they chatter whether or not it
is a grouse that excites them at the time.

A unique case of the relation of squirrel and bird is that recorde¢
by Roberts (1922) who saw a titmouse gathering hairs from the tai
of a red squirrel while the latter organ was hanging down from the
crotch of a tree. The titmouse “ flew down, perched on the trunk
beside the tail and gathered herself a mouthful of hairs, the squirrel
seeming to pay no attention. At first I thought that the squirrel
was dead, but when I started to walk around the tree he kept himself
on the other side as usual. The titmouse followed him around, took
THE RED SQUIRREL—KLUGH 519

a few more hairs and flew away, only to return in a few minutes for
more.”
RELATION TO FORESTS

The activities of the red squirrel which might be assumed to have
an injurious effect upon the forest are: The eating of immense quan-
tities of seeds of conifers and nuts, the eating of buds, and the bark-
ing of trees. As regards seeds and nuts, there is an immense over-
production as compared with the number which fall in situations
where they can germinate, and a very much larger number of young
trees start than can ever reach maturity, so that there is no evidence
to show that squirrels, by their seed and nut eating proclivities, in
any way interfere with forest reproduction. The eating of buds,
even when, as in some cases which I have witnessed, it seems to be
rather drastic, does not have any injurious effect upon the trees. The
amount of bark which is eaten from any individual tree is usually
small, and a branch is girdled only in exceptional cases, so that the
aggregate injury from this cause is small.

On the other hand there is little doubt but that the red squirrel
plays a more or less important part in reforestation, by reason of the
germination of seeds and nuts which it buries in the soil—thus bring-
ing them into the most favorable situation for germination—and then
either forgets or does not need.

PSYCHOLOGY

In the study of any animal the most interesting thing, and at the
same time the phase of the subject in which we have to proceed most
cautiously in drawing conclusions, is its mentality. I shall not enter
here into a discussion of the complications which the study of animal
psychology presents, of the pitfalls for the unwary with which it
abounds, or of the hotly debated matters of instinct, intelligence and
reason as shown by animals other than man, but shall merely remark
that Iam familiar with the methods and with the results which have
been attained in comparative psychology, and that I believe that close
and long-continued observation of red squirrels has given me some
glimpses of the mentality of this species.

GENERAL TEMPERAMENT OF THE SPECIES

Every species of animal exhibits, after one has a sufficient acquain-
tance with it, a general temperament, which, in spite of individual ex-
ceptions, is characteristic of the species. The main outstanding
features of the temperament of the red squirrel are: First, vivacity ;
and second, the ability to “keep its head,” that is, not to become
panic-stricken in times of danger,
520 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928
INDIVIDUALITY

This species exhibits individuality in a marked degree—in general
behavior, in actions, poses, food preferences, in fact in every partic-
ular in which we can detect individuality in an animal.

An excellent example of individuality was related to me by Dr. J.
G. Needham who stated that a certain red squirrel developed the habit
of eating the terminal buds, both apical and those of the branches, of
spruce trees about his house, and in this way damaged the trees so
much that it had to be shot. No other squirrels, of which there were
several on the property, exhibited this habit.

CURIOSITY

Curiosity is an attribute which the red squirrel exhibits very prom-
inently. Any new object is at once seen, carefully approached and
investigated. It seems as if the squirrel’s method of investigation
involves not only smelling a thing but trying it with its teeth.

OWNERSHIP

The sense of ownership seems to be well developed. Both of the
squirrels which have made the maple in my garden their headquarters
apparently regarded this tree as their private property, and drove
away other squirrels which came into it. It is quite likely that in
this case it was not the tree, but the stores that were arranged about
it, which they were defending. When the first squirrel was the
“owner” of this tree, another male, a little larger and apparently
as strong, sometimes came into the tree. It was immediately at-
tacked, and fled, hotly pursued, without putting up a fight. Once
T saw the intruder come into the tree while the “ owner” was away,
and finding some pieces of meat it proceeded to eat them in such a
hurry that it choked. The behavior of a red squirrel which is raid-
ing the stores of another is so absolutely different that one can tell
at once that it is not the owner.

The ownership of an article seems to be marked upon it by the
squirrel licking it, and by its moving it from the place in which it is
found. I have noticed again and again that when a squirrel finds
something for the first time it licks it, but when it takes out some-
thing which it has had in temporary storage it does not do so, and
that a thing when found mwst be moved, even though it is moved
only a foot, or sometimes even six inches, and the movement does
not result in a better storage place.

THE RED SQUIRREL—KLUGH 521
MEMORY

The red squirrel has an excellent memory. This is shown chiefly
by the way it remembers where it has put things, even after they have
been stored away for several days. Its location memory is, it seems to
me, phenomenal. Time after time I have seen it go by the nearest
route to something it has stored, take it out, and eat it. I have seen it
go to the ground and retrieve nuts when there was to my eyes no evi-
dence that a nut was buried there. The most conclusive proof of the
strength of its location memory was given by an incident in the winter
of 1924-25. The squirrel had buried nine nuts in the snow on the
balcony one afternoon. During the night there was a heavy snowfall,
and the new snow lay over a foot deep on the balcony. Next morning
the squirrel came, went without hesitation to each place, dug down,
and successively brought up the nine nuts. In many cases there is a
possibility that the sense of smell may play a part in the finding of
objects, but in the last case cited this seems to be out of the question.

ANTICIPATION

Anticipation is dependent upon, and directly connected with,
memory, and involves the association of ideas. I have seen several
instances of anticipation by the red squirrel. On two occasions I saw
a white-breasted nuthatch come and peck at a piece of food which the
squirrel had stored in the tree; the squirrel drove the bird away, and
then, as the nuthatch flew, the squirrel bounded over to another piece
of food as if it anticipated an attempt on that piece also. I have also
seen it bound over to guard something as soon as the nuthatch came
into the tree. Once, after we had been away for a few weeks, the
squirrel, as soon as it saw us at the balcony door, immediately went
over to a limb on which we had been in the habit of placing food.
The ability to anticipate and forestall an event was shown by one
incident. One day I placed a pile of apple peelings and two small
apples on a board which projected out over the roof. The squirrel
was pulling at a long piece of peeling when one of the apples rolled
and was about to fall off the board. The squirrel dropped the peel-
ing and seized the apple just in the nick of time.

EXPRESSION OF MENTAL STATES

The mental states of the red squirrel are expressed mainly by atti-
tudes, more rarely by the voice. Surprise, fear, curiosity, attention,
anger, contentment, all have their characteristic attitudes. The
attitude of surprise is either one in which the animal draws itself back
on its haunches and allows both forepaws to hang from the sides, or
else picks up first one forepaw and then the other. In fear the body is
flattened, the head dropped, and the tail held straight out. In curios-
022 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

ity the neck is stretched out to a remarkable degree. Anger is shown
by stamping the hind feet and jerking the tail; sometimes by stamp-
ing the front feet as well. Attention, especially listening, is shown
by folding one paw and placing it against the breast, if the animal
is on “all-fours”; or bringing both forepaws against the breast, if
it is sitting up.

The voice seems to be used only in anger, pain, curiosity, and in
intercommunication. The long rolling “ Chir-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r ” is an
intercommunication note, and is never used unless another red squir-
rel is in the vicinity.

The scolding chatter, which is so familiar to everyone, seems to
indicate anger, and is usually accompanied by stamping of the hind
feet, which action is sometimes so violent as to become a veritable
dance. It might be assumed that this chattering note denotes only
excitement and not anger, but from my observations I am inclined
to believe that this is not the case, as the squirrel can become very
excited without chattering, but as soon as its wrath is aroused by any-
thing, such as a person, cat, dog, another squirrel, or some activity
of its own which has not gone to suit it, it chatters. One incident
which brings this out rather well was as follows: I had put out two
very hard buns for the squirrel. It had some difficulty in getting
a firm grip on one of the buns because of the hardness and large
size, but finally made off with it. It ran up the branch from which
it usually jumped to the roof of the next house, gathered itself to-
gether, and sprang across. But in mid-air the bun slipped and fell
to the ground. The slipping of the bun upset the squirrel’s leap, but
the animal managed to alight safely, though far from gracefully.
It looked over the edge of the roof, after the bun, and then chattered
and stamped. It soon returned for the other bun, again had a
struggle to grip it, carried it up the branch as before, and jumped—
with the same result, the bun slipping from the squirrel’s teeth in
mid-air. After this second failure it was thoroughly angry and
chattered and stamped for a long time.

The note of pain is a rather shrill scream. I have heard it from an
intruding squirrel when bitten by the owner of the stores it was
raiding.

When the squirrel is curious, it often makes a low, “ meur-meur-
meur” note, and guided by this note I have often been led to observe
that a squirrel has discovered something.

REFLECTION

Reflection is a mental attribute which is supposed to be character-
istic only of man. Yet if it is not reflection, how else are we to
catalogue the mental state which leads to such actions as the follow-
ing. I have often seen a red squirrel take a piece of food, start for
THE RED SQUIRREL—-KLUGH 523

one place with it, pause a moment, then return and deposit it in
some other place. I have also repeatedly seen it store a piece of food
in one place, come back a short distance, pause, return to the food,
seize it and place it in another location, and I have also seen it re-
turn to a piece of food it has just stored in a fork of a tree and re-
arrange it. As to what actually passes in the mind of a squirrel we
are, unfortunately, completely in the dark; all we can do is to draw
inferences from its behavior and keep these inferences as far as pos-
sible untinged by our own mentality. But from close and long-
continued observation Iam convinced that the mental processes of the
red squirrel are far more varied and complicated than is usually sup-
posed, especially by those who pin their faith to experiments on
animals under entirely unnatural conditions.

LITERATURE CITED

Apamgs, A. L.
1873. Field and forest rambles with notes and observations on the natural
history of eastern Canada.
AUDUBON, J. J.. AND J. BACHMAN.
1846. Quadrupeds of North America, Vol. 1, p. 128.
BAILEY, V.
1918. Wild animals of the Glacier National Park. Nat. Park Service.
BELL, R.
1898. Nature and development of animal intelligence (Mills, 1898). Ap-
pendix,
BurRouGcHs, J.
1900. Squirrels and other fur-bearers.
Cog, L. J.
1922. Red squirrels swimming a lake. Journ. Mamm., Vol. 3, p. 53.
CRAM, W. E.
1901. Little beasts of field and wood.
Dice, L. R.
1921. Notes on the mammals of interior Alaska. Journ. Mamm., Vol. 2,
p. 25.
Dics, L. R., AnD H. B. SHERMAN.
1922. Notes on the mammals of Gogebic and Ontonagon counties, Michigan.
Occas. Papers Mus. Zool. Univ. Michigan.
FisHer, A. K.
1893. The hawks and owls of the United States.
Gipson, W. H.
1903. Highways and byways.
GILPIN, J. B.
1870. On the mammals of Nova Scotia. Trans. Nova Scotia Inst. Nat.
Sci., Vol. 2, p. 8.
GosssE, A.
1840. The Canadian naturalist.
HAHN, W. E.
1909. The mammals of Indiana. 33rd Ann. Rept. Indiana Dept. Geol.
and Nat. Resources, pp. 468-470.
MEARNS, E. A.

1878. Birds of the Hudson Highlands. Bull. Essex Inst., Vol. 10, p. 9.
524 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

Merriam, C. H.
1884. The mammals of the Adirondack region.
MILLER, G. S., JR.
1900. Preliminary list of the mammals of New York. Bull. New York State
Mus., No. 338, Vol. 7.
NELSON, E. W.
1918. Wild animals of North America. Nat Geog. Soc., Washington, D. C.
Oscoop, W. H.
1900. Results of a biological reconnaissance of the Yukon River region.
North Amer. Fauna No. 19.
PAULMIER, F. C.
1904. The squirrels and other rodents of the Adirondacks. Ninth Report
Forest, Fish, and Game Comm. of New York, p. 339.
RICHARDSON, J.
1829. Fauna Boreali-Americana, Vol. 1, p. 187.
ROBERTS, B.
1922., Bird-lore, Vol. 24, p. 215.
Seton, HE. T.
1909. Life-histories of northern animals, Vol. 1.
STONE, W., AND W. H. CRAM.
1902. American animals, p. 174.
THomgs,, C. S.
1922. Are squirrels bird-enemies? Bird-lore, Vol. 24, p. 207.

Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Klugh PLATE 1

1. RED SQUIRREL AT Nest HOLE

2. RED SQUIRREL HOLDING A SMALL PIECE OF FOOD
Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Klugh PLATE 2

1. YOUNG RED SQUIRREL EATING CEDAR SEEDS

2. YOUNG RED SQUIRREL. CURIOSITY
Smithsonian Report 1928.—Klugh PLATE 3

1. RED SQUIRREL RESTING. ATTITUDE 1

2. RED SQUIRREL RESTING. ATTITUDE 2

38. RED SQUIRREL RESTING. ATTITUDE 3
Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Klugh PLATE 4

1. RED SQUIRREL CARRYING BRANCHES WITH CEDAR CONES

2. RED SQUIRREL COMING DOWN TREE
Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Klugh PLATE 5

1. RED SQUIRREL DRINKING SAP

2. RED SQUIRREL SMELLING TRAIL OF ANOTHER RED SQUIRREL
SOME ADVENTURES OF A NATURALIST IN THE CEYLON
. JUNGLE

By Casry A. Woop

[With six plates]

The almost universal longing of the healthy adult to explore a
forest wilderness and to lead for a time a forest life is sometimes
referred to as a survival of boyhood, but the roots of this impelling
force lie niuch deeper. The call of the wild is probably a revival
of memories stamped, many thousands of years ago, on the cerebral
cells of our arboreal ancestors. It is a savage inheritance which we
may contemplate with pleasure and, unashamed, put to practical
use when opportunity occurs, if for no other reason that that given
by Charles Kingsley. “Some day, ere I grow too old to think, I
trust to be able to throw away all pursuits save natural history and
to die with my mind full of God’s facts instead of men’s hes.” For
the carrying out of such a plan I offer the jungle of Ceylon.

There are few large islands lying within the Tropics that offer
so many attractions to the biologist. This pear-shaped appendage
to the Indian peninsula extends its greatest length from 6° to 10°
north of the Equator. Its longest measurement is 27114 miles, its
greatest width 13714 miles, its area, with dependent islets, is about
one-sixth smaller than that of Ireland, or in the neighborhood of
26,000 square miles. The island is quite mountainous, the southern
hill zone alone covering an area of 4,200 square miles, while there are
at least four peaks whose heights are over 7,000 feet. The climate—
a matter of considerable moment for the field worker—is one of the
most delightful in the East. Owing to the medium size of the island,
to its position. in a large ocean of uniform temperature, to the influ-
ence of the trade winds that regularly blow over the Bay of Bengal
and the Indian Ocean, and to other causes, this terrestrial paradise
is free of the extremes of heat and cold that render many tropical
countries uncomfortable and unhealthy for natives and foreigners

alike.
Again, there is for the visitor generally a choice of altitude and

consequently of climate, flora, and fauna. If he objects to the com-
paratively hot temperature of Colombo, on the low-lying seacoast, he
525
526 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

may move to Kandy (1,600 feet above sea level) where, owing to
elevation and other influences, the nights are cool (occasionally cold)
and where the mean temperature of each month in the year rarely
deviates more than a single degree from 76° F., the mean annual
temperature.

If, however, the naturalist desires a change of study and still
cooler surroundings, let him move to the summer capital, Nuwara
Eliya, 6,500 feet above sea level, where he may enjoy all year round
the conditions and appearances of a New England spring. Although
he will never anywhere in Ceylon see snow, the evenings and nights
at this elevation are quite cold and fires, overcoats, and blankets are
among conveniences not to be despised.

Ceylon, thanks to British enterprise and good government, is grid-
ironed by excellent motor roads. They, in conjunction with the
railways, provide access to all parts of the colony, even to out-of-
the-way jungle and mountain areas. This provision renders field
studies of its flora and fauna comparatively easy tasks, and if the
student of nature will avoid alcoholic beverages, is careful to eat
only well-cooked food and ripe fruit fresh from its protective cover-
ings and to drink boiled or bottled liquids he can laugh at the dysen-
tery, typhoid fever, and similar ailments that may affect the careless
and improvident in any country.

With this regulation of diet the only disease likely to attack the
visitor to the Ceylon jungle is malaria. That danger may be nulli-
fied by sleeping always under a well-made and untorn net, after one’s
servant (better, do it yourself) has carefully inspected the bed and
the interior of the net to make certain that all mosquitos in them are
killed. Remember this rule of the jungle applicable in all malarial
countries: Protect yourself from the deadly female anopheles, that
winged serpent that between sunset and sunrise seeks whom she may
devour. Eliminating this danger one may freely explore the wild-
est Sinhalese forest with little discomfort and with slight danger to
life and limb.

My first lesson in wild sylva was provided by the environs of
Kandy. The borders of the lovely little lake that forms its center
are embellished by a dozen of the most beautiful flowering species
in the whole world. A walk of three or four miles about that lacus-
trine, park-like area furnishes a liberal education in tropical botani-
cal life. If one wishes to take a further course in this fascinating
subject, a few miles away are the beautiful gardens of Peradiniya
and Hakegalla.

Nor is the study of jungle zoology less restricted; to acquaint one-
self with the birds, mammals, and reptiles of this charming country
may well occupy several years of one’s lifetime. In the few pages
at my command I shall, of course, be able to speak of but few of the
A NATURALIST IN CEYLON—WooD Wale

plants and animals that make up the life of the Lanka Forest, but
of all the jungle areas I have visited throughout the Tropics it has
charmed me most.

The birds peculiar to Ceylon are now being pictured from draw-
ingst by Mr. G. M. Henry and as this beautiful atlas is issued by the
Government at a very low price I shall say nothing further about
them.

Of all the nest-builders the Indian tailor bird (Orthotomus s.
sutorius, also known as Sutorius s. sutoria) holds first rank. In the
Smithsonian Annual Report for 1925 I thought I had described all
the typical nests but a glance at the accompanying plates will show
my error. Additional studies of these wonderful structures con-
vince me that nidification forms are almost endless. Indeed, the
finest example of the sewing, stitching, and suturing these little
birds are capable of was sent me a short time ago by a lady in
Kandy. It is made of four hibiscus leaves—probably H. rosa-
sinensis—three of them fairly large and in their normal site on the
tree, and the fourth smaller, inverted and used to fill the space be-
tween the others. Roughly, the nest mass is 614 inches long, with
transverse diameters of 3 and 31% inches, respectively. The open-
ing at the upper part of the nest is quite patent and must have been
readily reached by the birds.

Miss Le Marchant, of Kandy, who discovered and gave me this
example, tells me that it was built about 4 feet from the ground
and was entirely hidden from view. The body of the nest is well
filled with the floss of Kapok (Z’riodendron anfractuosum) or “ silk
cotton,” mixed with papyrus-like bark, vegetable (coconut?) fibers
and a few hairs. The nest cavity extended to the very bottom of
the structure and was carefully lned with kapok over an inter-
twining layer of fibrous material. The tailoring was mostly of the
tufted pattern, although here and there are evidences of genuine
sewing and stitching.

Mr. N. K. Jardine of the Ceylon Department of Agriculture re-
cently noted an interesting instance of parasitism in this species which
is unique in the literature. As soon as a Loten’s sunbird (Cyrtostomus
lotenius) had completed a nest, a pair of tailor birds took possession.
The female laid one egg therein, hatched it and raised a fledgling.
Was this a case of pure laziness on the part of the birds, or had they
failed in one or more previous efforts at nidification and, weary of
the fruitless struggle, decide to rent and not to build? Who knows?

During my sojourn in Ceylon I found it politic to offer small re-
wards for gathering such plants and animals as I could induce the
indolent natives to collect. Among desiderata were nests of the In-

1Colored Plates of the Birds of Ceylon, 3 parts, 48 colored plates. Dulau & Co.,
London. 1927.
528 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

dian tailor bird and although I never was made richer by a single
nest I did secure several quite similar dwellings of the tailor ant
(Occophylla smaragdina). The ecology of this wonderful insect
might fill a book. He does not sew but glues the edges of leaves to-
gether, afterwards lining the cavity, not with cotton or other fibre,
but with a kind of self-made transparent paper which is also used
for joining the leaf edge. Many a time I have watched these indus-
trious architects at their work. The object of their house building is
to form a globular casing in which the breeding cells, food, ete., are
stored. First, several ants stand on the margin of one leaf and,
erasping a contiguous leaf edge in their mandibles, draw it to the
border on which they are standing. Other workers on the inner or
opposite surfaces paste the approximated margins together.

If the neighboring leaf is too far away the ants make a chain of
their bodies to reach the desired contiguous blade which is then drawn
up and cemented. This work is so thoroughly done that long after
the leafy materials have dried and are partly disintegrated the origi-
nal structure holds its shape and a good deal of force is required to
tear it apart. |

It is advisable to make these observations at a safe distance because
the red leaf ant is one of the largest and most ferocious of its order;
its bites are very painful and, for some persons, poisonous. Exam-
ined with a lens their crossed mandibles show serrated edges; they
may be said to be armed with veritable “teeth.” I have had them
drop on and bite me while walking along a jungle path. No native
will ascend a tree for coconuts, toddy, or other objects when there
are active colonies of red ants on trunk or branches.

It is only fair to say just here that many of the animals one has
been taught in school books to fear are those that in Ceylon, at least,
give the working naturalist little concern, while others with whose
habits he is less familiar call for some consideration.?

In the first category may be placed four or five poisonous snakes,
the elephant, the leopard, the crocodile, the wild boar and, perhaps,
the bear. I shall have something to say about my experiences with
these later on.

Of the really dangerous animals, as one meets them in jungle life,
there are, in addition to the deadly Anopheles just mentioned and
which I regard as incomparably the most lethal of all Ceylon ani-
mals, mainly three. The chief of these, so far as my experience goes,
is also invertebrate, viz: the Ceylon land leech. Two other danger-

2Among the native population the figures vary, but in an early quinquennial report of
108 coroners’ inquests on deaths from wild animals, 68 (mostly women and children)
were from serpent bite; 16 from elephants; 15, buffaloes; 6, crocodiles; 2, wild boars;
1 by a bear. This can hardly be called excessive in a native population (for the
period quoted) of over 2,000,000, mostly forest residents.
A NATURALIST IN CEYLON—wWwooD 529

ous animals are the buffalo (both wild and domesticated) and the
“vogue ” elephant.

There are other Sinhalese animals one encounters in the jungle
that the naturalist had better not associate with too intimately (the
crocodile, for instance) but considered as dangerous to health or
life they are negligible.

During a residence of more than two years in Ceylon, when I made
many excursions over the island, I never saw but one wiid cobra, and
yet there is no doubt but that Vaja naja is not an uncommon reptile
in all parts of the colony. Wherever I went I was continually on
the lookout for this interesting ophidian, but I saw him in numbers
only as caged specimens.

I knew that none of the so-called “king cobras” infests the coun-
try; the Hamadryad Naja hannah is not found in Ceylon. That
fierce and dangerous serpent is a purely Indian species of quite an-
other variety, whose distinguishing character is that he is not only
unafraid of man but, unlike the hooded cobra, will chase and attack
human beings on the slightest provocation.

I met in Colombo an engineer just returned from a tour of inspec-
tion in the interior of Burma. One day, while driving through a
lonely jungle, he stopped to turn his small car and saw ahead of him
a snake in the middle of the road, coiled and hissing. He recognized
a large king cobra with whose evil disposition he was well acquaint-
ed, so without further ado he proceeded to turn tail and run, but
not before the venomous reptile was upon him, striking at the mov-
ing car and trying to board it. However, he was finally able to get
away in time and escaped, leaving the cobra well behind. Similar
tales by reliable observers I have heard first hand from several other
people. On the other hand, the Ceylon cobra is practically harmless
and unless actually trodden upon or otherwise badly frightened will
not attack man, and will almost always try to escape.

During one of my jungle excursions I was taking a midday siesta
when my servant came in breathless, “ Master, master, a snake.” I
followed him through the little village near which we were camped
and accompanied by, it seemed to me, all the inhabitants, male and
female, babies and ancients, we reached a spot a hundred yards or
so in the deep jungle and there, in a tamarind tree (a most ususual
resort for a terrestrial snake) was a cobra of unusual length—per-
haps 6 feet. My entourage, including my servant, kept a safe dis-
tance, but as I knew the snake’s attitude toward humanity I got fair-
ly close and with my glasses studied him to some purpose. Soon he
tired of us, and, slowly crawling through the foliage, disappeared.
As all my native friends were Buddhists, Naja was safe from them;
as for me, why should I shoot an animal practically innocuous that
was doing its duty in regulating the balance of amphibian life?
530 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

I can not draw such a peaceful picture of the dreaded tic-polonga
(Vipera russel), a beautifully marked, viperlike snake with typical
poison fangs of the hypodermic-syringe type.

This snake has a bad habit of lying perdu on or near paths fre-
quented by village inhabitants. He is not so good tempered as
the cobra and is likely to strike the passer-by. A friend of mine
had a narrow escape in this way. Walking home from our hotel
a tic-polonga, easily recognized by its variegated, striped skin, struck
at him from a neighboring bush and caught the sleeve of his coat.
He shook off the reptile, which escaped into the shrubbery.

The roster of death from poisonous-snake bite in Ceylon is
not a long one, and rarely includes a European name. I could
not find an account of a single death among the white race from
this cause during my stay in the country. I suspect that the wearing
of boots, shoes, and heavy clothing has much to do with this record.
It is the barefooted, half-naked, and therefore unprotected native
who suffers.

Speaking of the land leech, I have already drawn attention (Ann.
of Med. Hist., 1926, p. 441) to the fact that I have on several
occasions been successfully phlebotomized by this active little beast
during my jungle trips and can testify to its efficiency as a letter
of blood. I did not, however, dwell upon the chief danger of
the bites from the several hundred “ teeth” of this wicked little
creature, viz, the secondary infections, ulcers, etc., that follow the
triangular incisions made by them unless the wound is promptly
and effectively treated—after the copious and persistent blood-fiow
is arrested—by iodine and collodion.

One meets with this leech everywhere on the island where the
rainfall is sufficient. It is an agile and exceedingly nimble little ani-
mal, from 1 to 114 inches in length. Attached by a posterior sucker
to the top of a grass stem or exposed leaf, it lies in wait, waving
about in the air with eyes and smelling apparatus alert, awaiting the
passage of its warm-blooded victim. The bite is not painful, but
the incision bleeds freely; indeed the first intimation the host gen-
erally has of his visitor’s insult is a stream of blood trickling from
the point to which the leech has attached itself.

It is not possible to speak of Ceylon leeches without thinking not
only of their medicinal but of their important military and political
relations. One of the chief defenses of the ancient Kandyan King-
dom, and one explanation of its successful resistance of foreign inva-
sion for 300 years after the subjugation of the rest of the island, lies
in the vast multitudes of leeches that infested the wet, impassable
mountain jungle that lay between the seaboard and Kandy, and
through which an invading army must march. As one of many such
incidents, in 1553 A. D. a force of Portuguese soldiers, on their way

A NATURALIST IN CEYLON—wWoOOD 531

to attack the Kandyan king,’ “were encamped in the midst of rank
grass and marshy pools infested with myriads of leeches. Clothes
afforded no protection against their needlelike bodies; satiated, they
dropped in streams of blood from the eyelids and ears of the men,
and had to be plucked out of their very gums as they ate their food.
Rest was out of the question, for the voracious animals swarmed on
all sides in ever-increasing numbers.” ‘The expedition failed of its
objective.

I have always had a salutary fear of herds of water buffalo,
even of those individuals who have not made something more than a
passing acquaintance with Europeans. The Sinhalese form does not
differ from the other oriental carabaos. They delight in immersing
themselves in any of the thousands of tanks that constitute the
wonderful irrigation system of ancient Ceylon; or to he for hours
covered with mud and, while thus protected from stinging insects,
the helpful crow picks from their smooth, leathery backs the ticks
that burrow in their skin.

This buffalo hates the smell of the stranger, especially of the white
“ outlander,” and may attack him head-on unless he is able to escape,
preferably by climbing some friendly tree. Seventy years ago
Tennent painted a vivid picture of the habits of this dangerous brute,
particularly when he was encountered in the unfrequented solitudes
of Ceylon. He speaks of the temper of the wild (let me add that
some domesticated animals should be included) buffalo of Ceylon
as morose and uncertain and said that “it is never quite safe to
approach them if disturbed in their pasture or alarmed from their
repose in the shallow lakes: On such occasions they hurry into line,
draw up in defensive array with a few of the oldest bulls in
advance, and, wheeling in circles, their horns clashing in a loud
sound as they clank them together in their rapid evolutions, they pre-
pare for attack, but generally after a menacing display the herd
betakes itself to flight. Then forming again at a safer distance they
halt as before, elevating their nostrils, and throwing back their
heads to take a defiant survey of the intruders.”

There remains the “rogue” elephant as a real danger to the
tourist in Ceylon, but before recounting my experience of this rather
curious animal anomaly, let me say something about the interesting
Sinhalese elephantine race, which differs in many respects from
their cousins, the Indian and African species.

Before visiting Ceylon I, in common with most naturalists, be-
lieved that I knew something of Hlephas maximus maximus of
Linnaeus, but more or less intimate contact with that animal proved
how ignorant I really was. A few of these observations may interest
the reader.

3 PipRis, P. E. Ceylon and the Portuguese, p. 72.
532 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

The Ceylon race of elephants was at one time found in immense
numbers all over the island, even at the tops of the high mountains,
wherever food, shade, and water were obtainable. The inroads
of man have since then greatly reduced their numbers and limited
their range, but they still are found wild in many accessible localities.
IT have often found their fresh spoor and seen recently captured
specimens during my forest rambles.

This historic subspecies has been exported especially to India
from the earliest times. Aelian, the naturalist historian, writing
in the second century A. D., gives an account of their employment
in the first Punic War. In more recent times all wild elephants
became the property of the Kandyan kings, and their capture
without permission of the crown was a grave criminal offense.

Doubtless the survival of comparatively large herds of Sinhalese
elephants is due chiefly to their lack of tusks. While the Indian and
African elephant—both male and female—possess this important
source of the ivory of commerce, less than 1 per cent of the Ceylon
variety—invariably the male elephant—is provided with these use-
ful organs. Their place is taken by undeveloped tushes about a foot
long which assist the animal to gather his food or to dig in the earth
for water, or to uproot succulent plants. The tusks of the Sinhalese
elephant are quite unlike those of his African relative, being smaller,
more slender, more gracefully curved and furnishing less than one-
half the ivory of the latter species.

With rare exceptions I found the Ceylon elephant to be a most
intelligent, harmless, amiable and useful beast, readily tamed and,
if properly treated, able and willing to do a certain amount of hard
work.

His habits in the jungle are well known. As he fears no enemy
but man and as his food is ever ywhere easily obtainable, there is no
rivalry with other denizens of the jungle and consequently no
development in him of combative qualities.

In addition to the absence of tusks, the ears of the Ceylon variety
are smaller than in the Indian and African species, the forehead is
higher and more concave, and the formation of the teeth is different.

When in India [ had an ancient illustrated Sanskrit manuscript on
the elephant translated for me. It corresponds to a similar work in
Pali-Sinhalese, called the Hastisilpe, in which the various breeds or
castes of this noble animal are carefully described and pictured.

Apart from the white or albino elephant the natives of Ceylon
prefer to the usual, uniformly light-brown animal one whose skin
is disfigured by yellowish, pink, or flesh-colored blotches, especially
on the trunk, ears, forehead, and legs. These mottled areas do
not indicate a particular breed but are very likely deteriorations of
A NATURALIST IN CEYLON—wWooD 530

the cuticle produced by the healing of local sores or abrasions
caused by rubbing the irritated parts on the rough bark of trees.

It has often been noticed that the derma of wild elephants is of
a lighter brown than that of captives, a condition probably due to
the care given tame animals. The latter not only receive frequent
baths but are as often shampooed with a brick, a coconut husk,
or a piece of burnt clay. This treatment, with an occasional appli-
cation of oil, probably accounts for the darker coloration of the
skin in tamed specimens.

I was not able to verify, in the case of Sinhalese elephants, any
of the travelers’ tales about the dread or fury supposed to be incited
in the elephant by the presence of smaller animals, the dog, the
pig, the mouse, the horse, etc. I am convinced that so far as the
Ceylon race is concerned he does his best, consistent with his love
of solitude and family life, to live in peace and amity with all
other animals. If he attacks horses and dogs his animosity does not
arise from any dislike of them per se but because of their well-known
association with his arch enemy, man.

That tame elephants do not fear or dislike horses is of common
knowledge in Ceylon; indeed the contrary is generally true. Horses
evince a decided dread of the elephant. While I was living in Kandy
the acting governor and some members of his family were one day
riding along a mountain path, when they met a working elephant,
ringing his warning bell as he moved about. All the horses of the
party bolted and the governor with his half-crazed mount fell over
the mountain side. The horse was killed, but his rider fortunately
escaped with some injuries.

During the rutting season—called in Sinhalese mudda—elephants
are subject to fits of temporary paroxysms of fury when it may be
dangerous for even the animal’s mahout to approach the gentlest or
tamest of them.

The Sinhalese elephant does not depend upon his trunk or tushes
as weapons of defense, although he may occasionally use them for
that purpose. Butting with his ponderous head and utilizing the
enormous crushing force of all four legs he holds the smaller animal
with his trunk while he endeavors to tread the life out of him by
alternate tramplings with his enormous feet.

The elephant has weak vision and a poorly developed ocular
apparatus. As in the dog, this defect is neutralized by his acute
hearing and highly developed sense of smeil. Indeed his eyesight
would not be of much use to him when surrounded by the close
foliage of the jungle even if his thick and almost rigid neck did not
materially limit his range of vision.

24034—29 35

534 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

When one bears in mind the huge bulk of the animal, it is re-
markable how noiselessly he moves through the jungle. During one
of my excursions a small herd that had been browsing in a gully near
Sigiriya passed quite close to my companion and myself. And if
we had not known of their presence, we would never have suspected
it from any sound of breaking twigs, overturned stones or other
noises one might expect to be made by so large a beast passing
through the dense forest.

This is not the place to discuss that ancient, world belief that the
elephant “having no joints in his knees” can not lie down and, of
course, always sleeps standing or while leaning against a tree or
other support. Shakespeare echoes this age-old fallacy when he says
that “the elephant hath joints, but none for courtesy; his legs are
for necessity, not flexure.” The fact is that an erect posture is
generally comfortable for the great beast owing to the ponderous
pillars of his body and he often dozes in the upright position, but
that he can and does he down is well known to observers. Sir
Emerson Tennent long ago delivered the judgment of the court of
scientific observation when he describes the real peculiarity of the
great beast not only in lying down but in climbing up and down
hill. He performs both acts easily and quickly, by extending his
hind legs backwards as a man does when he kneels, instead of bring-
ing them under him like the horse or any other quadruped.

The wise purpose of this arrangement must be obvious to anyone who ob-
serves the struggle with which the horse gets up from the ground, and the
violent efforts which he makes to raise himself erect. Such an exertion in
the case of the elephant, and the force requisite to apply a similar movement
to raise his weight (equal to 4 or 5 tons) would be attended with a dangerous
strain upon the muscles, and hence the simple arrangement, which by enabling
him to draw the hind feet gradually under him, assists him to rise almost
without a perceptible effort.*

There may have been a period in the early history of Ceylon
when the increase in herds of wild elephants created a menace
to the crops of the native and possibly to the plantations of
Europeans. At any rate, the government still permits so-called
“sportsmen ” to kill these gentle, useful, and now generally harmless
animals. I was unable during my stay in the colony to obtain any
facts justifying this practice except in the case of “ rogues,” about
which I shall shortly say a word or two. No; the shooting of
an elephant with a high-power rifle (through the head at a distance
of a few yards) requires no special skill and is attended with no
particular risk. The huntsman really gets as much glory out of
it and risks his person about as much as he would by going out into
a paddy field to fire at a bullock. The act is simply that of the
man who is consciously or unconsciously satisfying his primitive

*Ceylon. An Account of the Island, ete. Fifth edition, London, Vol. II, p. 298.
A NATURALIST IN CEYLON—WwoopD 530

lust for killing; it is a form of reversion to his original savagery.
Lest I should be accused of using intemperate language, let me
quote the words of Tennett, who wrote in 1860 what is still acknowl-
edged to be the best account of Ceylon in general and of her natural
history in particular:

An ordinary traveler seldom comes upon elephants unless after sunset or
toward daybreak, ag they go to or return from their nightly visits to the
tanks; but when by accident a herd is disturbed by day they evince, if
unattacked, no disposition to become assailants; and if the attitude of defense
which they instinctively assume prove sufficient to check the approach of
the intruder, no further demonstration is to be apprehended. The shooting
of elephants in Ceylon has been described with tiresome iteration in the
successive journals of sporting gentlemen, but one who turns to their pages
for traits of the animal and his instincts is disappointed to find little beyond
graphic sketches of the daring and exploits of his pursuers, most of whom,
having had no further opportunity of observation than is derived from a
casual encounter with the outraged animal, have apparently tried to exalt
their own prowess by misrepresenting the ordinary character of the elephant,
describing him as “ savage, wary, and revengeful.” The shooting of an elephant,
whatever endurance and adroitness the sport may display in other respects,
requires the smallest possible skill as a marksman. Generally speaking, a
single ball, planted in the forehead, ends the existence of the noble creature
instantaneously; and expert sportsmen have been known to kill right and
left, one with each barrel; but occasionally an elephant will not fall before
several shots have been lodged in his head. To persons like myself, who are
not addicted to what is called “ sport,’ the statement of these wholesale
slaughters is calculated to excite surprise and curiosity as to the nature
of a passion that impels men to self-exposure and privation, in a pursuit which
presents nothing but the monotonous recurrence of scenes of blood and
suffering.

The taming of the wild elephant after his capture has been largely
in the hands of a particular Singhalese caste for many centuries. The
methods of taking and training these huge beasts is fairly well known
and need not be discussed here. I have often talked over these matters
with native hunters and keepers and find that preparing the wild
animal for his various tasks and functions is a comparatively simple
matter and to be successful must take the form of kindness and
petting tempered by firmness, and never marred by cruelty. The
chief employments of the tamed elephant are clearing forest lands,
working in the brickyards, carrying and piling timber, stone, and
other heavy objects, drawing wagons, cultivating the land and acting
as ceremonial adjuncts to a temple or in the entourage of a nobleman.

The methods employed in taming a wild elephant extend over a
period of several weeks or months; females are more docile and
tractible than males and (as in the case of some human beings) there
are some individuals that are naturally vicious, troublesome, and
subject to fits of stubbornness and temper. The elephant’s obedience
to his mahout is due partly to fear but mostly to real affection, and
many are the tales told to prove the claim that love rules his (or her)
536 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

mammoth heart. That kindness and common sense are the open
sesame to an elephant’s obedience is shown by the fact that, con-
trary to general belief, the animal’s keeper may, in most instances,
be changed frequently without interfering with the daily routine se
long as he is treated with due consideration of his animal rights.
These include that, above all, he must not be overworked, he must be
regularly and properly fed (no small task) and must have two daily
baths (with massage) as well as subsequent repose in a quiet, cool,
and retired spot.

From all I could learn from reliable observers the lifetime of the
average captive elephant, like that of the happily placed parrot, is
about the span allotted to man—70 years.

Just as few persons have ever seen a dead mule so infrequently
has the body of a dead elephant been found in the Singhalese forest.
The natives believe that elephants bury their dead just like humans,
and some assert that when an aged beast senses the approach of death
he sets out for a remote and quiet valley and there patiently awaits
his end. I know of a forest near Anaradhapura that conceals one
of these reputed elephant cemeteries, but so well hidden is it that no
man knows its exact location.

When an elephant has tusks he uses them and his trunk in most of
his work. In lifting large rocks and timber a chain or rope is usually
stretched around the object, which is also attached to a rope end.
This latter the elephant holds in his mouth and with the aid of his
trunk (and tusks when he has any) slowly carries the heavy burden
to its allotted position, placing it with great care and evident appre-
ciation of the purpose of his work. Im all the operations the worker
is ordered to carry on, he is the judge as to its safety and propriety.
If he is to cross a bridge with or without a load or is commanded to
essay a piece of cut stone or a heavy timber he considers the task
and tests it with foot, trunk, and eye—taking all factors into consid-
eration. If he thinks the ground unsafe or the weight of materials
too great he hesitates or halts and if then urged to go ahead refuses,
roars, and shows temper. He is captain of his own resources.

Writers on the subject devote much space to the “rogue” (Sin-
halese hora) elephant and he certainly is a pitiful and picturesque
creature. He is nearly always a male who, an outcast from his herd
owing to some breach of jungle law, is not allowed to join any other
group and becomes a veritable Ishmaelite. He may drink, bathe, and
eat in the vicinity of a herd but any attempt at familiarity or in-
timacy with any of its members is at once resented and the intruder
is driven off, the process being punctuated by heavy blows with the
trunk and butting with the head administered, it may be, by previous
friends and companions. No wonder this otherwise gentle, intelli-
gent, naturally gregarious and social animal becomes savage, morose,
A NATURALIST IN CEYLON—WOOD Doe

and dangerous under such cavalier (and probably to him grossly
unjust) treatment.

The outlaw turns bandit and murderer; he spends his nights in
destroying plantations, overturning huts, and in pulline up rice
plants, and young coconut palms. Hiding in the jungle by day these
crazed beasts often prow] about unfrequented roads and jungle paths,
and it is extremely dangerous for an unarmed man to wander in their
neighborhood; and several instances of the killing of innocent natives
by them have been described to me. Fortunately rogue elephants
are rare in Ceylon and are said to number only about 1 in 500 in the
wild state.

Of course, there is only one remedy for this anomaly—the death
of the hora—and here, the sportsman may be said to be of some
legitimate service. I clipped the following notice from the Ceylon
Times of January 18, 1925:

The government agent of the northwestern Province is prepared to issue
licenses, free of stamp duty, for the destruction of two rogue elephants, the
descriptions of which are appended below: 1. One near 24th milepost on
Kurunegala-Puttalam road; male, height about 9 feet, white spots on head and
trunk. 2. One near 26th milepost on Kurunegala-Puttalam road; male, height
about 8 feet, shot wounds on left side and lower left jaw, appears to be lame
on right front leg.

Of the carnivora found in the Ceylon jungle the bear (Melursus
ursinus) 1s everywhere said to be the most dangerous, much more to
be feared than the comparatively cowardly leopard. The Sinhalese
animal has the usual ursine habits, but when frightened or if he
imagines he is being pursued, never hesitates to attack anyone, native
or Kuropean, that crosses his tracks. This species always attempts
to claw and bite the head of its victim and I have seen frightful
scars on the persons of survivors of these encounters. The wife of
an English official, a noted huntress, whom I knew, was nearly killed
by a bear despite the fact that she was armed with a rifle that she
used with decided effect during the fight.

Although they are not very numerous or dangerous, one frequently
hears about and occasionally sees (especially if he watches a water
hole at night) the beautiful Ceylon leopard. This animal makes his
home in the hill country, chiefly in the clefts of rocks and subsists on
the wild deer and domestic animals found in and about the native
villages. He is hunted and trapped for his fur which, by the way, is
very poorly cured by the natives. Until they are full grown the baby
leopard (brought in by native hunters) makes a pretty and amusing
pet, which one may sometimes buy for a few rupees in the bazaars.

There are at least two distinct species of crocodiles in Ceylon, both
with evil reputations. Although I have seen hundreds of these huge
reptiles in Sinhalese waters and have heard many tales of misadven-
5388 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

tures in which they were the assailants, I am inclined to believe that
with ordinary precautions one may approach them without danger
either from the shores of a tidal river or, more intimately, in a boat
launched on any of their haunts in the larger tanks. In the estuaries
of the low country one commonly finds the Indian crocodile (Crocodi-
lus porosus). Some individuals of this species attain a length of
16 feet, or more. The full-grown Marsh crocodile (C. palustris)
is rarely seen of greater length than 13 or 14 feet, and it is found
almost exclusively in the fresh water tanks of the central and north-
ern Provinces.

Although the Indian crocodile will undoubtedly attack humar.
beings if driven by hunger, yet both species have learned to respect
the man with the gun, and are likely to sink below water and swim
silently away at his approach.

At Giant’s Tank—an immense artificial lake or irrigation reser-
voir covering more than a hundred square miles and built five cen-
turies ago by a Sinhalese king—I spent several days studying the
aquatic and shore life of that marvelous construction. It was in-
fested by thousands of crocodiles, most of them C. palustris, although
I remarked some of the apparently larger examples of the Indian
species that may have wandered in from the Gulf of Manaar close by.
They lived on the waterfowl, tortoises, fish, etc., that abound in the
waters of this great tank.

Constant warfare is waged on these saurians, partly because they
form a good target for “sportsmen” (who rarely kill them by a
single shot), partly for their skins, and to some extent because
they are “vermin,” preying on dogs and other domestic animals
that bathe or swim in waters frequented by the reptiles. Hunters
claim that fowl shot and falling into the water are likely to be seized
and devoured by crocodiles.

One day, while studying the biology of the lovely jungle about the
Minneriya (or Minery) Tank—one of the largest artificial lakes in
Ceylon—I was told by a first-hand observer that quite recently a
planter, out shooting in a boat, lost a valuable retriever who with
a duck in his mouth was seized, dragged beneath the waters of the
lake, and never seen again.

In times of drought the smaller tanks often become dry, and
then the Marsh crocodile leaves his usual dwelling and wanders
over the country in search of water or mud, in which he may
immerse himself until the coming of the rains. This fact explains
the discovery of individual saurians sometimes miles away from
the nearest water tank.

The larger tanks are the resort of many birds that are not exclu-
sively aquatic. One of the most interesting of these is the Indian
pied kingfisher. His activities may well occupy one’s attention for

A NATURALIST IN CEYLON—WOOD 539

hours at a time. Unlike most other kingfishers he has no blue in
his plumage but is a charming, spotted and barred mixture of black
and white. This species avoids inland forest streams and prefers
the lagoons and tanks near the coast. His diet is entire piscine,
but he hunts his prey in a fashion quite unlike other members of
lis order. He does not dart into the water from the branch of
a tree, stump, or telegraph pole like most kingfishers; he hovers
in the air over the water as a kestrel poises over a meadow searching
for field mice. In this suspended and hovering position above the
lake he seems as fixed as if he were really resting on a stiff and
dead branch of a tree. One sees him in this aerial perch turning
his head from side to side, up and down, watching the waters
beneath him. All at once his wings cease fluttering, he closes them
tight about his body, and plunges straight as an arrow on his
finny prey, which he rarely fails to grasp and carry ashore.

These are a few of the many wonderful sights that the Sinhalese
forest offers to those that wander into her solitudes.
Mee Wily
y ait aH) Ki
AtB Hl ye! hii
ise kid Me
it

Smithsonian Report, 1928—Wood PLATE 1

1. PART OF A DESERTED ROCK-BUILT PALACE IN THE JUNGLE OF ARAMKELLA,
CEYLON

2. NATIVE WEAVERS AND SPINNERS, CEYLON
PLATE 2

Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Wood

AN UNUSUAL TYPE OF TAILOR BIRD’S NEST FROM CEYLON
Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Wood

PLATE 3

ONE FORM OF SEWING IN THE TAILOR BIRD'S NEST, CEYLON
NOTARD ‘FqIsaqvOy AHL NO LNVHd31q ON! NOVASO NI XYOM
-MYOM WY “GNVWWWOD 4O GHOM JAHL ONIAZEO '% NOILONYLSNOD NO Gvayug ATIVG SIH DNINYVE ‘If

by alvid POOM—'8Z6l ‘Hodey uUuB!UOSYIWS
Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Wood PLATE 5

1. CEYLON ELEPHANTS TAKING PART IN A CEREMONIAL PROCESSION

2. RESTING FROM WORK ON A JUNGLE ROAD, CEYLON
1isvq 3HL 4O NVI
ANIOIGAW 3HL ‘“NOTARD NI SYSONVG TAA LSAYHO4 ‘% IVLIdSOH OGWO10D AHL LV 13d $,4YOLO0G AHL ‘I

9 3ALV1d POOM—'8Z6L ‘Wodey uBlUOsSY IWS
COMMUNICATION AMONG INSECTS

By N. E. McInpoo, PH. D.

Senior Entomologist, Deciduous-Fruit Insect Investigations, Bureau of En:
tomology, United States Department of Agriculture

[With one plate]
INTRODUCTION

Communication among people implies some form of language.
Regardless of whether it is an oral, a written, a sign, or a touch lan-
guage, our definition of the word language is so well fixed in our
minds that it can not be correctly used for any animai other than
the human species. Nevertheless, the word, broadly speaking, means
any form of communication and should not be confined solely to
people. For fear of criticism recent writers on insect psychology
have hardly dared to use the word language in connection with in-
sect communication. However, in the writer’s mind, communication
among insects, particularly among the social ones, is better devel-
oped, and perhaps developed on a higher scale, than is communica-
tion among the most primitive tribes of people. Of course, these
tribes are able to convey ideas by speech, gestures, signs, and to a
limited degree by written characters; nevertheless, when we consider
the minutest details of communication, the extremely acute senses of
smell and touch in insects certainly surpass the crude and undeveloped
means of these tribes of people. Then why do we confine the word
language to people only? Merely because usage among ourselves has
decreed this order, and we fail to consider that animals also must
communicate, not only among their own species but more or less with
other animals.

One of the unanswered questions concerning the lives of insects
has been, how do they know one another, and how do they com-
municate information when once they have gained it? We are begin-
ning to receive light on this subject, but have much yet to learn
before we know all the details of the means which enable insects
to live in communities. Ever since ancient times people have won-
dered how ants and bees, in particular, recognize their companions.
Since it was not reasonable to suppose that each insect in a large
community could recognize by sight every other individual in it, the

541
542 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

early entomologists imagined that insects must communicate by
signs and passwords.

Kirby and Spence said that the social Hymenoptera (ants, bees,
wasps, etc.) have means of communicating to each other information
of various occurrences, and use a language which is mutually under-
stood, and is not confined merely to conveying information of the
presence or absence of danger, but is also coextensive with all their
other occasions for communicating ideas to one another. Wonderful
statement! ‘These authors did not prove it, nor has anyone yet done
so, although there may be some truth in it, for, to a limited extent,
we do have exact knowledge which points in that direction.

SmevtL Pirays tHe Most Imporranr Parr In CoMMUNICATION

So far as concerns the five special senses of sight, hearing, touch,
smell, and taste, common to the higher animals, this discussion deals
almost exclusively with the part played by smell. The other senses
are alluded to here and there, but they are not discussed in detail
because we have little or no exact knowledge as to the part played
by them in communication.

1. HONEYBEES COMUNICATE LARGELY BY SMELL

Since communication among insects has been studied most seriously
in connection with bees, most of our information on this subject
pertains to them.

(A) opoRS IN A COLONY OF BEES SERVE AS A SMELL LANGUAGE

Von Buttel-Reepen first formulated the theory concerning the use
of odors to explain how honeybees communicate. He said:

I believe that the following odors are present in a colony of bees:

1. The individual odor. It can be easily demonstrated that the queen odor
varies with different individuals, and, on the same ground (germinal variation),
an individual odor should be assigned to the workers.

2. All offspring of one mother (queen) have a common inherited family
odor, in addition to the individual odors, belonging only to the progeny of one
queen.

3. The brood and chyle odor.

4, The drone odor.

5. The wax odor. Since the wax is a glandular secretion, an exuded product,
it may be safely taken for granted that, considered apart from the specific
odor of wax, the individual odors of the wax generators adhere to the honey-
comb. Accordingly the wax structures of different colonies have different
odors.

6. The honey odor. That the honey of each colony (mixed with a secretion
of the salivary glands) has its specific odor is readily seen from the old
practice of beekeepers to which Bethe also alludes. If a queen be daubed
with honey from a queenless colony, she will be accepted readily by that
colony when inserted.
COMMUNICATION AMONG INSECTS—McINDOO 543

7. The hive odor (exhalation odor, colony odor). The hive odor is com-
posed normally by a mixture of the preceding odors, or of some of them.
Single bees, therefore, besides their individual odors, possess the family odor
and especially the common, adhering hive odor, which forms the dominant
factor in the various actions toward hive mates and strangers—that is, in
mutual recognition between bees.

To support these views, Von Buttel-Reepen gave no proof other
than his experiences as a practical beekeeper, which are far from
being conclusive when we consider the scientific method; it will be
shown, nevertheless, that his views are practically correct so far
as they have been tested experimentally.

After becoming informed concerning the published results on
this subject, the present writer in 1913 and 1914 undertook to
verify experimentally the views of Von Buttel-Reepen. Such a
difficult and complex undertaking he had never attempted before,
although it seemed easy before starting, because the way apparently
had already been mapped; all that remained to be done was to go to
work. After many preliminary experiments, beset with all kinds
of discouraging conditions, the problem proved not so easy as it had
been imagined, and instead of becoming simplified it became deeper
and more mysterious. What was to be done? Give up in despair?
No; never! Such is not the way of a scientifically trained investi-
gator. Well, then, what? After forgetting all his troubles he
went at it again from a different point of view with a determination
to win. By this time his own sense of smell had been “ sharpened,”
or shghtly educated to respond more readily to all the odors around
him, so it was decided to start again by smelling the way.

It was thus determined that the human nose can be trained
to recognize a number of characteristic bee odors. At the beginning
of his tests the writer was able to distinguish the hive odor, the
brood odor (the smell of the larvae and pupae, pl. 1, B, C, D), the
honey (A) odor, the pollen or beebread (E) odor, the wax (J)
odor, and the odor coming from the bee sting. After a few months’
experience he was able to recognize the three castes of bees—queens,
drones, and workers—merely by smelling them.

Old workers constantly give off the characteristic bee odor, and
when seized they emit another distinct odor which comes from the
poison ejected through the sting. No difference between the odor
of a guard (pl. 1,1) and that of a fanner (G) could be distinguished ;
the odor from each closely resembles the hive odor; that is, the odor
which comes out of a hive when the hive cover is removed. A worker
carrying pollen gives off besides the bee odor another odor which
comes from the pollen.

The younger the workers are the less pronounced is the bee odor
emitted. To the human nose the odor emitted by nurse bees (pl. 1,
044 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

F) and wax generators (H) is much less pronounced than is the
odor from old workers.

Workers just emerged from the cells have a faint, sweetish odor,
but lack the characteristic bee odor, and workers removed from
the cells just before they begin cutting their way out emit a still
fainter sweetish odor.

Old queens have a strong, sweetish odor, while the odor from
queens just emerged from their cells is much less pronounced. The
queen odor is very pleasant, and is as characteristic of queens as is
the bee odor of workers.

The majority of old drones have a faint odor, while every young
drone has a stronger odor. This odor is slightly different from that
of young workers and is less sweetish.

From statements that have been made it is evident that bees emit
various odors, but if nothing more than the few observations men-
tioned could be recorded our story would end almost before it begins
We do not, however, have to build up our story on what we humans
can detect with our poorly developed noses, because the activities of
bees speak, as it were, a language, definite and infallible although
foreign to us, which when correctly interpreted and recorded in our
own language goes a long way to solve the mystery surrounding the
communication between social insects.

By means of specially devised experiments the writer proved
that the bees themselves can distinguish a much greater variety of
smells than those heretofore enumerated, and that these play a most
important part in their lives.

It is certain that a queen gives off an odor, and it seems reasonable
to suppose that the odors from any two queens would be shghtly
different. All the offspring of the same queen seem to inherit a
particular odor from her, called the family odor, which perhaps
plays little or no part in the lives of bees, for it is certainly masked
by the other odors. Drones seem to emit an odor peculiar to their
sex, but little is definitely known about it. Apparently each worker
emits an individual odor which is different from that of any
other worker, and it is probable that the wax generators and nurse
bees emit odors slightly different from those of the field bees.

Of all the odors produced by bees the hive odor is probably the
most important. It seems to be the fundamental factor upon which
the social life of a colony of bees depends, and perhaps upon which
the social habit was acquired; without it a colony of bees could not
exist. The hive odor is composed chiefly of the individaul odors from
all the workers in a hive, and is supplemented by the odors from the
queen, drones, combs, frames, walls of the hive, and still other
sources. From this definition it is easily understood why no two
colonies have the same hive odor. The hive odor of a queenless colony
9218 UI poonpal yon

-LouuRy “4 fsaaq osanu ‘A Sproiqaegq 10 ‘uoTfod ‘a ‘(pelBas aq 03 ApBd s[[ao)

“XBA\ plo ‘f ‘prens ‘T ‘s10} 10003 xem ‘A
BAIVT plo ‘qy !(wArel Sunod puke S330) poorq ‘

O ‘(e@dnd) poo1q poles ‘g {4
S33q 4O SAIH_ Vv WOYS GQ3SAOW3Y SAWVY4 V 4O HdVYDOLOHd

9uoy poBos fy

<

a% ee ee ., >
kt |
. " po

‘ae

| 3LW1d

COPUIOW—'gz61 ‘yoday uBlUOsYy}WS
COMMUNICATION AMONG INSECTS—McINDOO 545

is perhaps considerably different from that of a colony which
has a queen. The absence of a queen odor as a constituent of the
hive odor probably explains why the workers in a queenless colony
are irritable and never work normally. All the bees—workers, queen,
and drones—in a colony carry the hive odor of that colony on their
bodies, among the hairs. This odor serves as a sign, or mark, by
which all the occupants of a hive know one another. Since the queen
and drones are “ aristocrats,” they seem to disregard the sign that
has been thrust upon them, but whenever a queen enters the wrong
hive she is soon made to realize that she wears the wrong badge.

Worker bees returning to the hives from the field pass the guards
unmolested, because they carry the proper sign, although the hive
odor that they carry is fainter than when they left the hive, and
it is partially masked by the odors from the nectar and pollen
brought by them.

Bees kept in the open air for three days lose all the hive odor
carried on their bodies, but each bee still emits its individual odor.
When a colony is divided the hive odor in each half soon changes,
so that by the end of the third day the original colony possesses
a hive odor so different from that of the separated half of the colony
that when workers from the two new colonies are placed together
in observation cages they fight one another as though they had
been separated all their lives.

Although a foreign hive odor calls forth the fighting spirit in
workers, the queen odor under certain conditions seems pleasant to
workers whether the queen belongs to their hive or to another hive.
Even though the queen odor forms a part of the hive odor, it is
probable that to the workers this odor stands out prominently
from the hive odor. The fact that workers do not miss their queen
for some time after she has left the hive indicates that her odor
thoroughly pervades and qualifies the hive odor, and that whenever
this constituent odor grows faint the workers “ know ” that she is
not among them.

There has been much speculation concerning the ruling spirit or
power in a colony of bees. The present writer is inclined to believe
that a normal hive odor serves such a purpose. The hive odor is a
means of preserving the social life of the bees from dangers without,
and the queen odor which is a part of it insures continuation of the
social life within. As already stated, the workers “know” their
hive mates by the hive odor they carry. This odor insures harmony
and a united defense when an enemy attacks the colony. The
queen odor constantly informs the workers that their queen is present.
Even though she does not rule, her presence means everything to the
bees in perpetuating the colony. Thus, obeying the stimuli of the
546 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

hive odor and the queen odor, and following the guidance of instinct,
a colony of bees perhaps could not want a better ruler.

Some of the foregoing statements are not conclusively proved, but
as a whole they are probably not far from the truth. Here is one of
the many openings in our scientific endeavors where a young, en-
thusiastic investigator, with the wisdom of a Solomon, can aid us
wonderfully. Let him prove to us beyond a doubt that there are
individual odors among bees, separate the individual odor from the
hive odor and the family odor, analyze it in every way possible,
and tell us all about its functions. “ Very well,” the young scientist
will naturally say, but he will also doubtless come back asking,
“How can it be separated from these other odors when it is already
a part of them and is even their foundation”? ‘That perplexing
and seemingly baffling task we leave to the young scientist.

(B) VON FRISCH’S “ LANGUAGE” OF BEES IS USED IN FOOD GETTING

(1) The round dance is a means of communication for sugar-
water collectors—Von Frisch, a professor of zoology in Germany,
tells us that dancing among bees is almost as common as it is among
people, and the same kinds of emotions are perhaps expressed in
them as in us; that is, emotions of joy and gladness, with the body
keyed up to the highest point of elation and overflowing with
happiness. People dance to music, and the dance expresses little
outside of an exalted state of happiness; bees, so far as we know,
do not dance to music, but probably besides expressing high elation
their dance has a life significance to them by informing the attending
bees that food is near at hand and now is the time to secure it. And
those who have closely studied the lives of bees know that they
seem happiest when they are hard at work collecting their winter
stores.

Further, we are informed that dancing among bees has been known
for a long time, although no one hitherto has studied their dances
sufficiently to interpret their meaning. At last Von Frisch believes
that he has solved their mysteries in part if not entirely. As early
as 1823 Unhoch wrote about bees dancing, but Unhoch’s bee ballet
was preceded by the observations of Spitzner in 1788, 35 years
earlier.

When a scout bee has once found a supply of food, how does she
communicate this information to her hive mates? The old theory,
which until recently was pretty generally accepted by authorities
on bees, was that the scout returned to her home, told the other bees
about her wonderful discovery, and then led a party of them to the
food. We are not told how the scout informed her hive mates; in
fact, all the details are missing; the imagination is thus allowed to
exert itself to various degrees, depending upon the ability of the

ee ————eeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeeEeEEEEEEEEEEEeEeEeeeee

COMMUNICATION AMONG INSECTS—McINDOO 547

individual. Judging from Von Frisch’s investigation, this theory
is correct in that scouts do find food and do communicate this infor-
mation to the other bees, but they do not lead a party of their hive
mates to it. The most interesting part of Von Frisch’s results con-
cerns the method used by the scouts to inform other bees about the
food which they have found.

In his preliminary experiments Von Frisch put sugar water in
small dishes, which were placed in the open some distance from the
observation hive. He then watched the scout bees when they came
to the sugar water, then counted the bees visiting it after the scouts
had found it. After being convinced that scouts caused other bees
to come to the sugar water, he wondered how the scouts had informed
their hive mates. He then watched the scouts in observation hives
immediately upon their return from the sugar water, and invariably
found that the successful scout rushed into the hive, gently crossed

OSr?
rs e! |

Weezs|

Ficurb 1.—Diagrams of worker bees on honeycomb. A, a sugar-water or nectar collec-
tor (lowermost bee) which has returned to the hive and is feeding three other
bees; B, a nectar collector (the bee just below the arrow) follewed by four at-
tending bees, performing the round dance; C, the movements made by a pollen
collector while performing the tail-wagging dance. (After von Frisch)

her palpitating antennae with those of other workers coming in con-
tact with her, and immediately began sharing her sugar water with
the other bees (fig. 1, A). By the time she had reached the thickest
group of bees on the comb, she began the peculiar circular, or round,
dance, which will be described in detail under the following heading.

After repeating these experiments many times, Von Frisch con-
vinced himself that the scout bees which first found the dish of sugar
water did not accompany the other bees to it; he observed that before
a scout had disappeared among the bees in the hive the other collect-
ors had rushed from the hive; by actually timing them he determined
that nearly all of them had appeared at the same dish five minutes
after coming in contact with the scout. Furthermore, while watching
scouts passing from their dancing spots to the hive entrance and
from there to the food supply he never observed other would-be
collectors following them.
548 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

At this stage of his investigation he wonders what sense brought
about the communication. He eliminates sight for two reasons; first,
because usually there is no light inside a hive; and secondly, because
in the lighted observation hives he noticed that the light did not seem
to have any effect either on the dancing bee or on the ones attending
her. He also eliminates hearing, chiefly because that sense is not well
established in bees. He says that the sense of taste can play a role
only while the dancer is feeding the other bees. Von Frisch favors
the double means of communication through the senses of touch and
smell set forth in the contact-odor theory of Forel, because he be-
lieves that organs of both touch and smell are present in the antennae,
that when the antennae were crossed the dancer conveyed to the
attending bees part of the information to be communicated, and that
at the same time the mouth parts of the dancer certainly bore so
much of the sugar water that it could have been perceived by the
attending bees. Von Frisch believes that the round dance itself is
a means of communication, but not the only means of telling the
attending bees that there is food outside the hive; that it is not
absolutely necessary, but is a helpful factor. It is conclusively shown,
he says, that in a normal hive of bees a definite region of it is pre-
ferred by the collectors as an abode, thereby easily facilitating the
communication to them of whatever information is to be imparted.

(2) The round dance is a means of communication for collectors of
nectar.—The experiments just described were repeated on a much
larger scale and greatly expanded in kind by using the nectar se-
creted by plants, and by watching bees collecting honey which had
been served purposely for them. It was determined that bees that
are collecting nectar and honey return to the hives, share their food
with the attending bees, and perform the round dance in the same
manner as do the collectors of sugar water.

Using a nectar collector as an example, and beginning with the
act of collecting nectar, the complete performance, including the
round dance as deseribed and figured by Von Frisch, is about as
follows: A certain plant opens its blossoms, spreads its fragrance far
and wide, and announces to the insect world that it is ready to be
cross-pollinated. Along comes a scout bee, attracted either hy
sight or by smell, or possibly by both; the bee finds the blossoms
overflowing with rich and fragrant nectar. She is happy and works
hard to fill her honey stomach with the precious liquid, and at the
same time impregnates her body with the odor from the flowers
visited. Now she flies high into the air and takes a bee line home,
where she passes immediately into her hive, eager to announce her
wonderful discovery to the other nectar collectors. Evidently know-
ing just where to find them in the hive, she rushes among them and
salutes them with her extended, palpitating antennae, which gently
COMMUNICATION AMONG INSECTS—McINDOO 549

cross and recross those of the other bees; while she is doing this
kind of handshaking she is also sharing her nectar with several of
the attending bees (fig. 1, A). By the time she reaches the thickest
group of the attending bees, perhaps “thinking” that she has not
yet attracted enough attention, she dances around on the comb in
narrow semicircles, first in one direction, then in the other, keeping
up the dance for a quarter or a half minute, but rarely for a whole
minute. While quickly passing through these semicircles the dancing
bee comes in direct contact with the attending bees; these are greatly
excited, and a few of them follow behind the dancer with their
antennae touching her abdomen (fig. 1, B). In this brief period,
in almost total darkness, and perhaps with no means other than the
extremely acute senses of touch and smell, the attending bees seem
to acquire without difficulty the necessary information about the
nectar to be sought. We can not even guess what the dancer tells
the attending bees while stroking their antennae; neither can we
imagine what kind of an impression is produced in the little “ minds ”
of the attending bees by the fragrant odor of the flower, carried on
the body of the dancer. At any rate, Von Frisch would have us
believe that they associate this odor with the plant which secretes
the nectar to be sought. All we definitely know is that the bees
become greatly excited by attending the round dance, quickly rush
out of the hive, and search in all directions for the plants furnishing
this particular nectar. This action may help to explain why bees
have the habit of collecting nectar or pollen from only one kind of
plant on any one trip.

We have now described the action of a single round dancer, in
the course of which we have found that the bees attending her went
in search of food, but how do these other nectar collectors act upon
their return to the hive? And how do they inform one another about
the abundance or scarcity of the food sought ?

Von Frisch seems to infer that this is an easy question when once
we understand the meaning of the round dance. Each collector that
finds a supply of nectar of the particular plant sought, returns home
and performs her own particular round dance, and of course each
dancer will have her own group of attending bees. In turn, these
several groups of excited bees rush out of the hive in search of the
desired food. As long as the supply of nectar is abundant, furnishing
work for every collector available, the number of collectors in-
creases up to the maximum when the supply seems the greatest;
but as soon as the bees realize that the supply is being exhausted
the number of collectors is gradually decreased. The decrease is
accomplished in two ways; the returning collectors cease their danc-
ing, thereby ceasing to incite to activity other field bees not yet

24034—29——_36
550 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

excited by the dance, and they gradually quit going after nectar.
This behavior of bees reminds the writer of the behavior of people
performing a piece of work. As long as there is an abundance of
enthusiasm and work to be done everything goes well; but as soon
as the enthusiasm lags and the end of the work is in sight the or-
ganization weakens and becomes filled with quitters. The many
experiments which he conducted caused Von Frisch to conclude that
only the odor which adheres to the dancer informs the other bees
about the location of the food to be sought, while the dance itself
indicates to them that there is work to be done.

(3) Tail-wagging dance is means of communication for pollen
collectors——Von Frisch informs us that the tail-wagging dance of
the pollen collectors is well known among beekeepers, and many times
has been described in the bee journals, with many interpretations.
From his own observations he explains it as a means of announcing
to the bees in the hive the existence of a pollen source out of doors.
The odor of the pollen, carried by a scout collector, tells the other
collectors the kind of flower or flowers furnishing it, and by scouting
at large over the surrounding fields the other collectors are then able
to find it for themselves.

Successful scout pollen collectors, heavily laden with pollen, or
beebread, as some of the beekeepers call it, return from the fields to
their homes, where they may be seen to enter the hive; thereafter
they must be watched in an observation hive if one wants to see them
perform this particular dance, characteristically described by Von
Frisch as the tail-wagging dance, to distinguish it from the round
dance of the nectar collectors. The most striking feature of the round
dance is the rapid revolving or turning of the performer’s abdomen
while small semicircles are being described, whereas the most charac-
teristic part of the tail-wagging dance is the wagging or swaying
of the abdomen while the bee runs forward quickly in a straight
line. In a typical case a pollen collector, laden with pollen, comes
home, crawls upward on the comb, and when in the midst of other
bees begins to attract the attention of her associates by performing
this peculiar dance. The dancer first describes a semicircle either to
the right or left on the comb (fig. 1, C), then runs forward in a
straight line over two or three cells to the starting point, from which
she describes another semicircle in the opposite direction, thus com-
pleting an entire circuit. The performer again returns along the
diameter of the circle to the original starting point, and thereafter
repeatedly goes through the same maneuver, alternating semicircles
on one side or the other with straightforward runs. The running in
semicircles is done quietly, without any striking movement, but each
time the dancer makes the straightforward run she wags her tail
from 4 to 12 times. These waggings consist of very quick, rhyth-
COMMUNICATION AMONG INSECTS—McINDOO 551

mical, sidewise movements of the entire body, but the swaying is
greatest at the tip of the abdomen and least at the head (fig. 1, ©,
dotted line around abdomen). Scarcely has the dance begun when
other bees crowd closely behind the performer, and when the dance
is finished many of the attending bees have disappeared and gone out
of the hive in search of the particular pollen carried by the dancer.

Von Frisch concludes that merely by smell bees can readily dis-
tinguish between the various pollen dusts carried by the collectors,
and that when they have
once taken a good smell of
a certain pollen they re-
member the odor while
hunting until its source has
been found in the field.

(4) Body odors of bees
aid in collecting food.—V on
Frisch and Rosch hold that
bees must hunt at large for
the desired food after hav-
ing once smelled it on
the scouts. While visiting
flowers collectors of both
nectar and pollen impreg-
nate the immediate neigh-
borhood with their body
odors, thus making it less
difficult for other collectors
to find those particular
flowers.

Other observers have re- Ficurw 2.—Diagrammatie  transverse-longitudinal
marked that bees, while view of end of abdomen of a worker bee, showing

TASTE scent-producing organ, composed of articular
visiting flowers, do not ex- = membrane (m), canal or pouch (p), and numer-

pose their scent organs. ous gland cells lying beneath this pouch
(Fig. 2.) Von Frisch and Rosch say that this is true only under
certain conditions. For example, these writers saw nectar collectors
visiting a certain flower without at the time exposing the scent or-
gans. Upon plucking and examining the flowers they found that no
nectar was being secreted; the bees did not mislead other bees by
scenting the air near the nectarless flowers. Later, however, the
same species of flower was visited by nectar collectors which were
exposing their scent organs; an examination proved that the flowers
were secreting nectar. Pollen collectors were next observed, and
similar results were obtained as to their behavior while collecting.
The next question to be decided was, Does the odor from the scent
organs allure the collectors from all the hives or from only one

502 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

hive? After experimenting with two observation hives of bees, a
small hive and a large one, it was decided that the odor from the scent
organs serves to indicate where an abundant supply of nectar or
pollen may be had, and that the odor impregnating this particular
spot also serves as a specific lure to bees from the same hive, but
that it is noticed little or not at all by collectors from a different
hive.

Another question to be decided was, Does the round dance excite
only nectar collectors and does the tail-wagging dance excite only
pollen collectors? If the answer is affirmative in either case, which
is the more important factor, the form of the dance or the odor of the
food carried? It was concluded that under natural conditions these
dances are two characteristics of bee “ language,” in that only nectar
collectors respond to the round dance and only pollen collectors to
the tail-wagging dance, but the odor of the food carried proved to
be the more important factor involved.

2. ANTS COMMUNICATE LARGELY BY SMELL

It has been shown how bees communicate among themselves by
smell. This method of communication might be called a smell lan-
guage, to distinguish it from other methods which in honeybees are
certainly secondary. It will be shown that ants also have a smell
language, although less is known about it than about the smell lan-
guage of bees. Before discussing the part played by smell, let us
first consider the other possible methods of communication between
ants.

(A) BEHAVIOR OF ANTS SUGGESTS MEANS OF COMMUNICATION

Ever since ancient times observers of ants have been impressed
with the idea that these little colonial creatures must have a language,
yet even to this day we know but little about this language. The
idea that ants must have some definite means of communication is
to be found in various passages of ancient writers, even from the
days of Solomon down to Aristotle and the early Romans; yes, even
down to the time of the Italian poet Dante. Otherwise, how could
the ant be such a wise creature? We recall what Solomen in all
his wisdom and glory said about the little ant:

Go to the ant, thou sluggard; consider her ways, and be wise; which having
no guide, overseer, or ruler, provideth her meat in the summer, and gathereth
her food in the harvest.

Most authorities on ants have little to say about communication,
but nevertheless firmly believe that ants have means of conveying
information to one another. When we recall that many ants are
totally blind we can not consider sight the chief factor in communica-
tion; the blind individuals apparently live and prosper just as well
as those having highly developed eyes. Some writers imagine that
COMMUNICATION AMONG INSECTS—McINDOO 553

hearing aids in communication, but as we have no definite knowledge
that ants hear, at least as we humans hear, we can not consider hear-
ing the chief factor; ants, however, can make sounds by stridulating;
in other words, by rubbing certain parts of their body against other
parts. When ants are in actual contact with one another their acute
sense of touch is certainly an important factor in communication, but
ants can easily distinguish each other before they come in contact;
it is highly probable, therefore, that touch is second in importance
to smell. Ants, furthermore, have the habit of making various kinds
of signs and gestures, which most writers believe aid them in convey-
ing information. Many of their gestures, such as particular move-
ments of the antennae, jaws, head, and abdomen, have been inter-
preted as signs which may be understood and acted on by other ants.
Wasmann has compiled a kind of dictionary, based on a number of
different antennal strokes, each supposedly having its own meaning.
The meaning depends chiefly on the nature of the stroke, whether
quick or slow, heavy or light, at longer or shorter intervals, on the
top or side of the head, or only on the antennae, and in still other
ways.

Huber was a firm believer in an antennal language, which is to be
classified mostly, if not entirely, as a touch language. He tells about
some ants which he had held as captives four months, during which
they had not communicated with their former companions in the nest.
One day some of these captives accidently escaped; they were found
and recognized by their former mates, who caressed them with their
antennae, took them up by the jaws, and led them back to the nest.
The ants in the nest presently went in a crowd to seek the remaining
captives, and after some time had returned all of them to their old
home.

In the case of both ants and bees the utmost harmony reigns be-
tween those belonging to the same community, whereas all others are
enemies. It is particularly true, remarks Lubbock, that ants “ know ”
all their comrades, even after a long separation. If a strange ant
is put among ants of another nest she is at once attacked. This
implies that all ants or all bees of a community have the power of
recognizing one another; a most surprising fact when we consider
the shortness of their lives and the immense numbers in a single
community. Lubbock returned some ants to their old nest after
a separation of a year and nine months, yet they were amicably
received and evidently recognized as friends. He finally concluded
that ants recognize their friends even when intoxicated, and know
the young born in their own nest, even when the young have been
taken out of the cocoons by strangers. ‘These facts indicate strongly
that recognition is not effected by means of signs and passwords, but
by odors.
504 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

(B) ODORS PLAY AN IMPORTANT PART IN COMMUNICATION

Wheeler remarks that it is generally admitted that the segregation
of colonies of ants is caused by the presence of characteristic odors
which vary with the species, colony, and caste, and which, according
to Fielde, vary also with the developmental stages of the individual
ant. Of course, the human nose can not detect all of these odors,
although Wheeler further says that even the degenerate human nose
can detect the different species of ants by their odors, and in some
cases even the different castes, but that the ants themselves carry the
discrimination much further. He believes that ants have not only
extremely acute powers of discriminating odors, but no less extraor-
dinary powers of associating them. He states that the human nose
can readily detect the pungent and ether odor of Formica rufa;
another species of ant has a smoky smell; another smells like lemon
geranium or oil of citronella; another strongly lke mammalian
excrement; another less strongly so; and another like rotten coconuts.

Fielde claims that a certain species of ant bears three distinct odors;
(1) A scent deposited by her feet, forming an individual trail,
whereby she traces her own steps; (2) an inherent and inherited odor,
manifested over her whole body, identical in quality for queens and
workers of the same lineage, and an instrument for the recognition
of blood relations; and (8) a nest odor, consisting of the commingled
odors of all the members of the colony, used to distinguish their nest
from the nests of aliens. Miss Fielde says that the odor of ants
changes with their age, and that “a cause of feud between ants of the
same species living in different communities is a difference of odor
arising out of difference of age in the queens whose progeny consti-
tute the communities, and difference of age in the ants composing the
community.” She calls this odor the progressive odor, and further
claims that fear and hostility are excited in the ant by an odor which
has not been encountered and found to be compatible with the com-
fort of the ant. The same author calls the family or inherent odor
the specific odor which is transmitted by the mother ant to all her
offspring of both sexes within the species. Miss Fielde claims that
ants not only differentiate the innate odors peculiar to the species,
sex, caste, and individual, but also the incurred odor of the nest and
environment; furthermore, that they can detect the progressive
change of odors due to change of physiological condition with the
changing age of the individual. She says that “as worker ants ad-
vance in age their progressive odor intensifies or changes to such a
de&ree that they may be said to attain a new odor every two or three
months.”

Judging from the experiments on ants made by various observers,
the family odor in these insects seems to play an important rdle by
COMMUNICATION AMONG INSECTS—McINDOO 555

enabling the offspring of one queen to distinguish members of their
family from those of alien families. To ants the family odor is
probably as important as is the nest odor, but among honeybees,
where certain social habits have been advanced to a higher degree,
the family odor is of little or no use, because the hive odor has
assumed such an important réle in the recognition of the members of
the same or of a different colony. Each colony of bees has its own
hive odor, a small share of which adheres to the body of each member
of that colony, so that a bee is never entirely devoid of the hive odor.
Should workers be forced to remain in the open air for at least three
days, which is scarcely possible, they would lose their hive odor,
and should they then try to enter their own hive they would be
attacked by their sister guards because the family odor emitted by
them would not be a sufficient proof that they were friends; if the
guards had also lost their hive odor they would of course let these
sisters enter unmolested.

8. TERMITES, OR WHITE ANTS, COMMUNICATE LARGELY BY SMELL

Since the social life of termites is in many respects so similar to
that of ants, we should expect their means of communication to be
similar, but from the little we know about these means there are some
differences. Since blindness prevails more in termites than in ants,
we can not consider sight as playing an equally important role, but
smell and touch are probably as important in termites as in ants.
Termites make a peculiar convulsive or jerky movement which is
believed to be a method of communication. Snyder says that they
communicate by rapping their heads against objects, producing
sounds audible to the human ear in some cases, but not in others.

Banks and Snyder say that our common termites go through an
amatory procedure, or a kind of courtship, immediately before and
after the loss of the wings preliminary to mating. The male follows
the female tirelessly and persistently, with his head close to her
abdomen, and often touching her with his antennae. The sexual
attraction seems to be caused by a secretion at the end of the abdomen.

No one has made a special study of the odors emitted by termites,
although all the writers on this subject are satisfied that these colonial
insects have nest or colony odors, from which it may be concluded
that there are also family odors and individual odors. When one or
more termites are removed from a community and returned after
hours or days of isolation they are received back into the community
without disturbance, but usually a termite from another colony is
at once set upon and killed. In the first instance the family odor
probably protected the termite; in the second, the insect had neither
the proper family odor nor the friendly nest odor.
on
Ou
[@p)

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928
4. MHANS OF PRODUCING ODORS FOR RECOGNITION

Long ago it was stated that most animals emit odors peculiar not
only to the individual, variety, race, and species, but also to the genus,
family, order, and class, and that these odors are the chief means
by which one animal recognizes other animals. Without the aid of
the eyes the degenerate human nose is able to distinguish a horse
from a cow, a goat from a roe, a dog from a cat, a martin from a
fox, a crow from a pigeon, a parrot from a hen, a lizard from a
snake, and even a carrion crow from a hooded crow.

All odors arising
from the skin, hair,
feathers, or scales of
an animal have their
sources in secretions or
| excretions which pass

We | G through the skin or
VAI RDA 2 integument by special

———— ducts or pores, and not
directly by osmosis;
in some animals, how-
ever, particularly in
certain insects, the
existence of these
pores has not yet been
cefinitely established.
The scent-producing
organs, which may
possibly include three

types of glands—spe-
Ficure 3.—Diagram of a section of human skin showing . l t ol] nd
epidermis (E); dermis (D); hair (h), arising from a ClA4 SCeN gianas,
hair follicle into which empties the sceretion of oil or sweat glands, and
sebaceous glands (s); Sweat glands (w) and their
. e) . Net subaceous glands—

ducts, which pass in a spiral through the epidermis;

blood vessels (v); fat cell (f), and nerve (nw), which have not yet been

igre fhe tee pane rom. Bette: AF eh orou gills andiaeye

tematically studied in

any order of animals, and in most cases definite and specific functions

have not been assigned to the various types. Odors may also be

emitted from the body at either end of the ailmentary canal, but
these probably play no part in recognition among animals.

Special scent glands have been found in a large number of animals,
including numerous insects. They are located in various parts of
the anatomy. Some lie in the feet; the secondary function of these
is probably to leave scented tracks wherever the animal steps.

The skin of mammals in particular is characterized by richness
in glands, of which there are two kinds; sweat glands (fig. 3, w),

SSr— - SPS
—< =o — 88 Ry = Q)
OPEB BOG SSaBUs GOES SOC Se 5
Te eet = - oOo

ee) a
ale Ts
COMMUNICATION AMONG INSECTS—McINDOO 557

which are common to mammals, and sebaceous or oil glands (s),
common to birds and mammals. The sebaceous glands usually open
around the base of hairs (A) in depressions called hair follicles,
and not into the cavity or lumen of the hairs. On the palms of a
human being sweat glands number 1,100 to the square centimeter,
and their total number in man is said to be about two million.

It is the primary function of the sebaceous glands to lubricate
the skin, hair, and feathers of animals; if they have a secondary
function it may be that of recognition. When fresh, the secretion of
these glands, called sebum, is an oily semifluid, but on the surface
of the skin it solidifies, forming a greasy coating.

Primarily, the sweat glands constitute an automatic device for
keeping the body temperature constant, while their secondary func-
tion is probably recognition. ‘The perspiration is a clear, colorless
fluid with a salty taste, and characterized by different odors from
different parts of the body. In composition it is 99 per cent water,
the remaining 1 per cent consisting of urea, ammonia, fatty sub-
stances, and certain other compounds. Its neutral fats are said to
come from the sebaceous glands, although the sweat glands them-
selves secrete other fatty substances of which the volatile fatty acids
emit the peculiar odor characteristic of sweat.

We can now understand why the odors emitted from two animals
differ. We can also understand how dogs, by smell alone, even in
total darkness, can distinguish their masters and the members of their
respective households from strangers. Besides the glands already
mentioned, animals have certain other glands whose secretions may
also be odorous and perhaps sexually attractive; for instance, the
glands connected with the genitals.

Sweat glands and sebaceous glands are present in the higher ani-
mals but not in insects; therefore insects, so far as we know, do not
sweat. They belong to the cold-blooded animals, whose temperature
most of the time corresponds more or less closely to the temperature
of the air in which they live, and therefore do not need sweat glands.
Many insects, however, possess glands which are widely distributed
over the entire surface of the body and closely resemble sebaceous
glands. Since these glands are not needed for purposes of lubrica-
tion they must have some other function, and it seems very reason-
able to suppose that they are used for recognition. Those of the
cotton boll weevil (fig. 4, A, p) illustrate this point.

Among specialized glands of this type are the adhesive-secreting
glands (fig. 4, B) in the feet of many insects, particularly of all
those that can walk on perpendicular surfaces or even upside down.
Although the primary function of these glands is certainly to enable
insects to walk on smooth, perpendicular surfaces, a secondary use
is probably that of recognition. In ants, termites, and all the other
558 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

insects which follow scented trails this secondary use seems especially
probable. The adhesive-secreting glands le in the soft pads on the
underside of the feet, and are usually connected with small hairs,
called tenent hairs (A). These hairs are hollow and are usually
open at their tips; through them the sticky secretion from the glands
is forced to the exterior, where under certain conditions it may be
seen as fine threads. This example shows how scented trails may
possibly be made by the feet of insects in much the same way as
scented tracks are made by dogs, the sweat glands in the pads of
the dogs’ feet seeming to deposit an odorous material wherever a
dog steps. Ants and termites have been observed to lay down scented
trails by depositing tiny specks of material from the tip ends of their
abdomens, and thereafter they follow these tracks.

Ficure 4.—Diagrams showing locations of scent glands of insects. A, superficial
view of a portion of an elytron or wing cover of a cotton boll weevil, showing
large hairs (h) and widely scattered gland pores (p). B, cross section through
tarsus or foot of a beetle, showing nerves (v) running to touch hairs (t) and
gland cells (g) which, when stimulated, force their sticky secretion through open-
ings in numerous hairs (h) on the “soles” of the feet. (From Packard, after
Dewitz.) C, front leg of a male moth, showing the fan-shaped group of scent
hairs (s). (From Schrdéder, after Illig.) D, female of the silkworm moth, show-
ing the eyersible sacs (s) as scent-producing organs. (From Schréder, after
reiling.) E, larva of a swallow-tail butterfly, showing eversible sacs or osma-
terium (s), which emit a defensive odor. (After Berlese)

Scent glands of a second type include peculiarly arranged tufts
of long hairs, on the legs and elsewhere, on male moths (fig. 4, C, s).
The secretions from all these organs have been credited with purposes
of allurement and are supposed to attract the opposite sex. They
have been regarded as aromatic, volatile oils. Their odors usually
are to man very agreeable indeed, and have been described as
resembling many of our most pleasing scents, even including those
from some of our fancy perfumes. As a rule, each species of insect
has its own characteristic odor.

In the case of a third type of scent glands, eversible sacs or
pouches, usually lined with tiny hairs which connect with the glands,
serve as special devices for storing the secretion and distributing
the odors. With some species the odors from these glands serve
COMMUNICATION AMONG INSECTS—McINDOO 559

for allurement (fig. 4, D, s), and in the case of other species for
defense (fig. 4, E, s).

The dorsal scent gland of the honeybee (fig. 2, p. 551) belongs to a
fourth type and is one of the most highly developed of the scent
glands used for purposes of recognition.

5. ANTS RIVAL DOGS IN TRACING TRACKS

For ages the dog’s nose has been considered the most acute smell-
ing organ among all animals, but a review of the literature shows
that the “ noses ” of insects are close competitors and possibly second
to none. It is well known that dogs can trace the tracks of man and
animals merely by smell, as was recently demonstrated by Buytendijk,
a Dutch physiologist. During the World War a lively interest was
taken in the breeding and
training of police dogs.
Those used were such reli-
able trackers that they were
known to find the scent un-
der snow when bloodhounds
were useless, and they ren-
dered great aid in bringing
in the wounded.

On a level, sandy place in
Amsterdam a boy followed
the route indicated by the
solid line in Figure 5, begin-
ning at a tree B, and ending
ata laboratory L. A strong
wind was blowing in the
direction indicated by the Ficure 5.—Diagram illustrating experiment to test
arrow W. At T were two pe SEAT Ts ei pares Ra we
street cars, and at H two
huts used by construction workers. As soon as the boy had finished
the trip a police dog was led to the tree, allowed to smell the boy’s
cap, and started on the trail made by the boy. The dog followed
the route indicated by the dotted line. Between the tree and the —
street cars the dog followed to the right of the boy’s trail, apparently
because the wind had scattered sand on which the boy had walked.
In the lee of the street cars he followed the trail closely. Where the
boy had turned at X the dog had some difficulty, as shown by his
windings. Just before reaching the huts the dog lost the trail,
evidently because many people were walking about, but soon found
it and followed it to the laboratory.

For information regarding the ability of dogs to discriminate
between the body odors of people, Buytendijk carefully tested Albert,

560 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

a police dog. A pebble was held in the hand a short time, then
thrown among many other similar pebbles 10 to 20 yards away. The
dog saw and heard in what direction the stone was thrown, but he
could not distinguish it by sight from the other stones. After having
smelled the person who threw the stone, Albert searched for and
found it many times without making a single mistake. To make
the test more complex, six persons threw as many stones at the same
time. After smelling one of the six persons the dog invariably
returned with the stone thrown by him, showing that the dog can
easily recognize individual odors of people. The last test was to
determine whether Albert could associate a pocketbook with its
owner. Four pocketbooks belonging to four men were laid in a
row. Albert, of course, could not distinguish by sight the owner of
each purse, but he made no mistake in doing so by smell. He was
allowed to smell one of the men and then smelled all the pocketbooks,
announcing his decision by barking. These results fully convinced
Buytendijk that the employment of dogs in police departments is
highly justified. However, as a result of more recent tests by Ger-
man police officials, the use of dogs in helping to detect criminals is
forbidden in Germany. Critics contend that the dogs were not
properly tested.

In 1926 Lohner, an Austrian physiologist, used pieces of wood,
alike in appearance and smell, in testing the olfactory sense of dogs.
Tt was soon learned that a police dog can easily distinguish the wood
handled by a person. While the dog was not looking a piece of wood
was held in the hand, then put among other pieces which were han-
dled only by means of forceps. The dog was next allowed to smell
the hand, and was told to find and to bring the wood that had been
held. Other tests, in which the pieces of wood were deodorized,
showed that the dog could distinguish the pieces even if they had been
touched with the finger tips for no longer than a second or two. He
succeeded even when persons other than the one whose cdor was to
be identified had handled the wood, and even after artificial odors
had been daubed on the wood, although he barked his disapproval.
This police dog was able to identify the odor of a person when the
wood had been put on different parts of the person’s body.

To summarize, dogs, like people, can detect odors of various kinds
and qualities and, in addition, are able to analyze a combination of
smells and attend exclusively to one component of it. This is a
power that we lack almost entirely. When we experience the stimuli
of two odors at the same time we rarely detect both of the qualities
in the mixture; usually one of them overcomes or masks the other,
or a new odor unlike either results. The dog, and perhaps many
other animals, can analyze a fusion of smells as a trained musician
COMMUNICATION AMONG INSECTS—McINDOO 561

analyzes a chord. In this respect, if not in the variety of smells, we
are able to distinguish, our olfactory sense has degenerated.

It is well known among beekeepers that bees can easily distinguish
the body odors of a person. Usually beekeepers, when handling
queenbees, hold them gently and as little as possible with the fingers,
because they know by experience that the workers do not lke the
odor from the fingers, and often kill queens excessively charged with
foreign odor, such as that from perspiration. The writer discovered:
that a friendly hive mate can easily be changed to a strange worker
by merely stroking its back with a finger.

The homing and orientation of ants have for ages puzzled the minds
of observers. ‘There are really two problems involved. First, how
does a solitary forager, after she has found food at the end of a long
and ranibling course, find her way back to the nest? Second, how do
ants follow a well-beaten ant trail to and from the nest? Many
theories have been advanced to answer these questions. Chief among
them are the following:

Piéron divides ants into three divisions; some follow the trail by
smell, some by sight, and others by a kind of muscular sense. In
some species there is a kind of muscular memory, the ants simply
reversing on the homeward path all the turnings they took on the way
out, like a top unwinding itself. Cornetz believes that ants have a
mysterious power of registering in their bodies the general direction
of their outward course and reversing it when they have found a
load to be carried home. The ant behaves, in short, as if she con-
tained a compass. ‘This kinesthetic sense acts merely like a roughly
constructed pedometer, giving the insect a vague notion of the dis-
tance traveled from the nest. Many writers claim that in part, if
not entirely, ants are guided by sight in their wanderings and along
the trails.

Brun gives the best and most complete general survey of the entire
subject of orientation in insects, birds, mammals, and man. In
regard to ants he strongly advocates the theory that they are guided
by contact and by odors, although he fully discusses the various other
factors involved. As to distant orientation in ants, he admits to
consideration only the contact-odor sense and the sense of sight. He
states that the faculty of self-orientation is in its broadest sense a
primary property of living protoplasm. The higher ants are able
to see the large distant objects which serve them as landmarks for
finding their nests, and in a certain measure this faculty appears to
serve the lower ants. The higher ants, by following a straight course
from their nest, are able upon returning to deviate to the right or
left, thus sometimes describing a polygon during their wanderings,
but they do not possess a sense of angles, as suggested by a few
writers. In the higher species a true associative memory of location
562 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

exists to a certain degree. Recognition of a known location is prob-
ably the function of the contact-odor sense, while the perception of
direction is effected wholly by visual memory.

Many observers have strongly held that the sense of smell explains
how ants and termites retrace or follow their tracks, and these social
insects have actually been observed to lay down odorous trails, but
not until recently has anyone conclusively demonstrated the part
played by smell.

Henning became greatly interested in this problem, and decided
to help clarify it, if possible. The many authorities on this subject
are agreed that the three senses of sight, touch, and smell are involved,
but the question remains as to which one of these plays the most
important part. Some of the writers think that smell is the most
important, but do not explain just how this sense operates, finding a
difficulty in the fact that the various trails run from the nest in
every direction, and apparently the same odor clings to all of them.

Henning first attacked the problem by observing the behavior of
ants upon artificial paths instead of upon those made by themselves.
He caused the ants under observation to crawl over paper covered
with lampblack, and observed that after having traveled for a dis-
tance of 1 millimeter an ant made three strokes upon the black paper
with the end of her abdomen. After they had crawled over the paper
for a time or two the characteristic odor of formic acid was plainly
perceptible, indicating that they had imparted this particular odor
to the trail. It was later determined that they excreted this acid
‘whenever they were running over the paper, thus giving a cue for
experimental tests in which only the olfactory sense is involved. He
next painted a pathway up a tree, from the ground to the highest
point he could reach, with a weak solution of formic acid. ‘The result
obtained was most interesting. Even before he had made a connec-
tion by means of the acid from the foot of the tree to one of the
natural runways passing from the nest, 10 to 20 ants made their way
up the artificial path upon the tree, though this path had not been
visited by them before. These pioneers were quickly followed by
others, until nearly the whole personnel of the nest had thus been
Jed astray by the artifice. The conclusion was drawn that the insects
reacted strongly to the odor of the formic acid, which was more con-
centrated than that in their own bodies. The stimulus was so strong
that even while the path was still moist the ants began to travel over
it, though they particularly dislike to get their feet wet and always
avoid damp places. Curiously enough, the same effect was pro-
duced not only by formic acid but by other chemicals having a similar
odor, such, for example, as formaldehyde. This experiment also
showed that it is not the smell of food which exerts the attraction but
the smell peculiar to the insects themselves.
OUR INSECT INSTRUMENTALISTS AND THEIR
MUSICAL TECHNIQUE

By H. A. ALLARD

Senior Physiologist, Bureau of Plant Industry, United States Department of
Agriculture

[With 16 plates]
THE SOUNDS OF INSECTS

Most people doubtless recognize the chirp of crickets in the grass
and the raucous chatter of katydids in the trees, but beyond these
limited experiences the general public probably knows little of our
musical insects. Yet in the immediate vicinity of Washington, D. C.,
more than 20 species of crickets add their distinctive notes to the great
midsummer symphony of insect sounds, and about 25 species of
katydids lisp and rasp from their hiding places in the grass, herbage,
and tree tops. In addition, 10 or 12 kinds of grasshoppers lisp notes
with their wings while in the air, or crackle along over the fields in
flight, and others fiddle with their legs against their wing covers
while at rest on the grass or herbage. A number of cicadas, too, of
the order Hemiptera, murmur and zing in the midsummer heat.

MUSICAL IMPULSE AMONG INSECTS

The proclivity for sound-making by one method or another is a
ubiquitous impulse and mood of life. The great insect kingdom has
not been backward in following the same weird organic trend toward
the egotisms of self-expression. The order of beetles Coleoptera,
has evolved noise-making structures on every conceivable portion of
the anatomy, including the head, mandibles, pronotum, mesothorax,
forelegs, middle legs, and the elytra or wing covers. In truth, where-
ever two mobile surfaces offer the least potentiality of contact with
each other, noise-making structures have somehow arisen, and the
necessary remodeling and sculpturing to produce file vein and scraper
have somehow followed. Whatever the portion of the body involved,
a marvelous plasticity of the external integuments has been shown in
this great group, as if contiguous surfaces were almost aware of their
proximities. At every twist and turn of the head, antennae, legs,
thorax, abdominal segments, and other parts, microscopic files or

563
564 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

sound-rasps and scrapers have evolved, so that sound can somehow
function in their lives. In the ants, too, similar sound-making
proclivities have been shown in some instances. Although the ants
and the beetles, even to the larval stages that know none of the
moods of the sex impulse have become greatly concerned with sound
production, little is known of their notes. Their sounds never con-
stitute the poetry of earth so dear to the human mind. Moreover,
many of these sounds unquestionably are not even perceptible to
human ears, because they are beyond the range of audition. One
must think of sound at times in terms of wave impulses, as one does
of light. The sound spectrum, so to speak, may at both ends extend
far beyond human auditory powers, the vibrations being too rapid
at the higher extreme and too slow at the lower extreme to affect the
auditory mechanism in terms of sound.

INSECT MUSIC WHICH WE ORDINARILY HEAR

We are at present concerned with only those great groups of insects
which impress their sounds upon the daily consciousness of our lives.
These insects are so large and so persistent in their sound making
that they produce a greater volume of noise than that made by the
ants or beetles. There are only two families which may at times
fill our ears with sound; the cicadas, or so-called harvest flies of the
order Hemiptera, including the true bugs; and the grasshoppers,
crickets, and katydids of the order Orthoptera.

HOW THESE INSECTS MAKE THEIR SOUNDS

Birds are the great vocalists of the earth. With few exceptions
they sing by means of a very efficient larynx within their throats.
Some few, as, for instance, the nighthawk, produce noises in a unique
manner with their wings while falling like a stone through the air
from great heights. Others drum with their wings upon the air like
the ruffed grouse, or flirt out queer bleating sounds with their tails
while on the wing like the snipe. Such specialized modes put these
wing or tail singers in the class with the instrumentalists lke the
insects. Strange it is that nature, in the case of these birds and
that of a Turkestan lizard, which chirps with its tail, has somehow
overlooked the throats and vocal cords, preferring for some myste-
rious reason to make these creatures the unique instrumentalists of
their class.

Insects are never vocalists like the birds, but always instrumental-
ists. The cicadas or harvest flies, with their loud zinging, represent
one great distinctive group of insect musicians, to which the so-called
17-year locusts belong. All members of this group make their music
within specialized body cavities by means of thin chitinous mem-
INSECT INSTRUMENTALISTS—ALLARD 565

branes, made to vibrate rapidly at will by a very powerful muscula-
ture. Only to the extent that it employs an internal device does this
method resemble the vocal efforts of the birds. The musical appa-
ratus of the cicada appears to represent the most complicated struc-
ture which the forces of life have evolved for sound production in
the insect kingdom. Nature is frequently seen to run riot with this
tendency or with that, specializing for ages upon bill, feather, or
claw, producing organisms with marvelous and grotesque adorn-
ments upon every feature, and so in this instance, in which she
decided to expend the forces of her inventive genius upon the music
boxes of the cicadas. These are complicated in the extreme. Little
was known of their structures until the great French naturalist
Réaumur, as far back as 1740, gave his scrutinizing attention to their
marvelous specializations, and little has been added to the under-
standing of it all since his day. The principle of the musical organ
is that of the drum, the vibrant, membranous head of which is
snapped or sprung with great frequency to produce the loud metallic
sounds. Nature appears here to have seen potentialities for her
infinite ingenuity and genius and to have settled down in serious
contemplation to equip the cicadas with marvelous cymbals. ‘The
sounding drums or tympani are ribbed to make them strong and
elastic to withstand the terrific energies of vibration to which they
are constantly subjected. Not content with this, the forces of life
even specialized in spacious resonant air chambers, to increase and
transmit the sound, reflect it to the best advantage, or change its
volume at will. It is all a matter of superspecialization, it would
seem, and to what end? For some reason the forces of life decided
to make the cicadas artists, geniuses in their line, in some queer
organic localization of the molecular forces and impulses of life of
which we know nothing.

Our more familiar insect sounds of the summertime are made by
members of the order Orthoptera, including the crickets, grasshop-
pers, katydids, walking sticks, roaches, mantids, and others of the
order. It is in this group that the musical impulse has somehow
become a great impelling motive in their existence. Not all the fami-
Nes of this order have specialized in music, however, for the man-
tids, walking sticks, and roaches are little given to the production of
sound for sound’s sake. It is among the grasshoppers, katydids, and
crickets that a veritable sensitized ear for music has developed. All
these singing creatures wear their musical instruments externally on
their legs or upon the wing covers of their backs.

The music is instrumental; the musicians are with few exceptions
genuine violinists, or xylophone players. The more lowly grasshop-
pers may produce their music while flying over the fields, while hover-

24034—29——37
566 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

ing almost stationary in the air, like the queer Carolina grasshopper,
Dissoteira carolina, or while at rest. The majority sing while at rest
by sawing their hind legs simultaneously upon the edges of their
wing covers. ‘Teeth—in some instances upon the legs, in others upon
the vein of the wing covers—are made to scrape several times upon
a ridge of the other member to produce the characteristic lisping
sounds of the species. This action is in reality a true fiddling, even
though the sounds may not be particularly musical to the human ear.

Flight stridulation is perhaps the commonest method of producing
sound among the grasshoppers (Acrididae). Nature has recognized
other potentialities here, however, and has even turned to casual
ambulant stridulation, as in the case of the wingless western katydid,
Stenopelmatus longispina. In this instance the rule that katydids
sing with their wing covers is broken. Stenopelmatus lacks wings
but not the musical impulse, and so the hind legs developed a rasp
on the inner surface of the hind femur to play against short teeth
or tubercles upon the adjacent sclerites and connectiva of the ab-
domen. This queer katydid can make its joints squeak out unique
music, so to speak, while it walks, wasting no more time from the
ordinary duties of life than does the whistling human workman.

In all of our common eastern katydids and crickets the base of the
wing covers is the seat of the musical organs. A file vein with teeth
on one wing cover and a scraper upon the other drawn over this
constitute the musical apparatus. In the many green and brown
katydids, the wing covers are opened a little, set somewhat at an
angle, and rasped upon each other. Many species of crickets, in-
cluding our pearly winged tree crickets (Oecanthus), raise the wings
nearly at right angles to the back during stridulation—that is, when
they make their sounds.

WHY DO INSECTS SING?

Insects probably make their sounds for the same reason that birds
and humans sing, because they love sound, and find it a means of self-
expression; it is a part of their lives. It may in some instances have
a sexual significance, but the theory ascribing sound to sex in insects
has probably been much overdone. The females appear to have
definite sex calls which will bring the males quickly to them; but
in general the males alone are musical, although there are exceptions.
One acquainted with these musical creatures can no more regard
every sound they make as simply of sexual utility than he can so
regard the musical impulses of men.

It seems to be in the makeup of many creatures, such as our
musical insects, to utilize the ubiquitous sound waves, just as certain
organisms have seized upon light and analyzed it to wear it in
marvelous patterns upon the integuments of their backs. Even to
INSECT INSTRUMENTALISTS—ALLARD 567

explain this scientific theories have been laboriously evolved upon the
basis of sexual utility; light was made the means of attracting the
males and females to each other through their esthetic appreciations
of colors. These finespun theories now show many weaknesses. In
reality we know nothing about the impulses back of it all. ‘There
are, however, strange analogies between these organic treatments of
sound and light. The males among insects are generally the musical
ones; they are the ones that have most aptly seized upon the sound
waves and used them in varied patterns of rhythm and tone. Like-
wise with light; it is the males which have usually analyzed it most
carefully and made its primary colors into the most varied and
beautiful patterns. Strange organic laws are here at work, of
which men have little knowledge.

We speak of the garrulous human in our midst as an egotistical
fellow. If katydids and crickets were judged on this basis they
would be the most egotistical creatures on earth, obsessed as no
others with the sounds of their own wings. Perchance some degree
of elemental egotism and love of noisy self-expression may actually
be the motives of their lives. Perchance back of it all there is the
mood of social contact, or of abiding companionship in the adver-
tising noise of their fellows, just as we ourselves feel the thrill of
noisy crowds. Perchance it is the elemental impulse of pure art,
the love of sound, tone, rhythm of music in some manifestation. We
know nothing with any certainty, however, about the impulses back
of it all. I have heard the snowy tree cricket chirp at the rate of
about ninety times per minute all night long. Think what that
means; 5,400 chirps per hour, 64,800 chirps in a 12-hour night, nearly
4,000,000 chirps in a period of 60 days, demanding the muscular
energy of 16,000,000 wing-strokes on the basis of four strokes for
each chirp! I have no doubt many crickets chirp millions of times
in the season which constitutes their span of life. What is it all
about? Sex alone does not explain it. No cricket needs to chirp
himself to death—chirp a cool four million or five million times
night and day in one bush, or perchance on one twig, to win the
momentary attentions and embraces of a silent, lonely female in the
vicinity. Here is the weird mystery of insect music, its eternal
persistence, an eternal wing play in some restless role of life, de-
signed, it would seem, to keep the insect content and happy while it
lives along to the very threshold of old age and death.

SPECIALIZATIONS IN THE VARIOUS MUSICAL GROUPS

In the cases of the beetles and some of the ants the forces of life ap-
pear to have concentrated their energies more particularly upon modi-
fications of the file vein. Weirdly enough, some of the beetles have
been equipped with two file veins, or two mandolins, so to speak.
568 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

Furthermore, life has endowed them with the most specialized file
veins known, a single file vein being in some instances furnished with
as many as three different sets of teeth, coarse, medium, and fine.
It would almost seem that the beetles had awakened to the possibili-
ties of having at their command several distinctive notes; or perhaps
there is a trend toward some manner of primitive musical scale such
as the birds employ with their vocal cords. As yet little is known,
however, concerning the sounds of the beetles, for they are too faint
to impress our ear readily.

The grasshoppers, katydids, and crickets, also, have decided upon
the technique of the mechanical file vein and scraper, but so far as
known they have not given especial attention to noticeable modifi-
cations of the file vein which constitutes their chitinous fiddle.
Nevertheless, in some instances a marvelous technique has developed
which has centered around the touch-and-time relations between
scraper and file vein.

THE MUSIC OF THE GRASSHOPPERS (ACRIDIDAE)

If life in its evolutions is always a matter of slow and groping
trends from simplicity to complexity, one must expect to find long
lines of primitive impulses and expressions prior to the finish and
finesse of higher activities of living and doing. This seems to be
indicated in the case of our orthopteran musicians. The more lowly
grasshoppers of the family Acrididae are the more primitive musi-
cians. When on the wing they crackle and flutter lLsping sounds,
although having almost no definite musical structures such as a
specialized file vein and scraper. In the case of some of the sulphur-
winged grasshoppers, such as the species of Arphia, the sound is
almost of the order of a clatter, reminding one of the snapping some-
times made by pigeons in flight. It is their idea of music, perhaps,
but the mechanical basis of it all is of the simplest and most indefi-
nite sort. Just how these noisy flight crepitations are made is not
even consistently agreed upon by naturalists. While the Arphias
and many others must catapult themselves in great trajectories and
swift aerial swoops to eke out their sounds, a few have learned to arise
from the soil gracefully and hover in mid-air while they “ lisp ” with
their wings for a few seconds. Our big gray or brown Carolina
grasshopper (Dissosteira carolina) of the bare spots and dusty road-
ways is best known for this specialized hovering.

The grasshoppers of another group have decided upon a more
sedentary method of making their music; they are the veritable
fiddlers of the insect world. <A file vein with teeth, situated either
upon a large wing vein or upon a ridge of the inner thigh of the
great hind leg, constitutes the musical organ, with the plectrum or
scraper upon the opposite member. If the file vein is upon the leg
INSECT INSTRUMENTALISTS—ALLARD 569

the scraper is upon the wing cover, and vice versa. The primitive
sawing of these lowly grasshoppers is never loud and impressive,
and seldom plays any noticeable part in one’s experiences with the
poetry of insect music.

THE SOUNDS OF THE KATYDIDS (TETTIGONIIDAE)

As in the case of the grasshoppers, the characteristic sound of the
katydids is only a lisp or a rasp. Tonality, in the sense of musical
pitch as the human ear judges music, plays no part in their sounds.
For some mysterious reason this is a distinctive feature of the sounds
of all our katydids. From the southern giant katydid, St¢/pnochlora
couloniana, to the tiniest woodland meadow katydid, Conocephaius
nemoralis, hint of tonality such as even the tiniest crickets possess
is absent. This is somehow a marvelous group behavior, provided
all our morphological classifications which make it seem thus have
been sound. We may think the katydids are far behind the crickets
because the latter alone have acquired tonality of an order closely
akin to the pitch of our own formalisms of music. It is possible to
go too far in our philosophizing, however, for if the katydids merely
rasp out strident noise, as our ears would judge it, they have at
least specialized in the direction of a better control or more varied
manipulation of the musical structures, resulting in a striking variety
of notes and deliveries which none of the crickets have yet evinced.

TONALITY A DISTINCTIVE FEATURE OF CRICKET MUSIC

Our morphological classification of the katydids and crickets has,
unintentionally, rigidly separated these two great families with re-
spect to certain unique features of their stridulations. As previously
stated, the crickets have somehow learned to chirp in terms of the
tonality of our own music. Their notes may be recognized as having
a definite musical pitch, whereas the katydids merely rasp out noise.
It is a marvelous step forward in the evolution of the musical 1m-
pulse as judged by human standards of audition and the enjoyment
of sound. The crickets appear to have gone no further, however, for
they merely trill out eternal monotones of sound in a continuous un-
ceasing shuffle of the wing, or they merely break it up into more or
less regular, rhythmic intervals, to produce their chirping soliloquies
and synchronal concerts. ‘True musical pitch alone distinguishes
their music from that of the conehead, Mecconocephalus, among the
katydids. Whereas the meadow katydids, Orchelimum, some of the
amblycoryphas, and the angular-winged katydids, Mécrocentrum,
have introduced new trends of composition and variety into their
songs, even as much as some of the less musical birds, the crickets,
strangely enough, have seemingly established their distinctive genius
on the basis of tonality alone. The same type of musical structure,
570 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

a file vein and scraper, is at their disposal, yet no departures what-
ever appear to have evolved from the simple monotone or the rhyth-
mic chirp in the direction of producing variety with these elements.
Every cricket trills unceasingly or chirps intermittently. Should a
cricket with tonality at its command learn to trill and chirp as
efficiently as the little Uhlers’ katydid, or strike a series of separate
musical tones with the technique of the larger angular-winged katy-
did, cricket music would at once become a marvelous rendition of
tinkling tones and chimes surpassing anything we now hear in their
musical accomplishments.

THE MUSICAL TECHNIQUE OF THE CRICKETS AND KATYDIDS

Tt is common knowledge that crickets trill and chirp, but the tech-
nique of the production of the sound has been little studied. It
would seem that remarkable specializations have taken place, making
the technique of one katydid or cricket entirely unlike that of
another.

In all our eastern crickets and katydids the musical apparatus has
been shown to be a typical file vein on one wing cover and a scraper
to draw over it on the other. This mechanical device seems fairly
simple, but the manner of using these frictional structures to pro-
duce sound has become very varied.

It would appear that the sound is generally if not always made by
the forward stroke of the scraper or plectrum over the chitin bars.
The wing covers or elytra are first separated a little and set so that
the scraper is at one end of the file vein. They are then brought
together swiftly so that the scraper glides forcibly over the teeth to
the other end. The wing covers have now advanced to their extreme
closing position. When the wings are drawn back again for the next
note or rasp an interval of silence intervenes. It is important to
keep these steps in mind in an analysis and understanding of the
various sounds which our crickets and katydids are capable of pro-
ducing as their distinctive “ songs ” or stridulations.

THE CONTINUOUS TRILL OR BUZZ

The simplest and one of the most common methods of stridulation
appears to be that in which the scraper is run at high speed for in-
definite periods over the file vein. Many crickets and katydids trill
in this monotonous manner for hours at a time. The writer feels
that, in most instances, the sound depends upon the forward stroke
alone of the scraper upon the file vein. The slight interval of silence
between these positive strokes gives the noticeable character of
quaver or tremolo which the trained ear can usually detect. Many
of our crickets have this continuous high-speed habit of stridulation,
INSECT INSTRUMENTALISTS—ALLARD 571

as the tree crickets, Oecanthus latipennis, O. pini, O. nigricornis,
Phylloscyrtus pulchellus, and Nemobius palustris. Among the katy-
dids, subfamily Copiphorinw, this method of stridulation is the
method of the species Neoconocephalus robustus, N. retusus, N.
nebrascensis, N. palustris, N. triops, and others. In the case of the
katydids all musical pitch or tonality as judged by human ears is
absent. The rapidity of the forward strokes in this continuous play
of the scraper across the file vein varies greatly, being relatively
slow, it would appear from its snappy notes, in the case of the cone-
head, JV. retusus, but exceedingly fast in the case of V. robustus, whose
notes may have the even, ear-splitting hum or drone of a rapidly
revolving saw. To produce this keen, smooth, hum some thousands
of forward strokes of the scraper per minute must be made upon the
file vein. Few, if any, of our musical insects would seem to move
their wings with such frequency as does this big, powerful katydid.
At times the writer has wondered if this katydid were the exception
to our rule that the forward stroke of the scraper alone produced the
sound. Nature always evolves in terms of all potentialities, and
sometimes, perchance, we shall find both backward and forward
strokes producing sound, as in the case of most of our own violin
music.

DISCONTINUOUS STRIDULATION: INTERRUPTED CHIRP OR RASP

An interruption of this continuous habit of stridulation into dis-
tinct intervals of silence and sound is a common feature of the
insect’s behavior in singing. This produces the chirp or interrupted
rasp characteristic of a great number of crickets and katydids. The
interval of sound may be long or short, regular or irregular; all
these habits of rhythm actually occur in one cricket or another, and
in some of the katydids. It must be remembered that each chirp
is the result of several rapid strokes of the scraper upon the file vein.
The number of strokes in a chirp may be few or many, constant or
variable. If with regular intermissions of silence, we have the
markedly rhythmic method of chirping so characteristic of the
snowy tree cricket. If the wing strokes are many and inconstant or
variable, we have the long-drawn, melancholy sounds of the tree
crickets, Oecanthus angustipennis and Neowabea bipunctata, with no
hint of uniformity or measured beat or rhythm. In the height of its
singing period in the heat of August the musical musings of the
tree cricket, Veovabea bipunctata, are of this order, as if a continuous
habit of trilling were merely being broken up irregularly by very
brief intervals of silence anywhere, at any time. On the other hand,
one who has heard the regular, rhythmic, solemn chirpings of the
snowy tree cricket, O. niveus, can not but be impressed with the
marvelously nice time relations of it all. This regularity indicates
572 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

a fundamental treatment of the elements of the chirp, that is, of the
forward strokes which produce the component sounds. There is no
doubt but that the cricket counts, so to speak, or that at least its
physiological mechanism is somehow accurately set to produce just
so many strokes in each chirp, otherwise rhythmic regularity could
not obtain with the precision this cricket observes so marvelously in
all its measured chirping. B. B. Fulton has noted this nice
regularity in the case of the chirps of the snowy tree cricket, 0.
niveus. In one Oregon race, which he studied, the number of wing
strokes was four; in another race, according to his observations, only
three. It is probable that the wing strokes of this cricket do not
often exceed four in each chirp. On the other hand, the wing
strokes of the jumping tree cricket, Orocharis saltator, unquestion-
ably exceed this number, probably being at least six for each chirp.

THE SINGLE-STROKE CHIRP OR RASP

We have considered the long, continuous trill, in which the succes-
sive forward strokes of the scraper over the file vein are very rapid,
producing in some instances an almost smooth hum or drone of
sound. We have seen where this is broken into separate sound in-
tervals, each chirp or rasp composed of a number of forward strokes
of the scraper, which may be few or many, constant or variable, in
their sequences.

We will now consider a few instances in which the separate chirps
or rasps are made by a single stroke of the scraper over the file vein.
Tn reality this is the result of an extreme slowing down of the con-
tinuous habit of trilling. It is the most lethargic habit of stridula-
tion in this category of methods of using the scraper upon the file
vein. The scraper is drawn at comparatively long intervals. It is a
most unusual method of stridulation among our true crickets
(Gryllidae). In all my studies of this fascinating subject I have
found but one cricket which has adopted this single-stroke method
of “singing.” ‘The musician is one of our tiniest bush crickets,
Anaxipha exigua, a species scarcely more than three-sixteenths of an
inch in length of body. Its file vein and scraper are of microscopic
proportions on its tiny, delicate wings. Naturally the sound struck
off is thin and high pitched, one of the highest notes of all our
crickets, and almost beyond the range of my own audition, which
has been trained to be highly selective and acute with reference to
insect sounds. From the smooth, clear character of the almost mi-
croscopic sounds of this cricket, so to speak, I have long ago pre-
dicted it would be found that each sound #2, in its tinkling song
ti-ti-li-ti-ti is made by a single draw of the scraper over the file vein.
This was not definitely established until the summer of 1928. The
INSECT INSTRUMENTALISTS—ALLARD jlo

strokes follow one another at a rate of from 125 even up to 300 per
minute. Owing to the microscopic character of the musical struc-
tures and the brief period of the note produced by the single forward
movement of the scraper over such a microscopic file vein, the notes
tt are strikingly smooth and tinkling, in reality little more than
points of sound. Naturally there is no quaver or tremolo in the
notes, as in the case of those chirping crickets where the chirp is
made up of several forward strokes of the scraper. This is a most
remarkable technique and marks the extreme of slow speed in the
production of sound by the crickets. So far as my experience goes
it is the accomplishment of Anawipha exigua alone.

In the katydid family 7'ettigoniidae, at least, one cone-headed katy-
did, Neoconocephalus ensiger, of the North, produces in a similar
manner each ¢s¢p of its continuous untiring song tsip-tsip-tsip-tsip-
tsip-tsip-tsip with a single forward stroke of the scraper upon the
file vein, at the relatively slow rate of about one hundred and fifty to
two hundred times per minute. On the other hand, the big cone-
headed katydid, Veoconocephalus ewiliscanorus, like the snowy tree
cricket, for each quavering rasp—dzeet—employs several wing
strokes.

STRIKING THE INDIVIDUAL TEETH OF THE FILE VEIN TO PRODUCE
SOUND

There is yet another possibility in this slowing down in the process
of producing sounds by drawing a scraper over the teeth of the file
vein. It involves a movement so slow and nicely controlled that the
teeth themselves are struck separately to produce a leisurely series of
30 to 40 sounds or clicks. Remarkable as it may seem a single katy-
did, the larger angular-winged katydid, AMicrocentrum rhombifolium,
has adopted this procedure, and I know of no other katydid that has
done so. A remarkable feature of this method of stridulation is the
loudness of the notes struck off by tapping these almost microscopic
teeth, but life is eternally doing many things to surprise us. It is,
perhaps, not more remarkable than to see the thin, transparent wings
of a snowy tree cricket throwing off surprising volumes of sound
from far smaller teeth, so that its chirp can be-heard hundreds of feet
away. None of the crickets have proceeded in this direction any
further than to make their notes with a single stroke over the entire
file vein, as the tiny Anawipha exigua has done. Nevertheless, this
is a potentiality for the crickets as truly as for the katydids. It is
quite possible that a more thorough study of the thousands of musical
insects of the world will yet reveal this specialized technique among
some of the crickets. It is a marvelous accomplishment, and should
tonality or musical pitch still obtain one would expect to find a purity
of tone struck from each slender tooth as lively and as vibrant as any
574 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

musical sound life has ever evolved. If the little cricket, Anaxipha
exigua, can produce musical tone or pitch in a single forward draw
of the scraper over the microscopic teeth of the file vein, it is natural
to assume that each tooth is adding its single tone to this composite
note which involves all the teeth to produce those points of sound
constituting its characteristic chirp.

SONGS OF THE MEADOW KATYDIDS ORCHELIMUM AND CONOCE-
PHALUS, SUBFAMILY CONOCEPHALINAB

The katydids alone appear to have evolved rather intricate little
songs, combining in one way or another both fast and slow manipu-
lations of the scraper over the file vein. It is evident that this com-
bination is possible in the direction of variety, and that the musical
sense of life has strangely felt it and made special use of it. Some
of the meadow katydids, Orchelimum, as, for instance, the pretty
pine-tree katydid, O. minor, have been content with brief lisping
phrases s-s-s-s—s-s-s-s-s, making use of a series of wing shuffles for
each phrase. This is merely a counterpart of the leisurely chirp of
the cricket, in which there are several component strokes of the
scraper over the file vein for each phrase. The majority of the
Orchelimums, however, have brought more complexity into their
running songs. They have introduced a series of staccato lisps, tsip,
involving single wing strokes of very slow delivery, to precede the
longer monotone in the production of which the wings fairly hum or
buzz with their rapid contacts of the scraper over the file vein. The
normal song runs thus: Tsip-tsip-tsip-tsip-tseeeeeeeeeeeeee, tsip-tsip-
tsip. The majority of the Orchelimums have adopted these more
complex time relations.

Among the smaller meadow grasshoppers, Conocephalus, which are
closely allied to the Orchelimums, we find combinations of fast and
slow time relations other than those the Orchelimums have adopted.
The smaller meadow katydid, C. strictus, simply “sings” at high
speed with its constant lisping monotone s-s-s-s-s-s-S-S-S-S-S-S, IN a Way
similar to that of such coneheads as Neoconocephalus retusus, N. tri-
ops, N. robustus, and others. The smaller meadow katydid, C. fasc?-
atus, like most of the Orchelimums, begins with a number of staccato
lisps, before speeding up with the final lisping monotone, tip-tip-tip-
tseeeeeeeeeee. C’. brevipennis uses a minimum of only 1 to 3 single
wing strokes which precede one, two, or three brief, faint, high-speed
lisping phrases. The song may be expressed thus: tip-tip-tseeee-
tseeee-tseeece. The phases are very brief. In the case of C. nemoralis,
the song is rather distinctive. A series of very rapidly produced
staccato lisps, making an almost continuous monotone, precedes a
run of 2 to 30 or more very brief, lisping phrases, before they are
again repeated. It is seen from these examples that the Orchelimums
INSECT INSTRUMENTALISTS—ALLARD 575

and their tiny relatives, the species of Conocephalus, have far sur-
passed the coneheads and all the crickets in establishing new formal-
isms in their “songs.” The crickets and coneheads have established
their songs mainly on the basis of uniform time-relations, making
the rate of repetition of the sound-stroke of the scraper upon the file
vein more or less specific for each species. They trill in long, dreamy,
monotones, or chirp or rasp in more or less rhythmic accents, but
there are no interminglings of the two elements. Should a cricket
with the tinkling bell-tones of the jumping tree cricket, Orocharis
saltator, adopt the varied time relations of the big meadow katydid,
Orchelimum vulgare, in its chirpings, combining a series of clear
vibrant single-stroke chirps with a brisk, quavering, monotone trill,
we should find our mechanical insect music of a very superior order
of rendition, and showing striking analogies with the vocal renditions
of some of our warblers and sparrows. Even as their accomplish-
ments stand to-day, the enlivening jingling trill of the chipping
sparrow is scarcely more involved than the trillings of some of the
crickets, and the song of the grasshopper sparrow is decidedly insect-
like in its delivery and intonation.

SONGS OF THE TRUE KATYDIDS, PTEROPHYLLA, SUBFAMILY
PSEUDOPHYLLINAE

The classic katydid singer of our poetry is the big arboreal fellow,
Pterophylla camellifolia. We is the maker of those mysterious
raucous chatterings in the trees which have made the nighttime sweet
and companionable to many a human soul acquainted with the poetry
of country life. Who among us can not say with Oliver Wendell
Holmes,

I love to hear thine earnest voice,
Wherever thou art hid,

Thou testy little dogmatist,
Thou pretty Katydid!

“For there is no sadness in the earth’s minstrelsy,” as C. V. Riley
once wrote. The gods alone made the katydids, and let us hope man
will not have any reason to destroy them soon; man may make towns,
but the countryside and its crickets and katydids are the musings of
the gods themselves. It is to the musical insects that I owe much
of my love of poetry; yes, and truth as I would measure it in terms
of my science. I am a better scientist because I have known katy-
dids and their nocturnal accents in New England, “squa-wak’,
squa-wa-wik’,” as Snodgress has so aptly interpreted it. The weird
musings of these leaf-winged creatures bent upon an “egotistic love
of song,” as Scudder saw the murmurings of the crickets, inspired
Henry S. Cornwell to take up his sonnet lyre and create a worthy
Petrarchan sonnet “To the Katydid.” Some one once asked what
576 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

good are crickets and katydids, and I replied, to inspire a finer
poetry and philosophy in the souls of men than we now know. Long
after our mechanical madness shall have worn off and our age of
hurry and mechanistic musing has been forgotten, the crickets and
katydids will bespeak the same rare and refined poetry to those who
shall pause to feel and interpret it in terms of the human soul. What
I love about these great fellows is their leisurely way of expressing
themselves hour after hour in two or three simple rasping accents,
as harsh and as grating near at hand as any insect note on earth,
perchance. There is no hint of the machine-like expenditure of
energy such as the big conehead, Neoconocephalus robustus, drones
out with all the speed its body can command to drive the scraper
over the file vein. As with nearly all of the larger katydids, each
syllable is the result of a single forward stroke of the scraper over
the file vein. The big true katydid has even given up active flying, it
would seem, and has reduced its notes to comparatively few leisurely
deliveries per minute, perhaps 20 or 25 phrases, each one involving
only 2 or 8 strokes of the scraper upon the big file vein. It would
appear as if the big fellows were tending toward some lethargic
condition, where as little expenditure of energy as possible must be
made to send its song to the ears of its fellows in some mood of
social companionship that the forces back of its life demand.
Caudell first reported that the female of this species, when handled,
also stridulated somewhat like the males, and I also have observed
this habit with this katydid. At the time Caudell wrote he did not
know whether or not the sounds were ever emitted in nature volun-
tarily. I may state that I have found the females of other species
of katydids emitting characteristic call notes of their own accord
out of decors. These call notes appear to be of the nature of true
sex calls or invitations to the males, for a number of these in every
instance at once congregated about her, some of them flying from
the shrubbery around. I have observed this behavior in females of
one of the bush katydids, Phaneroptera curvicauda, the round-
winged katydid, Amblycorypha rotundifolia, and the larger angular-
winged katydid, Microcentrum rhombifolium. According to W. J.
Baumgartner, the females of our common mole cricket, Gryllotalpa
hexadactyla, have a rather loud distinct chirp, used as a note of rec-
ognition in their dark burrows. The females of a Porto Rican
species, Scapteriscus didactylus, are said also to possess poorly devel-
oped stridulatory organs, and probably call or stridulate in some
manner. It would seem that some of the females of our own musical
insects are inclined to the moods of art as well as the males, a tend-
ency which has become highly developed in some exotic species.
INSECT INSTRUMENTALISTS—ALLARD Sve

SONGS OF THE KATYDIDS PHANEROPTERA, AMBLYCORYPHA, AND
MICROCENTRUM, SUBFAMILY PHANEROPTERINAE

In this subfamily fall many of our largest and finest katydids as
judged by their elegant forms, their size, the exquisitely leaf-like
nature of their wing covers, and other features. In the genus Phan-
eroptera and the closely related Znscudderia, we have trim, narrow-
winged forms, the Phaneroptera, partial to the low herbage zone,
but, strangely enough, the Inscudderias are confined almost entirely
to the green crowns of the Cypress trees, Taxodiwm distichum.
The species of Phaneroptera are, in my judgment, the least musically
inclined of all our katydids, and in most instances appear to have
lost the habit of frequent, persistent rasping. Now and then they
rasp out a keen incisive zeet, or three successive phrases, zeet, zeet,
zeet, and let it go at that, perhaps for minutes or hours. Rarely
have I found them sitting down to the serious business of rasping
off so many methodical notes per minute, like tuned-up organic
machines bent upon a fixed number per minute of revolutions or
scraper-strokes. The Phaneropteras “sing” at irregular periods
and infrequent intervals, in moods which no one but their own race
can understand. In some instances, however, they have learned to
vary their notes, as I have reported in the case of the Texan bush
katydid, Phaneroptera texensis. This katydid can produce at will
a loose wing shuffle, sounding the phrase sh-sh-sh-sh, occasionally
repeated and rather soft and silken, or it can produce a loud, rasping,
incisive zeet-zeet-zeet, slowly delivered. In our preceding analysis
of the technique of stridulation, I have indicated what the single
stroke does, and what a rapid succession does in the synthesis of the
chirp or rasp. These two notes simply represent both methods as
isolated accomplishments, but interesting enough, having no con-
stant relation to each other in a definite song, as in the case of the
meadow katydids, Orchelimum and Conocephalus.

In the genus Amblycorypha we have a highly developed musical
technique, which in the case of the little Uhler’s katydid surpasses
the musical accomplishments of any katydid in our country in the
complexity of its song. The round-winged katydid, A. rotundifolia,
merely lisps at intervals a leisurely silken monotone sh-sh-sh-sh-sh,
these lisping phrases being of no definite length. In the last analysis
it is but a slow movement of the scraper over the file-vein at uncer-’
tain intervals and for indefinite periods of time. The big oblong-
winged katydid, A. oblongifolia, expends much less energy in song,
it would seem, for its rasps though strong and incisive are repeated
at the rate of only 15 to 20 per minute. Each phrase, sounding
something like it-z-zic—it-z-zic, appears to be made by only two or
three rapid strokes of the scraper.
578 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

The little Uhler’s katydid, A. whleri, has in a surprising manner
broken away from the simpler formalisms of the group, and has
attained a more versatile running song than any other katydid I
have become acquainted with. Its notes begin with a soft, prolonged,
lisping, crooning monotone, produced by a rapid shuflling of the
wings. This soon runs into a succession of short staccato lisps—itsip-
itsip-itsip—and terminates with a succession of brief shuffling
phrases, sh-sh-sh-sh—sh-sh-sh-sh—sh-sh-sh-sh. Additional staccato
notes, tip—tip—tip, sometimes follow these closing phrases. It is
evident that a notable step toward variety has been built up in this
song around the simple elements of the continuous monotone, with
interruptions of its course, combined with the single-stroke play of
the scraper. In a sense the song combines in a somewhat modified
form the elements of the notes of the round-winged katydid, A.
rotundifolia, and the oblong-winged katydid, A. oblongifolia. The
phrases it-sip bear certain analogies with the it-z-zic of the oblong-
winged katydid, and in their quality and technique the phrases
sh-sh-sh-sh are almost the counterpart of those of the round-winged
katydid. The staccato notes tip-tip-tip-tip remind one of the moods
and modes of the meadow katydids, Orchelimum and Conocephalus.

In the genus Wicrocentrum we have two of our finest and largest
katydids, one the smaller angular-winged katydid, U. retinerve,
almost strictly arboreal and exceedingly wild and restless, and the
larger angular-winged katydid, M. rhombifoliwm, one of our tamest,
most docile and sedentary species. The former is rarely seen, for
it is active only at night and is not especially common in the Wash-
ington district. Its stridulations, which are very distinctive, now
and then advertise its presence in the trees after dark. The notes
consist of several lisping or rasping phrases rapidly delivered,
each successive phrase being shortened usually thus: Sh-sh-sh-sh—
sh-sh-sh—sh-sh. The usual number is three, although less rarely
four may be given. In low temperatures only one phrase may be
delivered. This succession of phrases is given at very irregular and
infrequent intervals as the creatures are roaming over the crowns
of the trees, usually not oftener than one to three in a minute. The
larger angular-winged katydid is a denizen of the low herbage and
shrubbery, and, like the robin and many other birds, appears to pre-
fer close contact with the domestic plantings of man. It is far more
common in cities and towns and around house plantings of shrubs
and trees than in wild, wooded situations. One note is a loud tsip,
tsip, delivered at the rate of twenty to thirty times per minute in a
very leisurely way. This is simply the result of a single closing
wing stroke, and is frequently indulged in at given intervals by all
the creatures in a locality. The true song which may then follow,
first by one, then by another, far and near, is the series of long-drawn
INSECT INSTRUMENTALISTS—ALLARD 579

crepitating clicks which I have already described as being one of
the most remarkable accomplishments of any katydid known, be-
cause it is veritably a tapping upon the individual bars of its chitin
xylophone to produce its music. These slow, clicking notes may be
heard throughout all the parks and in the street trees everywhere in
the city of Washington during August and much of September.

SONGS OF THE KATYDIDS OF THE SUBFAMILY DECTICINAE

The katydids of this subfamily are large, peculiar-looking insects,
with usually very short tegmina or wing covers. They are known
as the shield bearers, because the hind portion of the pronotum is in
some instances greatly prolonged backward to cover the basal seg-
ments of the abdomen. Nature was anxious either to make this group
musicians or to keep them musicians. If evolution has been with
them a process of reducing the wing covers from structures that were
once longer, this reduction has progressed to the very seat of the
musical organs themselves, these alone remaining. The males have
only the shrilling or musical organs left as hints of wings. In spite
of this modification they are musical enough and shufile off long,
irregular notes sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh when they please. There is
much to be learned of the habits and songs of these interesting dark-
hued katydids, and a fine field for original study of their musical
habits is open to close-observing field naturalists west of the Missis-
sippi River, where the main distribution of this subfamily appears
to center.

SONGS OF THE MOLE CRICKETS, SUBFAMILY GRYLLOTALPINAE

These odd crickets are known as mole crickets because they burrow
like moles in the soil and are very rarely seen. In most instances
they appear to have the chirping habit of stridulation, producing
low-toned, deep, gruff chirps—grrrr—egrrr—grrrr, oftentimes in wet,
marshy habitats. Many people may have heard these notes at their
feet, but the chances are that the notes were attributed to frogs; for
how rarely does the layman know frogs from crickets as they sound
their presence to his ears? In truth, the observant Thoreau, excellent
field naturalist that he was, mistook the notes of these crickets for the
voices of frogs, and did not learn of his mistake for many years.
Gilbert White, in England, likened the notes of the European mole
cricket, Gryllotalpa gryllotalpa, which is now established in eastern
America, to the callings of the nightjar, a bird of the whippoorwill
family. Kirby and Spence noted the same likeness. Scudder, speak-
ing of the mole cricket, G. hewadactyla, stated that the pitch of the
chirps was above middle C. So far as my own observations go, its
notes have the lowest pitch of any cricket notes I have ever heard,
but tonality is present, as in all cricket sounds.
580 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

SONGS OF THE BUSH CRICKETS CYCLOPTILUM, SUBFAMILY
MOGOPLISTINAE

Very little appears to have been written concerning the stridulations
of the species of Cycloptilum. According to Rehn and Hebard the
notes of the species C. sguamosum and the more southern race, @.
sqguamosum zebra, are brief intermittent chirps.

SONGS OF THE GROUND AND FIELD CRICKETS, SUBFAMILY
GRYLLINAE

In the genus Gryllus, which includes several recognized races of
the single native species, Gryllus assimilis, the typical chirping habit
appears to be the rule. However, I have reported a physiological
race with a habit of continuous trilling, which I found in northern
Georgia. I have heard one individual with the same trilling habit
in the Washington, D. C., populations. An introduced species of
Gryllus, the European house cricket, G. domesticus, chirps casually
and intermittently, but with less vim than our own native species.

In the genus Nemobius, comprising many of our smallest ground
crickets which have become adapted to a wide range of habitats,
from dry fields and woods to cold sphagnum bogs, several methods
of stridulation prevail. A continuous stridulation is the behavior of
NV. palustris and N. carolinus. The habit of intermittent stridulation
is characteristic of V. ambitiosus and N. fasciatus. Physiological
races of the latter appear to have specialized in somewhat different
methods of stridulation, for I have found colonies in different locali-
ties and habitats trilling distinctive notes. One mode of stridulation
is a very high-pitched, prolonged trill, ti-ti-ti-ti-ti-ti. The succession
of the wing strokes appears to be very slow, so that each syllable ti
represents a single draw of the scraper over the file vein. Another
mode of stridulation is a brief, intermittent chirp or trill, tilii—tiiii—
tilli—tiili, which appears to be a more or less rhythmic sectioning
of a very rapid trilliing movement of the wings.

In the genera Hygronemobius, Anurogryllus, Miogryllus and
Gryllodes every variation prevails, from the continuous quavering
trill to the distinctly intermittent chirp. The species Hygronemo-
bius allent and Anurogryllus muticus are content with the unbroken,
high-speed trill. The cricket, Gryllodes sigillatus, introduced from
the Tropics and occurring commonly in greenhouses everywhere, and
one of the most energetic of crickets, may be said to trill slowly or
chirp hurriedly, as one cares to see it. The note is squeaky and
continuous, like the shrill squeak of a rusty hinge, produced in a long
fast series at a rate of 400 to 500 per minute, or about as fast as one
can possibly count. I am inclined to believe that these individual
chirps are single strokes of the wing and that a little more speed,
up to 800 or 1,000 strokes per minute, would run them into the typical
INSECT INSTRUMENTALISTS—ALLARD 581

quavering, continuous, trilling monotone. The little native ground
cricket, Miogryllus verticalis, has a definitely pronounced habit of
chirping, the chirps being often rather prolonged and with very
brief intermissions, so that only 38 to 40 are produced per minute.
It is a marvelous versatility of life that has evolved these varied
modes of stridulation, in the one instance by simply slowing down
or speeding up the wing strokes in a continuous series, and in the
other by sectioning a series into regular or irregular components
comprising several wing strokes for each chirp.

STRIDULATIONS OF THE TREE CRICKETS, SUBFAMILY OECANTHINAE

The genus Oecanthus includes a considerable number of species as
our morphological classifications have separated them. Unquestion-
ably there is much intergrading within the group, however, and some
of the forms show close affinities in many features. In the East the
snowy tree cricket, Oecanthus niveus, is the only rhythmically chirp-
‘ng form so far as very definite intervals of sound and silence are
concerned. In some mysterious manner its chirps are so nicely
regulated into unit sections, so to speak, as to comprise a definite
number of wing strokes per chirp, as if these were accurately counted.
Some have doubted the capacity of these crickets to appreciate
rhythm sufficiently to synchronize their chirpings. This, however,
appears not one whit more difficult for me to grant than to under-
stand how they can measure or count a definite number of strokes for
each chirp. Whether or not it is a conscious or unconscious apprecia-
tion or measure of time intervals, it is somehow a marvelous adjust-
ment of the physiology or psychology to the time relations involved.
If each chirp has the rigid pattern of three strokes or four strokes
of the scraper over the file vein, this is somewhere, somehow, the
basis upon which its synchronous chirpings must be built.

The narrow-winged tree cricket, O. angustipennis, and Davis’s
tree cricket, O. exclamationis, are probably not far separated in
their lineage, and both have the same irregular mode of intermittent
chirps; that is, the chirp may range from 2 to 10 seconds or more
in duration. At very high air temperatures, conducive to energetic
expression, these chirps appear almost as irregular trills, sectioned
from the long, continuous monotone by momentary interruptions at
irregular intervals.

The continuous quavering trill is characteristic of the broad-
winged tree cricket, O. latiépennis, the black-horned tree cricket, O.
nigricornis and its variety, the four-spotted tree cricket, O. nigricornis
quadripunctatus, and the pine tree cricket, O. pini.

In the genus Veowabea the single species V. bipunctata, known as
the two-spotted tree cricket, chirps in the same irregular droning

24034—29——38
582 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

manner, as does the narrow-winged tree cricket, O. angustipennis, but
with stronger, deeper-pitched intonations. This cricket may often be
heard in the region about Washington, but it is a rare and unusual
cricket to meet. Its lingering chirps often may not exceed a rate
of 2 to 10 per minute.

STRIDULATIONS OF THE BUSH CRICKETS, SUBFAMILY TRIG-
ONIDIINAE

It would appear that one species of Anawxipha, A. imitator, among
the tiniest of our crickets, has, so far as observations have revealed,
the habit of intermittent stridulation. The common little Anaxipha
exigua, the only species in the region about Washington that has a
northward distribution to New England, may be said to trill so
slowly as to allow the separate wing strokes for each tinkling ti, in
its leisurely succession ti-ti-ti-ti-ti-ti, to be readily counted. If we
can still consider this the method of continuous trilling, the speed of
the forward stroke of the scraper has been reduced to only 200 to
300 per minute.

Two species of Cyrtoxipha, C. gundlachi and its variety, C’. colwm-
biana, appear to possess the habit of intermittent stridulation. In
the latter species, which occurs in the region of Washington, the
shrill, high-pitched chirp is decidedly measured and rhythmic, and
I have noted a marked synchronous chirping in some colonies.

The beautiful, distinctively colored tiny red-headed cricket, Phal-
loscyrtus pulchellus, trills in a faint, unbroken, long-continued,
quavering monotone.

STRIDULATIONS OF THE LARGER BUSH CRICKETS, SUBFAMILY
ENEOPTERINAE

The bush cricket, Hapithus agitator, is one of the most sedentary of
all our crickets. It always appears lazy and little inclined to sing,
and when it does it utters a very weak, wavering, uncertain, con-
tinuous stridulation, which can be heard only a few feet away.

In the genus Orocharis we have the jumping bush cricket, O. saléa-
tor, an exceedingly fine and musical species of the shrub-and-tree
zone. ‘The note of this cricket is a clear, shrill, bell-like chirp, some-
what lingering or prolonged, and delivered at the leisurely rate of
35 to 40 times per minute, even on warm evenings. The notes of the
different singers have a widely varying pitch, so that when a group
is chirping on a calm autumn night a pleasing play of vibrant tones,
as clear as if struck from glass, appears to enliven all the trees
around. The notes are in a far higher pitch than the notes of the
snowy tree cricket, and are far more ringing, bell-like, and smooth.
They are never synchronal, however, each cricket chirping as he
pleases, in a joyful, leisurely way.
INSECT INSTRUMENTALISTS—ALLARD | 583
SYNCHRONOUS CHIRPING OF CRICKETS AND KATYDIDS

Many insects not only chirp in small groups and colonies but a
number of them appear inclined to bring their notes into synchronism
with those of their fellows. This procedure seems somewhat remark-
able, and some with no first-hand information worthy of serious
attention have been inclined to question the behavior. Synchronous
chirping is an undoubted fact, however, and there is no reason why
an insect or a bird should not in some instances perceive rhythm and
keep step as well as a human being. The snowy tree cricket, Oecan-
thus niveus, affords the best example of this behavior. B. B. Fulton,
who has carefully studied various races of this cricket throughout
its range, is as convinced as am I that this cricket prefers to chirp
in unison with its fellows. By an imitation of its notes I have led
chirping individuals to speed up their rate noticeably, in order to
synchronize their chirps with my mimicry. I: have observed the
same habit of synchronous chirping in groups of the little tree cricket,
Cyrtoxipha gundlachi columbiana. I happened upon one of the
most remarkable instances of a perfect synchronism when I met a
group of the cone-headed katydids, Neoconocephalus ewiliscanorus,
rasping out their dzeet—dzeet—dzeet. From time to time one or
another musician would pause after the usual series of 18 to 25
notes. When it again joined the chorus, its notes were always per-
fectly timed to accompany those of the other singers. Here, for
long periods of time, this dropping out and taking up the musical
play was indulged in, but always with the same perfect synchronism
with its fellows. Other crickets and katydids have the habit of inter-
mittent stridulation, but I have never observed with them the least
tendency toward keeping step in the time sequences. So far as
I can determine, the common field cricket, Gryllus assimilis, the Euro-
pean house cricket, G’. domesticus, the jumping tree cricket, Orocharis
saltator, the mole crickets, and the chirping species of Vemobius
show no indications of synchronous chirping. Likewise, the cone-
head, WVeoconocephalus ensiger, which chirps intermittently in col-
onies everywhere in the North shows no tendency to synchronization
such as I have observed so highly emphasized in the chirping behavior
of NV. ewxiliscanorus. There is no reason whatever to question this be-
havior in creatures below man, for among the birds most remarkable
instances of synchronized calling and singing have been recorded
in the literature. There may be some simple biological or physio-
logical reason back of it all. In the case of the snowy tree cricket,
lack of thermal uniformity of the atmosphere seems to act unfavor-
ably upon the synchronizing impulse, for it is well known that the
rate of chirping of these crickets shows exceedingly nice correlations
with the temperature. The cold machinery of their stridulatory
584 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

mechanism appears to be eternally within the grip of the temperature
level, compelling the same singers to slow down their notes from 135
chirps per minute at 70° F. to only 62 chirps per minute at 54° F.
So mechanized are these little insects in this respect that they have
been termed thermometer crickets, and formulae have been devised
to compute the air temperature from the rate of their chirping. The
niceties of the matter are, however, not so simple as this, for each
race has a physiological rate of its own, and this, as well as the indi-
vidual rate and still other factors, must be carefully worked out
before our crickets can begin to serve as very efficient audible ther-
mometers with their rhythmic chirps.

VARIATIONS IN THE NORMAL METHOD OF MUSICAL EXPRESSION

Now and then, for some unexplainable reason, a cricket or katydid
develops an abnormal method of musical expression. Considering,
however, the countless numbers which one may hear in his lifetime
this is of very rare occurrence. A few years ago I came across a
big conehead, Veoconocephalus exiliscanorus, chirping with the ton-
ality or pitch of a cricket—one of the most unusual departures that
has ever come to my notice. It has always been a mystery to me
why the notes of all the katydids should so consistently lack musical
pitch as our ear defines it, while all the crickets “sing” with a
musical pitch or tonality. There is no more musical quality in the
squa-wik of the true katydid, Pterophylla camellifolia, or the notes
of the Phaneropteras, Amblycoryphas, Microcentrums, Orchelimums,
species of Weoconocephalus, Conocephalus, etc., than in the harsh
noise made by scraping a knife blade smartly across the teeth of a
comb. In spite of this mystery of the complete lack of tonality in
the notes of all the katydids, the katydid I have mentioned suddenly
became as a chirping cricket. Microscopic examinations of the file-
vein and scraper revealed nothing in the least abnormal, and I am
still profoundly nonplussed by this riddle of life as the musical
crickets and katydids have consistently made it.

At another time I had placed in my bedroom a musical jumping
tree cricket, Orocharis saltator, that I might rest and dream to the
tune of its silvery, ringing chirps, and experience that sweet poetry
of companionship with the night sounds that leads almost to those
finer ecstacies of religious awe. Suddenly, in the night, I was
awakened from my sleep by an exceptional tone struck off by this
cricket; a loud clear scintillant note devoid of all the quaver which
usually attends its tremulous chirp. There were not many of these
notes, but I realize now, from later studies of the smooth, clear tones
of the little bush cricket, Anawipha exigua, that I had probably heard
the jumping tree cricket, in some unusual mood, strike off a few of

INSECT INSTRUMENTALISTS——-ALLARD 585

its notes, each made with one draw alone of the scraper across the
file vein. These notes are very brief, to be sure, scarcely more than
mere dots or points of sound, but they are as smooth and as ringing
and scintillant as tones struck on glass or upon a xylophone. Marvel-
ous is the uniformity of life, however, when, of all the hundreds of
thousands, perhaps millions, of crickets I have listened to in my ex-
perience, so few have failed to chime anything but the distinctive
notes of the species. These rare instances, however, represent poten-
tialities within the attainment of the creatures, and potentialities
somehow seek their fulfillment with strange insistence at every turn.

PHYSIOLOGICAL SPECIES AND THEIR STRIDULATION

Our established systems of classification recognize specific differ-
ence mainly on the basis of morphological distinctiveness. This
basis works fairly well at times, but at other times the criterion
appears to be poor and uncertain. The forces of life are not working
on the basis of definitely predetermined concepts resting upon a
structural or morphological basis alone, but deep down in the physio-
logical complex as well. The field naturalist is doomed to despair
so soon as he accepts as clear-cut and final most morphological con-
cepts of the patient laboratory analyst. The more intensively we
study the localized facies of life, the more do we find varietal dis-
tinctiveness, racial distinctiveness, on and on, even to individual
distinctiveness. The big field cricket, Gryllus assimilis, may show no
obvious morphological distinctiveness in the region between Massa-
chusetts and Georgia, yet in the Georgia piedmont district near
Gainesville I found an early spring race of this cricket with a habit
of weak, continuous trilling, reminding one of the trill of the four-
spotted tree cricket, Oecanthus nigricornis quadripunctatus. Even
the behavior of these crickets has a physiological distinctiveness, for
they appear very reclusive, living in holes and burrows under the
clods. Later, when the great midsummer broods appear, this con-
tinuous trilling form disappears, and the typical chirping form
replaces it.

I have likewise found a most marked departure in the tiny bush
cricket, Anaxipha exigua. An early physiological race appearing
in May and June, and confined entirely to dead ground—débris of
the low, wet, grassy bogs of meadows and swamps—has the habit of
prolonged trilling. The great typical assemblage which appears in
August clings to the higher, drier zone of upland herb and shrub,
and produces a thin, shrill, intermittent chirp, usually by the single
wing stroke I have previously described. Morphologically the clas-
sificationist can find nothing to distinguish these physiological forms
from the typical species assemblage. Yet they exist, because nature
586 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

eternally works in the direction of physiological distinctiveness as
well as in that of morphological distinctiveness.

Other field naturalists, including Fulton in his studies of the
Oecanthus group, have noted these facile physiological variations.
Why one group should become so readily standardized within its
environment as to stridulate with a vernacular of its own is difficult
to see. It is true that the time relations more than anything else
appear to be involved in the dissimilar habits of stridulation. The
chirp of the cricket is merely a frequent sectioning of the continuous
trill into more or less uniform patterns, and the single-stroke note
is but an extreme slowing down of the rapid and continuous wing
movement which produces the quavering trill. What leads to the
final, rigid adoption of these measures and intervals is not always
clear. One may say, however, that the less one knows of life the
simpler it appears in its manifestations, and the more one concen-
trates his attentions upon its actualities and potentialities in the
finer magnitudes of its expressions the more complex do its corre-
lations appear.

With much confidence we speak of the vernaculars of men and
claim to recognize with no great difficulty the New Englander from
the South Carolinian or the Kansan. There is reason to believe that
crickets and katydids have their disconcerting regional vernaculars
and provincialisms as well. Snodgrass has noted this peculiarity in
the case of the true katydid, Pterophylla camellifolia, and says: “ It
is very noticeable that the song of the katydids about Washington is
much less harsh and grating in tone than is that of the New Eng-
landers.” I can fully agree with Snodgrass; peculiar intonations
unquestionably exist, constituting a definite vernacular. I have ob-
served the same distinctiveness in the singing of other katydids, in-
cluding the oblong-winged katydid, Amblycorypha oblongifolia, there
being an appreciable difference between the tones of the New England
musicians and those of the Washington musicians of this species.
Somehow the two groups inflect differently, or those of one group
dwell more upon their notes, or rasp more or less energetically, and
that is all we know about it. These distinctions are moods and modes
of inherent physiology and environment of which we know little. A
vernacular, as we have seen, may exist in widely separated localities,
or almost interblend with others in the same locality. It is probable
that these isolations of speech or language among insects have much
in common with the localized vernaculars and provincialisms of men,
eternally becoming emphasized in valley and plain over all the earth.
As the matter stands, profound differences of stridulation may be
found with no noticeable modification in the morphological facies, or
profound changes in color, etc., may suddenly arise with no evident
change in the method of stridulation. A year ago I found a decidedly
INSECT INSTRUMENTALISTS—ALLARD 587

black or melanistic individual of the snowy-tree cricket chirping in
the usual manner near Washington, D. C. Thus the story of life
goes on and on as it pleases, with eternal admonitions to the scientist
to beware of his theories and classifications, for they are transient
and unreal.

THE HEARING ORGANS OF INSECTS

Much has been written concerning the hearing organs of insects,
but I confess to grave feelings of doubt as to the correctness of many
of our views. That all insect instrumentalists hear their own sounds
I have not the slightest doubt, for I have positive evidence that their
hearing is exceedingly acute. I had at one time a female bush katy-
did, Phaneroptera curvicauda, in captivity in my bedroom, which
would lisp out responses to my own lisping mimicry as often as I
cared to stimulate it. In tests with this katydid I stepped away
slowly the entire length of the room, lisping so low as barely to hear
it myself, and yet it heard and responded promptly. We are told
that the ears or tympana of the grasshoppers, Acrididae, are on the
first segment of the abdomen, near the insertion of the wings. The
katydids and crickets, we are informed, have auditory structures on
the tibia of the forelegs, near the knee, on one or both sides. Notice-
able depressions and tympanal membranes are situated here, con-
necting with internal air chambers and sensory specializations involy-
ing the nerve structures. There are implications which are not
entirely clear, however, for, as mentioned by Snodgrass, the legs of
the honeybee show somewhat analogous structures, but without the
tympanal membrane. Of more puzzling import in this connection,
the tiny musical crickets, Yalcicula hebardi, appear not to possess the
usual tibial auditory structures of crickets, and we wonder how they
hear their own sounds, musicians that they are. There is much to
be learned concerning the senses and sense impressions of insects, and
we, in our enormously greater magnitudes of body and mind and, let
me say, emphasized egotisms, must ever find it a stupendous task,
perhaps insurmountable, to see and think and feel truthfully in terms
of the insects themselves.

THE MUSICAL MOODS OF THE CRICKETS AND KATYDIDS

Just as we have in the human race people who are given to whis-
tling, humming, or singing, almost with exasperating persistency, so
we find our insect musician characterized by similar proclivities.
The moods of some insects incline them to an almost perpetual self-
expression until death silences them. Some of the cone-headed katy-
dids, as for instance the robust conehead, Neoconocephalus robustus,
become mere humming machines all their days and nights, from
August, when they become adults, until frost kills them. Their
588 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

muscular energy is prodigious, for they must produce some thou-
sands of strokes per minute of the scraper over the file vein, for
hours, days, weeks, until death overtakes them. These powerful
katydids probably rasp their file veins with their scrapers from
thirty to fifty million times in the course of a season, in some weird,
incomprehensible, mood of consciousness and self-expression. Sex-
ual allurements alone do not account for this tremendous expendi-
ture of nervous and muscular energy, but perchance some inherent,
pervasive mood that makes all things move and spin eternally in a
round of restless play, whether it be electrons, planets, or what not,
in the physical universe. If this is the extreme of intense organic
song energy we find the snowy tree cricket breaking it up into
periods of rest, like the incessantly recurring beats of our own hearts,
with alternations of rest and work. The very extreme of reduced
song energy appears to have been attained by such katydids as the
Phaneropteras, which may deliver only a few strokes of the scraper
upon the file vein in a day, in the most indifferent and haphazard
manner. It is a mystery how the sound-making devices have arisen
at all, even on those surfaces where, owing to the proximity of their
frictional instruments, they should be expected to arise. It is a
mystery how the moods of stridulation are so fixed and innate as
to make each cricket and katydid know intuitively the distinctive
notes of its own species. It would appear that both physical and
psychic elements enter into the matter. Some of the grasshoppers
of the genus Melanoplus, which have no stridulatory organs, never-
theless appear to have the mood for stridulation, for they have been
observed to go in some blind way through the usual stridulatory
movements of other grasshoppers. On the other hand, one of our
bush crickets, Hapithus agitator, has the structures present but ap-
pears little inclined to stridulation. Rarely does this cricket stridu-
late, and rarely, it would seem, does it even want to stridulate. At
least it is more sluggish in this reluctant behavior than any other
cricket I have ever observed. I have a feeling that the mood for
stridulation is waning in this cricket, just as we find birds little
inclined to fly, or birds with wings diminished in size. Life is a
matter of impulses, which may be strong or weak, regardless of the
consciousness of the individual. I see no reason why crickets, from
some weird, inherent cause, should not become as averse to stridu-
lation as some birds appear to have become averse to flying. ‘These
are the moods of life which defy explanation, but they are the moods,
so to speak, of atoms, molecules, proteins, radium, and what you
will in the universe—change upward, change downward, but never
constancy or fixity in anything.

INSECT INSTRUMENTALISTS—ALLARD 589

APPRECIATION OF INSECT SOUNDS

Humanity is in its babyhood when its age is compared with the
ancient lineage of the insects. It is possible that musical insects were
fiddling out songs to their own race in the great waving jungles of
Carboniferous ferns, millions of years before man’s embryonic be-
ginnings were even indicated.

The genealogy of it all is an eternal puzzle. It would seem that
the earliest insect musicians were among the Newroptera, but some-
how they did not remain musically inclined and the Orthoptera
took up the tunéd lyre in dead earnest. However this may be, men
in all stages from savage to civilized have at times been impressed
by the sounds of insects. We are told that the natives of Uganda
kept Gryllotalpa africana and Acheta bimaculata in warm ovens,
to induce soothing sleep with their music and to be eaten if need be.

In Italy the crickets have been greatly venerated for their music
and have been kept in pretty painted cages to be sold on the streets
by peddlers. The insect was supposed to bring good luck or mis-
fortune for the coming year, depending upon its proclivities as a
musician. The Japanese, perhaps more than any other peoples, have
become genuinely imbued with a true love of insect music. Their
land appears to be particularly rich in large, musical, insect forms,
many having especially fine powers of musical expression. The
Japanese are an ancient people in comparison with the youthful
peoples of America or of Europe. Centuries ago, when our great epic
poem Beowulf was being repeated from mouth to mouth, they had
somehow evolved such a fondness for their musical insects that they
were in that ancient day given to countryside pilgrimages to hear
them and feel the thrill of poetic associations which their “ music”
inspired. In Japan at the present time it is a practice to cage them
in attractive bamboo cages to hear their music, and they figure in
the trade of the cities as do caged song birds in our own land. There
is something rather distinctive in this Japanese love of insect music;
to say the least, it attests an intensive love of nature which we as
Americans rarely evince except in occasional individuals— a Thoreau,
a Burroughs, an F. Schuyler Mathews, a Scudder.

We Americans are too busy, too hurried, too mechanized in our
moods, to stop long enough to hear what this cricket or that
katydid says. Ah! if we can not hear the bird or cricket or katydid
itself, we are surely going to ignore the poem which portrays it as
some one else heard it. To-day we area hurried, worried people. To
the majority delving into nature studies, into poetry, art, the finer
literature, is not a materially gainful pastime. Many a time have I
been asked “ What good are crickets and katydids? Why bother
about them?” That is typical of the average American logic, but
there is more to life than measuring every mood in terms of financial
590 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

reward. The cultures of men are rarely of a remunerative order,
but their role is as vital and as urgent in the disciplines and stimula-
tions of a happy and appreciative life as the mere needs of a roof,
something to eat, and something to wear.

STUDYING THE STRIDULATIONS OF THE MUSICAL INSECTS

The study of the musical moods and behaviors of the insect-
instrumentalists of the earth is no small matter. Musical insects are
world-wide in their distribution, and few have been intensively
studied, even in our own country. It is a fascinating subject, never-
theless. Insects have taken far more universally to sound production
than to light production. Strangely enough, some groups of beetles
have in a most spectacular way become adepts at light production,
just as the Orthoptera have become the great sound makers of the
earth. Somehow, there are weird analogies here, for the various fire-
flies have learned to handle light with all the moods and modes and
facilities with which the musical insects handle sound. They make
it as a continuous glow, they flash it intermittently, in certain social
moods they synchronize their flashings just as some of our tree
crickets synchronize their chirpings.

There are wonderful possibilities ahead for the student of insect
sounds. There is the problem of making in some manner permanent
records of the sounds of the various insects. This appears never to
have been attempted. There is the problem of making motion pic-
tures of the insects during their musical activities. To do this would
be particularly desirable, since an accurate analysis of all their
wing movements could be determined, and the actual technique of the
musical strokes revealed in detail. It is going to be no simple mat-
ter, however, to photograph the more wary nocturnal species which
do their singing mainly in the dark.

It is not sufficient merely to describe the impressions of the note
made by a particular insect. If possible, the technique of its pro-
duction should be carefully observed and recorded, because of the
vast and fundamental differences of behavior. The careful and
observant nature lover has a most fascinating field before him in all
parts of the world. In our own country the habits, stridulations,
technique, and other peculiarities of the forms west of the Missis-
sippi River merit much attention, for many fine katydids dwell
there, playing weird tunes upon their organic xylophones. Still
photographs at least could be made of the insects in life, and are
much needed, especially if they can be made of natural size.

The story of our insect musicians and their distinctive moods has
as yet been touched by only a few observers. I am convinced, how-
ever, that if it were thoroughly worked out for all the musical in-
sects of the world we should uncover variations of technique and

INSECT INSTRUMENTALISTS—ALLARD 591

musical specializations as remarkable as those I have shown to exist
with our own larger angular-winged katydid, ALicrocentrum
rhombifolium.

This specialized interest may seem very remote from our practical
affairs of a mechanized age, but the basis of all pure science is
healthful curiosity; and truth, whatever its nature or revelations,
is worthy of record in the archives of men. The singing cricket on
my hearth may not add to the contents of my pocketbook, but at
times it affords an indefinable inspiration and poetry that reveals
new beauties of living, of expression, and of association in the uni-
verse. I am better, broader, wiser, happier for having heard the
crickets and katydids, for somehow there are points of kinship in
our lives, even though our magnitudes and roles of living seem so
far apart.
na ma pul ay
eae 1h TAQUIBES hn
8h pinoloa, ong Le Te tid on
RCT, oe OE wise ‘aoa (ii ;
) utedeabo tro goliactie, oad, sttgath he, wht then
da dud alodeitasbvog vat. ‘ea waotage, 9 ti,
ey at. ad, chen OAs, Moat:
Noni ie Si, atl inh sng hint: WOR ase to. fasta Ns ilies |

‘cpHla Lrtosdl, sistwad) x0 agtmniyt, cabaiye

2 pet aston, a ahimtary, aan angi

ee ad goqul i 1 mae Hie, abaya |
ins Oethonann daha heusnsen tim en Falvey Vane

; Ben A Wat vel Se ERC ka Po AMA ‘ ata ah Sica: : ee ar 4 Neg }

. eae. bia’ a UN ks ih OE Lith arity: shit He, Mie Aaah ele ates

/ hee ry wi ae (on hon A

‘ esis «ty a eh tp A

| aly toodeobthm hos eo pean ta
ah hy . a) PS pee Bhai iy tdi Ns ‘hid ase than: Ave hits pi he |
| ; Pon: tepOn Teh

Weiner nie Vag tabs Heaney Ohi fe WMG E
AR ) ih ai ear WO “ Bey

: mek byt
| PR Wht SUEY geeeiei iyi at baie ce) iy A:
; ASN ACERS ah adr eS petite 4

EER NCO EERIE AE URS ae AR ie

We at
earn Se: rl
oy id
Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Allard PLATE 1

1. CICADA, TIBICEN LYRICEN, MALE
About natural size. The so-called harvest fly. Its‘‘song’’ is a loud ringing z-ing-ing-ing produced
within specialized body cavities by the vibrations of very thin, chitinous plates. (By permis-
sion of Country Gentleman. Photograph by H. A. Allard)

2. THE 17-YEAR CICADA, TIBICEN SEPTENDECIM

About natural size. At left empty pupal shell; at top emerging adult which has died in birth;
adult drying and gaining strength. When these interesting cicadas appear at their appointed
time, the mid June days are filled with their low murmurous sounds. (Photograph by
H. A. Allard)
Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Allard PLATE 2

1 TEETH OF FILE VEINS OF OBLONG-WINGED KATYDID, AMBLYCORYPHA
OBLONGIFOLIA

Magnified about one hundred and eighty-five times. The teeth are very heavy and broad in

comparison with the teeth on a tree cricket’s file vein. (Photograph by Ernst Artschwager)

2. TEETH OF FILE VEIN OF TREE CRICKET, OECANTHUS NIGR!ICORNIS

Magnified about one hundred and eighty-five times. (Photograph by Ernst Artschwager)

3. MUSICAL ORGANS OF LARGER ANGULAR-WINGED KATYDID, MICROCENTRUM
RHOMBIFOLIUM, MALE

A, file vein, FV, on under surface of upper tegmen, showing teeth; B, scraper, a chitinous ridge at
S situated on the upper edge of the lower tegmen. Magnified about ten times. (From Scientific
Monthly, July, 1928)

Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Allard PLATE 3

1. SNOWY TREE CRICKET, OECANTHUS NIVEUS, MALE

Somewhat larger than natural size. Its rhythmic chirps are heard on August nights. (Photo-
graph by H. A. Allard)

2. BROAD-WINGED TREE CRICKET, OECATHUS LATIPENNIS, MALE

Somewhat larger than natural size. Its notes area steady monotone. (Photograph by H. A.
Allard)

Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Allard PLATE 4

1. TWO-SPOTTED TREE CRICKET, NEOXABEA BIPUNCTATA, MALE
About natural size. Its notes are weird and droning, and without measured rhythm. (Photo-
graph by H. A. Allard)

2. FOUR-SPOTTED TREE CRICKET, OECANTHUS NIGRICORNIS QUADRIPUNCTATUS,
MALE
About natural size. These trilling crickets hide among the goldenrods and asters. (Permission
of Country Gentleman. Photograph by H. A. Allard)
Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Allard PLATE 5

1. JUMPING TREE CRICKET, OROCHARIS SALTATOR, MALE

About natural size. Clear, bell-like, vibrant is the autumnal music of their wings. (Photograph
by H. A. Allard)

2. NARROW-WINGED TREE CRICKET, 3. RRED-HEADED TREE CRICKET,
OECANTHUS ANGUSTIPENNIS, MALE PHYLLOSCYRTUS PULCHELLUS, MALE
About natural size. Notes rather sad and About natural size. This tiny triller has a
wailing. (Photograph by H. A. Allard) brilliant crimson head and shoulders. (Pho-

tograph by H. A. Allard)
Smithsonian Report 1928.—Allard

ne
eckts

a

PLATE 6

1. COMMON FIELD CRICKET, GRYLLUS ASSIMILIS, MALE

About natural size.

J}

2. RESTLESS BUSH CRICKET, HAPITHUS
AGITATOR, MALE

About natural size. A very indifferent musician,
as if too lazy to trill. (Photograph by H. A.
Allard)

(Photograph by H. A. Allard)

3. TINY

ANAXIPHA

CRICKET,
EXIGUA

BUSH

About natural size. It produces veritable points
of smooth sound with single wing strokes.

(Photograph by H. A. Allard)
Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Allard PLATE 7

1. SHIELD BEARER, ATLANTICUS TESTACEUS

About natural size. A queer short-winged katydid of the low ground cover. Its wings
are just long enough to be used for musical purposes. (Photograph by H. A. Allard)

2. TINY TREE CRICKET, CYRTOXIPHA GUNDLACHI COLUMBIANA

About natural size. Its notes are thin, high-pitched chirps. (Photograph by H. A. Allard)

Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Allard PLATE 8

1. THE TRUE KATYDID, PTEROPHYLLA CAMELLIFOLIA, MALE

Somewhat larger than natural size. The katydid of poetry, voicing the spirit of country life and
serenity. (Permission of Country Life. Photograph by H. A. Allard)

2. LARGER ANGULAR-WINGED KATYDID, MICROCENTRUM RHOMBIFOLIUM, MALE

About natural size. Leafy-winged, he clicks off notes from the single teeth of his file vein.
(Photograph by H. A. Allard)
Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Allard PLATE 9

1. SMALLER ANGULAR-WINGED KATYDID, MICROCENTRUM RETINERVE, MALE

About natural size. His wings, too, are leaflike. A raresinger of the forest crown. (Photograph
by H. A. Allard)

2. THE LARGER ANGULAR-WINGED KATYDID, MICROCENTRUM RHOMBIFOLIUM,
MALE

About natural size. His wings are his musical organs, his camouflage, and the roof to his body
in heavy rains, beneath which he holds his antenne. (Photograph by H. A. Allard)
PLATE 10

Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Allard

1. OBLONG-WINGED KATYDID, AMBLYCORYPHA OBLONGIFOLIA, MALE

Here is a perfect instance of camouflage, the insect leaf, so to speak, and the

About natural size.
(Photograph by H. A. Allard)

plant leaf being almost indistinguishable.

2. OBLONG-WINGED KATYDID, AMBLYCORYPHA OBLONGIFOLIA, MALE
(By permission

Its notes are rasping and leisurely, it-z-z-zic—it-z-z-zic.

About natural size.
of Country Life. Photograph by H. A. Allard)
Smithsonian Report, 1928 Allard

PEATE 11

1. ROUND-WINGED KATYDID, AMBLYCORYPHA ROTUNDIFOLIA, MALE

Somewhat larger than natural size. <A soft lisping song is its only music. (Photograph by H. A.
Allard)

2. UHLER’S KATYDID, AMBLYCORYPHA UHLERI, MALE

Somewhat larger than natural size. This little katydid of the weeds has introduced much variety
into its song. (Photograph by H. A. Allard)
Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Allard PLATE 12

1. BRUNER’S CONE-HEADED KATYDID, NEOCONOCEPHALUS EXILISCANORUS,
MALE
About natural size. One of our finest coneheads, and one that sometimes rasps in unison
with its fellows. (By permission of Country Life. Photograph by H. A. Allard)

2. DAVIS'S SHIELD BEARER, ATLANTICUS DAVISI, MALE

Somewhat larger than natural size. The earliest katydid to appear in the Washington region.
Notes long and lisping and of irregular duration. (Photograph by H. A. Allard)
Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Allard PLATE 13

1. FORK-TAILED KATYDID, PHANEROPTERA FURCATA, MALE

About natural size. A trim green insect of the herbage and shrubs, with keen, incisive notes
sparsely delivered. (Photograph by H. A. Allard)

2. CURVE-TAILED KATYDID, PHANEROPTERA CURVICAUDA, MALE

About natural size. A loud and incisive zeep is the usual call of this katydid. (Photograph
by H. A. Allard)
Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Allard

1. ROBUST CONE-HEADED KATYDID,
NEOCONOCEPHALUS ROBUSTUS,
MALE

About natural size. This katydid hums a
high-speed song with the ceaseless drone of
a machine. (Photograph by H. A. Allard

PLATE 14

2. THE ROUND-TIPPED CONE-
HEADED KATYDID, NEOCONO-
CEPHALUS RETUSUS, MALE

About natural size. Its note is a dry,
snappy continuous sound in the weeds
and grass. (Photograph by H. A. Allard)

—

3. SLENDER MEADOW KATYDID, CONOCEPHALUS FASCIATUS, MALE

About natural size. These little katydids are rarely seen or heard. (By permission of Country
Life. Photograph by H. A. Allard)

Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Allard PLATE 15

1. PINE-TREE KATYDID, ORCHELIMUM MINOR, MALE

About natural size. This katydid has assumed the deep green of the pine trees on which it dwells.
(By permission of Country Life. Photograph by H. A. Allard)

2. WOODLAND KATYDID, CONOCEPHA- 3. STRAIGHT -LANCED MEADOW
LUS NEMORALIS, MALE K AT YD1D, CONOCEPHALUS
STRICTUS, MALE
About natural size. It is shown here cleaning About natural size. <A tiny katydid of the
its antenne by running them through its grasses and herbage. (Photograph by
mouth parts cutward toward the tip. (Pho- H. A. Allard)

tograph by H. A. Allard)
Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Allard PLATE 16

1. COMMON MEADOW KATYDID, OR- 2. COMMON MEADOW KATYDID, OR-
CHELIMUM VULGARE, MALE CHELIMUM VULGARE, MALE

About natural size. An eternal lisping in the About natural size. Hanging from his old skin,
roadside weeds in late summer is the music of having just emerged a full-fledged musical
the larger meadow katydid. (Photograph by creature at the fifth molt. (Photograph by
H. A. Allard) H. A. Allard)

3. COMMON MEADOW KATYDID, ORCHELIMUM VULGARE, MALE
About natural size. Like a gray squirrel these insects move so as to keep the stalk between them
and the observer. (Photograph by H. A. Allard)

THE NEANDERTHAL PHASE OF MAN’

By ALES HRpLicKA

[With four plates]
I. INTRODUCTORY REMARKS

In choosing my subject for the Huxley lecture, it was only natural
to reflect what he, in whose honor the lecture is given, would have
chosen; and I felt that with his interest, keen mind, and extensive
knowledge he would doubtless have preferred some of the most un-
settled and difficult problems of man’s antiquity and evolution. And
he could hardly find to-day one offering more difficulties, and the
clearing of which is of more importance to science, than that of
Neanderthal man; a subject which, moreover, was one of his first
concerns.

Huxley, as early as 1863, published, as one of his essays on the
Kvidence as to Man’s Place in Nature (8vo, London), under the
subtitle On Some Fossil Remains of Man (pp. 118-159), a note-
worthy discussion on the Neanderthal skull. In this essay, at that
carly date, and in opposition to the authority of Rudolf Virchow,
Huxley recognized that there was no reason for regarding the skull
as pathological; that it unquestionably represented typical race
characters; and that this race was inherently related to man of to-day.

Since Huxley, the Neanderthal skull and Neanderthal man have
been written about extensively, but often with but little originality.
New finds belonging to the period have become numerous—almost
more numerous than legitimate new thoughts. To-day it is no more
the question of a single skull, but of a large and important section
of man’s antiquity, documented ever more geologically, paleonto-
logically, and anthropologically. But the distressing part is that
the more there is the less we seem to know what to do with it.
Speculation there has been indeed enough, but the bulk of it so far
has led not into the sunlight, but rather into a dark, blind alley
from which there appears to be no exit.

1The Huxley Memorial Lecture for 1927. Reprinted by permission, with minor altera-
tions by the author, from the Journal of the Royal Anthropological Institute, Vol. LVII,
July—December, 1927.
593
594 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

The generalized present doctrine about Neanderthal man may best
be seen from the following brief quotations, taken from four of the
most recent and representative authors, one a paleontologist, one an
anatomist, and two prehistorians:

Marcellin Boule (Fossil Men, 1923, pp. 242-243) :

Homo neanderthalensis is an archaic species of man. It was abruptly fol-
lowed by the Aurignacians, “ who differed from the Mousterians as much in
their superior cultures as in the superiority or diversity of their physical
characters.”

M. C. Burkitt (Prehistory, 1921, p. 90) :

The race who made this culture (Mousterian) was of a low type known as
the Neanderthal race. This appears to have been a throwback in the line of
evolution of mankind, and this retrograde sport seems to have had no
successor.

George Grant MacCurdy (Human Origins, 1924, Vol. I, pp.
209-210) :

During ages long subsequent to the time when the races of Piltdown and
Heidelberg lived, there spread over the greater part of Europe the primitive
Neanderthal race, of course mental and physical fiber. . . . This race contrib-
uted nothing, in fact, save utilitarian artifacts, the so-called Mousterian indus-
try.... The Aurignacians were a “new race,” which supplanted completely
the archaic Neanderthal race of Mousterian times.

Sir Arthur Keith (The Antiquity of Man, Vol. I, pp. 198-199) :

The most marvelous aspect of the problem raised by the recognition of
Neanderthal man as a distinct type is his apparently sudden disappearance.
He is replaced, with the dawn of the Aurignacian period, by men of the same
type as now occupy Hurope....A more virile form extinguished him... .
He was not an ancestor of ours, but a distant cousin.

All these opinions can probably be traced to the authoritative no-
tions arrived at during the earlier years of this century, on material
less ample than at present, by one of the foremost students of Nean-
derthal man, Gustav Schwalbe.

There were, and are, however, also other views. From Huxley
and Busk to Karl Pearson; from Fraipont and Lohest, Houzé, Koll-
man, and Sergi to Stolyhwo, Gorjanovié-Kramberger, and, most
recently, Weidenreich, there have been expressed opinions that Nean-
derthal man was not a different species, and that he did not completely
die out, but became gradually transformed into later human forms,
from which in turn developed man of to-day.

The problem of Neanderthal man, as it now exists, presents the
following uncertainties: It is not yet properly known just where,
when, and how he began, and how far eventually he extended geo-
graphically ; it is not yet definitely known just who he was and what
were his phylogenetic relations to the man that succeeded him; and
it is not known plainly just why and how he ended, and whether or
NEANDERTHAL PHASE OF MAN—HRDLICKA 595

not he left any progeny. Besides which there are still but more or
less vague notions regarding the exact length of his period, his aver-
age physique, his variations and subraces, the reasons for his rela-
tively large brain, his changes in evolutionary direction. And there
are other uncertainties. It thus appears that, notwithstanding his
already numerous collected remains, Neanderthal man is still far
from being satisfactorily known to us taxonomically, chronologically,
and anthropologically.

This state of uncertainties, and of paralyzing notions, concerning
one of the main early phases of humanity, is a serious obstacle to
further progress and deserves all possible attention, even if, with-
out further material, it may be possible to do hittle more than
bring into the subject a greater degree of order and comprehensive-
ness; to point out here and there facts that have not been sufficiently
weighed; and to call attention to some of the inconsistencies in the
prevalent assumptions.

The presentation will be as far as possible impersonal; and I wish
to acknowledge my deep indebtedness for many of the data to the
authors given in the references, as well as to those who in the past,
and again during the weeks just passed, have facilitated for me the
study of original sites and materials.

II. NEANDERTHAL MAN

DEFINITION

The only workable definition of Neanderthal man and period
seems to be, for the time being, the man and period of the Mousterian
culture. An approach to a somatological definition would be feasible,
but might for the present be rather prejudicial.

GEOGRAPHICAL EXTENT

The territory already known to have been occupied by Neanderthal
man was collectively a very large one. It includes, roughly, all
Europe south of a line drawn from southern England to the north-
ern limits of Belgium and thence, with a moderate curve northward
over Germany and Poland, to Crimea and possibly the Caucasus, with
parts (at least) of northern Africa and of Asia Minor. Whether
he reached farther east, southeast, or south must, notwithstanding
some claims, be regarded as still uncertain.

The whole great territory over which his remains have been dis-
covered was doubtless not occupied by Neanderthal man synchro-
nously, or continually, or with equal density. He was evidently not
a nomad, though probably more or less of a rover who stayed in a
place for a time and then moved away. Some of the deposits he left
596 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

show up to six different layers of occupation (Grimaldi, Olha, La
Quina, Le Moustier, Krapina, etc.). The density of his remains is
greatest in France and Belgium, least in the northeastern limits of his
territory and in the mountainous parts, particularly the Alps, Car-
pathians, and the Balkan Peninsula.

The distribution of Neanderthal man in Europe is of much signifi-
cance, as will be seen later.

LIMITS AND DURATION

The boundaries and duration of the Neanderthal period are those
of the Mousterian culture. They may now be delimited with some

~ AREAS on™: MOUSTERIAN~* AURIGNACIAN C

TURES - EUROPE:

N :
\F s

ae @\,
Qe
-f SS

&

Slice MOUSTERIAN:
BEST KNOWN SITES
Hkh AURIONACIAN-

FIGURE 1

precision, though not finality, by data of a paleontological, geological,
and archeological nature.

PALEONTOLOGY

Neanderthal man coexisted with a large series of now extinct
animals; the question is, how intimately are these forms associated
with his coming and going. The Mousterian culture is the culture,
essentially, of the earlier times of the mammoth, the woolly rhinoc-
eros, the cave lion, bear, and hyena, the horse, the old ox, the bison,
the reindeer, the stag. There are many other forms, but these are
the most characteristic.
597

NEANDERTHAL PHASE OF MAN—HRDLICKA

Go Guoaoly
=-\-\-\= nl [ae [Sf @
|
=== 2
BaSBEI SSzseaooc= +
1 T
etal aes en ee wD = =r =
PP il edad PO ad LED nv! Wy ez sidow Aan v|7 Ej 2 Sy ey
t t :
3 SIT COLESLOLOS oo
X77 ? 7 170 PLY AL aE a3 ! | -
|_| AE [ iM Avie bod [7/2 Yv.7 | 3
ok JS: | [
TW/DE7 FLW 2
[ a
eee saree
iE E SEIS ei SES Seis =a
= | i a

oe

a5 -|-+-|-+-

ANOYAI 0 NULIAVI UTIVWITIO ‘OUND VU ‘INONWOD LLUHENG UNISG IMOEYIAVG NO OISVG
AdOWUNA NYSLSAM ow TVYLNAD
‘NVW OL SNOILWTSY TVNAYA “ADV dd] AHL

— SY FAVIG
YA SIST7
*+SOIVT SIND
—ZoNT7 SINVD
<— Y0E 0779
<< YS SNS
<—T7V9V9 ‘OF
—WNILS'OF
<—— SOG/IAO
—' ISIS S/F
—WLWYd SOF
eh flip)

— YIIVOFIW
“YL S/IONYY

—TISS SISYN
~ININIG SYN

“7IIS YNIVAH

<T739dS SITIS

NOlI7
<—_ WIV HIV
‘Odod/H
HOIL
— MHI IW

Wlyd

“ee
“

‘DSNYLA‘NIHG

“ce

a TONLE

Lny

“c

‘YIW-7ZT

39

24034—29
598 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

The Mousterian culture neither comes in, however, nor ends with
any of these large mammals. The mammoth, derived probably from
the Trogontherium, is present since at least the Acheulean and lasts
to, if not beyond, the end of the Magdalenian. The cave lion, bear,
and hyena, as well as the horse, ox, bison, and even the reindeer, are
all there since or before the beginning of the Acheulean, and they
last throughout the Mousterian, Aurignacian, Solutrean, and Magda-
lenian periods, to disappear gradually during the latter, or persist
to historic times.

Mousterian man begins, evidently, during the latter part of the last
great interglacial and extends deep into the final glacial time, without
perceptible direct relation to the fauna. His remains at Montiéres,
Villefranche, Ehringsdorf, the rock-shelter Olha, some of the Men-
tone caves, and elsewhere, show still the remains of the Hlephas
antiquus, the Merck’s rhinoceros, the large lion, and the panther. On
the other hand, various Arctic species (Ovibos mosch., Gulo bor.,
Canis lagop., Lepus arct., etc.) come in as the cold advances during
the Mousterian period, without, however, marking either its begin-
ning or its end.

There is, therefore, no definite line of faunal dni eatson for the
beginning and none for the end of the Mousterian period. Neander-
thal man did not come in with any fauna, nor did he go out with
any—which also are facts of importance.

GEOLOGY

Geological information about the Mousterian period is not as pre-
cise or full as is desirable, but it permits of several valuable con-
clusions.

A survey of the better-known Mousterian sites, from Germany and
Beigium southward, shows that fully one-third of them were in the
open, while of the remainder quite a few (Krapina, Sergeac, La
Ferrassie, etc.) are found in and about shallow rock-shelters that
could not have afforded much protection. In Switzerland, more-
over, the earlier Mousterian man lived in caverns at a high elevation
(Wildkirchli, 4,905 feet; Drachenberg, 8,028 feet). All of this indi-
cates that the climate during a considerable part of the Mousterian
period was not severe enough generally to drive man into the caves,
or even down from the mountains, thus pointing to interglacial
rather than glacial conditions.

There is no evidence of any critical geological manifestations,
either about the beginning or about the end of the Mousterian period.

The cultural remains of the Mousterian in the open stations, as
well as those in caves, denote both considerable age and long dura-
tion of the period. In the open the remains lie mostly in old gravels
‘THE ICE AGE 4» MAN:
‘APPROXIMATIONS ACCORDING TO DIFFERENT aatet INVESTIGATORS-

NEANDERTHAL PHASE OF MAN—HRDLIGKA 599

BES) Tea Spee ah Lit ttt REERRERa
PtH THRE Ae ee ee
peal SY 2 a NT ea Pete toed
BEE Rf fh Sees Wee eae
PS Re EE
Ht | HY a se a a a TT
ERR Jai fet tT TTT fet tt te tt tt
aga aS | a APS ea ST ee HAL Sees
EERE ¢- RRR PES
ae saw RAS

SH 7 pate Te

st he
Pt can

=
Se a le elo ASL ealS
LL PF A Ba

PEER EEE BR CCEE EEE ISE LIS AIS
a if fo fuk on aay Yh adele dash dae casa ae
DUS O00 Ane eee Oe ees
FCCC xia ca
a PA PONE
Halae Hilf Ios eeee
Glades Do ae oA seas
CSN), hi a a i a a
PEG tea omMnQcminn iy reer sni Tommi cet ©
SD Re SS =
(PES PTET Sd EG SR
C2) ES IV Pa
PEPPER se RETREAT art
as ef a Nae eat belitel eisai alatatal aisle
DONE GO NOSSO ESS! EOE ee
£0 AT a et a ST 3
SOGSRS008 PO88ss SSRS ed Oe
(HS SS
COCO CCS CSCC
(5 (EN 0 OS a
S00 0088/2088 80 ee
PEPE Re
Tt Ate R EEE Ane es
Pea EEceNGs Lene ewES
Hialae El i, a i
CCE weLLAN ena
CLC] ch mi nes
DRESS As | \ [ez
OES
ef a ua anh a a ef fe N ao
i] i ei ai load Nl he
PEER REECE CECE ACRE RCS
BSG RES CARS SORES eG Rae ee eae
eH a a fe cA ea) aL
ei fe a a I on = ea (
of Ma J ESSN She een
i A a Tokewa
rea CUS EELEeeeo Asie phan
| Sia i or ana
(ED i YG ed Ls RAY elm Sel
TEbd Dn Gewwn GU Ie See
Ct BB | ac LC i Da a
TEE nD Adie Aw ee Aen.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

600

F UNA

Lt TTT Tt ttt | sates | [ale be 7 |
pssereesenecrce7ce
EES eee

aus H PeBeoMe oeeaeeeecece aE

Hp pie erent Gaus cecuaaTauGaeee
eter see setasestteseefest festedteitectar
Beceeceedeeaoceaeeacce BRaae a SRS Seeeck essen
BESCEEEEEEECCEEEEE EEE EE EEE eee
ReEEa oa Eee y sees Coes UUNGOT NEE ORSREMIAEESY
Sadat ou antaat fat afoatantane= ssitantessastonts

-SYVIK 000 OSE SY NIHYL $1 FIOHM FHL I K90TONOUNI TLYWIXOUAIY
-YOHLAY AHL Ad ASIWOUdHOD GaLldNally Ny-

‘NYW OL SNOILVTSY SLI GNV SOY SO] SHL

SINVYSNOHL

SONVSIIOHL

NEANDERTHAL PHASE OF MAN—HRDLICKA 601

or sand, rarely in clay or loess, or in travertine rock of lacustrine
origin. There may be two or three cultural strata or horizons (as
at Ste. Walburge, High Lodge, Ipswich, Amiens, etc.), indicating
a repeated occupation of the same site after shorter or longer inter-
vals, though there have not been found as many occupational layers
as in some of the caves.

ARCHEOLOGY

Neither paleontology nor geology explains Neanderthal man; per-
haps we may learn more from archeology.

The main archeological questions are: How does Mousterian man
differ in habits and arts from the man that preceded him, and from
him that followed? And are the differences, or are they not, sub-
stantial enough to brand him as something apart from either his
predecessors or his followers?

OCCUPATIONS

The chief activities of man in nature relate to his housing, to the
obtaining and preparing of food, and to the manufacture of tools,
utensils, and weapons. Let us see briefly how Neanderthal man com-
pared in these respects with his forbears and his followers.

Housing.—There is a prevalent idea that Neanderthal man was
essentially a cave dweller, and this idea seems generally to carry
with it a sense of inferiority. The records now available throw a
different light on this matter. Analysis of 360 better-known paleo-
lithic sites in Europe and the neighboring regions (from records
compiled principally by MacCurdy) gives the following interesting
information :

Dwellings in the open and in caves during paleolithic times

Period Sites in the open |Rock shelter or cave
Number | Per cent | Number | Per cent

Pre-Chellean See ae ee ens ele oO ek OEE | 11 LOO ets eed SS ee
Shell ear een ae aa a ee as a NS Nl a 32 94 2 6
VAICHIOTEL@ ARTY eee eee are Te EE eee 36 7 10 22
Mousteriantei=-sesba uk se rl Ue ee a ERE ee BN 45 34 88 66
SAVITICNACIAM! on ae ae See ons ar ae Shae NL ope Bea cee Oi ee 24 18 112 82
Solutreanes sce = 20a Sa eae ee oA Medal raroae Were) 10 14 62 86
Mae al enian reais Me LOE iy Ties ee heel el aR Ee nr it sald iota yes 17 10 148 90
Avilian andyRardenoisi any oy esa ae CL eae ie ARR TNL 4 9.5 38 90. 5
ACCOMPANYING INCOM C=. oe a ee ee lip eee 22 2235 76 77.5

The figures and chart (fig. 5) show some curious and important
facts. Man begins as a dweller in the open, but since the warm Chel-
lean already he commences also to utilize the rock shelters and
caverns, and then as the climate cools he gradually takes more and
more to the caves. In these phenomena the Mousterian period shows
nothing striking, nothing individual. It falls harmoniously into
the curve of the progress of cave dwelling, to be followed equally
harmoniously by the Aurignacian and the succeeding periods. Mous-
602 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

terian man occasions no disturbance in the human housing conditions
of the time, and, what is even more remarkable, no disturbance or
change whatsoever is occasioned by the advent of the Aurignacians.
Aurignacian man follows in the footsteps of his predecessor without
interruption. Like the Neanderthaler, he builds in the open huts of
perishable materials that leave no trace, and he utilizes the caves
exactly as much as, and eventually even more than, the Neanderthal
man. He continues, in fact, on many of the same sites and in most of
the same caves that the latter has used, without introducing any inno-
vation. He, also, ike the Neanderthal man, leaves here and there a
whole series of occupational strata which testify to much the same
habits of hfe. Yet Aurignacian man is represented as a newcomer
of a different species from that of the Neanderthaler and mentally

vastly superior.

FIGURE 5

Food.—Neanderthal man was chiefly a hunter of the larger mam-

mals of his time.

He knew fire, but knew not domestication of
animals or agriculture.

He compared in these respects with the pre-
ceding and following man as follows:

Food and habits relating thereto

Acheulean man

Chiefly a hunter.

Fisher (?).

Use of mollusks—no trace.

Knew fire.

Preparation of food: probably by
roasting on fire or coals—no trace
of any vessels for boiling.

No agriculture.

No domestication of animals.

Bones broken for brains and
marrow.

Bones and refuse accumulations in
inhabited caves, and in front of
them.

No trace of storage of food.

Pictorial representation of hunted
animals—not known.

Mousterian man

Chiefly a hunter.

Fisher (?).

Use of mollusks—no trace (?).

Knew fire.

Preparation of food: probably by
roasting on fire or coals—no
trace of any vessels for boiling.

No agriculture.

No domestication of animals.

Bones broken for brains and
marrow.

Bones and refuse accumulations
in inhabited caves and in front
of them.

No trace of storage of food.

Pictorial representation of hunt-
ed animals—none known yet.

Aurignacian man

Chiefly a hunter.

Fisher (probably).

Use of mollusks (?).

Knew fire.

Preparation of food: probably by
roasting on fire or coals—no
trace of any vessels for boiling.

No agriculture.

No domestication of animals.

Bones broken for brains and
marrow.

Bones and refuse accumulations
in inhabited caves and in front
of them.

No trace of storage of food.

Pictorial representation of hunted
animals—gradual development.
NEANDERTHAL PHASE OF MAN—HRDLIOKA 603

Evidently, in food and food habits, as in housing, Mousterian man
was quite like both the Acheulean man that preceded him, and the
Homo sapiens that followed.

Clothing.—About the clothing of Neanderthal man we know noth-
ing direct, as.is also the case with Acheulean and Aurignacian man.
But the cool climate, on the one hand, and the much increased num-
bers of tools with a cutting edge, and especially scrapers, on the other
hand, indicate extensive preparation of the skins of animals, to be
used, doubtless, for clothing and bedding. No sudden change in these
connections is observable from the Acheulean to the Aurignacian.

Tools—The Mousterian period is characterized by a definite phase
of stone industry, but so are all the periods before and after it. It
has no abrupt beginning. It uses flint where this can be had, as do
all the other industries; where flint is absent or scarce, it employs
quartzite and other stones. The use of bone begins in the Mousterian,
to increase henceforward. The period shows three stages of evolu-
tion, the lower, middle, and upper, as do also later the Aurignacian
and the Magdalenian periods. The implements range from crude to
beautifully made (as at La Ferrassie, La Quina, Le Moustier) ; the
technique is partly different from, but in general not inferior to,
either the late Acheulean or the earlier Aurignacian; and there are
indications that there was no general sudden ending.

On the whole the Mousterian industry, though characteristic, does
not provide evidence of something entirely new and strange, inter-
calated between the Acheulean and the Aurignacian, beginning ab-
ruptly by displacing the former or ending suddenly through dis-
placement by the latter. There is much in fact at either end that
may prove to be, more or less, of a transitional nature.

Thus, in H. F. Osborn’s opinion (Obermaier, 1924, p. x), the
Mousterian “ constitutes a further evolution of the two earlier cul-
tures ”—the Chellean and the Acheulean. At Ehringsdorf, in the
lower travertine, “the technique of the chipping is Acheulean, but
the forms are largely Mousterian” (MacCurdy, Human Origins,
1924, Vol. II, p. 392). According to Burkitt (Prehistory, 1921, p. 27),
“”. . workers in Dordogne find a great difficulty in distinguishing
between Upper Acheulean beds and Lower Mousterian beds. In
fact, M. Peyrony often only solves the problem by the absence or
oresence of reindeer.” And quotations of similar import could be
multiphed. As to the upper limits—at the Cotte de Ste. Brelade,
Jersey, excavated by Nicolle, Sinel, and Marett, the upper (fifth)
layer gave graceful implements “ that may be either Upper Mousterian
or Aurignacian ” (Burkitt). At Le Moustier, the type station of the
Mousterian industry, the upper rock shelter showed eight layers,
“the top one being Aurignacian, the second transitional (Audi), and
the rest Mousterian, except the seventh which was sterile.” The lower

604 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

rock shelter was even more instructive. The section from top to
base was: (6) Lower Aurignacian; (5) Transitional (Audi); (4)
Typical Mousterian; (3) Mousterian with Audi forms and few coups-
de-poing; (2) Mousterian with some Audi forms and many coups-de-
poing; (1) some Audi forms, no coups-de-poing (Burkitt, 1921, p.
93). But perhaps the best comprehensive statement on this subject
is that of MacCurdy, one of the oldest and most cautious students of
prehistory. In his Human Origins, 1924, Vol. I, pp. 161-62, we read:

In certain French stations, a transition from the Mousterian to the Lower
Aurignacian occurs, as for example, at Le Moustier (Dordogne), La Verriere
(Gironde), and especially at the rock shelter of Audi in the village of Les
HKyzies. In comparison with Mousterian points, those of Audi are more slender
and are slightly recurved. The convex margin is rendered blunt by retouching
so as not to injure the hand while using the opposite margin for cutting or
other purposes. Such a tool, as much a knife, or scraper, as a point, bridges
the gap between the Mousterian point or double scraper and the Lower Aurigna-
cian blades of the Chatelperron type. At Audi it is associated with small
cleavers and disks, scrapers, spoke shaves, asymmetric points, and scratchers.
The Grotte des Fées at Chitelperron, though distinctly Aurignacian, is so closely
related to the transition stage that the chronologic difference must be small.
An intermediate stage is recognizable at La Ferrassie (Dordogne).

The Audi culture is still somewhat controversial, Abbé Breuil
(recent letter) regarding it as “ degenerate Mousterian.” Notwith-
standing this, the impression is growing that the more the initial
and the terminal stages of the Mousterian industry are becoming
known, together with the late Acheulean and the earliest Aurigna-
cian, the less abrupt and striking appear their differences and the
greater grows the feeling that they are not absolutely separated.
Some interesting things in this connection have been seen at Spy,
and others are now appearing to Absolon in Moravia.

SEQUENCE OF CULTURES

The sponsors of the view that Aurignacian man was a man of
different and superior species to the man of the Mousterian period,
conceive him for the most part, apparently, as an invader who came
from somewhere outside the Neanderthal area, overwhelmed com-
pletely the established less capable species, and annihilated or at least
wholly replaced it, over all the great domain over which it once
extended. These ideas, however, are never expressed very clearly,
and little thought is given to the incongruities they involve.

They would imply, first of all, the invasion of Europe during the
height of the last glaciation. This is not in harmony with the main
laws of human and biological spread—namely, movement in the di-
rection of least resistance, and movement in the direction of better
material prospects, which are, first of all, climate and food. In the

NEANDERTHAL PHASE OF MAN—HRDLICKA 605

entire history of Europe the movements of men have tended always
toward “a place in the sun ” and away from the cold.

Such views postulate, next, large numbers of the newcomers to
suffice for the vast task. But such large numbers would necessarily
mean somewhere near a still larger mother population, and there is
no trace, either in western Asia or northern Africa, the only regions
from which such invasions at those times would have been practicable,
of any such numerous Aurignacian population.

It is a very serious question whether in paleolithic times, when
man was without a tamed animal, without stocks of nonperishable
food, dependent wholly on hunting without yet a bow and arrow,
and in the imperfect social organization of that time, any large
armed invasion would have been feasible. A peaceful extension,
on the other hand, would not lead to the annihilation or expulsion
of the invaded population, and if small or gradual, would lead to an
amalgamation with, rather than the extinction of, the native stock.
A complete displacement by any agency is difficult to conceive, and
there would remain to be explained the fate of the displaced people.

It stands to reason that these great difficulties would have to be
satisfactorily explained away before there could be a general in-
telligent acceptance of an Aurignacian invasion with Mousterian
extinction.

Finally, the coming of a distinct and superior species of people
ought to have left a very tangible record on the sequence and nature
of the cultural levels of the two stocks.

As to sequence, 257 of the better-known and recorded Mousterian
sites (as recorded by MacCurdy) give, on analysis, the following
conditions:

Sequence of industries

Rock-shelters and

Open stations eae

Mousterian topped by— Number | Per
GNGrculture) et: 2 Sees mee Spe EE: ge SP eh AN ERO GE (34) (
INSOLE HIG Be ees Ve RS SE OR a ADMIN
IMagdalenian = 355 reer. eee ey Seer che ea se 3
SOMUMreRn ee oes 2 Oe Re ea ee aS eS SS SAN CED 2
sePaleolithie? exter lye ee ot es PORN es ONS Pea oN a 1
FAUT ST ACLATY IE eae = aN EN i EE Ne ah es nl i eel 17

|
(0) Bee
Mousterian; numberof stationsss-234-4- 522s eee
(54) Sear eeL ws
Mousterian reposing on—
Acheulean 24
Whellean= ses fini ee 5
(No culture) (25) | (

The Mousterian culture, in nearly one-half of its stations in the
open, follows direct upon the Acheulean; and the Aurignacian, in
very nearly one-half of the rock shelters and caves, and in not far
from one-third of the stations in the open, follows upon the Mouste-
606 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

rian. It would seem that these figures speak for a rather close relation
of these peoples in their habits, and that particularly between the
Mousterians and Aurignacians—who should represent two different
species of man, one greatly superior to the other.

An objection may here be raised to the effect that the number of
available, and especially of the more suitable, caves was limited and,
therefore, the same caves that once served the Neanderthalers had
to be used also by the shelter-needing Aurignacians; but this point
is invalidated by the showing of the Solutreans and Magdalenians,
who were even more cave dwellers than the Aurignacians, yet are
found collectively in less than one-fourth of the Mousterian caves.

Another point is, that it is not always the lower or earliest Aurig-
nacian that follows upon the Mousterian. But such a discord is
common to all the periods. It may mean a discontinuity, and may
also mean a persistence of any given culture in some localities longer
than in cthers. In both cases it would speak against a sudden general
displacement of one culture.

There is evidently much here, once more, to be explained by those
who conceive of Aurignacian man as very distinct from, and superior
to, the Mousterian, and as having suddenly replaced the latter.

ART

The Aurignacian period does not appear to come in full-fledged,
as is sometimes taken for granted, but to develop locally, both in
industry and art, from humbler beginnings (Breuil, Burkitt, Evans,
MacCurdy, et al.). Also there seems to be more difference in these
respects between the lower and the middle Aurignacian than there
is between the lower Aurignacian and the upper Mousterian with
the Audi and the Chatelperron stages.

It may, moreover, be unjust to assume that Mousterian man was
devoid of art sense. He may not have left any designs in caves
(though that is not perhaps absolutely certain), but the same is true
of the Neolithic and many other early, as well as later, populations.
How many such designs, or other permanent forms of art, for in-
stance, have been left by the prehistoric man of England, or Belgium,
or Germany, Moravia, Poland, or Russia? How many have been
left more recently by such highly artistic people as the Slovaks and
the peoples of the Carpathians and the Balkans? And how many
cave designs comparable to those of France and Spain do we find
in the whole continent of America, with all its able and highly
artistic population, a large part of which—the Lagoa Santa-Algonkin
type—may even be remotely related to the Aurignacians? On the
other hand, practically a replica of the European cave art was pro-
duced by the lowly Bushmen of South Africa, who certainly were no
superior race or species.
NEANDERTHAL PHASE OF MAN—HRDLICKA 607

That the Mousterians may not have been lacking in artistic sense
is indicated by some of their beautiful implements from La Quina
and other stations; by the beautiful topaz and crystal cleavers found
since 1925 by the American school at Sergeac; by the decorated bone
fragment from La Ferrassie; and possibly by the pierres-figures
(e. g. Roellecourt, Dharvent), and used chunks of manganese oxide,
found occasionally in the Mousterian deposits (a Quina and else-
where). Sir Arthur Evans tells us that “ When we turn to the
most striking features of this whole cultural phase, the primeval
arts of sculpture, engraving, and painting, we see a gradual up-
growth and unbroken tradition. From mere outline figures and
simple two-legged profiles of animals we are led on step by step to
the full freedom of the Magdalenian artists.” (New Archeological
Lights on the Origins of Civilization in Europe, by Sir Arthur
Evans, Science, 1916, n. s. xliv, No. 1134, p. 406.) MacCurdy is even
more direct: “ The inception, development, and decay of Quaternary
art all took place during the upper paleolithic period. The begin-
nings of sculpture, engraving, and fresco are traceable to the Aurig-
nacian epoch ” (MacCurdy, Human Origins, Vol. I, p. 155). And
there are some very good words of appreciation of the abilities of
Mousterian man in Sir Arthur Keith’s recent two volumes (The
Antiquity of Man, 1925, I, 223). Thus—archeology fails also, as did
paleontology and geology, in isolating Neanderthal man, and in
separating him from the succeeding forms of humanity.

Ill. THE SKELETAL REMAINS
THE SKELETAL MATERIAL

The crucial part of the whole question of Neanderthal man is,
however, that of the evidence of the skeletal material, for it is essen-
tially upon this that the separateness and discontinuance of the
Neanderthal type of man has been based. It would probably be easy
to harmonize all the rest of the differences between Neanderthal and
later man with the idea of a simple evolution and transmission, were
it not for the obstacle of the Neanderthal man’s skulls and bones.
These impress one by such marked differences from those of any
later man, that a bridging over of the gap has, to many, seemed
impossible.

Let us glance at what the present skeletal evidence of Neanderthal
man consists of. Leaving out of consideration the unimportant and
the doubtful specimens, the remains comprise now the following
(pp. 609 to 611).

It will be well in this connection to contrast the Neanderthal
remains with those from the Acheulean on one side, and those from
608 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

the Aurignacian and the following periods on the other. ‘The results
are unexpected. There is nothing authentic from Acheulean times;
and there is less, in the number of finds, from the Aurignacian than
there is from the Mousterian period. Moreover, what there is from
the Aurignacian is found, on consulting the details of the discoveries,
to be essentially middle and upper, rather than the most-needed
early Aurignacian. The data leave a strong impression that the
material, but especially that from the earlier portion of the Aurig-
nacian period, is still far from sufficient for drawing from it far-
reaching inductions.
609

NEANDERTHAL PHASE OF MAN—HRDLIGKA

“GI6L
‘6081 ‘Auoiseg pus ueqIdep

“LE-T161 ‘UIIRIN "A
“TI6T
‘QUO "VW ‘TIGL ‘jee “UL

‘Q[NOg “TW ‘R061 ‘Uopivg
"T pus oluossknog ‘f put “vy

“6061
‘qosyeely “H pus sosney ‘oO

*(soqep snord
-BA) JOZIOQUIeID-91AOUBlIOL

“6881 ‘IOUTLT “H
“ZIGI ‘1OIVUIIeqG PuUv Oday
“eq ‘9ERPW ‘6061 ‘olinzeg
“L881
*‘qsoyoT “JN pus yuodreiy “f

“Q88T ‘BHSPIN ‘7881
‘MOUDITA “UW 'S88T PUB SST
‘MASNBYJBBYIY :O88T ‘TOHUB AL

“g9gT “Quodng ‘i
“QGgI ‘uesney

Jeeqos “d ‘2ggr ‘OIG *O
"S98T “YSN “1p

“1094S
YOOI MOT[BUS B UL SUOI}e[NMINIIB JO eseq IV

"(1049 ‘TINYS pyIyo) staqgp pue
esnjel Weyoyiy Ut Apyed £ (930 ‘moyaTays I[Npe)
urvel}s Aq-1v9U 84} JO Psed-pNUI JUusIOUe Uy ATP

a qyivoy JUS1OUB UB Ive ‘SUOTJLINUINIOB BAB
q I I

*QABD BJO 100] 974 JO [IOS
A[IBUI 8Y4 UI INp Worsseidep B UI ([BUTIOJ) [eng
“IOISNOYY OT 7B
‘I0q[9YS YOOI JOMOT UI ‘938 UBIIOJSNO PY JO SIAqap
[einj[nd JO UOTe[NMINIV UB WOI poYeAvoxy

“sqyuoure[ dtm 9u04s pue
‘S[BUIIUB JOUT}XO JO Seo ‘aI JO SUTBUIOI YIM
‘184[9YS YOO] plo UB JO SSUTI[Y oY4 UOT PazyVAvoX
“OPIUIS[BIS JO OAL], B AG poddvo
‘S[BUIIUG JOUIYxXO JO soUOg YIM ‘ABO JUOIOUR UT

rae s ddBJINS ULOIJ 192J GT JNOgke ‘oUlZAVACIY PAvy Uy
*doop si9joul F ‘edUBIYUO UOT] JUBISIP S.1040Ur
8 PUL g ‘BABI BJO JUOI UL GVIIO} WOT] POYWABOXAT
“(BYSBIA)
euod Jo seoaid [[BUIS SULOS PUB 4400} B JO SSOT
ey} Arqeqoid Aqoi0y} Sulseyns ‘sayse Jo damny
B WO peg “peq Yyse peqinjsipun ul dosp
Si9}oul F[ ABT ‘“aAvd BYdIg 94} JO WOISMI4xO
[81948] MOT ®B ,, ‘o[OY JoApeg ,, OY} WLOIJ poyVAvOXT
“SSOUOIY] Ul 499J ZI OM} 9} ‘YYAIBE JO
SIDAV] XIS YIM FUIYBUIO}[V OJIUIBRTVIS JO SIOAB]
Jepun ‘WnIspg “WUBUIG Ive ‘a}4e[NBN ev] op
enoly, Ul Sjiscdep peqimjsipun UO poyBVAavoxg
Be A ame aS dABO B UI AT[VJUSpIOoV puno gy
‘A10}}Bq BJO JWeULODR [CuO UB IO}
SUIySe[G ZUINp 9dIAel9 B UI ‘A[[BJUNploOOV puNno,|T

(AT [eUIs110)
meyM pus Aq poj.odaxy

AIVACODSIP IO BVP [BIQUOSST]

C161
‘udIpTiyo pus
F JO Sooviy puv—(o[vuUlgy B ‘OI6T
‘e[eul B—s}[Npe) ee (Gs eee ECS ES Auoihkog | ‘6061 |--77- (9UsOpIO() SIssvIIEy WT
*(soqep
JUSIITIP) SWOJOTOYs ;BIOAS
Jo squemsely °(1Z61) PIyo
BJOT[NYS ‘(Z161) Ml MOT
“(LI6T) J1Npe UB JO MOJeTaYg |~-~~-- ~~~ ---7-- UlPIVY MUO | TZ-BO6T | --- (eyueIBYO) Buy BT
: “m0ja[ays UO
Jo (sMevl q40q Ut0IJ) 00} ET |--7 7-7 [OUIS PUB OTTOOIN “IWIN. | OT6L |----7 7777777 (jsuuBy DO) Aosi0¢
‘mop
‘(pase -Iegq ‘JT puv ‘atuosskAnog
“O9TPPTU “eyeur) UMoJaJoXS | *¢ ‘efuossAnog “Wy syqqy | g06I |7--~~~- (0201109) ofjedeyO BT
ie) (eneed
yusdsejope UB JO UOJleyg |~-~ ~~ TTT JosnvH ‘O | 8061 |77--7~ (9usdOpIOd) JeT|sNOyT OT
SO6T
(‘sexes pues
q40q “QINpeqns puv 4[npe) ‘6681
SU0JIJOYS OZ JOAO JO syIvg |~“JesIOqMIvVIy-IAOURLIOH “Wy | ‘ogg |-77777777 77 (8148019) Buldery
Saree O[VUTOJ I[NpB ‘Mel IOMOT |-~~--~--- ~~~" -gMBUseY “WT | ES8I |-7---7--~ (eSelZy) pneurepepL
Rtas ata oe aca Mel JoMO'T |~------"-"----BmMoyY OzueIOT | zest |-~~~*(aredg ‘euoso4y)) svjoutg
“qsoyo'y WIIxe py
“qNpe ‘sapeur ‘suoyojays Om, | puwe ApAng ep jeorwp, | ggst |--777777- Z ‘ON put T ‘ON Adg
*sie9A g yNOqB JO
Plo BJO Mel JaMOT 9] JO
qred [e{UOJJ oY} JO JuoUIsVI |---~------7 >> BHSBINT eH (s[O1Bis Tas OSS Te a pee eee ame oan ees eydig
‘UBUIOA J[Npe sunoA
G) JO. UMSh _JOMOp joojteduny | Fss-555>-5-=-=--- AOC Chics Hi |e 909 Ted naan mee oa wee 8))9[NBN BT
“MOJO[AYS 9} JO souoq
CT PUSABO=[[UYS [SUL IMP yi |= 255s sess ttle SOLO Biel Pe OO STa als ae aan os oe eden [eyjlopuee Ny
“(MBE JOMOT JNOTITM)
posvUlep ‘[[NYS o[VUley [NPY |---- 7 SIOIO BGT SFR Te ea eee eee IBICIQID
A1I0A00
—JO sjsIsuoo pul poreaoosip m0 M Ag -SIp Jo pug Jo owen
Ivo X

hiaaoasyp fo Lap10 1021H0]0U0LYI U2 SUIDWAL JDY]AOPUDA AT
ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

610

“9Z6I ‘(Se}0u
‘ujeid) pouey “A “Vd
SST ‘(t99T9YS) [NeIG 9qqV

“LEBI ‘WOOIUOPIOM “A
“LE6T ‘UO
InqQy pue o1}9g-9 [IAM

“OZ61 ‘Moyo
“A ‘H {F161 ‘oqeayog “p

Soca E SESE 9IN}[ND URIIEISNOTA, UPA ‘JOATeYS YOOY.
o-- 2-2 2-22-22 2-22-22 ----- eUI}IOARIY prey Ul deed

*[OA9]-IOOY UIIPOU OY} MOTI 499} 249 ‘OAV
oIyyposyed peqinystipun Jo eseq ey} 4B ‘eABD

-- (1OALB] Po}B[LO19JUI PUB) OUTJIOABIY IVY UI deed

(AT[eUIs110)
ueyM pus sq pej10doy

‘a3e Jo sIvad

AIOAODSIP JO BCP [BIJWASS|

OL ynoqe jo pryo B jo [NYAS | POIIGH) “Wi aGUSSTINL | “OZONs |S" eee eee ee eS i
“TOs “(AI
qjnpe ue jo 4[NeVA usyoIg [OU uoemsrend | szel | -zend s8,Jeqostq) JAopssuiiy
“9U0g-[e} UOT
oy} SUIPNpOUt “4y[Npe suNo0A
B JO [[NYS oy} JO sjuaMISVIG, |--- OIVOT-O[TAIM Tech || @CCOL |ewuuean se us = pos ae ds[I[BD
*(104R]
“eu0g-4SI} B pur)
Jo uorzJod ‘moyeToXs S, PTTYyo 9T61
@ Jo Suremios ‘SmUl JAMO, Z | uewAIIeney | IGE |~~-77 (1eT10 A ) JIOpssUlIY |
AIVAOD
—JO sjsisuod pul peisAodsip Moy Ag -sIp jo puy jo owen
Ivo

ponuyu0g—fAuaaorsip fo sapso oo Bojowoiyo U2 SUMWad [DY}aPUDI N
611

NEANDERTHAL PHASE OF MAN—HRDLIGKA

“(INAS S,P[IYo) ZePOHSTINT (ET)

*(sqUSMIaBIJ SNOIEUINU
Mel JOMOT) [eJUepNel, (ZT)

ue
*(SUOJoIaYS Z) TessvazeqO (TT)
(TINS) TIZV.P SPIN (OT)

*(s}ueur
-Bvly pue [[Nys) p1eoe[d eT (6)

*(SMBLJO Sjred) Sae,q-SEeP-01}01H) (8)
“(mel JOMOT) NVOZBTYI-9[-dBssN’T (L)

*(moyaTeXS) (ULV
‘ao][ISsOy IveU) xnveJOH seT(9)

*(MOJOTONS) (SopuvyT
piog seou) AyYynINdG (g)

*(MoJo[oHS) ouRT_ deo (F)

Sa

*(WoJoJoXs) epejeoueyD (¢)

*(UOJO[OYS) OssVg-ollesnvyT (Z)

‘(smelt JO s}ueur
-3eij ‘UOJo[PYS) OUIE[epeYL BT (1)

(W0J9[9YS T) BUI[eH

*(1049[9¥S)
‘asne[y (8)

*(MOJO[AYS S, Pl[Iyo
I) (eusopiog) enosepeg (2)

ZuISSq-neN eeu

*(MOJO[OHS) oJNVFT-olesNeyT (T)

UvIMO[VpsBIL

pinnuo

uearnyog

(s19q}0 ¢ JO sjied ‘suojo[eys Z) UOUDeI-01D
49970] 40 UDIIDUbLUN
(SUOJOTOYS §) gayNpos

(9}0[dU109 A[IIBJ SMOJO[OYS FT
‘S[eENPIAIPUI 0Z JNO JO SUIBUIeL) YSOUIpPeTT

(suoyoyays Z ‘[[NYS 1) (UUNI_) oUIg

fijqnqoid ‘uniovubiiny

“([[N¥s B Jo oTJI0d) moaO (OT)

*(WOJoJOYS) puvpAvd (6)
*(SUOJo[OYS g) EMOWAPY (8)
“(Moqofoys) WeyZuG (L)

(3003

pus mel JeMof) slejetyoH (9)

"(Mel JAMOT) OTTISBO (9)
*(I[Nys) oF1eMIVO (F)
*(m04
“Jays Jo syed) oyeyooy BT (g)
*(MOJO[OHS) offedvy-equroy (Z)

“({Mys) (xNIG) ISOTT (1)

uBlovusliny

*(TIMYS S,PIIyo) reqyeIqIy (21)
“(TIN YS) C@TTBH (9T)
*([[INYS) J1opssuLIyY IvON (ST)

*(anula] B JO JAVd ‘U049[9YS S,p[Iyo
‘saevl Jomo, Z) (4) jJopssurqy (FT)

*(SUOJO[OYS S,WOIP[IYO fF JO seov1yz
‘sUOJOJOYS J[NpB Z) olssvlegT VT (ET)

*(SMOJO[OYS [BIOAOS JO syred ‘Mel IOMOT
‘pLIqo Jo [NYS ‘uozojoys) VUINy BT (ZI)

‘(qjo0}) Aosior Jo purest (TT)
*(moyaaxs) effedeyo ev (OT)

(6)
(8)
(2)

*(M0JO[9YS) JosNoypy aT
*(SU0JO[IYS OZ IOAO Jo syed) vurdery

“(mel JaMOl) PNVUIL[V YL

"(mel aMoy) sepouRg (9)

*(smoyorays g) Adg (¢)

(F)

“(vel JoMOT) BYdIg
‘(Mel JOMO]) 09}0[NVN BT (€)
*(WOJOTOHS) [BYJOpuBON (Z)

“(Im yS) TeqeIqID (1)

Uv’IIGISNO PT

‘(smelt
JOMOT Z) Jlopssunyy (2)

*(q}003) Yowqney, (2)

uvelneqoy

povad unaynayay ay? wouf uu fipuva fo suvvmas paymo1jUayIND 1a}jaqQ puv quDiLOdU? aLou OY T,
612 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

Taking the Neanderthal remains by themselves, we find that, not-
withstanding their defects, they constitute a very respectable array
of precious material. Let us see what it teaches.

If we placed all this material on a table before us, ranged by the
date of discovery, we should see a remarkable assembly of more or
less deficient or fragmentary skulls, jaws, and bones, with an array
of loose teeth, the whole differing widely in color, weight, state of
petrifaction, and in principal morphological characters. We should
be struck by the prevailing aspect of inferiority of the material, but
the arrangement would soon prove unsatisfactory and we should
proceed to another.

As there is not enough for a geographical subdivision, it would
be logical to try next an arrangement of the specimens by their
antiquity, from the oldest to the latest. The indications are that
the Mousterian period was a long one, and of three stages—the
inferior, middle, and superior. We should like, therefore, at least
to arrange our material by these stages.

But we strike at once great difficulties. The very type-specimen
of the lot, the Neanderthal skeleton, lacks direct chronological identi-
fication. ‘There were neither animal nor industrial remains with it,
or, if there were, they were not saved. Everything indicates that
it is very old: Physically it is in every one of its parts a prototype
of Mousterian man; chronologically it may be even pre-Mousterian.
Similar and other difficulties confront us in the case of the first
Gibraltar skull and the Bafiolas jaw, the important Krapina remains,
the Ehringsdorf jaws; and it is not certain just where within the
period to place most of the remainder of the specimens. The final
conclusion is that, if the eyes are shut to the somatological characters
of the remains, a satisfactory chronological grading of them becomes
very difficult and uncertain.

The state of preservation or petrifaction of the remains is a ques-
tion of local geophysics and chemistry, and thus incapable of giving
any fair basis for classification. Thus there remain only the soma-
tological characteristics of the skulls and bones themselves, and the
endeavor to arrange them on this basis proves of much interest.

The general physical characters of the Neanderthal race have been
more or less summed up by a number of eminent anatomists and
anthropologists, including especially Schwalbe, Keith, Sollas, and
Boule. The main features of the average Neanderthaler are there-
fore fairly well known. They include a moderate stature, heavy
build, and a good-sized, thick, oblong skull, with pronounced supra-
orbital torus, low forehead, low vault, protruding occiput, large,
full upper maxilla, large nose, large teeth, and a large, heavy lower
jaw with receding chin. To which may be added stout bones of the
skeleton, particularly the ribs and the bones of the lower part of the
NEANDERTHAL PHASE OF MAN—HRDLICKA 613

body, arched radii and femora, femora and tibie with heavy articu-
lar extremities, the tibia relatively short and with head more than
now inclined backward, a peculiar short astragalus, and various
other primitive features.

To this generalized type some of the specimens conform, it is soon
seen, much more than others. It is realized that the general concep-
tion of the type has been built up essentially on the Neanderthal,
Spy No. 1, the La Chapelle, and the La Quina skulls and skeletons,
but that from this generalization there are many aberrations.

An arrangement of the specimens in morphological order, begin-
ning with those that show the most primitive or old features and
advancing gradually toward more modern standards, is now in order,
and the results are very striking.

The first strong impression is that, with all the seeming riches,
there is still not enough material for satisfactory grading. The next
appreciation is that it is hard to grade whole lots, but that it is
necessary to grade the skulls, jaws, teeth, and bones separately. In
one and the same skeleton are found parts and features that are very
primitive and far away from man’s later types, with parts and fea-
tures that are almost like the modern; and every skeleton is found
to differ in these respects. Here is facing us, evidently, a very note-
worthy example of morphological instability, an instability, plainly,
of evolutionary nature, leading from old forms to more modern.

The Neanderthal skull and skeleton proper, in all the parts that
have been saved, is found to stand at the base of the series. It lacks,
regrettably, the lower jaw and the teeth, as well as the sternum, most
of the scapulve, and the ribs, vertebrze, sacrum, the leg, the hand,
and the foot bones. Of what is present, the farthest from modern
type is the skull, the next being the thigh and the leg bones; the
nearest to modern forms, though still somewhat distinct, are the
bones of the upper extremity.

The closest in general to the Neanderthal skeleton is Spy No. 1,
La Chapelle, and apparently the Le Moustier youth. But Spy No.
1 has almost primitive-modern jaws with practically recent teeth;
the La Chapelle shows high cranial capacity, an “ ultra-human ”
nose, and a strongly developed nasal spine; the Le Moustier skull
has a higher vault and forehead, with less protrusion of the occiput;
while the bones of the upper extremity in all three approach closely
the modern types. Thus, even in these most nearly related four
specimens, there is in evidence a considerable variability, with more
or less advance in various parts in the direction of later man.

These facts deserve, undoubtedly, earnest consideration. But there
is much more to be learned. Taking the remainder of the skulls,
jaws, and bones attributed to the Neanderthal phase, it is seen that

24034—29-——_40
614 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

both the variability and the number of characters that tend in the
direction of later man increase considerably. The Krapina series,
by itself, is probably more variable from the evolutionary point of
view than would be any similar series from one locality at the pres-
ent. This is true in respect, to the cranial form, the development of
the forehead, the jaws, the teeth, and many of the bones of the
skeleton. The additional Neanderthal remains manifest signs of
similar instability of type and of tendencies of an evolutionary na-
ture, this being particularly true of Spy No. 2, and of the recently
discovered Galilee and Ehringsdorf crania.

In his excellent description of the Galilee specimen, Sir Arthur
Keith has shown that it has a fair forehead, with “no suggestion in
the vaulting of its frontal bone that the roof of the skull was low
and flat, as is usual in Neanderthal skulls.” And in his preliminary
report on the Ehringsdorf (1925) cranium, F. Weidenreich shows
us a specimen with even better developed frontal region, and a
vault of good height.

But the most instructive, though most neglected, specimens are
the crania of Spy, Belgium. Here the student is confronted with a
find in the same terrace and deposits, at the same level, and but 6
feet apart, of two adult male skeletons from the later Mousterian
time. One of these skeletons, No. 1, has a skull the vault of which
is a replica of that of the Neanderthal cranium, with typically
Neanderthal bones of the skeleton. But this same skull is associated
with upper and lower jaw and teeth that may be duplicated to-day
among the lower races. And the skull of the second skeleton is so
superior in size, shape, height of the vault, and height of the fore-
head, to No. 1, that the morphological distance between the two is
greater than that between No. 2 and some of the Aurignacian crania,
such as the Most (Briix) or Brno No. 1 (Briinn) specimens.

About the most distinguishing and important marks of difference
of the typical Neanderthaler from later man, are, we may repeat,
the flatness of his head, with low receding forehead and a peculiar
protruding occiput; heavy, supraorbital torus; heavy, chinless jaw;
and, as determined from intracranial casts, a low type of brain. It
will be well to see how these characters stand the light of our pres-
ent knowledge.

Lowness of the vault, low and receding forehead, and projecting
occiput, all show in the series of the Neanderthal skulls known to-day
a large range of gradation, the lower limits of which are well below,
but the upper grades of which are well within, the range of varia-
tion of the same characters in later, and even present, man. There
exists to-day a whole great stream of humanity, extending from Mon-
golia deep into America, which is characterized by low vault of the
skull. (See Catal. Crania, U. S. Nat. Mus., Nos. 1 and 2: also Bull.
NEANDERTHAL PHASE OF MAN—HRDLICKA 615
33, Bur. Amer. Ethn.) Low foreheads are frequent in prehistoric
America (see Bull. 33, Bur. Amer. Ethn., and Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus.,
1908, vol. xxxv, pp. 171-5). The pronounced Neanderthal occiput,
such as shown by the La Chapelle, La Quina, and La Ferrassie skulls,
it would be difficult to fully match in later man, but on the one hand
the character is not equally marked in all the Neanderthalers, while on
the other hand there are decided approximations to it among recent
skulls.

A heavy supraorbital torus, such as is common to the Neanderthal
skulls, is not found in later man; but not all the Neanderthalers had
the torus equally developed (e. g. Gibraltar), and, as has been pointed
out by Huxley, Sergi, Stolyhwo, and others, there are later male
skulls in which there is a marked approach to the torus. A whole
series of specimens may be mentioned (Podkoumok, Briix, Brno
No. 1, Piéedmost, Obercassel, Alcolea, Djebel-Fartas, two neolithic
skulls at Warsaw, the neolithic miner from Strépy at Brussels, etc.)
in which the feature is of a distinctly transitional character. More-
over, it is well known that, first, the torus is essentially a sexual
(male) and adult feature; second, that a reduction of such charac-
ters is easier than that of those which are more deeply rooted; and
third, that in the civilized man of to-day a continuance of such reduc-
tion is still perceptible. There is less difference in this respect be-
tween the Neanderthal and the skulls just mentioned than there is
between these and the mean development of the ridges in the highly
cultured man—or, for that matter, the ordinary African negro—of
the present.

Heavy, large, and receding lower jaws, such as the La Chapelle, La
Quina H—5, and some of the Krapina specimens, are among the most
striking characters of Neanderthal man. Jaws such as these are not
known in later skulls. But with them we have within the Neander-
thal group itself specimens very much more advanced morphologically
toward the present human type, such as Spy No. 1, La Quina (1912),
and the La Ferrassie. Even at Krapina itself some of the jaws are of
a less primitive type than others. Let us add to this the various huge,
nearly chinless, and even receding jaws that occur now and then in
the Australian, Melanesian, Mongolian, American Eskimo, and In-
cian, and the picture loses much of its discontinuity. Much the
same may be said also of the teeth. Teeth of primitive form—in-
cisors, canines (dents de chien), molars—occur to this day (see
Amer. Journ. Phys. Anthrop., 1922-1924), while practically modern
teeth may already be observed in Spy No. 1, and more or less also in
other jaws of the Neanderthal group.

As to the bones of the skeleton, the conditions are quite as sig-
nificant as those of the jaws and teeth. There are scales of gradation
from forms that stand considerably apart from those of later man
616 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

(as in Neanderthal, Spy, La Chapelle, Le Moustier) to forms that
approach to, or merge with, the modern (parts of the Krapina,
La Ferrassie, La Quina skeletons). To which may be added a word
about the brain.

The size and its variation in the Neanderthal brain are comparable
with those of the Aurignacian, and even the present primitive man.
The idea that the Aurignacians were exceptional in this respect is, if
due regard be given to the factor of stature, erroneous. The surface
conformation of the brain, as shown by intracranial casts, is of a low
type in the Gibralter, Spy I, La Chapelle, and other specimens. But
this does not hold true of the Weimar or the Galilee brain. The
intracranial cast of the Galilee skull shows, in the words of Sir
Arthur Keith, that “in its mass and its markings it has reached at
least to the level attained by individuals in living races—such as that
represented to-day by the aborigines of Australia.” (Report on the
Galilee Skull, p. 106.)

IV. RECAPITULATION

In relation to what perhaps was its most important period, the
Mousterian, prehistory is found to have reached a position approach-
ing dogmatism. But this has only led it into a blind alley from
which so far there has been found no exit, notwithstanding much
speculation.

It has been decided, on the weight of a limited initial group of
specimens, that Neanderthal man was a man of a different species;
that he may possibly have originated from his European predecessors,
but that, after a long period of existence and after having spread far
and wide, he perished rather abruptly and completely, without leav-
ing any progeny, on the approach of a superior species, the Homo
sapiens.

This H. sapiens has been assumed to have come from elsewhere,
possibly from Africa or Asia; or ke was, somehow, cryptically, coeval
from far back with the pre-Neanderthaler and the Neanderthaler,
eventually to assert himself suddenly and completely, to take over the
human burden. He comes on the stage in body and brain largely as
he is to-day, and has, since the beginning of the Aurignacian, under-
gone but moderate alteration.

A whole line of the foremost workers in prehistory are seen to
have become identified with these notions, which obliges every student
to give them an earnest and respectful attention. But no notion or
dogma can possibly reach the status of a fact before it has been proven
to be such through full demonstration.

Owing to scarcity of material, such demonstration has hitherto
been impossible; but the more the material remains of early man
NEANDERTHAL PHASE OF MAN—HRDLICKA 617

accumulate and are better understood, the more it is sensed that the
whole Neanderthal question is in need of a revision.

If the given assumptions are true, then we are confronted by some
strange major phenomena, viz, a long double line of human evolution,
either in near-by or the same territories; a sudden extinction of one
of the lines; and evolutionary sluggishness or pause in the other.
The consideration of these hypotheses brings us into a maze of
difficulties and contradictions.

They lead to an outright polygeny—which is undemonstrable and
improbable; or they concede the evolution of H. sapiens from the
same old stock that gave also H. neanderthalensis, but deny the possi-
bility of such evolution from Neanderthal man later on; they give
us H. sapiens, without showing why, or how, and where he developed
his superior make-up, and imply that, while he evidently developed
much more rapidly at first to reach the status of H. sapiens, he then
slackened greatly to remain, from the beginning of the postglacial to
this day, at nearly the same evolutional level.

They place H. sapiens in Africa or Asia, without troubling to offer
the evidence of his ancient dominion in those regions. Or, if he
lived in Europe, coexisting with the Neanderthaler, where are his
remains, and why did he not prevail sooner over his inferior cousin ?
His traces, it will be recalled, never, in Europe or elsewhere, precede
or coexist with, but always follow, the Mousterian. And where are
there any other examples of a sudden, complete extinction of a whole
large group of humanity; or of any wholesale Aurignacian conquest ;
or of any superior mentality of the early Aurignacians? And where
are, in fact, in anything like a sufficient number, the undoubted
skeletal remains of the early Aurignacians that could be used for
comparison? Why did they, a new, superior species, strong and able
enough to completely do away with the Neanderthaler, take over the
poor Neanderthaler’s caves and sites and live in them exactly, except
for some technical differences in stone chipping, as did their crude
predecessors? And how shall we explain the anomalous fact of an
invasion during the last ice encroachment, an unfavorable period,
when man might be expected to move from, rather than into, such a
territory ?

Valid answers to these and other questions are as yet impossible.
There is a need of much further exploration; of much further good
fortune in locating additional skeletal remains of all periods, but
particularly of the latest Mousterian and earliest Aurignacian; and
of a new generation of able workers, well equipped, and unhampered
by tradition.

The indications, for the present, seem however to be the following:

(1) The Penck-Briickner conception of the Ice Age as composed
of four distinct periods of glaciation with three well-marked inter-
618 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

glacial periods, does not harmonize well with either the paleontologi-
cal or the human evidence. Both these tend to show but one main
interglacial interval, from which there is a gradual progression
toward an irregular cold period, after which follows an irregular
postglacial. There is no warm fauna that would correspond to the
assumed third (Riss-Wiirm) interglacial. And there is evident no
substantial change, such as would necessarily be brought about by a
marked alteration in climate, in man’s housing and living habits from
the Middle Mousterian to the Magdalenian cultural periods.

(2) The Mousterian or Neanderthal phase of man begins toward
the end of the warm main interglacial. It is essentially the period

=

“

Wamo

W.aapiens

x
,

H. vneaudarthalenses

Pithecanthropus

Figure 6.—Various conceptions as to the phylogenetic relation of Neanderthal and
later man. (Present evidence fayors the view represented on the extreme right)

of the cooling stage of the terminal main ice invasion, reaching to,
and probably somewhat beyond, its culmination.

(3) During this period man is brought face to face with great
changes of environment. He is gradually confronted with hard
winters, which demand more shelter, more clothing, more food, more
fire, and storage of provisions; there are changes in the fauna which
call for new adaptations and developments in hunting; and there
are growing discomforts with, it may be assumed, increasing respira-
tory and other diseases, that call for new efforts and seriously hinder
the growth of the population.

(4) Such a major change in the principal environmental factors
must inevitably have brought about, on the one hand, greater mental
as well as physical exertion and, on the other hand, an intensification
of natural selection, with the survival of only the more, and perish-
NEANDERTHAL PHASE OF MAN—HRDLIOKA 619

ing of the less, fit. But greater sustained mental and physical exer-
tion, where not over the normal limits, leads inevitably toward
greater efficiency attended by further bodily and mental develop-
ment which, with the simultaneous elimination of the weak and
less fit, are the very essentials of progressive evolution.

Strong evidence that a relatively rapid progressive change, both
mental and physical, was actually taking place during the Neander-
thal period is furnished by the great variability of the skeletal
remains from this time.

(5) But such evolution would certainly differ from region to
region as the sum of the factors affecting man differed, reaching a
more advanced grade where the conditions in general proved the
most favorable; while to many of the less favored groups disease,
famine, and warfare would bring extinction. All these agencies are
known to science to-day; only they acted with more freedom of old
when social organization and mutual aid were at a low level.

(6) With these processes it is conceivable, if not inevitable, that
toward the height of the glacial invasion the population decreased in
numbers, and that the most fit or able-to-cope-with-the-conditions
group or groups eventually alone survived to carry on.

Here seems to be a relatively simple natural explanation of the
progressive evolution of Neanderthal man, and such evolution would
inevitably carry his most advanced forms to those of primitive
H. sapiens.

(7) The physical differences observable between Neanderthal and
later man are essentially those of two categories, namely: (1) Reduc-
tion in musculature—that of the jaws as well as that of the body—
with consequent changes in the teeth, jaws, face, and vault of the
skull; and (2) changes in the supraorbital torus aE the order known
well to morphology as progressive infantilism. For both these cate-
gories of changes there are later parallelisms. Further reduction of
teeth, jaws, and the facial bones has taken place since Magdalenian
times, and is now going on in more highly civilized man, of whatever
racial derivation; while infantilism is commonly accepted as an
explanation of the differences of the negrillo from the negro, and for
the greater average reduction of the supraorbital ridges in the negro
than in the whites. It would be illogical to deny the probable instru-
mentality of these agencies in men of an earlier period.

(8) Anthropology is thus confronted with the following condi-
tions:

Neanderthal man is of a primitive physique, appears to have ended
by a sudden and complete extinction, and to have been replaced by
H. sapiens.

But there has been discovered no previous home of this H. sapiens,
nor any remains whatsoever of his ancestors; and, if he coexisted
620 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

with Neanderthal man, it is impossible to understand why he did not
prevail sooner, or why he did not mix, or, above all, why he left no
cultural remains of his existence.

On the other hand, this same Neanderthal man is now known to
show wide morphological variation, leading in the direction of later
man; and there are individuals among later men, even to this day,
who show transitional features. This might be explained by an
original common parentage of the two strains; or by an intermixture
of the Neanderthal stock with the succeeding H. sapiens; or by a
development, evolution, of the former into the latter.

(9) A critical examination of the known facts does not favor the
assumption of a far-back common parentage and early Quaternary
separation of H. neanderthalensis and H. sapiens, for lack of cultural
evidence of H. sapiens and other great difficulties.

It is equally unable to favor a separate origin of the two stocks
with subsequent hybridization, for again there is no evidence of the
pre-Aurignacian whereabouts and the doings of H. sapiens, there
is no trace of his ancestry, and knowing his and his descendants’
characteristics, it is impossible, as said already by Karl Pearson, to
conceive his origin without a Neanderthal-like stage of development.

There remains but the third alternative—which is the evolution of
the Neanderthaler into later man. This proposition is not yet
capable of conclusive demonstration. There is not yet enough ma-
terial to decide it one way or the other. But the thoroughly sifted
indications appear to the speaker to favor this assumption.

The great current need of prehistory, it may be accentuated once
again, is more exploration and more good fortune in discoveries.
Meanwhile there appears to be less justification in the conception of
a Neanderthal species than there would be in that of a Neanderthal

phase of man.*
PRINCIPAL REFERENCES

Aptorr, P. Das Gebiss des Menschen und der Anthropomorphen. 8°. Berlin,
1908.

Bayer, J. Mensch im Hiszeitalter. Vol. I, 8°. Leipzig and Wien, 1927.

Bouter, M. Fossil Men. 8°. Edinburgh, 1923.

BrevuiL, M. l’Abbé. Personal communications.

Burkitt, M. C. Prehistory. 8°. Cambridge, 1921.

Fievure, H. J. Some Early Neanthropic Types in Europe and their Modern

Representatives. Journ. Roy. Anthrop. Inst., 1920, Vol. L,
pp. 12-40.

GREMIACKI, A. Podkumskaia CGerepnaia krySka i ieio morfologiceskie
osobennosti (La calotte du ecraine de homme de Pod-
koumok et ses caractéres morphologiques). Russ. Antropol.
Journ., 1922, Vol. XII, pp. 92-110.

1The detailed evidence of the new Gibraltar skull and brain cast, just submitted to
the Royal Anthropological Institute (Noy. 1, 1927), goes far to support this assumption.
NEANDERTHAL PHASE OF MAN——HRDLICOKA 621

HroiicKa, A. The Most Ancient Skeletal Remains of Man. 2nd ed., 8°. Publ.
2300, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, U. S. A., 1916.

KeiryH, Sir A. The Antiquity of Man. 2 vols., 8°. London, 1925.

Report on the Galilee Skull: with Researches in Prehistoric Galilee, by
F. Turville-Petre. Brit. Sch. Arch. Jerusalem. 4°, 1927, pp. 53-106.

MacCourpy, G. G. Human Origins. 2 vols., 8°. New York and London, 1924.

OBERMAIER, H. Fossil Man in Spain. 8°. New York, 1924.

Ossorn, H. F., and Reeps, Cu. A. Old and New Standards of Pleistocene Divi-

sion in Relation to the Prehistory of Man in Europe. Bull.
Geol. Soc. Amer., 1922, Vol. XXXIII, pp. 411-490.

OsrorN, H. F. Introduction to Obermaier’s Fossil Man in Spain. 1924.

Pryrony, D. Personal communications.

PEARSON, K. Side Lights on the Evolution of Man. Univ. Lond. Eng. Lect.,

Ser. XIII, London, 1921, 27 p.

SALLES, K. Die Cromagnonrasse und ihre Stelung zu anderen jungpaleolithischen
Langsschiidelrassen. Z. induct. Abstam. u. Vereb’l., 1925, Vol.
XXXIX, pp. 191-247.

SARASIN, F. Sur les relations des Néo-Calédoniens avec le groupe de l’Homo
neanderthalensis. L’Anthrop., 1924, Vol. XXXIV, pp. 193-227.

SCHMIDT, R. R., NOKEN, and ScHuiz. Die diluviale Vorzeit Deutschlands. Stutt-

gart, 1912.
SCHWALBE, G. Der Neanderthalschidel. Jahrb. Ver. Altertsfr. Rheinl., 1900,
72 pp.

Kritische Besprechung von Boule’s Werk (L’homme fossile de la
Chapelle-aux-Saints), mit eigenen Untersuchungen. (Z. Morph. u.
Anthrop., 1914, Vol. XVI, pp. 527-610.)

SoLutas, W. J. On the Cranial and Facial Characters of the Neanderthal Race.

Phil. Trans. Roy. Soc. London, 1907, B, Vol. 199, pp. 281-339.

STOLYHWo, K. Homo primigenius, appartient-il 4 une espéce distincte de Homo

sapiens? L’Anthrop., 1908, Vol. XIX, pp. 191-216.

Le erane de Nowosiolka, ete. Bull. Ac. Se., Cracov, 1908, pp. 103-126.

Zur Frage der HPxistenz von Ubergangsformen zwischen Homo primi-
genius und Homo sapiens. Globus, 1908, Vol. XCIV, No. 23.

SZOMBATHY, J. Die Menschenrassen im oberen Paliolithicum, insbesondere die

Briix-Rasse. Mitteil. Anthrop. Ges., Wien, 1926, Vol. LVI,
pp. 202-219.
WEIDENREICH, F. Der Schiidel von Weimar-Ehringsdorf. Verh. Ges. Phys.
Anthrop., Stuttgart, 1927, Vol. II, pp. 3441; also. Korrbl.
d. d. Wiss. u. Tech., 1927, Vol. III, No. 18.

oe

ihr'y, :
ua te i

eran nN edema tks ight
je Tae i! 1 a iy f yee)
ASE

ty At rus vy i '
io OR ame yt ut

‘h is gna

niet

a
ren

an asa in
ghee wight dibital marital
pf py prod, eit ft

FA trotoeteay reo eg
EMAC Re ag iE lnc

ye

haem

Ufo Lh npaiien re

ott rvs ly i
aa, babi gal leg ne ae a) at a Pr psty
a cia ER er LT ane rs i

mi Gta: i Bir AY i nf
maa aa a Fie ree

Ne vient he a Nha bs LAL iy wi mb haywire a

Teta Ae hr Al
ny) ne

Boe M nT iAAl s° An ah A Gey r
, | eed Ayo rit, i ‘ta ROVER GTR |
RL atN Sy » de neared if (gh pints Hee Nn
ina oy Me tank ty ) rT Hh ey a
Lergd oe tuaianihe betel ty evga: by ae one ‘wae hadi
Shek acalenng “ener: BRN, re a AaBY |
yi ie es A er } ae ; hill al
1 einige ey A ie 'y*iodh Ered ube aie ; i Sayin ae Hine a orth
AS Cha ion? Rs aw ‘i
) si ms te hei otter

ee : ; " a ‘nN mare tah Canon ae ie a Sly

en " ated @hrshnawied ith vo y heh Va RL C vo hoy id
ie Win inhi nahuAlih i here A ae i

. f ALAN Oh an ea)
Wad doe
Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Hrdliéka PLATE 1

oi Ses
{orga ae

2. PODKOUMOK (AFTER SALLER)

3. BRNO (BRUNN)
Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Hrdliéka PLATE 2

2. EHRINGSDORF, 1925 (AFTER WEIDENREICH)
Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Hrdli¢ka PLATE 3

1. EHRINGSDORF (AFTER HANS VIRCHOW)

2. AUSTRALIA (U. S. NATIONAL Museum)

3. LA QUINA (1912) (AFTER HENRI MARTIN)
(WNASN! IWNOILYN ‘S "N) TINYS NVOAId

b ALWId

BHQIPIH—'8Z6L ‘Modsy uvjuosuzWs
AMERICAN INDIAN COSTUMES IN THE UNITED STATES
NATIONAL MUSEUM

By Hersert W. KRIEGER
United States National Museum

[With 36 plates]

One of the earliest accessions to the ethnological collections in the
United States National Museum was obtained by the United States
Exploring Expedition under the command of Admiral Charles
Wilkes, United States Navy. This collection was gathered in 1838—
1842 and includes objects of personal adornment and dress from sev-
eral of the Indian tribes ofthe Pacific northwest coast. Another
important early accession was the material collected in 1851 by
Lieuts. William Herndon and Lardner Gibbon, United States Navy,
from Indian tribes occupying the tropical lowlands along the
Amazon River and its principal tributaries in Brazil. This collec-
tion loses somewhat in value because tribal designations are for the
most part not included with the specimens.

The first accession to be received by the Institution from the Arctic
was the collection of Dr. Isaac Hayes, which includes objects of
dress from the Greenland and Smith Sound Eskimo. The collection
of Dr. William H. Dall from the Aleuts and the Eskimo of western
Alaska and the Bering Sea coast, and also from the Tinné tribes
of the Yukon Valley, was the forerunner of the great collections
made from the tribes of the Arctic by E. W. Nelson, E. P. Murdoch,
J. H. Turner, and P. H. Ray. To this list of collections from east-
ern, western, and central Eskimo groups should be added the valuable
accessions from the Yukon and Mackenzie River valleys made by
Bernard R. Ross and E. A. Preble. Then followed the George T.
Emmons collection from southeast Alaska consisting of objects of
native dress, blankets, and miscellaneous articles of personal adorn-
ment from the Tlingit, Haida, and other Pacific northwest coast
tribes. Among the earlier important collections from the same area
are those made by Judge James Swan and by J. J. McLean. The
collections forwarded to the National Museum by the agents of the
Hudson Bay Co. from the Athapascan Indians and other northwest
tribes of the upper plateau region are equally important.

623
624 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

In 1868 the collection made by Dr. Edward Palmer in the South-
west began to arrive as the forerunner of a long line of important
additions to the national collection of costumes from native American
tribes. From 1873 onward there arrived vast quantities of ethnolog-
ical and archeological material secured by the Bureau of American
Ethnology, then under Maj. J. W. Powell, from every section of the
United States, but principally from the pueblo region, the latter
collection numbering well over 50,000 objects. The Bureau of
American Ethnology remains one of the most important sources of
ethnological accessions to the national collections.

From California tribes came valuable accessions obtained through
the services of Stephen Powers, Livingstone Stone, Lieut. P. H. Ray,
C. C. Stewart, J. W. Hudson, and others. The extension of the west-
ern railroads to the Pacific coast and the preliminary work which
preceded their construction made possible for the first time the
accumulation of collections from the interior of the western portion
of the United States. The collection made by George Gibbs from
the tribes of Washington is typical of several similarly acquired
collections. The Hayden survey and numerous other exploring
expeditions, including those sponsored by the United States Army
within the area of the Great Plains, each contributed many valuable
specimens to the Museum collections of costumes and other eth-
nological material.

Outstanding collections of Indian costumes and associated objects
represent most of the geographical areas formerly occupied by the
American Indians and are typical of the several culture areas of
native America. Outstanding contributors include such names as
Maj. J. W. Powell, Emile Granier, George Catlin, James Mooney,
Washington Matthews, W. E. Safford, J. B. Steere, W. H. Gabb,
H. R. Voth, James Stevenson, W. J. Hoffman, Frances Densmore,
F. LaFlesche, William H. Holmes, Walter Hough, R. H. Prait,
and others.

The Museum collections are especially rich in specimens from
the Plains tribes. This is attributable to an awakened interest in
Indian culture which occurred approximately at the time many of
the Plains tribes were first brought into contact with the advancing
frontier line. That epoch is now definitely closed, and many objects
from the Plains tribes now finding their way into the Museum col-
lections are commercialized products, the income from the sale of
which contributes to the support of the western tribes from which
they come. Occasionally a valuable collection of costumes from one
of the Plains tribes of an earlier decade is received from the family
of some officer of the United States Army. These collections fre-
quently include objects of dress formerly belonging to prominent
historical characters, such as Chiefs Gall, Red Cloud, Geronimo, Sit-
INDIAN COSTUMES—KRIEGER 625

ting Bull, Moses, and Joseph. One of the more recent accessions of
this character is the collection of General Heyl, United States Army,
from the Sioux, Cheyenne, and Arapaho. This collection includes
the war shields of the famous Chiefs Black Kettle and Crazy Horse.

Types of Indian dress; tailored and woven garments—The prac-
tice of wearing robes fashioned from the tanned skins of animals
extends well back into the old stone age in Europe. Possibly the
cutting and fitting, or rather, tailoring of skin garments has in the
Old World an equally respectable antiquity. Woven fabrics, how-
ever, are a more recent product of man’s inventiveness and accom-
pany such advanced arts as the practice of agriculture, domestication
of animals, and the invention of some form of the loom.

The American Indian from early times possessed a knowledge of
weaving which he expressed in several ways, as in the making of
baskets, the weaving of nets and cloth. Not all Indian weavers of
baskets or makers of nets knew how to use a spun yarn in the weav-
ing of cloth on a simple frame or some more advanced form of the
loom. Practically all tribes fashioned nets of plaited basketry
splints or of twisted cord. The making of baskets was not practiced
by the tribes of Arctic America except in Alaska nor by those of the
northern woodlands and the western plains.

The weaving of cloth and the wearing of the products of the loom
have a much more restricted distribution, being limited to the tribes
occupying the Pacific northwest coast, the region south of the Colo-
rado River, Mexico, Central America, and the South American high-
lands west of the Andes Mountains. Tribes occupying the tropical
lowlands of northern South America east of the Andes Mountains
had a knowledge of weaving and of spinning cotton yarn, but these
tribes belong to a geographical environment where but little clothing
was necessary, and consequently the art of weaving obtained but
little headway.

The tanning of the skins of animals and the shaping of such skins
into the form of tailored garments likewise had a limited distri-
bution in native America. Indian tribes of the plains west of the
Mississippi, of the sub-Arctic in Canada and in Alaska, and the
Eskimo possess this art in common with Siberian tribes and the
peoples of northern Europe. Throughout the greater portion of
temperate America, both North and South, as in Patagonia and in
Chile, Indians of both sexes contented themselves with simple and
untailored skin robes. In North America this robe was uniformly
obtained from the pelt of the bison. We are not referring to the
so-called “blanket Indian,” who is a product of the white trader,
but of Indians as they were dressed before becoming influenced by
the white man’s trade goods. The comfortable, light-weight Hudson
Bay blanket was eagerly sought by the Indian and was readily
626 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

obtained by him simply by exchanging a few animal pelts. He was
thus enabled to avoid much labor formerly required in the preparing
of the skin robes before they might be used as an article of dress.

The distribution in native America of forms of dress, woven cloth,
or of tailored skin garments, is but a poor criterion of the antiquity
of man in America. Magdelenian man of the.old stone age in
central Europe understood the use of skin robes, and undoubtedly
tailored his skin garments to fit his needs and the dictates of the
fashion of the day, but spinning and the weaving of cloth came into
existence together with the industries of the new stone age. The
presence, therefore, of both forms of dress in native America—that
of tailored garments of tanned skins, and of garments of cloth
woven from vegetable or animal fiber—is due primarily to several
prevailing environmental factors, such as the distribution of animals,
principally the bison, deer, and caribou, and of fiber plants, princi-
pally cotton. The practice in tropical America of fashioning gar-
ments from the beaten inner bark of plants is parallel to a similar
practice having a wide distribution throughout the tropical islands
of the Pacific Ocean. Climate is probably the most important
environmental influence to be considered in any discussion of the
forms and materials of Indian dress. The northern tribes generally,
and the Eskimo in particular, were the most completely clothed of
all native Americans. The particular style of Eskimo dress, how-
ever, has been subjected to culture influence coming from north-
eastern Asia, from tribes with whom the Eskimo has always main-
tained an active trade.

Northern Indian tribes and the Eskimo cut out and fitted pieces
of prepared animal hides. Fur skins, principally those of the seal,
and bird feathers were the materials used by the Eskimo of Alaska.
These they fashioned in much the same manner as does a modern
tailor. The central Eskimo of northeastern Canada depended more
on the caribou, an animal related to the Asiatic reindeer recently
introduced into Alaska by the United States Bureau of Education,
while the northern Indians of Canada and Alaska tanned and
tailored the skin of the deer. The hide of the elk was generally
considered too thick for use as clothing, while the hide of the bison
was valued by the Indian tribes of the Plains more as a robe than
as material for working into tailored garments. Like the hide of
the elk, that of the bison was considered unsatisfactory as clothing
but was tanned and used at times for shirts, leggings, and moccasins.

Sinew from the tendons of animals was used as sewing material,
while perforators or awls of bone took the place of needles. The
more completely clothed Eskimo also had a higher development of
needlecraft than did the northern and Plains Indians. The needle-
case of an Eskimo woman contained both needles and thimble of
INDIAN COSTUMES—KRIEGER 627

walrus ivory. Although tailoring was highly developed as an art
it does not follow that certain individuals were specially adept in
the cutting, fitting, and sewing of skin garments; on the contrary,
among the Indians, each individual shaped his or her own garment
and sewed it together. The preparation of the skins was considered
the work of women. Among the Pueblo Tribes of the Southwest,
each individual wove the cloth he or she wished to use as an article
of dress. Among the Hopi the bride’s trousseau was woven by her
prospective husband.

Articles of Indian dress—F¥or purposes of this article, a de-
tailed description of the clothing of the Eskimo will not be under-
taken; attention will be directed to the dress of Indians from the
several culture areas of North America. The popular conception
of native American dress is that of the Indian of the Plains. The
typical costume of tanned buckskin, consisting of a shirt, leggings,
belt, breechcloth, and of beaded or quilled moccasins as worn by the
Plains tribes has come to be considered typical of all other tribes
and culture areas of America in rather much the same manner that
the physical features of the Plains Indian erroneously have come to
be considered typical of all the Indian tribes of America. Although
typical of a large area, including most of the region west of the
Mississippi River and east of the Cascades, the Plains type of dress
is but one of several of the typical Indian costumes of America.

The dress of the Pueblo Indians of the southwest United States
is generally.patterned after that of the Plains tribes, but is made of
woven fabrics instead of skins, although there are in the National
Museum buckskin shirts collected by James Mooney from the Hopi
Indians of Arizona, and painted buckskin war shirts collected by
J. Walter Fewkes from the pueblo of San Domingo on the Rio
Grande in New Mexico. (Cat. No. 175789, U. S. N. M.) By way
of contrast, a Hopi shirt, modeled after the pattern of the Mexican
poncho, is woven like a blanket but with the addition of a central
opening through which the head is thrust. The shirt has rudi-
mentary, loose-fitting sleeves but is otherwise open at the sides. (Cat.
No. 23050, U. S. N. M.) Several blanket shirts collected by C. H.
Shaw from the Zuni pueblos of New Mexico also are adaptations
of the woven blanket. (Cat. No. 215549, U. S. N. M.)

Woven garments are never cut and fitted as are the skin shirts
and other objects of dress of the Eskimo and northern Indian tribes.
In the case of the Zuni and Hopi shirts mentioned above the opening
for the neck is a part of the regular weave and the short sleeves are
formed by sewing on rectangular woven pieces of cloth. Ordinarily
each garment is worn as it comes from the loom, namely, a rectangu-
lar, square, or oblong woven fabric.
628 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

Materials used in weaving.—Textile garments have been woven
from a large number of native vegetable or animal fibers prior to the
introduction of sheep into the southwest by the Spanish missions.
The wool of the mountain sheep had formerly been used as a yarn
by the tribes of the Pacific northwest coast. These tribes also had
utilized the hair of the mountain goat and that of an extinct variety
of dog. Buffalo hair had been used as a yarn in the valley of the
lower Mississippi, where the Natchez also wove a cloth from the
fiber of the mulberry. In Mexico and in Central America generally
no animal yielding an available supply of hair or wool existed, so
that the native use of cotton as a textile fiber prevailed. Even in
Peru, where the wool of the llama, vicuna, and alpaca was widely
utilized, the weaving of cotton cloth prevailed. We see from this
that the utilization of cotton as a textile fabric exceeded that of
native wools derived from the pelts of animals. Cotton lends itself
readily to spinning and was cultivated to some extent throughout the
entire weaving area of Central and South America.

Fabrics of bark.—Indian tribes of the Pacific Northwest coast,
and of the Pueblo and Central American areas fashioned garments
from bark. The bast fiber was either plaited, as in basketry, or was
beaten into a thin sheet, sewn together, and painted much: as were the
skins of animals farther north. Cedar bark fiber was plaited on
the Pacific Northwest coast as far south as the Columbia River
and used as articles of dress, matting, and associated objects. ‘Tribes
of the Plateau or Rocky Mountain area employed the bark of the
sagebrush as a weaving fiber, while the Shoshonean tribes extended
this practice far into the Southwest. Farther north the bark of the
willow was used as a textile fiber. Tribes occupying the region east
of the Mississippi obtained a fiber from basswood bark. Even corn-
husks were plaited into several objects of dress by the Iroquois of
the Northeastern States. (Pl. 1.) This practice reappears among
the Hopi of Arizona in the shaping of circular plaited coils used as a
hairdress frame by the unmarried girls. In California and Oregon,
also in the Southeastern States, Apocynum or Indian hemp and
various grasses were plaited or woven.

In Central and South America the number of uses of bark fibers
increases only to be supplemented or entirely supplanted in the
forested tropical lowlands of Brazil by the use of bird feathers. A
bark cloth finishing tool is used by the Guaymie Indians of Chiriqui,
in western Panama, in the preparation of bark cloth. The final
beating and smoothing of the bark cloth is accomplished by means of
this instrument. The handle is of wood, while the working part is a
heavy ribbed shell perforated at the apex, where it is secured to the
roughly constructed wooden handle. (Cat. No. 272604, U. S. N. M.)
INDIAN COSTUMES—KRIEGER 629

A piece of bast fiber several feet long, collected by Markham from
the Tule Indians of the San Blas coast of Panama, consists of the
bast of the castilla tree and is much used in making looped ham-
mocks, bark cloth, and breech clouts. (Cat. No. 326823, U. S. N. M.)
A similar practice has been observed among the Choc6 Indians of the
Atrato and San Juan River Valleys of Colombia.

Uses of feathers in Indian dress—aIn Mexico and in South America
ornamental fabrics were obtained by overlaying cloth with feathers.
Throughout native America featherwork constitutes one of the most
characteristic developments of Indian dress extending as it does from
the Arctic Eskimoan tribes to the scantily clothed Amazonian tribes of
South America. Headdresses, skirts, cloaks, and mantles predominate,
while feather mosaics were badges of distinction. Mantles of turkey
feathers were plaited in the Pueblo area in the Southeastern States
along the Gulf of Mexico and eastward to the territory of the Iroquois.

An example of the practical use of feathers may be seen in the
birdskin blankets of the Seri Indians of Tiburon Island, Sonora,
Mexico. The blanket is made from six skins of the California brown
pelican. The pelts of young birds are preferred. Portions of the
wing feathers and the breast are sewn together with sinew and the
garment so produced forms a complete dress. It is worn about the
middle, reaching from the waist, where it is secured by a girdle, to
below the knees. (Cat. 174554, U. S. N. M.)

Feather insignia and headdresses were conspicuous among some of
the warlike tribes of the western plains. The handsome feathered
headdresses with long pennants of eagle feathers that have popularly
come to be considered a part of the dress of every Plains Indian were
formerly worn only by the most distinguished men. Every feather
in such a war bonnet had some significance as a military trophy or
a charm and had to do directly with the personal prowess of the
wearer. It is stated that the gift of an eagle feather by some in-
dividual entailed upon the recipient of the favor the performance of
a feat of bravery. The Dakota Sioux were especially addicted to
this custom. An ordinary Indian brave was generally entitled only
to a simpler headdress. Indian women were by custom not per-
mitted to wear feathers in their hair.

Owing to the perishable nature of the material, most of the evi-
dences of artwork in feathers have disappeared from the northern
continent; but, on the authority of old historians and the testimony
of a few precious examples still remaining, it is certain that these
were used from one extremity of the continent to another. The
Virginia Indians made robes of turkey feathers. All the Plains
Indians, the hunting tribes, decorated themselves with gorgeous
flowing head plumes, and many of the California tribes used feathers
24034—29 41
630 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

in profusion for the adornment of their most precious basketry. .
From Mexico southward throughout the Tropics, where gorgeous
plumage was in abundance, the Indians made use of feathers for
decorating their persons, and ancient Mexican sculptures show that
in prehistoric times featherwork of the most elaborate kind was in
use. Many specimens of garments in which the patterns were
worked out in brilliant feathers are recovered from the ancient
tombs of Peru. In the collection shown in the National Museum
featherwork is illustrated by the striking war bonnets of the Plains
Indians, and by headdresses, plumes, body ornaments, and textiles
of various South American tribes. That most of the native tribes
appreciated brilliant colors and harmonious effects and were skillful
in utilizing the aesthetic resources of the plumage of birds, are
amply apparent from these exhibits.

Native culture and Indian reservations —The student of Indian
dress likes to consider the Indian as occupying a distinct geograph-
ical environment with its corresponding culture area. Actually, the
day is past when such a study may be undertaken in situ. The
process of relocating entire Indian tribes upon lands set aside for
their use by the Government began as early as 1786. Removal of the
Indian from the lands traditionally his hunting preserves, was based
in part on peacefully executed treaties and in part on removal by
force. The establishment of Indian reservations has in the history
of our country amounted to a temporary reserving of specified lands
from settlement and the holding of such lands in trust for the Indian
occupant. As the Indian is now a citizen of the United States and
is allotted an individual holding of land, it is but a question of time
when the policy introduced by Carl Schurz, Secretary of the Interior
under President Hayes, of weaning the Indian from his native cul-
ture and of absorbing him into the body of American citizenry will
be entirely accomplished. ‘The Reservation will then have become a
closed chapter in the history of the Indian, and acculturation to
American modes of dress a completed process.

Influence of the trader—tThe first permanent English colony in
changed for corn and other Indian products such as tobacco. From
extinction by the energy and resourcefulness of Capt. John Smith
who engaged in trading with villages of the Powhatan confederacy
on the James River. Articles of European manufacture were ex-
changed for corn and other Indian preducts such as tobacco. From
that time on and continuing up to present times, the advent of the
trader and missionary has profoundly influenced native culture.
Native costume became modified over a vast area of America by
the copying of European dress and the use of traders’ wares. Knowl-
edge of prehistoric and early historic primitive textiles has been
derived from impressions of fabrics themselves that have been pre-

INDIAN COSTUMES—KRIEGER 631

served by charring in fire, by contact with copper, or through protec-
tion from the elements in caves. Our knowledge concerning the
costumes worn by the tribes living in the eastern portion of the
American continent is deficient because of the early abandonment of
tribal costumes and native adoption of white man’s dress. Data
for several culture areas east of the Mississippi are therefore almost
altogether historical.

Dress of the eastern Indians—In the case of the Virginia Indians,
the only source of information is the meager description left by
Smith and a number of drawings, now preserved in the British
Museum, made by the artist John White, of the Roanoke colony.
Aside from the simple buckskin garments, dressed skins of animals
and certain coarsely woven cloaks, sometimes tastefully embellished
with turkey feathers, were used in cold weather.

In respect to their ceremonial life, industrial arts, political and
social organization, the Indian tribes of the southeastern United
States rank among the highest of the tribes north of Mexico. Weav-
ing of cloth, however, was limited. The warm climate of the Gulf
States and the influence of the example of Antillean and South
American tribes with whom a certain trade relationship was main-
tained may have retarded the development of the weaving of cloth.
The absence of any staple textile fiber also tended to make their
clothing inferior and scanty.

The use of a buckskin shirt, overshirt, leggings, breechcloth, moc-
casins, belt, and turban is the characteristic dress of the Seminoles,
a typical Gulf State tribe of historic times. Formerly, the Gulf
tribes wore a robe, waist garment, and occasionally moccasins. In
the Museum collection a lay figure of a Seminole chief is shown dressed
in a chiet’s costume consisting of leggings of buckskin with shirt and
coat of many-colored calico. A girdle around the waist with long
fringes, moccasins of buckskin, and a helmet-shape cap with heron
plumes complete the attire. He carries a tomahawk of European
manufacture, an article which became very popular as an object of
trade in colonial times.

The Florida Seminoles, now living in the Everglades, belong, with
the Creeks, Choctaws, and Chickasaws, to the Muskhogean family,
who formerly occupied the Southern States east of the Mississippi
River. The unremitting bloody conflicts with the white settlers
were brought to an end in 1838, when the Seminoles and their kin-
dred were forcibly removed to the Indian Territory; those that
remained fleeing to the Everglades.

Costumes and objects of dress now in the National Museum from
the Eastern Indians may be placed in one small exhibit case.
The material is therefore entirely inadequate for purposes of
study.
632 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

The Chippewa inhabit the northeastern woodlands of the United
States where abundant timber and bark can be procured for con-
struction of canoes, houses, and implements. No aboriginal costumes
of the Chippewa exist, as the tribe has been in contact with civiliza-
tion for several hundred years. The Chippewa to-day tan excellent
buckskin which formerly was used by them for clothing. They also
weave belts, sashes, and other objects from yarn on a simple upright
frame and make excellent bags decorated with beadwork in floral
designs. (PI. 2.)

Dolls.—The little figure of a Chippewa infant in the Museum was
dressed by a Chippewa woman of the White Earth Reservation in
Minnesota. It shows the costume of the Chippewa since the traders
came among them. The purpose of the fitted cap was to keep the
child’s head in good shape. The little hoops with yarn lattice had
a curative use. It is said that a child with a cold was required to
expectorate through one of these hoops and that its cold was cured
in this manner. The little velvet bag contains the cord of the child
who died in 1890 and who was a son of the woman who dressed this
figure. Such a bag was always fastened to the cradle of an infant to
insure its health and welfare.

A shawl was laid over a Chippewa cradle to protect the child’s
head from cold in winter and from the sun in summer. ‘This cradle
was a comfortable and convenient way of taking care of babies,
especially when the tribe was moving from one place to another.
Many of the articles in the exhibit of the Chippewa (pl. 2) were
collected by Frances Densmore.

Dolls are in use among all the tribes of the American aborigines
from the Eskimo of the North to the inhabitants of Tierra del
Fuego. They seem to be divisible into two classes—those which
portray the common life, through which children are taught the arts
and habits of the tribe, and those of a more sacred character, which
lead up to the tribal religion. In the accompanying Plates 25, 26 are
exhibited dolls of a more practical character. In each example the
dress and accessories show the customs and activities of the people
represented. The Eskimo lead with respect to great variety and
abundance of dolls, also in the realism of their dolls. Dolls are
interesting as showing the costumes of the various tribes.

Cradles—In the Arctic region the Eskimo women carry their
infants on their backs inside of their warm fur clothing. (PI. 5.)
From the southern boundary of the United States through middle
America and southward, infants are carried upon the person of the
mother, but rarely in frames. On the contrary, in the temperate regions
of Canada and the United States the babe is fixed in a frame which
is in harmony with the climate and materials. In the country of the

INDIAN COSTUMES—KRIEGER 633

birch the bark cradle is in vogue. On the Pacific Coast various kinds
of basketry are used to hold the infants. On the Plains a frame-
work supporting a hood of rawhide is attached to the cradle so that
if it falls the infant will not be injured. The inventive mind of
the Indian mother in each region has been equal to the emergency.

The cradle of the Sioux (pl. 27) with its peculiar frame and hood
is a modification of the more ancient and simple form, and is adapted
not only to the carrying of the child upon its mother’s back, but also
for attachment to the pommel of the saddle. The beadwork, in its
material, is derived from the whites, but the style of the ornamenta-
tion is purely aboriginal.

Footgear—KEnvironmental influences are again noticeable in the
use of waterproof boots by the Eskimo. Buckskin moccasins with
rawhide soles are fashioned by the Indian tribes of the Plains, pla-
teau, eastern woodlands, Yukon-Mackenzie, and Southwestern areas,
while the California and Pacific Northwest coast tribes go barefooted.
The California Indians did not need footgear, while the Northwest
coast tribes found the use of moccasins impractical in their moist
climate. The tribes of the arid and hot Sonoran region of northern
Mexico, and the tribes of Central America generally used a simple
sandal instead of the more elaborate moccasin.

It appears that the sandal was worn mostly in the weaving areas
of Mexico and South America, although the tropical forested low-
lands of eastern South America and the West Indies and of the
southern Gulf States were occupied by Indian tribes not using the
sandal. In the region formerly ranged by the American bison
(buffalo) west of the Mississippi, also in the temperate plains area
of South America the skin moccasin was used. The tribes of the
eastern woodlands used a soft-soled moccasin while the Plains tribes
used a sole of stiff rawhide. The soft-soled moccasin is of one piece,
while the hard-soled moccasin consists of two pieces. The uppers
are of a softer, tanned skin and are sewed with thread of sinew to a
hard rawhide sole cut to fit the foot of the wearer but also cut accord-
ing to the prevailing tribal style. War parties could be trailed by
marks left in the dust by such tribal peculiarities in moccasin shap-
ing as the cut or form of the toe section. The Arapaho, Ute, and
other Tribes of the southern Plains fashioned a boot-like style of
moccasin legging, related to that of the Apache of the Southwest,
such as may be seen in Plate 17. Some of the northern tribes of
Canada and of Alaska made a form of moccasin leggings of soft
tanned skin somewhat like those of the eastern woodlands tribes.

Dress of the Algonquian-Iroquois area—TVhe eastern woodland
area extends from the Atlantic Ocean to and beyond the Great
Lakes. The northern group of this area between the Great Lakes
634 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

and Hudson Bay and eastward includes the Nascapi of Labrador on
the north, and the Cree and Montagnais of eastern Canada. The
tribes occupying the region surrounding the Great Lakes, such as
the Menominee, Ottawa, Wyandot, Neutral, Chippewa, and other
central Algonquian tribes, dress in skin clothes, but the northern
tribes as the Montagnais and Nascapi more fully utilize the skins of
animais in their dress and resemble the Eskimo in the ensemble of
their costume. “The men of the northern tribes of this group have a
shirt coat, long coat, trousers, leggings, moccasins, and turban. Both
men and women of the more southern group, that is, of the central
Atlantic coast, wore a cloak, waist garment, moccasins, and possibly
a breech cloth, while the western tribes about the Great Lakes had
a more complete wardrobe. The man wore a robe, long dress shirt,
long leggings, moccasins, bandolier bag, and belt. The women
clothed themselves in a long dress shirt, short leggings, moccasins,
and belt. The Arctic representatives of the Algonquian stock wore
a long coat, open in front, short breeches, leggings, moccasins, gloves
or mittens, and a cap or headdress. Women of this region withstood
the cold garbed in a robe, shirt dress, leggings, moccasins, belt, cap,
and sometimes a shoulder mantle.

In the region surrounding Lake Winnipeg lived the Cree Indians
of the Plains and the Plains Chippewa. These were divergent groups
of the larger Algonquian stocks occupying the eastern woodland area.
Their dress resembled more that of the Plains Indians than that of
the woodland tribes speaking their language.

The Montagnais Indians are typical of the North Atlantic culture
area. They are of the Algonquian family and occupy Labrador as
far north as Ungava Bay. They live by hunting and fishing. Their
dwellings are of skins, not sewed together, but laid on frameworks of
poles and held down by trunks of small trees leaned against them
outside and by stones piled around the base. The Montagnais dress
in deerskin robes, quite like those of the Eskimo, their neighbors, but
well made, and decorated with paint rather than embroidery.

The Indians of Labrador and their neighbors, the Eskimo, are in
comparatively close contact, and the painted skin dress of the former
is shown in the case (pl. 3) with the fur costume of the latter.
The Indians use very large, almost elliptical snowshoes (pl. 3), and
in their transportation, employ long toboggan sleds and canoes of
birch bark.

Indians of the Yukon and Mackenzie River Valleys.—The Tinné
live in the northernmost extension of timber toward the Canadian
Arctic. They dwell in the interior and come in contact with the
Eskimo, who live on the northern coasts, and with the Indians of
southern Alaska and northern British Columbia. They wear tanned

PLATE 1

bobes Shs
49444 ladddecers f eed Dies
PRI DESY WO 16 Lbr i Gotton bupeiin
AArend+446 QhAas aan AA Aa haat
bn boom AS pane’ byt?
: ar boots

‘ae ye eae 2 ‘ eee?

oe i hod
He hh

.. as

CORN HUSK MASK OF THE |ROQUOIS INDIANS

Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Krieger
WNESNIN) IVNOILVN ‘S ‘NM AHL NI LIGIHXS NVIOGN] VMAddlIHO

yavayaya
vars: eit 3

——

a
&
5

EEL EET

Jadal4y~—'ez6l ‘Hodey uBluosyyWs
YO0VYsEV] ‘SAWNLSOD NVIGN] SIVNOVLNO|]

€ 3LVIg

49584 4¥—'8Z6lL ‘Woday uBjuosyyiWS
i

gs ee “=.

za

oe
rg

—_
e
cel
a
——
net

Pe

WHay7 Jd

Re
44

Lut

\

b 3lwig

VaYNY9D NYFlsamM ‘SLYUY ONY

SAWNLSOD NVIGN] ANNI

Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Krieger PLATE 5

WESTERN ESKIMO COSTUMES
PLATE 6

Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Krieger

4

=

2

.

4
——
-

&

EASTERN ESKIMO COSTUMES
PLATE 7

1928.—Krieger

Smithsonian Report,

CHILKAT INDIAN BLANKETS AND KILTS, ALASKA
SHWNLSOD DNIMOHS ‘SdNOYS) NVIGN] LYYTIHO

‘Yodey uBIUOSYyWS

8 aLlv1d 490914 ¥—'87Z6 1
Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Krieger PLATE 9

A. SALISH INDIAN BLANKET FRAGMENT

B. SALISH INDIAN BLANKET FRAGMENT

C. SALISH INDIAN BLANKET, WASHINGTON
PLATE 10

Report, 1928.—Krieger

Smithsonian

tr
!

Sepielliny:

LAL!
Tete

2
aeapar Or

pererereeer yy

Ges
ap.

Stale’

INDIAN BLANKET, WASHINGTON

SALISH
PLATE 11

Krieger

Smithsonian Report, 1928.

Gas
ro

fF

f
Ritts dae

Wine.

yey 1 say ds :

Siete

6 Mee fs
Se a

4. §

BLANKET CAPE, SALISH INDIANS OF WASHINGTON
Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Krieger PLATE 12

“ in ke

Arn get ie DINE ONG:

BER vea eRe

en
1 teeta
pslacieceaisIR!

A. SALISH INDIAN BLANKET, WASHINGTON

eA

~S
ey

pare

Signy

B. MAIDU INDIAN FEATHER BLANKET, CALIFORNIA
INDIAN COSTUMES—KRIEGER 635

skin clothing and moccasins, decorated with quillwork and beads
(pl. 4), but in winter they move about in snowshoes.

The northern tribes of the United States from Maine to Washing-
ton and the Indian tribes of Canada except along the Pacific North-
west coast used the snowshoe in some form. In the extreme West a
hoop is bent into round or oval form and the least possible amount of
lacing in coarse rawhide forms the footing. But around the Great
Lakes and eastward the Canadian forms are continued southward.
In all of these the lacing of the toe, the heel, and the footing is in
hexagonal weaving and usually in rawhide thongs cut very fine with
steel knives. Formerly, before the fur trade was stimulated by the
French and the Hudson’s Bay Co., the lacing of the snowshoe was
much coarser throughout this area. Along the northern border of
the Eastern States the frame is square in section, flat, square or
rounded in front, and tapering at the heel. In a few examples there
is a Shight turning up of the toe, after the Canadian fashion. Finally,
the snowshoe has become modified for sport and hunting, in one va-
riety resembling the Labrador wide frame and in all other varieties
following the Indian patterns. (PI. 3.)

The northern Athapascan tribes occupy the greater portion of
western Canada and the interior of Alaska. The Athapascan lin-
guistic stock, to which the Tinné Indians belong, occupies the most
extensive area of any single linguistic family or cultural group in
North America. The dress of these Indians is an adaptation to the
environment in which they live and consists of tanned and tailored
skin garments. The men wear a shirt coat, a breechcloth, hat or hood,
and legging moccasins, while the women wear a long shirt coat,
belt, and legging moccasins. (See pl. 3.) The caribou supplies these
Indians with skins for clothing and tents, although many other
available fur-bearing animals are utilized. Among this group, as
among all northern tribes, the snowshoe is in general use.

A typical group of the northern Athapascan Indians are the
Loucheux of Canada, who live east of the Mackenzie River. For many
years they have been in contact with the Hudson Bay Co., who have
used the men as hunters for catching fur-bearing animals. In sum-
mer they dress in reindeer skins and ornament themselves with bird
quills, dentalium shells from the Pacific coast, and trade beads and
worsted from Europe. Most of the costumes exhibited were collected
by B. R. Ross and R. McFarlane. (PI. 4.)

Dress of the E’skimo—vThe necessity for protection against the
cold of the Arctic is evidenced in the wearing of mittens and gloves
by Eskimo and other northern peoples of native America. Although
the dress of several northern Athapascan and Algonquian tribes
approximates that of the Eskimo, the latter alone succeed in oceupy-
ing the Arctic fringe or coastal strip of North America. Their
636 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

habitat extends from Greenland and the islands north of Hudson
Bay on the east to the isolated islands of Bering Sea on the west.

The so-called western Eskimo inhabit the shores of the northern
seas from the mouth of the Mackenzie River around Alaska to Mount
St. Elias on the south. Their habitations, as well as their mode of
dress and living, vary according to the animals on which they de-
pend, and the contact they have had with other races. In Plate 5
are seen a man, woman, and child from the Mackenzie River district
dressed in caribou skins, and a woman from Bristol Bay clad in mar-
mot skins. The Norton Sound Eskimo have been under instruction
of Russians and Americans for more than 100 years, and their mode
of dress has become much modified. The Eskimo who inhabits the
coast and a portion of the lower river valieys of Alaska have found
means to adapt themselves to the requirements of the rigorous climate.
Two articles of dress illustrating this adaptation are snowshoes and
snow goggles. Snow goggles are shaped from wood or walrus ivory
and have narrow slit openings for shutting out much of the glaring
sunlight as reflected from the snow fields. Hven with this protective
device snow blindness is not unknown among them.

Among the central Eskimo who live on the area between Hudson
Strait and Baflin Bay the clothing of men and women is made from
skins of seal and deer. It consists of outside and inside trousers,
jackets, boots, and inside boots made of light deerskin or birdskin.
The inside boots take the place of socks, which, among several of
the western Eskimo groups, are fashioned from native grasses. The
jackets of the women have hoods attached to them.

The eastern Eskimo inhabit Greenland, the shores of northern
Labrador, and of Hudson Bay, adjoining. In the Museum installa-
tion (pl. 6) will be seen a young woman from southwestern Green-
land, her dress resembling that of a Lapp; a man from eastern Hud-
son Bay, with his harpoon; a woman with her babe, from Ungava
Bay, Labrador ; and a woman from northern Hudson Bay in garments
of reindeer skin. In the first named the people have been under in-
struction of Moravian missionaries many years. The women are
dressed in aboriginal costumes of reindeer fur, little modified by
outside influences. The loose, roomy garments correspond with those
figured by the early voyagers. The showy costumes ornamented with
fine sewing of reindeer hair and applique of colored leather, together
with the robes of eiderdown are particularly attractive. The Green-
land Eskimo have been in contact for many years with the Danish
rulers and settlers, which has especially modified the art with which
they construct their clothing, but not the form of the clothes them-
selves. (Pl. 6.)
INDIAN COSTUMES—KRIEGER 637

Dress of the Pacific Northwest coast tribes——The area north of
California lying between the Pacific coast and the Cascade Moun-
tains was formerly inhabited by Indian tribes possessing many simi-
lar culture traits centering around the fishing industry. Quite aside
from any influence exerted by other tribes upon the natives of south-
east Alaska and the Puget Sound area together with the outlying
islands of British Columbia, there remains the tremendous effect of
environment upon their daily life. The extremely moist climate of
the so-called Alaskan panhandle is well known. At Ketchikan, near
the southern boundary of Alaska, the average number of days during
the year with an appreciable amount of rainfall reaches a total of
935. The warm northwest Pacific current reaches the shores of
southeast Alaska, moderating the climate far above that of the main-
land east of the costal mountain ranges.

Two of the most characteristic elements in the dress of the Indians
of the Pacific Northwest coast—the use of waterproof clothing and
the practice of going barefooted—are directly connected with the
peculiar climate under which they live. Waterproof mats of
plaited cedar bark, and a raincoat of grass with the shaggy unfinished
elements on the outside, and with an opening cut out of the center
like a poncho for the head, were worn by men and women. As moc-
casins of skin or tanned leather are of little use in such a continually
moist environment all footgear was dispensed with except in winter,
and by the more northern Tlingit tribes. A basketry hat (pl.8) was
worn to shield the wearer against the rain. With the exception of
the basket hat of the Ute, Californian, and other Pacific coast tribes,
and the hood as worn by the tribes of the sub-Arctic, no other
tribes on the American continent employed hats or a head covering
of any description except ceremonially and for decorative purposes.

The tribes represented by the fabrics shown (pls. 7, 8) include the
Tlingit and Haida of southeastern Alaska and many of the related
tribes of British Columbia. From this exhibit, specimens in rigid
materials, such as basketry, are omitted, and the collection is devoted
entirely to soft and flexible objects. The possession of the Rocky
Mountain goat for animal staples and of the wild hemp for vegetable
staples enabled these tribes to produce most satisfactory results.
The dress of the North Pacific tribes was made of skin, woven bark,
native woolen textiles, and traders’ goods, ornamented with beaks
of birds, hoofs, fur, and claws of animals, or buttons and beads pro-
cured from the white man. The ordinary costume consists of a
blanket or bark-mat mantle, belt, breechcloth, leggings, and mocca-
sins. The ceremonial costume was varied, but the parts usually con-
sisted of headdress mask, neck, and breast ornaments, skirts with
rattles, and leggings. (PI. 8.)
638 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

The exhibit of Tlingit and Haida costumes in the National Mu-
seum consists of large ceremonial blankets of goat’s wool, robes of
tanned deerskin bordered with quilled fringe and superb decoration
in color, splendidly painted; dance aprons trimmed with fur and
fringed with deer-hoof tinklers; and woven dance apron and capes
trimmed with puflin beaks. (Pl. 7.)

For ceremonial occasions and to protect the body against the cold
of winter the Northwest coast tribes wore a robe of skins or of woven
fiber. This robe was rectangular and was wrapped about the body
under the left arm and over the right shoulder. The legs from the
knees down remained uncovered.

The women tied aprons of shredded bark around the waist and a
cape of woven cedar bark covered them from neck to knees.

The weaving of the Chilkat, the most northerly of the Tlingit
tribes, attracts attention because of the materials used and the oddity
of decorative design. Wool of the Rocky Mountain goat, either in
natural color, or dyed black, yellow, or green was used combined
with threads of the inner bark of the cedar. The native loom
consists of a single bar supported on two forked stakes. No ma-
chinery is needed for shifting the warp or driving the weft, the
woman’s fingers taking the place of these. Indeed, it is simply a
method of twined basketry in soft material, producing figures as in
Gobelin tapestries. The Chilkat type of weaving is shown here by
a blanket, a coat, and a ceremonial apron, into which are woven with
excellent effect figures of symbolic animals. (PI. 8.) The light-
green color was produced by permitting copper to corrode in urine,
while the yellow came from a variety of tree moss; black dye was
produced by boiling the bark of the hemlock.

Women as well as men had their bodies tattooed by introducing
soot under the skin. Tattooing marks were applied principally to
the arms and legs. Women carried labrets, or wooden disks, at the
center of their lower lips. As was the practice among most Indian
tribes of North America the men’s hair was worn long and the beard
was eradicated. Among them as with most tribes among whom there
existed a strong social organization a remarkable development of
ceremonial life is noticed. On ceremonial occasions they covered
their bodies with oil over which was daubed a mixture of sparkling
sand, paint, and mica. White down was also employed to enhance
personal beauty on religious occasions.

Dress of the tribes of the Washington-Oregon coast—Among the
tribes of this area, men wore a robe, a headband, and more rarely a
shirt, coat, leggings, moccasins, and a breechcloth. Women also
wore a long shirt, dress, apron, and rarely leggings, breechcloth, and
moccasins.
INDIAN COSTUMES—KRIEGER 639

If we include as typical of Northwest coast area all tribes de-
pendent on the sea for food and possessing a conventionalized totemic
art, it becomes possible to extend Northwest coast culture along the
coast of Washington and Oregon up to and including the northern
portion of California. If the Tlingit, Haida, Tsimshian, and
Kwakiutl are typical tribes of southeast Alaska and of British
Columbia, the Salish tribes of Vancouver Island and the Nootka of
the lower Frazer River valley may be considered typical of the more
southern groups. The Tahltan and other Athapascan tribes of the
interior of British Columbia possess an entirely different type of
dress resembling more that of the Plains tribes. The Tahltan In-
dians have in recent years discontinued all their native arts and
industries because of changes brought about by the great number of
miners who have invaded their territory.

Typical of the textile arts of the Salish Tribes of Washington and
the Columbia River region generally is the blanket woven from the
hair of the mountain goat. There had developed among the Salish
Tribes of the Columbia River region at the time of the first explora-
tions an interesting primitive weaving industry in the hair of the
dog and mountain goat. A few specimens of robes and blankets
have survived and are of great rarity. They show superior skill in
weaving and taste in their decoration with dyed cords and the down
of birds. Salish blankets were traded with the interior tribes and
were carried long distances from the coast. In some cases other
tribes received the credit of weaving these blankets, for instance,
the Nez Percé and other Shahaptian tribes who traded with the
Salish were believed to be weavers. Salish Tribes wove burden
straps of which the warp is of strong hemp, and the weft of goat’s
wool dyed in various pretty colors. (PI. 13.) The weaving proceeds
always entirely across the warp, but is done in twined work lke the
weaving of the Chilkat Indians farther north. The Shahaptian
Tribes of the Columbia River region wove blankets of rabbit skins.
They are likewise represented by their soft carrying wallets in wild
hemp and twined weaving, decorated with tasteful geometric figures
in overlaying with variously dyed grasses.

A Salish blanket collected by Charles Wilkes (Cat. No. 2124,
U. S. N. M.) (pl. 9C), is made by the process of twined weaving,
entirely of dog and mountain-goat hair yarns dyed and undyed. The
patterns are alike on both sides as in the Navaho blanket. In some
cases the weaving follows the design, that is, the warp is inclined at
an angle. The pattern is in four divisions, as follows: Across the
top are three bands with designs as in the belts; the center is com-
posed of three bands of yellow, margined with black and with a
black line through the middle, all on a white field. The white field
is flanked by a rectangular area divided into equal sections of bands
640 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

and zigzags. The lower portion is in eight bands of serpentine,
diagonal, and straight lines. The colors are natural wool, black,
dark brown, red, yellow, and blue. One band of red and blue appears
to have been derived from the ravellings of European fabrics, the
rest are in native dye. The blanket is fringed on three sides, the
elements of the fringe twisted and not braided. Dimensions: Width
from top to bottom, 50 inches; breadth, 62 inches; fringe, 7 inches
long.

Ancther beautiful Salish blanket from the State of Washington
(Cat. No. 1891, U. S. N. M.) (pl. 10), was collected by Lieut. G. K.
Warren and ntceasioned by the Museum in 1866. It consists of dog
and mountain-goat hair in twined weaving. The colors are ihe
red, black, very dark blue, two shades of a and green. The
design consists of a central rectangle 32 by 35 inches in terrace pat-
tern with square cross in center. This is surrounded by zigzag
bands made up of engaging triangular figures. Two sides are bor-
dered with a band of short lines crossing a center line. The ends
have a narrow band of similar pattern. A sewing or embroidery of
cord forming a welt borders the upper and lower sides of the rec-
tangular center and on the sides at the junction of the patterned
portion with the border band. Dimensions: Sixty-two by 64 inches.

A fragment of a Salish blanket (Cat. No. 177710, U. S. N. M.)
(pl. 9A) collected by George Catlin was found among his effects and
had been through the various fires befalling his collections of ethno-
logical objects since 1840. The warp of this specimen is a stiff and
heavy cord of some fiber not ascertained. The weft is soft pelage of
the mountain goat. The colors are dark green, brownish red, black,
and white. The patterns are simple, consisting of bands of W shape,
comblike, and sets of three horizontal bars divided by narrow stripes
of herringbone pattern. The border is of wedges of black and green
on white background. This interesting relic is probably from the
Lewis collection from the Columbia (Lewis and Clark expedition),
which is said to have been acquired by Catlin. Dimensions: 39 by
47 inches.

A blanket cape from the Salish Indians of Washington (Cat. No.
221408, U. S. N. M.) (pl. 11) is one from the collection of George
Gibbs or Charles Wilkes. This garment is fringed and bordered at
the sides as in Catalogue No. 1894, United States National Museum.
The border patterns are in rectangles marked off by horizontal bands,
the design being four spindle-form elements side by side in black,
white, brown, yellow, and green. The pattern is characteristic of a
considerable region focusing in the Salish and whose boundaries
have not yet been ascertained. The main field of the blanket is cov-
ered with white down incorporated during weaving. The latter is
of the twisted or twined type done by hand as in making a twined
INDIAN COSTUMES—KRIEGER 641

basket. The materials are: Dog hair, goat hair, and down. This
is a rare and valuable specimen and is in excellent condition. Di-
mensions: Upper border, 46 inches; lower, 41 inches; width, 45
inches; width of fringe, 7 inches; width of border, 5 inches. On the
upper corners are tassels and on the borders are thongs of buckskin
for securing the wrap. This blanket may be the No. 675 of the
George Gibbs collection described by him as “a cape or shawl of goat
and dog hair.”

Another blanket cape from the Salish Indians collected by Lieut.
G. K. Warren, United States Army (Cat. No. 1894, U. S. N. M.)
(pl. 12, A), is a wrap for the body. It is in twined weaving, the ma-
terials being dog and goat hair and the down of ea, The
upper and lower border are plain and the sides decorated with round
braided fringe. The surface of the textile presents a nap of down
in alternate horizontal bands of gray and brown down incorporated
in the thick structure during the process of weaving. A strip along
either side is without down and has a pattern in squares of black,
white, red, and green. It is margined by a cording next to the
downy portion. Dimensions: Upper border, 41 inches; lower border,
49 inches; width, 45 inches; width of fringe, 8 inches.

A woven belt from the Salish Indians of Washington (Cat. No.
9120, U. S. N. M.) (pl. 13), collected by Charles Wilkes, is of a
twined weave in red, green, and natural yarn of the hair of the
Salish domestic dog and the mountain goat. The design comprises
a central section of horizontal lines in red, green, and white, two
sections of zigzags in white and red, and one section like a tree with
branches. The weaving was worked both ways from the middle
as in many hand-woven belts. The warp forms a long fringe at one
end and at the other end the fringe is looped over the warp ends.
Braided cords are supplied for tying at the ends. Dimensions: 34
inches wide; 92 inches long; fringe, 19 inches long.

Another woven belt from the Salish collected by Charles Wilkes
(Cot. No. 2121, U.S. N. M.), also shown on Plate 13, is similar to the
one described above, but appears to be a much older object.

Woven belts from the Salish, also collected by Charles Wilkes, are
shown on Plate 13 with the above. The objects are of a fine weave
in soft yarn of the hair of mountain goat and dog, in natural color,
and dyed red, yellow, dark blue, and light green colors. The edges
are bound with drilling of cotton. No device for tying is found at
the ends, although the objects were used as ornaments for costume,
or, perhaps, as belts. Dimensions: 114 inches wide; 28 inches long.

Dress of the California-Oregon tribes—The tribes of California
excelled in decorative art, which they applied to almost all objects
of use. Examples of costumes and adornment as skirts of pine seeds
and braided grass, basketry headdresses, necklaces, and other objects
642 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

are shown in the Museum. Californian culture was crude and simple
although the art of basketry weaving was more highly developed
than elsewhere in the United States, but the weaving of cloth was
not practiced.

The Hupa Indians of California had a robe and waist garment on
occasion for the men, but moccasins rarely. Old men frequently went
entirely naked. Women wore a waist garment and a narrow apron,
and occasionally a robe cape like the Pueblo, over shoulders or under
arms over the breast. A basket cap was ordinarily worn, and some-
times moccasins. In central California men usually went naked, but
possessed a robe, a netted cap, and occasionally a breechcloth, and
moccasins. In this area the women wore a waist skirt of vegetal
fiber or of buckskin, and a basketry cap. A robe and moccasins were
worn on occasion. Necklaces and earrings completed the costume
of the women of central California. (PI. 14.)

Along the Pacific coast and also on the Mexican border, on the
Gulf coast, and in the Eastern States generally, the customary
woman’s garment was a fringe-like skirt of bark, cord, strung seeds,
or peltry, worn around the loins. In cooler weather a skin cape was
thrown about the shoulders, and in certain tribes a large robe of
rabbit skin. The use of such robes was not rare in California but
the use of moccasins and of leggings was occasional. Some tribes
near the Mexican Provinces wore sandals, a type of footgear having
formerly a much wider range of distribution than in historical times.
Belts not only confined the clothing but supported pouches and bags.
Large pouches of netting were slung from the shoulder.

A headdress and carrying net of the Pomo (Cat. No. 200019, U.S.
N. M.) was collected by W. H. Holmes and is now in the Museum
collections. It is made of cotton twine, doubled and netted with
coarse mesh. The net is gathered into a woven band decorated with
shell beads. This band passes across the forehead and rests upon
a thick padding. The lower end of the net is gathered into a knot
on a toggle of bone. The carrying basket is inserted in the net.

Livingston Stone collected from the Indians living along the
McCloud River in Shasta County, northern California, a girdle made
of human hair braided into fine sennit and wound into a skein 200
yards in length. The ends of the loop are wrapped with thong
covered with split root. The two ends are brought around the waist
and fastened with a thong of otter skin. (Cat. No. 17309,
US. Noa

A headdress of the Tulare Indians consisting of whole feathers in
the middle and of split feathers around the outside was collected by
W. H. Holmes. (Cat. No. 200090, U. S. N. M.) The headdress is
typical of the southern California tribes. Whole feathers are
INDIAN COSTUMES—KRIEGER 643

wrapped around the stem with cord and the split feathers are fas-
tened to a continuous cord. These are coiled round and round to
make a dense bundle. The whole is mounted on a long skewer or
harpoon of wood. Asscciated with the headdress is a headband of
down formed on a cord of cedar bark in the same way that Christmas
wreaths are made up, and also a network headband made from the
native hemp. The network is first wrapped round the head, then
covered with a wreath of down. The staff of the feather headdress
is forced between the head and these bands and so held in place.

A feather blanket from the Maidu Indians of central California
was collected by Charles Wilkes and is now in the Museum collec-
tions. (Cat. No. 2119, U. S. N. M.) This blanket is made from
the white, gray barred, and iridescent dark brown feathers of water-
fowl applied closely to fiber cord by wrapping around the quill ends
of the feathers. ‘This cord is run continuously back and forth and
twined with bark cord forming the warp. The corner cords are
plaited like the lariats of the northern region. The middle portion
of the blanket is of gray barred feathers bordered with white. The
outer border is a wide band of dark-brown glossy iridescent feathers.
The robe is feathered equally on both sides. Dimensions: Width,
45 inches; length, 63 inches. (PI. 12, B.)

A Seri bird-skin blanket collected by W J McGee from the Seri
Indians of Tiburon Island, Sonora, Mexico, is made from the skins
of fully matured California brown pelicans. The entire breast and
portions of the wing feathers are used from each bird. As many as
10 skins enter into a complete blanket or robe. The skins are sewn
together with sinew. (Cat. No. 174555, U. S. N. M.)

These blankets are complete dresses for both men and women,
and are worn about the middle as short skirts secured about the waist
by suitable girdles, or thrown about the shoulders as mantles. They
are used also as mats or beds. They take the place of the blankets
or dressed-skin robes of more northerly Indians.

The whole Pacific coast west of the coastal mountain ranges was
occupied by barefooted, scantily clothed peoples. Among these
tribes, from the Tlngit in Alaska to the Seri in Lower California,
coat and trousers were not worn, the robe of woven hair or of feathers
or rabbit skins serving instead.

Dress of the Pueblo Indians—The tribes of the pueblo region
belong to the Athapascan, Shoshonean, Zuflian, Keresan, and Tanoan
linguistic families. These various stocks embrace not only tribes
living in pueblos, but others hike the Navaho and the Apache who
do not live in pueblos but have their homes in the valleys and on the
plateaus of northern Arizona and New Mexico. These latter In-
dians were chiefly hunters and therefore did not live in settled com-
munities. They practiced agriculture to a limited extent but were
644 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

inferior in this respect to the more sedentary village or Pueblo In-
dians. They have been called nomads, as they settled where they
chose regardless of the claims of the several Pueblo groups already
occupying the area. They belong to four linguistic stocks, the Atha-
pascan, Piman, Yuman, and Shoshonean. The Plains east of the
pueblo area were traversed by many groups of hunters in search of
the bison, also by the Kiowa and Comanche Indians, who raided
the less aggressive settlements of the pueblo area and of Mexico.

West of the pueblo area is the barrier of the Colorado and the
desert which effectively separated the Pueblos from the Californian
tribes and from any influence that might reach them from the
Pacific coast. The Pueblos were also separated from the highly
cultured native tribes of the valley of Mexico by the desert and
hostile tribes of Sonora. Therefore, the only communication with
other tribes was by way of the Great Plains. This almost complete
isolation served to emphasize the peculiar development of habits of
dress peculiar to the Southwest, but with a certain leaning toward the
dress of the Plains tribes on the east and that of the Pima on the
south.

The dress of the Pueblo Indians has remained practically as it
was in Coronado’s time in the sixteenth century until recently, when
the influences of modern transportation such as railroads and auto-
mobiles have brought about a change. Factory made cotton prints
have almost entirely replaced the products of the native weaver.

Villages occupied by the Pueblo Indians are divided into two
general groups, the Rio Grande Pueblos of New Mexico on the east,
and the Hopi and Zufi on the west. There are minor differences
within the Rio Grande area, but these need not be considered here.
The eastern or Rio Grande group of Pueblo Indians have within
historic times dressed pretty much as do the tribes of the southern
Plains. Men dressed in garments of tanned skins which were painted
with decorative designs similar to the painted war shirt collected by
Doctor Fewkes from San Domingo, one of the Rio Grande Pueblos.
At present the woman’s dress of the Rio Grande Pueblos of Taos
and Pecos is the long skin dress of the Plains type. Long leggings
of fringed buckskin and a breechcloth of colored flannel are worn
by the men.

The more westerly Pueblos, those of the Hopi in Arizona, and the
Zuni, were dressed, according to early accounts, in aprons or kilts
of woven cotton. These kilts had tassels at each corner and re-
sembled the kilts still used on certain ceremonial occasions. The
essential garment of the Pueblo man at present is the breechcloth
of woven cotton, which falls below the belt before and behind. In
general, the clothing for the Pueblo men consists of a blanket or
robe of rabbit skin or feathers, a shirt with sleeves, short breeches
INDIAN COSTUMES—KRIEGER 645

partly open at the outer sides, breechcloth, leggings reaching to the
knees, moccasins, hair tape, and headband. Women’s clothing con-
sists of a blanket fastened over one shoulder and extending to the
knees. A small calico shawl is worn over the blanket and thrown
over the shoulders. Legging moccasins and a belt are also worn by
the women. Snow moccasins of fur are sometimes worn in winter.

Because of the protected situation of the ancient cliff dwellings,
the ancestral habitations of the Pueblo Indians, numerous perish-
able objects illustrating the social and domestic life of the people
have been preserved. From these old dwellings, protected as they
were under rock shelters, we have recovered yarn, woven cloth,
sandals, cord, and basketry in an excellent state of preservation.
Some of the ancient pueblo sandals recovered are woven of yucca
leaves, either in a diagonal or twined weave. The warp is of yucca
leaves, but the woof is cotton fiber. Decorative designs on these
ancient examples of footgear are in colors or are applied by the
imbrication of basketry materials in loops of twine. The ancient
aprons of twine or twisted cord resemble in a way the generalized
form of cord apron skirt characteristic of the Pacific coast tribes of
historical times. The apron was confined by a girdle but the lower
end of the twisted cord was unattached as in the apron of the Hupa.
(See pl. 14.)

Dress of the non-Pueblo Tribes of the Southwest—The Apache
and the Navaho are typical examples of the nomadic Athapascan
tribes of the Southwest. They are related linguistically with tribes
as far north as the Dene of the Yukon and Mackenzie River Valleys
of northwest America. Several scattered bands of Athapascans are
found in western Oregon and California. The Navaho live in the
vicinity of the San Juan and Little Colorado Rivers while the
Apache are widely scattered throughout the area. There are four
bands of the Apache, known as the Jicarilla, Mescalero, San Carlos,
and White Mountain groups.

The non-Pueblo tribes, such as the Apache (pl. 15), dress as do the
Indians of the Plains in so far as the men are concerned. The Apache
women wear a moccasin having a peculiar shield-like oval extension
of the stiff sole in front of the toes. Although the Navaho formerly
were dressed like the Plains tribes they now have adopted the costume
of the Pueblo Indians. The Mohave and the Cocopa of the Sonora-
Gila region have a somewhat different dress. The men wear a breech-
cloth, sandals, and sometimes a headband, while the women have a
waist garment, usually of fringed bark, covering the front and rear.
The Pima dress like the Plains tribes, though they formerly wore a
cotton robe, waist cloth, and sandals.

240384— 29-42
646 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

The Hopi of Arizona occupy eight pueblos in northeastern Arizona.
They are among the most northerly of the Indian tribes employing
the loom, which found its greatest use in ancient Peru. Among the
Hopi men wear an apron or breechcloth, over which formerly was
worn at times a robe of woven woolen cloth, or of woven rabbit skin,
or turkey feathers. Women wore a dress blanket reaching to the
knees and fastened over the right shoulder. Moccasins of hides and
buckskin are worn, to which are often added leggings of buckskin or
sheepskin by the women. ‘The use of a calico shirt and short trousers
has taken the place of the ancient costume among the men, while the
women continue to wear a dark-blue woolen blanket woven on native
looms and fastened with an embroidered belt.

There are exhibited looms for weaving blankets, belts, and sashes,
and examples of the work in cotton and wool. Woven and em-
broidered wedding blankets, sashes, and kilts used in ceremony, and
braided sacred sashes are shown. Shoulder blankets, breechcloths,
weaving sticks, and plain and figured belts are typical articles illus-
trating the loom work of the Hopi.

In the weaving of their belts the Zuni employ a weaving heald
made of numerous short sticks placed side by side in a perpendicular
position and their ends lashed with buckskin cord to sticks running
horizontally. Small holes are burnt midway of the upright sticks
to hold the warp threads. In the belt weavers’ outfit of the south-
western United States the warp is shifted by a wooden harness and
the weft is beaten home by a wooden sword. While engaged in
weaving, women sit on the ground, and the loom is shifted instead
of altering the position of the body on the ground after the weav-
ing has progressed to a certain stage.

At Zuni the fiber of the yucca plant was woven into the single
garment worn by women at the beginning of the historical period.
This garment, reaching from the shoulders to the knees, was fastened
over the right shoulder and by a belt worn at the waist. A similar
garment of woven cotton cloth was worn by the women of other
pueblos. Under the influence of the Spaniards, after the introduc-
tion of sheep, this garment was fashioned of woolen yarns and dyed
black or blue, but remained otherwise practically unchanged. At the
outset of the historical period the cotton used in spinning yarns
was grown at Hopi and on the Rio Grande, especially at Cochiti.

Moccasins were originally worn by Zui men and women. ‘These
had rawhide soles and were fashioned to reach to the knees for winter
wear. Women’s moccasins at present are equipped with a long
legging wrapping of buckskin. A woolen cloth or footless sock is
worn underneath the wrapped legging.

Formerly, the hairdress of Pueblo women was elaborate. The
hair was done up above the ears in large whorls over a frame of corn-
NOLONIHSVAMA ‘SL13G NVIGN] HSIIVS

a ina ctalk cememett é ame a

0

laren OT Mii aa cages ae

oe
Snes

€l aLvV 1d Jasdai4y~—'8z6l ‘HWoday uvluosYyyWS
PLATE 14

Smithsonian Report, 1928.— Krieger

STUMES AND FEATHER BASKET

CENTRAL CALI FORNIA CO
Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Krieger PLATE 15

WHITE MOUNTAIN APACHE FAMILY, ARIZONA
SAHSVS GNV SLIIM IVINOWSYSD ONV SLAYNV1G DNIGGSM IdOH

wosmaica

ae
ee

91 3ALV1d

JaBalIW¥—'8zZSl ‘Hoday ueluosyyIWs
PLATE 17

Krieger

Smithsonian Report, 1928.

APACHE INDIAN COSTUMES, ARIZONA
Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Krieger PLATE 18

NAVAHO WEAVINGS AND LOOM
AYOM LV YSAVANM ANY HLINSYSATIS OHVAVNY

61 3Llv1d

423914 4— "976 | ‘Yoday UBIUOSYIIWS
Smithsonian Report, 1928.

PLATE 20

SIOUX WARRIOR IN FULL Costume, EFFiay OF KICKING BEAR
SNVASNOHSOHS YSHLO GNV SSLM AHL AO SLYY GNV SAWNLSOD

lo Alwid 4a3al4~¥— 8761 ‘HWoday uBlUOSYyIWS
PLATE 22

Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Krieger

Soeescen g-*
Sr e-8 2 —-
a

«2

| Ss

CHEYENNE INDIAN COSTUMES
Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Krieger PEATERZ3

ARAPAHO INDIAN COSTUMES
Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Krieger PLATE 24

KIOWA COSTUMES AND ARTS
INDIAN COSTUMES-—KRIEGER 647

husks, and unmarried girls among the Hopi continued this practice
until recently. Married women wear the hair plaited in two braids.
Banged forelocks are general among the several pueblos for both
men and women, and men tie their hair in braids with intertwining
of fur, yarn, or flannel as among the Plains tribes.

The various pueblos of the Hopi Indians are situated in the semi-
arid region of northern Arizona. They mark the most northerly
and westerly of the tribes occupying the loom area. The isolated
habitat of the Hopi made possible the preservation of the ancient
pueblo costumes, as well as customs and traditions, long after the
culture of more favorably situated tribes had succumbed to the in-
fluence of civilization. In recent times, however, the Hopi have
discarded most of their traditional costumes in figured and em-
broidered wool blankets and robes, and have adopted the cotton cloth
and modern costume of the white man.

There are exhibited early examples of embroidery in colored yarns
on wool and native cotton fabrics woven with simple hand looms;
also plainly woven and subsequently embroidered bride’s blankets;
figured sashes and kilts used as men’s ceremonial costumes; a woman’s
wool blanket dress, colored blue and with embroidered borders; a
child’s dress blanket, and a blanket tassel. (PI. 16.)

Plaiting with the fingers, as well as the simplest loom work, is
done by persons sitting or stooping. The feet are not used, either in
decussating the warp or in throwing the shuttle. A simple har-
ness of wood is provided, or one is made by seizing each alternate
warp thread and attaching it toa rod. The Zufi woman weaver of
New Mexico uses a heddle of reeds pierced in the middle. The at-
tachment of the warp to her belt and to a stick resting against the
soles of her feet is an ingenious provision for the tension. The
shuttle is a short stick and the batten is a weoden sword. Patterns
in belts are wrought by a process of darning the alternate sheds.

The Pima-speaking tribes live on the Gila and Salt Rivers. South
of the Pima live a closely related group, the Papago, whose territory
extends well into northern Mexico. These tribes are less given to
the peaceful arts than are the Navaho and may be designated as
gatherers so far as pertains to their food habits.

The Yuma or Maricopa, Mohave, and other southwestern tribes
are nearly identical in culture and speech. This does not apply to
another immigrant group, the Utes, who occupy the territory north of
the San Juan River. Their linguistic relationship with the Hopi
is also shared with another Shoshonean tribe, the Chemehuevi.

The Jicarilla and Mescalero Apache and the Utes dress much as
do the western Plains tribes, and their habits generally are those of
the bison hunters of the Plains. The Apache Indians living in
Arizona and New Mexico have been in contact with white people
648 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

for 350 years, but, unlike the Navaho herdsmen, have adopted with
the greatest reluctance any of the ways of civilization. They dress
in skins, but the gradual destruction of game has compelled them
to use materials obtained from the whites in their clothing, but they
follow the ancient methods and patterns as much as possible. The
art of the Apache is best represented in leatherwork and basketry.
A number of examples of the former are shown in the exhibit (pl. 17)
consisting of saddle pouches, leggings, and an interesting painted
mantle supposed to possess the quality of rendering its wearer in-
visible.

The Mescalero and other Apache women wore a two-piece dress—
an upper garment and a skirt. The upper garment was provided
with an opening for the head. Two flat pieces of skin dropped
from the neck in front and behind, very much like the woven poncho.
The skirt extended from the waist to the knees and was of fringed
buckskin. The dress of the men was more scanty and consisted of
a skin shirt, a breechcloth, legging moccasins, and a robe for winter
use.

The Pima, Maricopa, and Papago Indians, living on the lower Gila
and Salt Rivers in southwestern Arizona, have coalesced to a great
extent and are now practically uniform in culture. These tribes
formerly made blankets from native cotton which they raised in their
fields, but their modern representatives wear a simple breechcloth
in summer, to which is added in winter a skin shirt and usually a
rabbit-skin robe. Rawhide sandals are usually worn by the Pima,
although a softer variety made from buckskin is sometimes used.

The Mohave men wear only a cincture of the interior bark of the
willow or the cottonwood tree, and the women wear a skirt of the
same material reaching to the knees. For the purpose of comfort,
as well as for ceremony, they paint their bodies with different colored
clays, a custom widely dispersed over the warmer parts of the
continent in ancient times. A scarf or handkerchief is worn about
the head to confine the hair. White cotton trousers like those of
the Pueblo open on the outer sides. They have borrowed this
peculiarity from the Spanish, while from the Navaho they have
borrowed the use of a type of woven blanket.

The Papago Indians, like the Mohave, wear a scanty costume and
that modified after the European pattern. The men formerly
wrapped skins about their loins, and women were clad in fringed
petticoats of shredded bark and leaves. The Cocopa Indians like-
wise wore little clothing in an environment characterized by a hot
and dry climate and restricted animal life. Simple cord work and
weaving for nets and clothing was practiced. Ornaments for head
and neck consisted of shell, feathers, and other objects.
INDIAN COSTUMES—KRIEGER 649

The non-Pueblo Tribes of the Southwest have a less specialized
culture than that of the Pueblo Tribes. An exception might be
cited in the case of the Navaho, who cultivate the soil and are noted
for the excellence of their weaving and for their success in herding
of sheep. Their basketry is not remarkable and is inferior to that
of some of the other non-Pueblo Tribes. The Navaho loom is crude,
but the work is much sought after, and strong fabrics are produced.
In the exhibit (pl. 18) examples of the loom and tools and blankets,
saddles, rugs, cinches, belts, and garters are shown.

The Navaho prepare the wool of the sheep entirely by hand.
Their spindles are of the simplest kind and are so designed that the
lowest end must rest on the ground. The beams for the warp, the
rude harness for making the sheds, the shuttle made from a long
vod without notches at the ends, and the batten sword removed after
each weft thread is laid all place this loom among the simplest ever
devised. (PI. 19.)

The costume of the Navaho consists of a pretty woven blanket
dress, belt, and of legging moccasins. Men wore war hats like those
ot the Zufi; otherwise the man’s costume was like that of the Plains
Indian. It consisted of a skin shirt, leggings, and moccasins. Belts
of silver plaques and much other jewelry of shell beads and silver
is WOrn.

The older specimens of the fine weaving of the Navaho are far
superior in color and design to the modern samples of weaving.
The introduction of bright aniline dyes and made-to-order patterns
has brought about the virtual extinction of the old art. The Navaho
weaving industry has now reached an economic phase and is one of
the chief supports of the tribe.

Practically all of the Navaho blankets are made by the women,
who must also care for the sheep and shear them in season, and even
then the woman’s share of the work has only just begun, for she
must later carry the wool to camp. Fortunately the summer camp
or hogan—in reality nothing more than a rough shelter—is con-
veniently located.

After the wool has been taken from the sheep, it is usually washed
and then hung over near-by grease-wood bushes to dry. There are
some black sheep in the herds of the Navaho, and to the black and
white colors of the natural wool and the few native dyes employed
there have been added the store aniline dyes. The wool of the black-
colored fleece has a tinge of red, so that it must be dyed to produce
a jet-black color. Twigs or leaves of sumac are boiled for several
hours; to the resulting liquid is added burnt ocher and pinion gum,
and the mixture is continually heated until a charred powder re-
mains, giving a native black dye for coloring textiles and tanned
hides. Old blue from Spanish indigo gave the shade of blue seen in

650 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

the old bayeta cloth. A yellow-green dye was formerly made from
the flowering tops of the rabbit weed by boiling it for several hours
and adding to it a mordant in the form of alumn. This gives a
number of different shades from a canary yellow to an olive green.
The old Spanish bayeta “baize” yarns have a deep-red, old-rose,
and various other colors toward the violet end of the spectrum.
These colors are in part due to aging as far as concerns the original
bayeta colors characterizing the cloth of which the Spanish army
uniforms were fashioned and from which bayeta yarn is raveled.

The weaving in soft materials is done on a rude loom, the warp
being attached to a primitive sort of frame, and the weft thrown
across the warp by means of a shuttle, which is merely a stick on
which the weft is wrapped. The ornamental motives are the same as
those found on Navaho basketry and pottery, being derived for the
most part from the native religious symbolism. The patterns of
Navaho rugs and blankets of recent years have departed far from
the older dignity and simplicity. The decline in weaving which set
in with the introduction of European and American cloth has again
given way to a revived interest in native Navaho weaves, although
the weaving of the Hopi has narrowed down to the making of gavr-
ments needed in the tribal ceremonies. Early examples of Navaho
weaving showed broad stripes (pl. 18) and geometrical figures either
singly or in combination with other figures followed. Common
designs are diamonds, squares, and triangles. The practice of intro-
ducing designs extending only a short distance across the blanket may
have originated with the Navaho, as the Hopi weave only continuous
stripes and add embroidered designs later. The common supposition
is that Navaho zigzag, triangular, rectangular, and other geometrical
designs were incorporated into their blanket weaving after the
fashion of their basketry designs. The woof strand of a desired
color is carried only as far as that color is needed to complete the
design, and is then dropped.

In weaving, the warp threads are separated into two divisions,
called sheds or sets of warp strands. Alternate threads are caught
up in yarn loops attached to two small sticks. The two sets of
threads are separated by pushing down a rod between them and are
crossed by pulling up on the stick to which the loops are attached.

Dress of the Plains tribes—The so-called Plains Indians lived for
the most part in the area covered by the open grasslands of the
western plains west of the Mississippi and east of the Rocky Moun-
tains. Their hunting ranges were the lands grazed by the bison, or
American buffalo, and the most typical of the Plains tribes occupied
the regions where the bison was most readily hunted. As the bison
moved from one grazing area to another the Indian of the Plains
followed. This nomadic hunter’s life was not conducive to the prac-
INDIAN COSTUMES—KRIEGER 651

tice of the sedentary arts, and the Plains Indians, therefore, had no
agriculture, made no pottery, and wove no cloth.

The numerically strongest linguistic stock among the Plains tribes
was the Sioux; other stocks were the Shoshoni, Kiowa, Caddo, and
Algonquian. Some of the more typical northern Plains tribes are the
Assiniboin, Blackfoot, Crow, Gros Ventre, and Teton-Sioux, while
the southern tribes included the Arapaho, Cheyenne, Comanche, and
Kiowa. After the introduction of the horse among the Plains tribes,
they became more mobile and nomadic than formerly, when the dog
was their only burden carrier. Irruptions of one group upon the
hunting lands of another became more frequent, and hostile en-
counters became almost continuous. The more aggressive hunters
as the Blackfoot, Kiowa, and Comanche were generally feared by the
less aggressive tribes, and even by the sedentary agricultural Pueblo
Tribes who were often raided by the Kiowa and the Comanche.

Along the eastern fringe of the Plains lived the Wichita, Pawnee,
Omaha, Osage, Iowa, Arikara, Oto, Mandan, and Hidatsa. These
tribes resembled the typical Plains tribes in their mode of dress, but
differed from them in that they lived in houses of earth, mat, or grass
construction, made pottery, cultivated maize, and wove baskets.

Another group of tribes resembling the tribes of the Plains lived
west of the Rocky Mountains and occupied the plateau region now
forming the States of Idaho, western Montana, Utah, and portions
of adjoining States. These tribes, the northern Shoshoni, Nez
Pereé, Bannock, and Ute, resembled the Plains tribes in their mode
of dress, but differed from them in their social organization and other
culture traits.

In Plains costumes all dresses have the same generalized outline
of open pendent sleeves and a scored bottom showing four scallops or
crests. As the dress is made of two deerskins, the varying outline
or tribal pattern is derived from the sewing of the garment. 'Trim-
ming of the edges varies from tribe to tribe. The free edges were
generally fringed, and quill embroidery, beadwork, painting, scalp
locks, tails of animals, feathers, claws, hoofs, shells, and other objects
were applied as ornaments.

In a general way skin clothing was used by all of the Plains tribes
instead of basketry or woven cloth, although some fashioned woven
robes of rabbit skins. A good example of true weaving on the part
of Plains Indians may be seen in the sacred bundles of the Osage,
where buffalo hair is employed. The Omaha are supposed to have
formerly woven belts, and the Nez Percé still plait bags of bark
with imbricated overlay of grass in geometric patterns. These tribes
are marginal and may have acquired their weaving knowledge along
with other borrowed traits from their non-Plains neighbors.
652 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

Women of the Plains tribes wore a sleeveless dress cut and sewed
as a 1-piece garment. Formerly the Cheyenne, Pawnee, and Osage
women wore a 2-piece dress consisting of a skirt and a cape, which
is more typical of the woodlands tribes of the Eastern States.

Tribal leaders and those enjoying social distinction within their
group not only bedecked themselves with a highly ornamental
feather headdress with its long streamer of eagle feathers, but were
entitled to wear a so-called war shirt. This garment, also known as
the scalp shirt, does not belong to the regular costume, but when
stripped of its decorative ornaments and accessories resembles the
typical shirt of tanned deerskin. The wearing of the decorated war
shirt was peculiar to the northern Assiniboin, Crow, Dakota, and
Blackfoot, but has been adopted by the Kiowa, Osage, Arapaho, and
other southern Plains tribes. The northern Shoshoni, Cree, Dene,
and other northern tribes of the Plains had long ago taken over the
use of shirts of tanned leather.

In the Museum figure of a Sioux Indian warrior (pl. 20) there is
shown the use of a somewhat modified form of a war shirt trimmed
with beadwork, cut fringe, and scalp trophies. Other objects of
personal adornment and of wearing apparel are a plume of eagle
feathers, necklace of bear’s claws, cincture of flannel, trousers of deer-
skin dyed green, and moccasins ornamented with porcupine quills.
In his right hand the figure carries the old stone war club of the
Sioux; the face is that of Kicking Bear, a Sioux medicine man who
was prominent with Sitting Bull in the ghost dance craze among the
Sioux in 1890. A cast was made when he visited the Museum in
1902, at which time the costume was also secured from him. The
decoration painted in kaolin on his hair is a cross within a circle and
is a heraldic device signifying an act of prowess in which he saved
a friend under the fire of the enemy.

The Sioux Indians belong to the Siouan family, formerly having
a wide distribution west of the Mississippi Valley as far southward
as the borders of Louisiana. Detached tribes were also living at the
time of the discovery in the mountain regions of Virginia and North
Carolina.

The Comanche Indians formerly ranged the southern Plains prin-
cipally in the region now the State of Texas, but what is left of the
tribe now lives in Oklahoma. They belong to the Shoshonean stock,
but their arts and industries are those of the tribes of the Plains,
though somewhat ruder, and these arts have little resemblance to
those of their own kin, the Utes. The specimens exhibited in the
Museum are cradles, lances, shields, saddle, beadwork, and costume.

The Utes and other Shoshoneans ranged from Utah to Montana
and Washington. This case (pl. 21) contains costumes of an early
day collected by Maj. J. W. Powell, Emile Granier, and others.
INDIAN COSTUMES—KRIEGER 653

Feather head dresses, basketry, rabbit-skin robes, and various cere-
monial objects are illustrative of the stage which had been reached in
their arts and industries. In general, the culture of these tribes was
low and the lack of color as contrasted with the Plains tribes notice-
able.

In the plateau area, the common form of robes for winter use were
of antelope, elk, and mountain-sheep pelts, while in summer tanned
skins without the hair were worn. The piecing together of skins of
the smaller animals was resorted to, also the weaving of a blanket
from strips of rabbit skin was practiced. The use of this latter form
of robe extended from Canada to the Southwest but was not taken
up by the central Plains tribes. The buffalo robe of the Plains
tribes was fashioned from the entire skin including the tail, and
the robe was so worn as to bring the tail section on the right hand
side.

The plateau area is generally understood as including the upland
portions of Utah, Nevada, and the States on the north, including
British Columbia. This region was more or less arid and inhos-
pitable, and therefore was never the home of a large population.
Wild grasses, seeds, roots, and fish played an important role in native
culture. The weaving of baskets reached a high state of development
and the weaving of textiles from bark fibers was practiced to some
extent. Many of the tribes of this area borrowed much from the
nomadic Plains tribes, and the Nez Percé, Bannock, and others are
garbed very much lke their neighbors of the Plains; while the tribes
of the middle and upper Columbia and of the interior of British
Columbia accepted many of the culture traits of the coast Salish.

The Nez Percé Indians belong to the Shahaptian stock, living
on the middle portions of the Snake River Valley in the States of
Washington and Idaho; they dress in buckskin shirts and robes of
buffalo hide. So far as leggings, moccasins, shirt dress for women,
and other accessories of wearing apparel are concerned, their dress
is very much lke that of the northern Plains tribes neighboring
on their right. There is one peculiarity of dress pertaining to the
decorative designs on their war shirt. Somewhat like the saddlebag
of the Apache, the war shirt of the Nez Percé is pierced with in-
numerable small circular holes, which are never more than a third
of an inch in diameter, but cover the entire shirt. The smoked,
salmon-colored, tanned deerskin with this unique ornamental motive
worked out in symmetrical fashion is beautiful indeed. (Cat. No.
99851, U. S. N. M.)

A warrior’s costume from the Piegan Indians of Montana, collected
by R. H. Pratt (Cat. No. 153589, U. S. N. M.), carries out the same
decorative motive as in the Nez Percé shirt, but in the form of
dots painted black, a form of ornamentation which gives the same
654 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

general mottled effect. The shirt is of deerskin, ornamented with
short, cut fringes, bands of beadwork, fringes of ermine skin, red
feathers, and dyed horsehair. The leggings accompanying this shirt
are of deerskin, adorned with a cut fringe, band of beadwork, ermine
skins, horsehair, and red feathers.

If we turn to the southern Plains we find several typical tribes
of the area, one of which is the Cheyenne. The Cheyenne are south-
ern Algonquians who live in Oklahoma, and their arts and modes of
life resemble those of their neighbors of the Plains, especially the
Arapaho, to whom they are related by speech. The specimens shown
are costumes, robes, painted rawhide cases, lances, shields, and cradle,
all ornamented with paint, feathers, beads, and elk teeth. A buffalo
skull from a sun-dance altar is placed on the floor of the case. (PI.
22.) A number of objects of dress within the exhibit illustrate the
variety of decorative work in quills of the porcupine. Quill work
preceded largely work in beads, as quills were easily dyed and en-
abled the artist to combine colors. They were applied in many differ-
ent stitches to moccasins, shirts, leggings, belts, pouches, knife
sheaths, cradles, birch-bark trays, boxes, fringes, necklaces, etc., of
which some examples are shown in this and other cases.

The Arapaho live in Oklahoma with their kinsmen, the Cheyennes,
although originally they lived on the northern boundary of the
United States. The specimens in the case illustrate clearly how much
their arts must have changed in their transfer to the lower latitude,
since at present their material culture is that of the Plains. The
exhibit (pl. 23) consists of costume, robes, cradles, painted-rawhide
cases, lances, and ceremonial objects.

The Kiowa Indians also live in Oklahoma. Their language is
distinct, but their arts, at the time when they were studied, were, in
the main, uniform with those of the Plains tribes, though in symbol-
ism and heraldic art the Kiowa have a system of their own. The
exhibit (pl. 24) contains a costume of deerskin, colored by rubbing
with blue mineral paints, headdresses, lances, shields, painted raw-
hide cases, beadwork, cradle board, flute, and shinny stick.

A complete costume for a Kiowa man was collected by James
Mooney in 1893. (Cat. No. 152841, U. S. N. M.) It includes nine
pieces—hair clasp, hair rolls, earrings, necklace, shirt, breastplate,
sash, breechclout, leggings, moccasins, hair wheel, and bead strings.
The shirt is of buckskin, painted green and ornamented with cut
fringes in blue and beadwork; shoulder ornaments of oriole skin
and feathers; leggings of buckskin trimmed with cut fringe, red
flannel, and beadwork; beaded moccasins with fringed flaps; and
beads of several colors.

Another man’s suit from the Kiowa consists of a shirt of buckskin
with sleeves and a triangular breast piece with cut fringes, leggings
INDIAN COSTUMES—KRIEGER 655

of buckskin, painted green, and heavily bordered with cut fringes
and lines of beadwork. Near the bottom is a coil and eagle design
in beadwork. The moccasins of buckskin, painted green, have
stiff soles and vamp ornamented with cut fringe and beadwork;
trailers on the heels are of cut fringes. (Cat. No. 169083, U.S. N. M.)
The moccasins of the Sioux are made of buffalo hide and deerskin,
with rawhide soles and uppers in one piece, covered with beadwork
in triangular designs.

On women’s dresses from the Kiowa the shirt dress is sleeveless,
the yoke is beaded with cowrie shells from the Indian Ocean pro-
cured in trade. Formerly, when elk were abundant, the milk teeth
occupied the place of the shells. Leggings and moccasins are in
one and are ornamented with red flannel, beadwork, and silver-plated
buttons. (Cat. No. 152851, U. S. N. M.)

Most of the Plains Indians wore long leggings tied to the belt.
Women’s leggings were short, extending from the ankle to the knee
and supported by garters.

There was no special covering for the head. Northern Plains
tribes wore fur caps at times. In the South and West the head was
bare, but the eyes were protected by shields of rawhide. Both sexes
went bareheaded, but on occasion pulled up the buffalo robe into
the form of a hood. The hands were not covered.

The Sioux may be regarded as a type of the nomadic hunting
tribes of the Western Plains. The Plains tribes overran an enormous
territory including portions of Manitoba, the Dakotas, Nebraska,
Kansas, Texas, and neighboring regions. The principal groups as
the Sioux, Nez Percé, Sauk and Fox, Cheyenne, Arapaho, Kiowa,
and Comanche, all have assumed, or are at the point of assuming, the
habits of civilization.

The specimens shown in Plates 25, 26 are from several tribes of the
Siouan stock. In most instances it is not possible to definitely assign
Siouan specimens by tribes, as the customs and arts became exceed-
ingly mingled before the practical extinction of the tribal govern-
ment in the latter part of the nineteenth century. The exhibit, how-
ever, gives an impression of the Plains culture in comparison, for
instance, with that of the Northwest coast or pueblo region.

In Plate 27 is to be seen a Sioux Indian woman dressed in beaded
buckskin frock with cut fringes, earrings of dentalium shells, and
leggings and beaded moccasins. In her left hand she carries a spoon
carved from cow’s horn.

The costume and cradle belonged to the Dakotas who came early in
contact with the French explorers. Their clothing, their tents, and
their utensils were made largely of skin. (PI. 28.) Formerly quills
of birds and of porcupines were used in decoration, but beads have
taken their place.
656 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

Indian tribes of the Plains have a highly developed convention-
alized art which they express in worked designs applied to clothing
and other objects. Paints are also applied principally to bags, cases,
and to the so-called parfleches of rawhide. Decorative designs in
beads, quills, and paints are uniformly geometric in composition,
although military exploits, time counts, and other historical events
are portrayed on garments and other objects of skin in realistic pat-
terns. Glass beads were introduced at an early date by French,
English, and traders of other nationalities and have tended to sup-
plant the sewed decorative embroidery work in dyed and undyed
quills. Quills were formerly applied to large areas on the surface of
skins in round, square, and linear geometrical designs. One of the
best examples of early embroidery work in porcupine quills may be
seen in the exhibit of skin garments collected by George Catlin prior
to 1838 from various unidentified tribes. This exhibit is marred
somewhat by the damaged condition of the costumes, as the Catlin
collection has passed through several fires. Enough remains, how-
ever, of the designs to demonstrate the excellence of the work (pl. 29).
All types of geometric design in sewed or embroidered bead and
quill work occur upon the garments, bags, and especially moccasins
and leggings of any particular tribe. Tribal design types may,
however, be identified by the frequency with which they are found.
The general tendency appears to be a borrowing from pictographic
designs of the eastern woodlands tribes, as the Chippewa, on the
part of the Plains tribes occupying adjoining areas, and from the
geometric basketry designs of the Southwestern tribes on the part
of the Ute and other plains-like tribes of the plateau area.

Tribes of the weaving area of Mexico, Central and South Amer-
ica.—The Indians of Mexico have always been skillful weavers, and
it is known that in this region the art of weaving was quite ancient.
The Mexicans were proficient dyers and displayed considerable taste
and invention in the ornamentation of textiles. The loom is simple
and appears to be an aboriginal invention.

The Maya-Quiche Indians of Guatemala and Yucatan, also of
Chiapas and a small portion of western Honduras, wove delicate
fabrics. Other Mexican Indian tribes represented in the Museum col-
lections of Mexican textiles are the Cora, Tarahumara, Huichol,
Aztec, and Chiapas. The serape blanket from Saltillo, Mexico, is
the outstanding textile garment from Mexico. There ‘are several
serapes exhibited that are beautifully woven in the subdued colors
possible only through aging and the use of native dyes. The art of
the Mexican serape weaver surpasses that of the Navaho blanket
weaver at her best. Two of the excellent specimens of Mexican
serapes are to be seen in Plate 30, which were made in Saltillo,
Mexico, before the use of modern aniline dyes prevailed. One (Cat.
Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Krieger PLATE 25

—- {
ong

—— —s

SIOUX INDIAN DRESSES, DOLLS, CRADLES, ETC.
PLATE 26

Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Krieger

SIOUX INDIAN EXHIBIT
PLATE 27

Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Krieger

ADLE

SioUX INDIAN WOMAN WITH CR
8G ALVid

SAGIH O1vV4ANg ONISSSYC] NAWOM NVIOGN|

Jasauy

*9Z6| ‘HodaYy UBIUOSY}IWS
PLATE 29

Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Krieger

RELIcs OF EARLY PLAINS INDIAN COSTUMES, GEORGE CATLIN COLLECTION
*

I

, ee ee A
ibd avon nivannyniy Pay
vr? CPP AAA ee

rv Merah
ONLOAD
Nd hee FM,
AAI H's PHN R ie tae

ALLL 17) : NRE BS 8 nnd | EELS,
, "" j } i : RAN tad
VA rvs 7 iti EE OO
; ~~ Tres |
Ca nie th

ti ij WU Ne

VMAME MA dy Stee

Mi ERG
Dy dal Ade ee ee baad ALLEL ee

aMaaecee MULL EIN | Pa Wi MN NE
A | ; J | Pay yh YG) PONE Hy ty
MET PG TE i i

WMA IYI
AOL

aa
POMe Dee .
aah Aad Le tT

Bew Reke
howemed

AAMAMAAeALELLLLUTTUTANNTUTTTTTTRONNOa MA tA tt

AAEETED PY LOTETAATTTAAT ET

(CATTLE

errryyer

1A ‘
LASS Sel

At

Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Krieger PLATE 31

1, 2, 3, CHOCO INDIAN COSTUMES, PANAMA
PLATE 32

Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Krieger

2. TULE GIRLS, SAN

CUNA GIRL IN FULL COSTUME.

ue

BLAS, PANAMA
€€ 3ALvid

493314 4¥—' 976 | ‘Hoday UBIUOSY}IWS
VAYNVd ‘Aandiddy NI LAXOVE SINVNOMA NVIGN] SINL ‘3 ‘1

vo a.

Ne)

pe AlVvid 4Jadaldy~—'gz761 ‘Woday uvluosu}IWS
SATIHO ‘YSAVSM NVINVONVEY

G€ ALVId 4993914 ¥—' 8761 ‘Woday uvluosuyIWS
Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Krieger PLATE 36

JIVARO INDIAN IN FEATHER COSTUME, SOUTH AMERICA
INDIAN COSTUMES—KRIEGER 654

No. 326875, U. S. N. M.) came as a gift of Mrs. H. M. Packard; the
other (Cat. No. 339886, U. S. N. M.) was presented by Mr. Darwin
Weaver. The Saltillo serape is the best example of the blanket
weaver’s art, although weaves and textiles from tribes occupying
other parts of the Mexican tableland are also highly artistic. Some
of the outstanding examples of Mexican Indian textiles were col-
lected for the Museum by Walter Hough, Edward Palmer, E. W.
Nelson, A. Hrdlicka, and W. H. Holmes.

An interesting collection of middle American textiles and articles
of dress was made by W. H. Gabb, principally among the Talamanca
Indians of Costa Rica and Guatemala. It includes masks and dance
costumes, woven belts, sashes, embroidered cotton jackets, ceremonial
headdresses of feathers and bark, and bark-cloth blankets.

The tribes of Panama are of interest as forming the connecting
link between the Mexican, Central American, and South American
cultures, being on the whole more closely allied to the latter. The
Chocé Indians of southeastern Panama, for example, are related
culturally to the adjoining Chocé Tribes of the Cauca River Valley,
of northern Colombia. Ear pendants carried by the Colombian
Chocé are long wooden tubular plugs, resembling those in the
Museum collection from the Panaman Chocé. A silver disk of thin
rolled silver is mounted over the outer surface of the bulbous end
of the plug.

The Choc6d woman’s dress is ordinarily quite simple like that of the
Tule, consisting of a piece of calico cloth several feet long wrapped
around the hips, forming a skirt extending a little below the knees.
(Pl. 31.) Little girls are given one of these skirts at puberty; at
the same time the little boy is given his first breechcloth.

Pieces of bark cloth were formerly much utilized by the Panaman
Indians as clothing and for various other purposes, such as matting,
bedding, breechclouts, and women’s short skirts. Bark cloth has
decorated surfaces consisting of parallel, diagonal lines and of other
geometrical figures made with a black dye. All of the Panaman
Indian Tribes understand the use of the loom and of the spindle.
The Talamanca of Costa Rica, the Cuna and Tule of Panama all
employ similar devices and weaving implements. One of the ex-
amples of loom work on which the Darien Indian lavishes his best
efforts in figured design is the woven headband, worn on gala
occasions. It is woven on a simple weaving frame.

The Cuna Indians of the Panaman interior were formerly sup-
posed to have a system of pictographic writing expressed in appliqué
work. The designs were copied by the Tule (pls. 32, 33), but the
ideographic significance of the characters and animal figures re-
mained unknown to them. The use of an appliqué-embroidered
woman’s garment in the form of a chemise was first brought to view
658 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

in the collection presented by Mrs. E. Y. Bell. The designs are
highly conventionalized and have several layers of cut and insert
appliqué work (pl. 34).

The Mexican tribes are represented in the Museum collections by
articles of dress, by sashes, satchels, and serape blankets; the Centra]
American or Mayan Tribes by fabrics in which the old geometric
conventional designs of mythological character are preserved. South
America furnishes excellent examples of the native art, ancient and
modern. ‘The burial places of Peru yield textiles of almost unrivaled
artistic excellence. The sleeved shirt in openwork pattern and the
sleeveless garment in Gobelin style, ornamented with great numbers
of conventionalized bird forms, are typical objects of dress, while
the fragment of a crimson manile is a marvel of textile construction.
The body of this mantle is made up of hundreds of separate disks,
into which are woven human features, and from the centers hang
clusters of minute tassels, the round head of each imitating the human
face, while the border is a fringe of tassels of varying size in most
tasteful arrangement. Other examples of Peruvian textiles have con-
ventionalized birds and animals as the usual decorative motives.

Although skillful weavers of cotton cloth, the Arawak Indians of
the West Indies possessed but scanty clothing. Women wore a short
skirt of woven cotton fabric after marriage, but the unmarried girls
went naked. In the culturally more advanced districts of Haiti there
was a distinction in the type of women’s skirts according to the rank
of the wearer. A typical garment reached from the waist to the mid-
thigh, while the skirts of women of importance extended to the ankle.
Among the Lucayans of the Bahamas and the natives of Porto Rico
and Cuba the male population went entirely nude. Body painting
was resorted to in the absence of clothing. Puberty was celebrated
with a feast, after which girls wore a small net filled with leaves and
attached to the waist. Both sexes wore ornamental cotton bandages
on upper arms, below the knees, and at the ankle. Similar orna-
ments were worn in Jamaica and are still the fashion among the
Indians of southeastern Panama. Ferdinand Columbus, writing of
the Carib on the island of Guadeloupe in the Lesser Antilles, refers
to the same custom as being practiced there. The presence of these
bandages is indicated on wooden zemis (wooden idols) in the National
Museum from Santo Domingo. Ferdinand Columbus also states that
in one hut on the island of Cuba over 12,000 pounds of cotton was
found in the native dwellings, together with a new variety of loom
on which it was woven. This loom was possibly of the Central
American or Mayan type as contrasted with the regular South
American Arawak type.

y
*
v
&

—
INDIAN COSTUMES—KRIEGER 659

The aboriginal inhabitants of the west coast of South America
south of Peru possessed a crude culture distinct from that of the
ancient Peruvians. Loom weaving and other culture traits of the
Incas later appeared as far south as the Maule River and are now
extensively practiced. The Araucanian Indians formerly occupied the
greater part of Chile. (PI. 35.) To the south were the Choncans
and the Ona, who were in possession of a distinct culture centering
about the hunting of the guanaco with bola and lasso.

There are exhibited in the national collections from this area woven
and embroidered textiles, consisting of figured woven blankets and
striped ponchos, woven slings in orange and purple colors, woven
headbands striped and decorated with silver beads, figured and
fringed woven belts, and other decorated fabrics. The more ad-
vanced culture of the region about Lake Titicaca is exemplified by
blankets and slings of vicufia wool.

The more primitive jungle culture of the middle Amazon is shown
in examples of bark cloth, bright-colored ornaments, and necklaces
of seeds or of teeth.

The environment of the upper Amazon varies from the arid west-
ern slope of the Andes to the heavily forested region at the eastern
foothills. The tribes of the Andean region of Peru and northern
Bolivia were characterized by a very advanced culture. Articles
in the exhibit from that region demonstrate their skill in weaving.
The brilliant feathers and the green-beetle wings were much used
for personal adornment by the tribes of the eastern Andes, whose
culture becomes more primitive as it leaves the old Inca center about
Cuzco. Aprons of beadwork with geometric designs, bracelets and
armlets of bark and feathers, and feathered ceremonial gourd rattles
indicate the artistic concepts of the Indians of the lower tropical
forested region.

A typical example of the Indian tribes inhabiting the forest region
of the upper Amazon are the Jivaro Indians of Ecuador. The Jivaro
live on the headwaters of the Maranon River. Their costume shows
consideration and appreciation of color, which they derive from
tropical birds and beetles. ‘The cincture and headdress are made
by fastening the feathers of the toucan and blue chatterer to a
foundation of bark cloth. The necklace, armlets, and leglets are made
of seeds, beetle wings, monkey teeth, and teeth of the puma. The bag
carried in the hand is knit from a continuous string. (PI. 36.) The
costume exhibited was collected by W. E. Safford.

Another exhibit from the Jivaro Indians is the collection of J. G.
Culbertson. It includes featherwork, beaded aprons, and bandoliers
of small disklike black seeds, and dried human heads as ornaments
660 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

characteristic of their art. The prepared human head has undergone
a process of shrinking, principally through the removal of the bones
of the skull and jaw. It has been dried and smoked over the daily
fire used for cooking, the hair being wrapped up in leaves to protect
it from the smoke. ‘The Jivaro Indians consider such a prepared
head a splendid ornament to be worn about the neck as a trophy.

The feathers ornamenting the skirt, headdress, and bandoliers
are from a bird with soft orange-red plumage that the natives call
“ cock-of-the-rock,” also from a species of toucan with white breast
margined with red and yellow tail coverts. The rest of the bird’s
plumage is black. Each tuft of yellow or of red feathers, therefore,
represents the life of one bird. The armlet and back pendant
show the characteristic use of metallic-green beetle’s elytra. Mon-
keys’ teeth and the bleached leg bones of birds, together with beads
of small disk-shaped black seeds, in part, make up the composition
of the bandolier, ear ornaments, and skirt.

The tribes of the Grand Chaco correspond in similarity of location
with the Plains Indians of North America and, like them, live a rov-
ing life. In the collection of costumes of Indians from Paraguay are
parts of costumes ornamented with feathers of tropical birds. There
are also shown knitted bags resembling those which are found from
the pueblo region to temperate South America.

The introduction of the horse among the tribes of the great South
American plains had a tremendous effect upon their culture, as it
facilitated the hunting of the guanaco and the rhea, and increased
their nomadic habits. From the most typical hunting tribe of Pata-
gonia, the Tehuelche, are exhibited painted robes of horsehide
and vicuna skins, spurs, boots, and other articles of dress connected
with their horsemanship.

In addition to the outstanding collections of costumes from South
American tribes to which mention has been made, reference should
be made, among others, to the following: From the temperate regions
of South America, a robe of rhea skin, collected by J. B. Hatcher
from the Tehuelche Indians of Patagonia; the Hassler collection of
netted bags from Paraguay; knitted leggings from Peru, by W. E.
Curtis; and gloves of llama wool, by W. E. Safford, who also col-
lected and presented a large number of other articles of dress from
the Indians of Peru, Paraguay, Bolivia, Ecuador, and Chile. The
large collection of paintings made for W. E. Safford by a Bolivian
Indian show to advantage the dress of various tribes in Bolivia,
Ecuador, Tierra del Fuego, Peru, and other lands in South America.
An exchange collection from the Museum of Buenos Aires includes
a cord war shirt from the Chorote Indians of the Chaco in the
INDIAN COSTUMES—KRIEGER 661

Argentine, while the J. N. Ruffin collection includes a war shirt from
a Paraguay tribe. In this collection are objects from the Calchaque
Indians and others in the Argentine. The P. Figyelmessy collection
from British Guiana includes feathered headdresses, while other
headdresses from the Jamamadi of Brazil are represented in the
J. B. Steere collection. Blankets from the Araucanian Indians of
Chile are represented in the D. 8. Bullock collection, while a large
collection of skin robes, blankets, and ponchos from Bolivia and
Patagonia were presented by Miss I. H. Lenman.

24034—29 43

CALA SSMS TTR eC Sa a
tae ne git Sotiaity BRE "i ae
ay hg cti ‘op Bi a ; Henin eee 2 “ :

Maes Tas Si See Rea yalicke ty hig
iit Soe ie Sian. Rae
ena thas Fite at ehe Wied Aes sealed pay ‘band
ST, SUG CTOP Ee Tee We Mee aa ileal enti alg 4g
ee Coulin jaed, Pree lanes) bir Beis var cyl Deel: dap Lee siaiihy be
ohh) Code trejael hate aecalony Ta Ai i ea ehayp a wie!
; TAS PAW Oiler, el -enaner oa, ficiet' pica et: ei ies
ke Ch hes Tae E eR tye ite ivy psi Tt ‘py piitg Lieto SE hemathaiag:
ATED. tre: Pitas Tide ait Miah anak sii, tiie CoWare Barwa -
Lea a, Ee ae di il ere tect ot Tks haa: Sergiy a |
PER ES eC sey Hin een ann sas $b Legh 1) heli ake Meet ged Pies Ce ae, a Na
pat ees ty Toa Par Ae fa, fe “sh Wivats a AA heryies WD isly. une. eet was? Ban a:
beets Pint NUP ae ae a i) (ayy sibs mat ee Pa , Avior bwy i ads He ny

ie

eae anti cat YG cal antaccate wiikey i a, Ks ef ihe hag ;

+.

hoe
af

ek Meg

ee iis hog eh is pene ee Fue ‘Nia tal aid
ae Boia? Eaton i re, re ae i

us ee ey em a, ce me Ly

ed hee

Cg Soe Ca sk
fa sh i yeti Seen ie |
Rea aoa Tis 430 zine totais wiles ‘vt Che ae) ety | cava ‘ing
LES a ieee hint estoy ote teat eine: ‘Cera OB

Sach rashes Jtbieg tole tallaeiags ily hs tole
ue bay SIAC TIN CR PURE ane ere ii, liek ck iy Be bean a
hony thifedldis tidings df Patani te ciate bitte
$25) eae brite Parting x Pygttant leer fy cpeu OES Analy
“PERRIS ieGAT LOR Gt aaa GL. Bee ae ne, . Sea tong etic
heen i ah py as cnge: Og ces Be UN atk ts rie of iter aasile ‘oh a
ine ieee ne hE eile ai gieiy Hae Ue Tay Thin Fy
HERO ARIA Toe Of Pep RU ies Vande Sane ee vs Salone La
ne Sib. 6 snags Ae ley Weave, San
eat) Dies iat FR HiBxe Merit. seeded! eth? tages ing ,
SS ae Rie eerie een Pe lettin “Yh Resto
cM CRE o He et a idles
MOUNDS AND OTHER ANCIENT EARTHWORKS OF THE
UNITED STATES*

By Davin I. BUSHNELL, Jr.

[With 12 plates]

So familiar are we with the present condition of our country, with
its great cities and towns and the network of highways extending
from ocean to ocean that it is difficult to picture the same region as
a wilderness occupied by savage tribes, whose scattered villages were
reached by narrow trails through the virgin forests. But such it
was, and less than a century has passed since the greater part became
definitely known, the courses of the rivers correctly mapped, the
mountain ranges discovered and accurately located, and many native
tribes visited and identified. Great changes have taken place in
recent years; towns have multiplied and expanded; and as one result
of the destruction of the forests and cultivation of the soil, especially
in the region eastward from the Mississippi, traces of the native
villages are rapidly disappearing and the works erected by the people
who occupied the sites generations ago are being leveled by the plow
and thus obliterated.

The present sketch has been prepared for the purpose of showing
the many types of mounds and strange and curious earthworks
erected by the native tribes of this part of America, but let us first
consider the great wilderness and the widely dispersed groups of
settlements encountered by the early explorers and missionaries.

Karly in the sixteenth century ships manned by the hardy sca-
men of England, France, and Spain reached the coasts of the newly
discovered continent, and within a generation more pretentious
expeditions were fitted out to explore the interior in the endeavor to
find gold and treasure and to reach the western ocean. Thus before
the middle of the century the Spaniards had traversed the southern
lands from Florida to the Mississippi and beyond, while others com-
ing from Mexico had reached the prairies bordering the Missouri.
Vessels from France had sailed up the St. Lawrence, and in 1535
the French discovered Hochelaga, a great Iroquoian palisaded town

1 Published through the courtesy of the National Geographic Society, who released the
manuscript and illustrations for use in the Smithsonian Report. 63
6
664 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

which stood on the site of the present city of Montreal—a name which
perpetuates that given to the hill upon which the native town then
stood, Mont Royal.

As one result of the early expeditions, and undoubtedly there were
many of which no record is now available, it became known to the
people of Europe that America was occupied by many native tribes
who spoke different languages, whose villages differed in form and
appearance, and whose manners and customs were influenced to a
marked degree by their natural environments. Some had well-
developed tribal organizations, were comparatively sedentary, and
occupied sites where frail bark habitations had probably been reared
through many generations. Near many villages were rather exten-
sive gardens in which were raised varieties of beans, pumpkins,
quantities of corn, and other vegetables for food. Other tribes
were more roving and each year would travel long distances through
the forests or pass with their light canoes along the streams to reach
the hunting grounds where game was more plentiful and more easily
taken than in the vicinity of their villages. In many localities the
entire village would seek the protection of the dense forests against
the winter storms. During the frequent journeys away from their
more permanent settlements they would establish camps on the
banks of streams or in the vicinity of springs or lakes; the sites of
these small camps may now be recognized by the occurrence of a few
bits of broken pottery, chips of stone, or other camp refuse.

A very careful estimate of the entire native population of that
part of the present United States which extends eastward from the
Mississippi to the Atlantic shows it to have been approximately
300,000, far less than that of many cities now standing within the
same bounds. Certainly a small number of persons to have occu-
pied such a vast region, and as some parts were far more thickly
peopled than others wide stretches were without a human occupant
and were seldom visited except by roving bands of warriors bound
for the villages of their enemies or by hunters in quest of food.

The many tribes are now known to have constituted several well-
defined linguistic groups, and of these, at the time of the coloniza-
tion, the Algonquian was evidently the most numerous. Tribes be-
longing to this family dominated the coastal plain from Carolina to
Labrador, and thus included the native people of Virginia and New
England so famed in the early history of the colonies. Kindred
tribes lived westward in the vicinity of Lake Michigan. Iroquoian
tribes of central New York, who by reason of their highly developed
tribal organization formed the league of the Iroquois, were practi-
cally surrounded by the Algonquians. The Cherokee were the most
important of the detached Iroquoian tribes and lived in the moun-
tainous region of western Carolina and eastern Tennessee and had as
MOUNDS OF THE UNITED STATES—BUSHNELL 665

neighbors to the southward members of the Muskhogean stock, in-
cluding the numerous tribes of the Creek Confederacy, the Choctaw,
Chickasaw, and others. Northern Florida was peopled by the
Timucua, whose villages were scattered across the peninsula from
the Atlantic coast to the shores of the Gulf of Mexico. Siouan
Tribes, remotely related to those who lived far westward in parts of
the valley of the Mississippi, were found in Virginia and Carolina.
Several other families were represented by the people encountered
east of the Mississippi, but they appear to have been greatly reduced
from their former strength and numbers. Of the many linguistic
groups found west of the Mississippi one may now be mentioned—
the Caddoan, to which belonged many tribes including the Wichita,
Arikara, and Pawnee. Less than 50 years have passed since the
great earth lodge villages of the latter stood near the banks of the
Platte, west of the Missouri.

With such well-defined groups of tribes who had probably occu-
pied certain regions for many generations, it is reasonable to attribute
to them the majority of the ancient mounds and other works of a
similar nature encountered within the limits of their territories,
although in some instances works standing in a section known to
have been occupied by a certain group during historic times were
undoubtedly erected by others at an earlier period. However, it is
now possible to identify the builders of the great majority of ancient
works of various sizes and forms found between the Atlantic coast
and the eastern slopes of the Rocky Mountains. And as a conse-
quence of the different manners and ways of life of the people of
widely separated parts of the country the existing traces of their
ancient camps and villages, their burial places, and the earth and
stone structures which were erected by many tribes vary in form and
appearance.

Many writers in the past have referred to all tumuli, inclosures,
embankments, and other forms of earth and stone monuments left
by the native tribes as mounds, which is not only erroneous but
quite misleading. The ancient works are of many forms and sizes,
and in the present sketch it will be shown that in some localities
types are to be found that do not occur elsewhere, and these in many
instances present characteristic features proving their builders to
have possessed manners and customs radically different from those
of their neighbors. In addition to the burial mounds and other
structures which were intentionally planned and raised are some
which may be termed accidental but which, nevertheless, must be
considered with the former. The principal of these are the shell
heaps which are encountered along the coasts wherever edible
mollusks were obtainable in quantities. The vast accumulations of
shells resulted from the gathering of clams or oysters by the native
666 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

people, who opened them and either ate them on the spot or smoked
and dried them for future use. Many small deposits of shells are
visible along the shore, often having been exposed and worn away
by the encroaching waters. Some heaps are of great size and were
frequented by oyster gatherers for generations, their use probably
extending over a period of several centuries. The examination of
such sites usually proves of interest, as bits of broken pottery, bones
of animals, masses of wood ashes and charcoal, and an occasional
complete implement or ornament which had been accidentally lost
may often be discovered in contact with the accumulated shells.
Although the majority of shell deposits are quite small, others are
of vast proportions, and all prove the importance of sea food to the
natives who frequented our coasts several centuries ago. The great
shell heap on the bank cf Damariscotta River, Me., was more than
400 feet in length and 22 feet in depth. The same form of pottery
was found in all parts of the great mass, and as the fragments
possessed all the characteristics of the earthenware vessels known to
have been made by the Algonquian Tribes whose villages stood in
New England at the time of the coming of the colonists, and whose
descendants may still be found, it is quite evident that their ancestors
gathered the oysters and clams which resulted in the accumulation of
such vast numbers of shells. Shell heaps dot the entire coast, and
many are to be encountered far up the streams. One of the most
renowned of these is at the mouth of Popes Creek, which flows into
the Potomac on the Maryland shore some miles above Chesapeake
Bay. This shell heap once covered an area of 30 acres or more,
with a depth in places of 15 feet (p]. 1). The mass was very com-
pact, and in some places it was possible to trace the circular de-
pressed sites occupied by the lodges of the oyster gatherers, with
the fireplaces in the center. And how interesting it is to contemplate
the scenes so often enacted here, with a cluster of mat or bark
covered lodges in the midst.of the expanse of shells, with canoes
drawn up on the shore, and narrow trails leading through the dense
forests to the distant villages.

Ancient EartHworks, MONUMENTS oF ANOTHER RACE

For centuries before the colonization of America by Europeans
the country had been occupied by another people, whose strange
customs and beliefs caused them to raise many mounds and earth-
works, some being of great size and of curious design. In this brief
sketch of the ancient monuments, many of which have been de-
stroyed within recent years, the regions known to have been domi-
nated by the several linguistic families will be considered separately,
and it will be shown how the different groups of tribes, possessing
MOUNDS OF THE UNITED STATES—BUSHNELL 667

as they did different manners and ways of life, erected works of
varying forms to serve well-defined purposes.

THE “FORTS” OF THE NEW ENGLAND INDIANS

The native tribes of New England, those to whom the shell heaps
have been attributed, did not erect burial mounds although they
often constructed low earth embankments, usually accompanied by
a ditch and surmounted by palisades, to surround and thus protect
their habitations. These were quite small when compared with
many similar works erected by tribes west of the Hudson, and now,
after the lapse of several centuries, few can be traced. Some were
square, others circular, and all designed for protection. ‘These were
the “forts” of the natives, so often mentioned by the early histo-
rians.

Many small inclosures, burial places, fish weirs, and other indica-
tions of Indian occupancy were encountered by the colonists, but
with the lapse of time great changes have been wrought and now
few of the ancient works remain.

IN THE COUNTRY OF THE IROQUOIS

Westward from New England, beyond the Hudson, lived the
Troquois, so famed in history. About the year 1570 the five tribes,
Mohawk, Cayuga, Oneida, Onondaga, and Seneca, formed a con-
federacy for mutual strength and protection, and in 1722 the kindred
Tuscarora, having moved northward from their earlier habitat in
Carolina, became the sixth nation of the league of the Iroquois.
Although the several tribes just mentioned had occupied or domi-
nated the region for a long period, it is quite evident that others had
preceded them and had, during their occupancy of the country,
erected many of the small burial mounds near the sites later occu-
pied by the Iroquoian tribes. This does not necessarily imply, how-
ever, that the Iroquois did not raise some of the mounds found
standing in the country which they so recently dominated. Mounds,
all quite small, are found in every county in the State of New York
west of a line running north and south through Oneida Lake, and
others, more scattered, are encountered east of this line.

The French and Dutch were the first to reach the Iroquois, and
many objects derived from these sources have been recovered from
sites of the towns which were occupied during early historic times
or from burials dating from these years. A mound stood in Che-
nango County, near the mouth of Geneganstlet Creek, and when
opened nearly a century ago revealed a number of burials, together
with many stone objects, a ring or band of silver, and a heart-shaped
ornament of mica. This stood in the region occupied by the Tus-
668 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

carora after the year 1722, and as the discovery of a silver object
proves the burial to have been made in historic times it may justly
be attributed to the southern tribe. Some member of the tribe may
have carried the mica ornament from their ancient home, which was
situated near the principal source of supply of that mineral.

Although so few mounds were raised by the Iroquois, and fewer
remain to indicate the sites of their early settlements, nevertheless
the country once occupied by their many villages formerly abounded
in monuments of a far more interesting nature, and what is true
of the country of the Six Nations will also apply to the region ex-
tending westward along the south shore of Lake Erie and north of
the lake to the shores of Georgian Bay, thence eastward to the St.
Lawrence—lands occupied by the ancient Erie and Huron, who were
related linguistically to the people of the Six Nations.

It was the custom of these people to surround their villages with
palisades or with embankments of earth or of earth and stone which
were surmounted by a palisade. A ditch is usually traceable at
the foot of the embankment. The camps and villages were thus in-
closed to afford protection when attacked by their enemies and to
prevent the wild beasts of the forests entering and prowling about
the settlements, and it is now difficult to realize that so short a time
has elapsed since the heavily forested home of the Iroquois was the
haunt of bears and wolves, that moose and deer were so numerous,
and the beaver could be found building his dam in every stream. So
great was the danger arising from many sources that some of the
more important sites were surrounded by two, or even more, lines of
palisades, one within the other, thus providing even greater protec-
tion to the inhabitants. This had evidently been the custom of the
people from the earliest days of their occupancy of the rich valleys
of which they were so fond; the palisades have now disappeared,
although in some instances the post holes are still revealed by the
discoloration of decomposed wood. Remains of many embankments
are standing, but with the rapid development of the country they are
gradually disappearing. It is fortunate, therefore, that about the
middle of the last century a large number of the more important
sites were surveyed and described, so we may now know of their
size and appearance before they were destroyed by the plow.

THE CURIOUS EARTHWORKS OF SOUTHERN OHIO

Burial mounds and traces of fortified camps similar to those
already mentioned occur in northern Ohio, the home before the
middle of the seventeenth century of Iroquoian tribes. In southern
Ohio, in addition to many mounds and remains of walls and embank-
ments raised to protect the camps, are ancient monuments of an
entirely different form, and among them are the most remarkable
MOUNDS OF THE UNITED STATES—BUSHNELL 669

prehistoric earthworks in America. The great circles, squares, octa-
gons, the long embankments, and many of strange design may be
considered the most marvelous earthworks constructed by ancient
man, and it is difficult to realize that an American tribe possessed
the skill and ingenuity exhibited in their construction. But it is
evident that the builders were a sedentary people who cultivated
large gardens in the vicinity of their villages, and they must have °
been comparatively numerous with well-established customs and
beliefs, as indicated by the repetition of several highly developed
types of works as units of many groups.

The magnitude of some groups is surprising. The works at New-
ark, Licking County, covered an area of about 2 square miles and
consisted of two distinct divisions connected by long, parallel walls.
Fortunately the large circle (diameter 1,189 feet), one of the im-
portant units of the group, has been preserved and is one of the most
interesting prehistoric works in the country. (Pl. 2.) The group
at Portsmouth, on the banks of the Ohio at the mouth of the Scioto,
was originally far more extended than that at Newark and was of
special interest, as the long lines of parallel embankments were con-
tinued on the opposite bank of the Ohio where they terminated in
a circular work of great size.

These strange works are numerous northward from Portsmouth,
up the valley of the Scioto, and along the courses of the smaller
tributary streams, and were it possible to solve the mystery of their
origin and the meaning of their curious designs it would add a fasci-
nating chapter to the early history of the Ohio Valley.

Many small clusters and many isolated works stood in the valley
of Paint Creek, a small stream flowing from the west and entering
the Scioto just below Chillicothe. (Pl. 3.) Here were burial mounds
and fortified camps and perfectly formed groups of the combined
squares and circles, designs so often repeated but the meaning of which
is not known. <A short distance north of Chillicothe, on the right bank
of the Scioto, was that most interesting inclosure to which the name
Mound City was applied. Of the 24 mounds standing within the
walls, some were quite large, one rising 17 feet above the plain
and having a diameter of 100 feet. A great number of stone pipes
carved to represent birds and animals were recovered from the
smaller mound near the southwest corner of the inclosure.

Works of such unusual forms and of such magnitude attracted the
attention of the early travelers, who readily recognized them as
being very different from any remains then standing in the older
settled parts of the country. Pioneers often reared their cabins on
the sites of the ancient villages. The first group to be described
was that discovered on the left bank of the Muskingum, at its junc-
tion with the Ohio, the site of the present Marietta. The account
670 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

was prepared by Capt. Jonathan Heart, of the First Regiment, and
appeared accompanied by a map in Volume I, No. 9 of the Colum-
bian Magazine, Philadelphia, May, 1787. It was an interesting
group of medium size, consisting of two quadrilateral inclosures,
within and without which were various mounds and embankments.
South of the smaller inclosure, nearer the banks of the Ohio, was a
beautiful example of ancient earth mound, very symmetrical and
surrounded by a ditch and embankment, a type found elsewhere in
the near-by country on both sides of the Ohio.

The class of works to which those already mentioned belonged
were so skillfully made, of such perfect outline and proportion, that
they are usually referred to as ceremonial structures, thus distin-
euishing them from the more massively constructed embankments
which were obviously intended to protect the inclosed villages. Some
were quite small, but others would have offered security for thou-
sands of persons. The space within the irregular walls of Fort
Ancient, Warren County, Ohio, equaled about 100 acres—suflicient,
we are inclined to believe, to have furnished space for the native
population of the entire valley. (Pl. 4.) The walls or embankments
are more than 314 miles in length. The area of the inclosed ground
at Fort Hill, in Highland County, Ohio, was about 48 acres, and
there were many similar sites. The interesting fortification in
Butler County, which stood on the west side of the Great Miami
River, was about one-third the size of the latter. The wall, formed
of stone and earth, was about 5 feet in height and 35 feet in width
at base. It skirted the brow of the hill, on both sides of which flowed
small streams, a position easily defended. ‘The several openings in
the wall and the manner in which they were protected are the
unusual features of the fortification. (PI. 5.)

Burial mounds are often associated with the earthworks, or stand
near by, and when examined reveal the methods followed by the
ancient people in disposing of their dead. Some were cremated and
the ashes deposited in prepared graves, all being eventually covered
with earth and the mound thus raised. This is a highly specialized
form of burial and is yet another proof of the cultural development
of the people who occupied the valleys of southern Ohio many gen-
erations ago. Possessing as we do such evidence of the existence
of permanent villages, of a rather large population occupying rich
and fertile lands where such labor had been expended in the con-
struction of lasting monuments, we are confronted with the question
of why they were abandoned. The question may never be answered,
but this was probably the early habitat of Siouan tribes, ancestors
of the Osage, Omaha, and others of the related group, who when
first met by Europeans were living west of the Mississippi, but whose
dV¥3H 773HS

ISUUSNE—"8261 uodey uejuosyajWS

OIHO ‘MYVMAN LV dNOYS SHL 4O SLINM AHL AO ANO ‘310YID LVaYD AHL SNO1VY SNIXOO7

o ALlWwld jjauysng—'gzel ‘Hoday uB|LOSYyWS
PLATE 3

Bushnell

Smithsonian Report, 1928.

ts
VTA
Was,
“ td, Si

~

Man yon r

isk

>
Qnecs Je

ca Sr@leoor op

eee

wile

D2

&
2 |
q
:
Q
Si
=

\

a

S1X MILES OF PAINT CREEK VALLEY, Ross COUNTY, OHIO

From the original now in the Library of Congress Washington, D .C.

. G. Squier, 1847.

y
VI

Drawn by I
IMoqe 04 sas

Seid
{1 41 quod ouo0 38 YZno

® OOT 4[0.euUITxo1dde SI9/

A090 pu oar
Ue “aay or 7 9 uloIy ST JYSIey ose

OIHO “ALNNOD N3Yuv my

[qno ur TVINFZOIN AVA g
JOAB SqT

“LNSION

“Sour 27¢ ue

V 1LYO4 4o 4N3W>NVaWg

T2401 UIYIIM vorR SUL 409] BT
{1 e10UL Jo “499, CIL‘8T St [pea aTqvyre

SHI

T

W191 911 Jo 44

Sud aIJUe ayy

N8uUYsng—-gz6) ‘Wodey u

BIUOSY}IWS
Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Bushnell PLATE 5

Alors ch La

Cinthe PiechihiG.

My : r
Ay
J Ea

_

REO)

RAY

(

Ml

Ysqys!

t
ify
Apuls

Cian
Wy Mii, 7
Mi

‘
1

TE
SO é

t

Mt

4 49544 6454 wy SS
my pels MAH yt ygeer

== ‘

vi
\\

SCALE,
sovtetl tothe Inch.

FVD lan Gs Cenc:

“ot 4! Foe /53C,

FORTIFIED HILL, BUTLER COUNTY, OHIO

Original now in Library of Congress, Washington, D. C.

Drawn by James McBride, 1836.
Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Bushnell PLATE 6

ile

CONICAL MOUND ON WOLF PLAINS, JUST SOUTH OF GALINA, ATHENS COUNTY,
OHIO

2. A SPREADING, CIRCULAR MOUND IN THE PARK AT ZANESVILLE, OHIO
MOUNDS OF HE UNITED STATES—BUSHNELL 671

ancient home, according to traditions, was in the upper valley of the
Ohio. Beautiful examples of circular mounds are shown in Plate 6.

THE SICUAN TRIBES EAST OF OHIO

Siouan tribes lived eastward from Ohio, across the mountains, and
at the time of the settlement of Virginia and Carolina tribes of this
stock dominated the region westward from the falls of the James at
Richmond. They erected burial mounds of a form not so very dif-
ferent from those reared by the Choctaw of the far south, as will be
described later. And it was a mound of this type that Thomas
Jefferson opened about the time of the American Revolution and de-
scribed so minutely in his notes. This particular place of burial
stood near the center of a lowland on the right bank of the Rivanna,
about 4 miles due north of the University of Virginia, in Albemarle
County. It was estimated to have contained the remains of at least
1,000 individuals, and must necessarily have been the burial place
of the dead of the near-by village for many years. Northward about
15 miles distant, on the right bank of the Rapidan, was another burial
place of the same type—a large mound which contained the remains
of several hundred individuals and which may have been even larger
than the one examined by Jefferson. Surrounding both mounds
were extensive traces of large villages—sites of Monacan towns occu-
pied at the time of the settlement of the colony. It is quite probable
these mounds were erected, all or in part, subsequent to the year 1600.
Similar mounds, described in early records as “ Indian graves,” have
been discovered in other parts of the surrounding country, and some
have been encountered southward as far as Cape Fear in North
Carolina.

THE BIRD AND ANIMAL EFFIGIES OF WISCONSIN

The central portion of the valley of the Ohio is justly famed for
the number and the magnitude of the geometric earthworks which
stood there at the time of the settlement of the country by the pio-
neers from the east, but in the region between the Mississippi and
Lake Michigan are found works of another type scarcely less in-
teresting. These are the effigy mounds, low spreading structures
often representing birds and animals; some may have been designed
to show human figures with outstretched arms, others are more con-
ventionalized, gradually merged into long embankments, often con-
tinuing in parallel rows. These curious works, with few exceptions,
occur in the southern part of Wisconsin, from Prairie du Chien at
the mouth of the Wisconsin River across the State to near the shores
of Lake Michigan. Some of the largest and most varied groups
occur in Grant County, bordering on the Mississippi, and northward
in the adjoining county of Crawford (fig. 1). The effigies often
672 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

occupy the summit of a ridge, where they are placed in such a man-
ner as to suggest a flight of birds with outstretched wings or a
number of animals following one after another. Of the individual
effigies discovered in Grant County the most noted is that termed
the “ Elephant Mound ” (fig. 2) from its fancied resemblance to an
elephant, an animal unknown to the builders of the effigies. It
stood a short distance from the Mississippi, south of the village of
Wyalusing, and the area it occupied was bounded on three sides
by higher ground. Forty years ago, after the surface had been
cultivated for some years, this interesting figure measured 4 feet in

Ficurp 1.—Typical effigy mounds representing two animals and one bird, also ene long
mound. On the crest of a hill, on sec. 24, T. 8 N., T. 6 W., Crawford County, Wis.
The animal figures were each about 80 feet in length and 2 feet in height; the bird
was somewhat higher

height and 140 feet in length, undoubtedly reduced in height and
greatly spread in length and breadth from its original condition.

Small burial mounds are found in the region occupied by the
effigies, some of these undoubtedly containing the remains of persons
who assisted in raising the curious works.

Only four effigies have been encountered outside the rather re-
stricted area just mentioned. Of these, two are in Ohio and two in
Georgia. The two in Ohio are the great Serpent Mound in Adams
County, and the strange figure termed “the Alligator,” in Licking
County. The two figures in Georgia represent birds with out-
stretched wings and were formed of stones, thus differing from the
other examples,
MOUNDS OF THE UNITED STATES—BUSHNELL 673

SMALL MOUNDS AND LONG EMBANKMENTS NEAR THE HEADWATERS
OF THE MISSISSIPPI

As we continue westward from Wisconsin to the headwaters of the
Mississippi and beyond we encounter long embankments, similar to
although in many instances much more extensive than those associ-
ated with the effigy mounds already described. They are found in
many places in Minnesota, northward in the adjoining Provinces of
Canada, in North Dakota, and some southward. Many are several
hundred feet in length and 15 to 20 feet in width at base. In many
instances they are placed parallel to one another; others form irregu-
lar inclosures which would have served poorly as works of defense,

ii
Ny

TVA
‘] '

if

|

I
tH

Zee " ESS

Ficure 2.—The “ Elephant Mound,’ Grant County, Wis., as it appeared some years
ago. It then measured 4 feet in height and its extreme length was 140 feet. It was
undoubtedly intended to represent a bear, with its head to the south. The surface
has been plowed for many years

and it is difficult to offer a plausible theory of the purpose for which
these ancient embankments were erected.

in central Minnesota, the home of the Dakota when they were
first encountered by the French, are innumerable small burial
mounds which may justly be attributed to these tribes. The mounds
stand in large groups on the shores of lakes or banks of streams,
often placed in long rows, then again in irregular clusters, as the
nature of the ground permitted. When excavated they reveal small
bundles of human bones; it was the custom of these people to remove
the flesh from the bones before the latter were placed in the graves.
In after years, when the Ojibway gained control of the region about
the headwaters of the Mississippi, a region of dense pine forests and
674 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

many lakes, they continued to use the ancient mounds as burial
places for their dead, placing the bodies in an extended position near
the surface. This is the simple explanation of the two distinct forms
of burial discovered in the mounds, and what is true in Minnesota
is equally true in other sections of the country as regards the use of
the same mounds by one or more tribes who possessed different
manners and customs. But some tribes, especially in the South, had
several methods of disposing of their dead, as indicated by the dis-
covery of various forms of burials in the same mound. These often
occur in contact with one another and were evidently placed there
by the same people at about the same time.

THE GREAT CAHOKIA MOUND, NEAR THE CENTER OF THE
MISSISSIPPI VALLEY

Innumerable mounds of various forms and sizes, erected by many
tribes to serve different purposes, are scattered throughout the valley
of the Mississippi, but the most imposing groups stand, or rather
stood, on both sides of the Mississippi a few miles below the mouth
of the Missouri. Here appears to have been the central gathering
place of the tribes of the valley, where they were wont to come to-
gether and where they had dwelt through many generations. In the
rich lowlands opposite the present city of St. Louis they raised the
great truncated pyramid, now designated Cahokia Mound, which
rises 100 feet above the plain, extends 1,080 feet from north to
south, and more than 700 feet from east to west (pl. 7), a remark-
able structure to have been reared by primitive man with the simplest
of methods and the crudest of implements. It is an imposing struc-
ture and should be carefully preserved as 2 monument erected by a
people of another race before the central valley of the continent
was known to Europeans. The ancient people, undoubtedly coming
from the south and possibly from as far away as Mexico, chose this
spot as the site of their greatest structure. How long they remained
and what causes impelled them to abandon the region may never be
determined, but their descendants were probably some tribe or tribes
known in historic times living away from their earlier habitat.

The massive work stands near the center of the plain, surrounded
by 70 or more lesser mounds, some of which rose more than 40 feet
above the natural surface. This principal group was flanked by
others to the north, south, and west, the latter having been on the
summit of the high cliff overlooking the Mississippi from the west,
an area now within the city of St. Louis. In addition to the many
mounds forming the four distinct clusters, which should be regarded
as four units of a greater group, were scattered mounds along the
brow of the bluffs bordering the lowlands on the east, but similar
artificial works are found overlooking the great river throughout its
MOUNDS OF THE UNITED STATES—BUSHNELL 675

course. Of the great number of mounds that formerly stood in the
vicinity of Cahokia, few remain in their original condition, many
have entirely disappeared within the past half century, and others
have been greatly reduced by the plow, now rising only as low
swells above the level surface of the plain. Cahokia, the great
mound, stands in practically the same condition as when first dis-
covered. Parts of its surface have been cultivated, but not sufficiently
to injure or modify its contour which is so clearly defined when
viewed from the east.

Cahokia was erected with its four sides facing the cardinal points,
as were the smaller rectangular mounds of the group, and on
the south it slopes from the summit plateau to the lower terrace
which continues in a narrow graded way to the level of the plain.
This must have served as the main approach for those ascending
from the surrounding lowland to the terrace or upper plateau, un-
doubtedly the scene of many and varied ceremonies by the occupants
of the land long before it was invaded by the people of another race.

Although Cahokia has never been extensively excavated, its arti-
ficial nature is beyond question. It was raised entirely by man by
primitive methods, and should now be preserved by the State as a
Jasting monument. It occupies a position in the Mississippi Valley
comparable to that of the pyramids of Egypt in the Valley of the
Nile and the massive structures in the Valley of Mexico. The de-
struction of Cahokia would prove an irreparable loss which must be
averted for the benefit of future generations.

As mentioned, Cahokia and all the lesser rectangular mounds of
the surrounding group were oriented with their sides facing the
cardinal points. This appears to have been the rule without excep-
tion, and the accuracy with which they were constructed makes it
quite evident that their builders had knowledge of the North Star,
which served as the guide in their labors.

When this region was first visited by Europeans during the lat-
ter part of the seventeenth century it was occupied by Algonquian
tribes, the Cahokia and related Tamaroa, belonging to the Illinois
confederacy. They were a roving people and had probably only
recently arrived on the bank of the Mississippi. They were in no way
associated with the erection of the great mounds standing nearby,
although many of the burials discovered eastward from the base of
Cahokia may justly be attributed to these later occupants of the
land.

Some miles eastward from the great mound groups, about 3 miles
northward from Lebanon, St. Clair County, is a large rectangular
mound rising above the surrounding level plain. It is placed with
its angles facing the cardinal points, thus differing from all similar
676 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

units of the Cahokia group, but resembling in several respects the
great Etowah mound standing in Bartow County, Ga.

SMALLER MOUNDS IN THE SOUTH RESEMBLE CAHOKIA

Many works farther south give the impression of having been
erected by people related to those who raised Cahokia. Quite similar
in outline although small in comparison, mounds in Jefferson and
other counties in Arkansas, in Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, and
Georgia, appear to have been built by related tribes or those who
possessed similar manners and customs, although distinct from the
northern tribes. To these tribes should be attributed the mounds in
Bartow County, Ga., southeast of Cartersville near the banks of
Etowah River. This is known as the Etowah group. The large
mound has an elevation of 61 feet above the low ground bordering
the river, and its base measures 380 by 330 feet, far less than Caho-
kia (pl. 8). On one side is a curious incline which does not reach
the summit. There were formerly many smaller mounds in the
vicinity of the large work, but all have disappeared. This was evi-
dently the site of a large town, an influential center of population,
and may have been visited by De Soto during the year 1540 when the
Spaniards traversed the southern country, but now little remains to
indicate the importance of the site.

THROUGH THE VALLEY OF THE MISSOURI AND ELSEWHERE WEST
OF THE MISSISSIPPI

Before discussing the mounds of the southern country, it will be
of interest to refer to the works found westward along the banks of
the Missouri, beginning at its junction with the Mississippi.

The small mounds quite plentifully distributed through this re-
gion are of several types and were probably erected by various tribes
at different periods during their migrations through the valley.
Within historic times, and probably for some years preceding the
coming of the French, the Missouri Valley was the home of Siouan
Tribes, the Osage and Kansa belonging to this linguistic family. But
they should not be regarded as the builders of the majority of the
mounds, although they may have erected some. Many mounds could
be attributed to any one of several tribes, but another class of works
belongs to a highly specialized type, few examples of which have been
discovered outside this region. These are the burial mounds, each of
which contains a large inclosure constructed of stone, usually rec-
tangular, well built and having often an opening or passage on one
side. (Pl. 9.) A few scattered tombs of this type have been encoun-
tered farther north near the Mississippi, and some have been dis-
rovered east of the river in Illinois. They are found up the Mis-
youri beyond the mouth of the Kansas River, but are far less
MOUNDS OF THE UNITED STATES—BUSHNELL 677

numerous than eastward from that point. The objects recovered
from these mounds are very crude, few in number, and do not aid
in the identification of the builders of the graves. It is believed they
were constructed by a tribe, or possibly by several related tribes, while
they were migrating through the valley, making long stops on the
way, as was the usual custom of many tribes when moving from one
section of the country to another, but whether they were going from
east to west or west to east has not been determined.

Small, low, spreading mounds exist in vast numbers west of the
Mississippi and south of the Missouri. They occur in extensive
groups, a hundred or more often being found within a limited area.
As an indication of their great number it will suifice to say that 860
were once counted within a space of less than 10 square miles in
Dallas County, Mo., forming several large groups with smaller
clusters between. They are encountered as far south as the coast
of the Gulf of Mexico, through Louisiana and Texas, and to add
to the mystery they are not found east of the Mississippi. All were
undoubtedly raised by man, or rather resulted from man’s work.
Some,may have been places of burial, similar to the innumerable
small mounds standing in the northern section of the Mississippi
Valley, although they are more ancient and all traces of the human
remains have disappeared from them. Others are evidently the re-
mains of earth-covered habitations which stood generations ago; the
frame, having fallen through decay, allowed the earth covering to
settle and form a low, spreading mound, slightly elevated above the
surrounding surface. Considering the great number of these small
mounds, their wide distribution, and the usual lack of implements
or bits of native pottery in the vicinity of the groups, their origin
remains one of the unsolved mysteries in connection with the
activities of the native tribes of this part of North America.

Within the past half century large earth-covered lodges were oc-
cupied by the Pawnee, Mandan, and other tribes in the upper Mis-
sour! Valley. Farther down the valley were ruined villages of the
same people, many of which had been inhabited during the eighteenth
century. (Pl. 10.) All were composed of similar structures, some
being more than 40 feet in diameter, flattened, dome shaped, made
of a heavy frame covered with thatch and a mass of earth and sod.
In some instances the floor space within the circular wall had been
excavated several feet; in others only a slight excavation, if any,
had been made. The frames decayed and fell away, and where the
excavated space was not sufficient to hold the earth and sod which
had served to cover the lodge a low mound resulted, quite similar in
appearance to many found south of the Missouri.

240384—29-——_44
678 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

The curious mounds just mentioned must not be confused with the
small earth circles which also occur in groups, many of which are
found east as well as west of the Mississippi. ‘They have been dis-
covered in southern Illinois, parts of Kentucky and Tennessee, and
elsewhere east of the Mississippi; also across the river in southeastern
Missouri. Each of the small circles or slight depressions indicates
the site of an ancient habitation, possibly of a lodge, the walls of
which were composed of small interwoven branches or vines covered
with several inches of plastic clay which, when dry, formed a sub-
stantial wind-proof wall. Where a number of similar circles are
found together, often closely grouped and of uniform size, it is evi-
dence of the existence at some time in the past of a native village.
Many such settlements were surrounded by a ditch and an embank-
ment which was probably surmounted by a palisade, and although
the latter has long since disappeared the ditch and embankment may
be traced, unless leveled by the plow. Many villages on the banks
of the upper Missouri were so protected within the past century, a
continuation of a custom once practiced throughout the greater part
of the country. ,

A great number of mounds have been excavated in southeastern
Missouri and the adjoining part of Arkansas, and the majority have
revealed quantities of earthenware vessels of many shapes and styles
of decoration. They do not appear to be very ancient, and a large
proportion were probably fashioned by the tribes found occupying
the country by the early French explorers. The mounds were the
burial places belonging to the people of the near-by villages, and the
discovery of such quantities of pottery vessels in the mounds proves
the custom of the people of depositing many vessels in the graves
with their dead.

Careful examination of the mounds of Louisiana and Texas would
undoubtedly reveal much of interest and would assist in tracing the
line of migration of many southern tribes, but unfortunately very
little work has been done in that part of the country. Ancient trails
traversed the region and served to connect the west and southwest
with the Mississippi Valley. There is no reason to doubt the move-
ment of tribes from the southwest into the country bordering the
Mississippi and eastward, and eventually it may be shown that
Cahokia, Etowah, and other works of the same type owe their origin
to a tribe or group of tribes whose earlier habitat had been south of
the Rio Grande. The shell and copper objects found in the Missis-
sippi Valley, at the Etowah Mound, and elsewhere, which bear in-
cised decorations so like those employed by the ancient Mexican
artists, were undoubtedly made by some who had knowledge of the
works of the latter.
WHOM LVAYD SHL JO HLNOS LSNF ‘dNOYH VWINOHVD AHL OL OSNISNO1SG SGNNOW ‘S

isvq S3HL WOYS VIXOHVD ‘1

2 ALv1d 1aUUSNG—'BZ6lL ‘Hoday uvjuosYyyIWS
‘VD 'ALNNOD MOLYVG ‘ATIIASYALYVO AO LSVAHLNOS ‘GNNOIW) HVMOLZ

8 aLV1d }JauUySNG—8ZSlL ‘Wodaey uBlUOsSYy}WS
Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Bushnell PLATE 9

2. Showing wall opposite entrance

STONE INCLOSURE IN A MoOuNpD ABouT 4 MILES NORTH OF KANSAS CITY, Mo.
MOUND ABOUT 45 FEET IN DIAMETER; INCLOSURE APPROXIMATELY 8 FEET
SQUARE
[Lx] ‘Uosyoer AEM Aq ydess0j0yd)
VXSVYSAN NuSlsvy NI ‘ALLVId AHL 4O WHOH 3AdNOT] SHL NO GOOLS HOIHM SDVTIIA SANMVd

; =e ee es ee

Ol 3LV1d |auusng—'gz6| ‘Woday uBRiuosyyIWS
AJaysAUI JO aoe[d B SB OMB YIM UWI} AQ popdIvZeI SI puB ‘MEOH 9 [[B 07 UMOUY SI puNOUI a51LT SIU

“SSIIA, ‘ALNNOD NOLSNIMA ‘GNNOI VAIVM-HINVN SHL

ee
pe:

Torre
3

kx

LL aLVId \jauusng—'gzE| ‘Hodey uE!UOSYyIWS
‘V1W 'ALNNOD AYSWODSLNOW
‘'YSAIY VSOOdVTIVL JO MNVG 1457 AHL NO ‘INOTO 4O NMOL H34SYD YAddf| AHL AO ALIS AHL NO GNNO'W

ol ALV1d JauuSNG—'SZb| ‘J4odey UBIUOSY}IWS
MOUNDS OF THE UNITED STATES—BUSHNELL 679
THROUGH THE PINELANDS EAST OF THE MISSISSIPPI

South of the Ohio was a region where the wants and requirements
of a primitive people were easily fulfilled, where game was plenti-
ful, and the many streams afforded easy passage for canoes. Here
among the hills and valleys of the present States of Kentucky and
Tennessee lived tribes whose manners and ways of life differed, and
consequently the traces of their villages and burial places vary in
form and appearance. All were not here at the same time, and
centuries must have elapsed since the region was first entered by man.
The first comers were followed by other tribes speaking different
languages and possessing other customs.

Small groups of mounds are quite numerous along the waier-
courses, many were places of burial, and others served as elevated
sites for habitations or other structures. Many when examined re-
veal several tiers of stone-lined graves placed one upon another and
all covered with a mass of earth, thus forming a mound. The graves
are similar to those which existed in vast numbers in the same region,
forming the stone-grave cemeteries which often covered many acres,
as did those in the vicinity of the city of Nashville. It is not possible
at this time to refer to all of the many mound groups, indicating the
positions of ancient settlements in the valleys of the Tennessee, the
Cumberland, and other streams, but a few may be mentioned. One
interesting cluster stands in the national cemetery, Shiloh, on the
banks of the Tennessee, and fortunately the mounds will thus be
preserved. The largest work in the valley of the Tennessee is near
Florence, Ala., a few miles south of the northern boundry of the
State. It stands near the bank of the river, and the site was pro-
tected by a crescent-shaped embankment touching the river bank
both above and below the mound. The latter, when surveyed nearly
a century ago, appeared to have been roughly hexagonal in outuine, a
remarkable feature if it actually existed as shown on the old sketch.

Evidently at some time during the occupancy of this region by
native tribes it was necessary for them to protect their villages and
secure themselves against attacks by their enemies. Many ancient
sites in Tennessee and some in the country southward, were protected
by walls and embankments, with ditches and probably with palisades.
A strongly protected village, covering many acres, stood at the junc-
tion of two forks of Duck River, Franklin County, Tenn. (Fig. 3.)
Here artificial walls, ditches, and mounds supplemented the protec-
tion afforded by the high cliffs which rose above the waters. The
site is quite similar in appearance to others found northward, across
Kentucky, scattered through eastern Indiana and western Ohio, near
the south shores of Lake Erie, and thence eastward to near the Hud-
son. Were the builders of the widely scattered works related, and
680 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

cdo they serve to indicate a line of migration from the southward ?—
questions which may be solved but which are not to be answered now.

MOUNDS ERECTED BY THE MUSKHOGEAN TRIBES

As mentioned at the beginning of this sketch, Muskhogean tribes
were found occupying large and rather permanent villages by the
Spaniards when they traversed the southern pinelands from the
Atlantic to beyond the Mississippi during the first half of the six-

= L

Grice 32 GS, 4

ae a

ANCIENT WORK

“Ark

Pranklern CounG,Rimussis,

Ficure 3.—Fortified site in Franklin County, Tenn. This plan was made during the
early part of the last century and shows the use of stone walls, mounds, and
ditches to supplement the protection afforded by the high cliffs. Original sketch
now in Library of Congress, Washington, D. C.

teenth century. Villages were then discovered near where they were
destined to remain for three centuries as some tribes continued to
dominate the region for that long period, and it is not possible to
surmise how many generations had lived and died there before the
coming of the invaders. Being able thus to trace and identify the
occupants of the country through several centuries, it is permissible to
attribute to the same people the great majority of the ancient mounds
MOUNDS OF THE UNITED STATES—BUSHNELL 681

standing in their territories, but, as will be shown later, all were not
erected for the same purpose. The manners and ways of life of the
people of the several groups of tribes differed, and this caused a
difference in the use and origin of the mounds, many of which mark
the sites of villages of centuries ago.

The Choctaw, ever friends of the French colonists, claimed a large
part of the present State of Mississippi and of western Alabama.
They had numerous villages, cultivated the soil, and were rather
sedentary in their habits. They had a strange method of disposing
of their dead, and the final act, a year or more after death, was to
place the bones, from which all particles of flesh had been removed,
in a basket or pack, and on an appointed day all would assemble
with their dead, the baskets and packs would be placed one upon
another on the ground, and all would be covered with a mass of
earth. Later other remains would be placed on the same tomb,
more earth would be added, and in time a mound of considerable
size would result. Many of the small mounds now standing within
the limits of the ancient Choctaw territory owe their origin to this
curious tribal custom. Years have now passed since the burials were
made, all material of a perishable nature has disappeared, the bas-
kets and mats which contained the remains have decayed and fallen
away, and the bones have all but vanished. The earth has settied
and formed a compact mass, making it difficult to discover the
nature of the mound and to recognize it as having been the last
resting place of many dead.

A large mound standing in Winston County, Miss., is known to
all the Choctaw as Nanih-Waiya. (PI. 11.) It rises some 20 feet
above the original surface, having a length from northwest to south-
east of more than 200 feet, less in width, and has a rather level
summit plateau. Several smaller mounds stood in the vicinity, and
all appear to have been surrounded partly by an embankment and
partly by a small stream. It is the belief of the Choctaw that a
passageway leads downward from the summit of the large mound
and, according to one of their traditions, their ancestors many gen-
erations ago emerged through this opening from the depths of the
earth. And although this happened so long ago and they later
scattered in all directions, they have ever remembered the hill from
the summit of which they first beheld the light of the sun. The site
appears to be very ancient, and the large mound was probably erected
before the coming of the Choctaw.

Large groups of similar mounds are encountered along the courses
of the Black Warrior and Tombigbee Rivers, well within the limits
of the old Choctaw country. Several such groups, one including
40 small mounds, occupy a rather restricted area in Morengo County,
Ala., and all were probably erected by the Choctaw. Not far north-
682 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

ward, east of the Black Warrior River near the town of Mounds-
ville, is the most important group of earth mounds south of the
Ohio, quite unlike those erected by the Choctaw. Some of the most
interesting stone objects yet found in the United States have been
recovered from these works, and the question is suggested, Could they
have been constructed by a people related to those who reared Ca-
hokia and Etowah? Future discoveries at Cahokia may serve to
answer this most interesting question.

The upper Creek towns were eastward from the country of the
Choctaw and centered about the junction of the Coosa and Talla-
poosa Rivers, in the vicinity of the present city of Montgomery, Ala.
(Pl. 12.) The settlements of the lower Creeks were in the valley of
the Chattahoochee. Mounds, single or in groups of two or more, oc-
cur throughout the region, and undoubtedly every such occurrence is
proof that a village once stood in the vicinity, and many of the towns
were occupied within the last century. It was the custom among the
Creeks to erect their town house on the summit of an artificial
mound, one raised for that purpose, and a short distance away on
another artificial mound stood other public buildings. The space
between the mounds, or rather the two sites, likewise belonged to the
village as a whole.

In the south, where the river banks are low and are frequently
overflowed, it appears to have been a custom of the people to erect
mounds to serve as places of refuge, dry spots in the midst of their
inundated villages, and many mounds of this sort are found in the
old Creek country.

Among the Cherokees a single structure was erected in every vil-
lage, a town house which stood on the summit of an artificial mound.
At the Cherokee town of Cowe, which in 1776 stood on the banks of
Little Tennessee River, about the mouth of Cowee Creek, in the
present Macon County, N. C., the town house crowned an earth
mound some 20 feet in height. The structure rose 30 feet higher,
making the peak of the rocof about 50 feet above the lowland. In
the year 1761 the town house at Chote, one of the most important
Cherokee towns, then standing in the present Monroe County, Tenn.,
opposite the ruins of Fort Loudon, occupied the summit of a mound,
evidently one of a group examined a few years ago. When this
particular mound was excavated, a number of burials were discovered
near or resting upon the original surface, and just west of the center
was a circular stone wall about 9 feet in diameter and rising about
2 feet above the natural surface. Within this inclosure were 12
skulls and many disconnected bones. This discovery at once sug-
gests the traditional account of the ceremonies attending the erection
by the Cherokee of mounds to serve as sites for their town houses.
MOUNDS OF THE UNITED STATES—BUSHNELL 683

It was related some years ago by an old member of the tribe to the
late James Mooney, and was in part:

The town house was always built on the level bottom lands by the river in
order that the people might have smooth ground for their dances and ball
plays and might be able to go down to water during the dance. When they
were ready to build the mound, they began by laying a circle of stones on the
surface of the ground. Next they made a fire in the center of the circle and
put near it the body of some prominent chief or priest who had lately died—
some say seven chief men from the different clans. . . . The mound was
then built up with earth, which the women brought in baskets.

This explains the origin and use of many of the larger mounds in
the southern country.

In addition to the mounds just mentioned, other types of works
are encountered in the same valleys. Some were burial places; others
resulted from the gradual accumulation of camp refuse, such as wood
ashes, broken earthenware vessels, bones of animals which had served
as food, as a result of the restricted area having been occupied as a
camp site for many years, possibly for generations. The origin of
such elevated sites should be considered accidental rather than inten-
tional, although they often served as burial places for the dead.

Mounds are found in eastern Georgia and are very numerous on
the mainland and islands below the mouth of the Savannah. Many
on the islands of St. Catherine, Ossabaw, and Sapelo have been ex-
amined, and, together with traces of native settlements, appear to
be quite old. Few objects of European origin are discovered in
contact with native artifacts, and it is evident that the presence of
Spanish missions, established along the coast before the close of the
sixteenth century, quickly influenced the manners and ways of life
of the native people, many of whom moved inland and sought new
homes. However, some small mounds in this region owe their origin
to the later occupants of the coasts, and a small structure which stood
a few miles south of the Savannah River, in Chatham County, Ga.,
covered a single human skeleton resting upon the original surface,
and with it had been placed implements of stone and other objects
of native workmanship, together with a sword of European make,
the latter proving the burial mound to have been erected within
historic times.

STRANGE WORKS IN FLORIDA HIDDEN BY THE DENSE VEGETATION

Southward were the Timucua tribes, whose many villages at the
time of the coming of the Spaniards were scattered throughout the
northern half of the peninsula of Florida, north of Tampa and Cape
Canaveral. Many interesting mounds stand within the bounds of
the Timucua country of four centuries ago, and it is quite evident
the builders followed certain established rules and customs while
684 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

erecting many of the larger works. Some when examined show a
thick stratum of sand, artificialy colored red or a pinkish hue by
the admixture of red oxide of iron, deposited over the entire group
of burials before the superimposed mass of earth and sand had been
added. This must necessarily have been a long and tedious under-
taking and reveals the care with which they toiled when providing
a resting place for their dead.

More than a century and a half ago the large works near the banks
of the St. Johns River, Fla., attracted the attention of travelers, and
the name Mount Royal was apphed to a large mound just below
Lake George in the present Putnam County. It rose 16 feet above
the original surface and had a circumference of some 555 feet. It
was an interesting work, and to add to the great importance of the
site an avenue extended from the mound to Lake George, a distance
of about a half mile and was from 12 to 20 yards in width, bordered
on each side by an embankment about 21% feet in height. The mound
was examined and many burials were discovered, but nothing of
European origin was encountered. This must have been an impor-
tant center of population before the Spanish conquest of the penin-
sula, where interesting scenes were enacted within the parallel
embankments leading from the great artificial mound to the shores
of the lake.

It is quite evident and easily conceived that many, if not a great
majority, of the large mounds encountered along the low, marshy
coast, were raised by the occupants of the region to serve as elevated
sites for habitations and other structures of the native villages. This
is clearly indicated by a passage in the narrative of the De Soto
expedition. When that daring leader and his numerous party entered
Tampa Bay early in the year 1539, they discovered the Timucua
village of Ucita on the shore of the bay where several large mounds
had been erected. On the summit of one stood the temple, probably
a structure covered with a thatch of palmetto, and surmounted by a
carved figure of a bird with “ gilded eyes.” MHabitations had been
reared on other near-by mounds. Ucita may not have differed in
appearance from many native villages then standing throughout the
peninsula.

Rather low spreading mounds of sand often standing near the
larger structures, appear to have been the burial places for the dead
of the village. Instances have been recorded in the vicinity of Tampa
Bay, and elsewhere, of the discovery of two forms of burial in the
same mound revealed in distinct strata, suggesting that the site had
been occupied during two or more periods by tribes whose manners
and ways of life differed. Such sites are worthy of the most careful
study.
MOUNDS OF THE UNITED STATES—BUSHNELL 685

Continuing southward from the land of the Timucua, on the low
sandy keys off the coast of the Gulf of Mexico, are the mounds of
sand and shells, with the great intervening and connecting canals and
lagoons, constructed centuries ago. Some are very extensive and
reveal a degree of skill possessed by their builders that is quite re-
markable. But who were the builders of these ancient works now
hidden by the luxuriant growth of semitropical vegetation? An-
other unsolved question.

At some time in the future when many old sites not only within
the United States but on the islands of the West Indies, in Mexico,
and other parts of America, have been carefully examined, a com-
parison of the material discovered will undoubtedly reveal the route
of migration of many tribes who occupied parts of the United States
within historic times, and thus lead to an identification of their
older habitat. But much remains to be accomplished before we can
hope to arrive at any definite conclusions.
ta ehounea, : “at ‘ge os
bike Phacgn

r 4 ¢

bars nijeustn a,
i feet,

70K phew Bier te = tn pe Lis! ads ag f
‘

ie A ApPawe
Ath lB olipioaay. be Siete 9 i ae to So iets
ea

dechiie op Lene lod Posie ihe ese faily area | |
ootzee th voihak ja ati io abrigien say fk dud nee ¢
“tO? & fhe iM BES vMatgaao isco, oy gal BO isi dy in at a od
stinytod tla: we ST ibojduabacs [ee D470 fooail: iii bod eny 7 4
eainic, Baden ie | we} LG, 2A hiatepir ¥ 4) Ope, Re wits xstoat, joa
Ht} Yo nolenniinobs, A ie. OF Hpat. ua! Aisve : Bones, alto
mcrae, atotodd both al fcuaropr ad oF adalat sos ak MTs « a wig
PABLO 9 adceed: on wie ui svi

)
Bh ti:

Wt Gothen
ethene |e
GEOCHRONOLOGY, AS BASED ON SOLAR RADIATION,
AND ITS.RELATION TO ARCHEOLOGY *

By GERARD DE GEER

In the American journal Science for 1920 :aention was made of
my plan for investigating certain laminated clays in North America.
During a previous visit to that country in 1891 I had noticed, in
several places, laminated clays, similar to late glacial melting sedi-
ments in Sweden; these I had found, by long continued investiga-
tions, to represent the annual deposit from the melting water along
the border of the retreating ice edge. (Fig. I.) With the aid of a
graphic method for the comparison of the sharply marked annual
layers or varves, I had succeeded in identifying such varves from one
point to another, and ultimately worked out a systematic plan for the
elaboration of a continuous time scale. (See p. 690.) This was
mainly carried out in 1905-6 on the basis of field measurements
made with the assistance of a number of able young geologists.
During the following year this standard scale was completed at
many points. I thus succeeded in tracing, step by step, the recession
of the ice edge and the immediately following progress of the clay
varves over one region after the other, until the whole line from the
south to the center of Sweden had been traced.

As might be expected, the lowest and oldest clay varves were
found deposited in the southern extremity of the land, while the
great ice sheet covered the whole of the rest. By following the
progress of the clay, step by step, the whole series was built up, thus
forming a continuous and exact time scale for the last recession of the
ice through Sweden up to a certain year, when a great ice-dammed
lake in central Sweden was drained off, depositing a very thick
annual varve. This year was chosen as representing the very end
of the late glacial epoch. (See map on p. 691.)

For many years I tried in vain to find some means of determining
the length of the succeeding post-glacial epoch proper, until one of
my most successful assistants, R. Lidén, discovered in the northern
part of Sweden annual varves for that epoch also. Of these varves I
measured in one section at the Indal River rather more than 3,000,

1 Reprinted by permission from Antiquity, Vol. II, No. 7, September, 1928. 687
688 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

but it was along the Angerman River that Lidén himself, quite inde-
pendently, succeeded in finding and working out practically the
whole of the post-glacial varve succession by a careful and painstak-
ing correlation of a long series of sections, giving the total length
of the post-glacial epoch as about 8,700 years. What made his work
especially important is that there seems to be no other place in the
world, not even in Sweden, where there is a possibility of finding

Ficgurp 1.—Clay registration of ice recession

such a continuous varve series for the whole of the post-glacial
epoch. By the dating of the lowest varves the recession of the ice in
Sweden has been determined in detail at more than 1,500 points,
while elsewhere, excepting in Finland and in Canada between Ontario
and Quebec, sections have rarely been worked out to the lowest
varve. Thus, along the Connecticut Valley, according to Antevs’
exceedingly interesting and comprehensive measurements, the lowest
GEOCHRONOLOGY—DE GEER 689

of the clay layers was so seldom exposed, that the particular stages
of ice recession could be determined only at six points on the whole
line. Though it is thus impossible to compute the exact rate of ice
recession in this region, his numerous measurements of long varve
series have afforded valuable material for detailed comparison with
the time scale in Sweden, and for satisfactory verification of the
thickness variation of the varves in some otherwise unverified parts
of the Swedish scale.

Since the initiative, organization, and method of this investigation
are of Swedish origin, and it is apparently only in Sweden that the
time scale can be continued right up to the present day, it seems fair
to name this standard line of chronology “ the Swedish time scale,”
even where it is verified and completed by parallel measurements in
other countries. The main purpose of an exact international
chronology must be the reference of different kinds of events every-
where, to one and the same standard of time. The necessary condi-
tion for the introduction of such a time scale was, of course, the
possibility of identifying synchronous varve variations even at great
distances. ‘This condition seems now to be realized. Thus almost
all the varve series measured in 1920 by the Swedish expedition to
North America have, with certainty, been identified with correspond-
ing series in the time scale in Sweden. This was illustrated by ex-
amples representing a few thousand years published (in English) in
the Geografiska Annaler, Stockholm, 1926. I have also quite recently
succeeded in identifying a series of nearly 600 varves, carefully
measured in Argentina by one of my former pupils, Dr. Carl
Caldenius. In the same journal was published a description of E.
Norin’s varve measurements in the northwestern Himalayas, carried
out and identified by him in 1925 and 1926, and also late glacial
clay varves in Iceland measured in 1919 by H. Wadell and recently
correlated with the Swedish time scale by Ebba Hult De Geer. A
continuous series of eight hundred varves measured by Dr. Caldenius
in southern Chile has also been dated by myself and will soon be
published by the Geological Survey of Argentina. Among other
correlations performed, here it may only be mentioned that the
Swedish time scale has now become extended to the very limit of the
Gotiglacial ice oscillation or to the beginning of the corresponding
subepoch, giving not quite 8,000 years before the end of the Ice Age
and thus considerably less than the 9,500 which were earlier tenta-
tively suggested.

Considering that the distances from Sweden and to these other
regions range from 6,000 to 14,000 kilometers, the similarity of more
than 80 per cent of the whole identified varve series is very striking.
It is especially noteworthy that this similarity continues for century
690 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

after century, thus putting it beyond reasonable doubt that only a ;
real identity can explain so considerable a number of similarities.
A close study of the diagrams already published will soon show
that the possibility of mere accident must be ruled out. This re-
markable coincidence in such rapid variations at such considerable
distances, caused by simultaneous melting of ice, seems not to be
explicable in any other way than as being due to variations in the
amount of heat received from the sun. Thus we have to do with
nothing less than a gigantic self-registering thermograph, showing
the variations in the radiation from the sun. With respect to the
physics of the sun, it is of interest to note that there often exists an
observed biennial variation as well as the annual one, which is indi-
cated by the connection of the varve variation of the two hemis-
pheres so that the north and south summers with their closely cor-
responding varves point to a natural thermal year. It is still unde-

FiGurRp 2.—-Diagrams for fixing the ice recession

termined in which hemisphere that year begins. For the solution of
this question it is of interest that for some years past, observations
have been made in Chile, on the solar radiation, for comparison with
those executed since 20 years ago on the sunny heights in the far
west of the United States.2, Whatever may be the astronomic cause
of the annual solar variation, it seems likely that its beginning and
end are probably to be found somewhere between the northern and
southern summers, or not far from the equinoxes. When this has
been fully established, our annual mean temperature ought to be
calculated for the natural thermal year, which should give much
more characteristic results than those obtained from the basis of
the arbitrary calendar year. Nevertheless, though it be granted that

2The measurements here referred to by the author are those carried on by the Smith-
sonian Astrophysical Observatory at Mount Wilson, Calif., and near Calama, Chile,
which have been described in Smithsonian reports for many years.
GEOCHRONOLOGY—DE GEER 691

varve variation in its general features is a function of solar radia-
tion, it is at the same time more or less influenced by local factors

AT a

SWEDEN

AND ENVIRONS IN N. EUROPE

eeenesa Perminal moraines
... Finiglacial ice-shed
..-. Postglacial
—— Baltic water shed
“RN Late-glacial coast-line

such as the topography of the ground on which the deposit is made,
changes in the direction of the melting rivers, the varying composi-
692 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

tion of the morainic material from which the clay is washed out, and
other circumstances. By parallel measurements in different local-
ities, many such deviations from the true solar curve will probably
be eliminated, but meanwhile it is not advisable to transcribe the
thickness of the varves into figures intended for exact calculations.
Already, however, a really convincing graphic correspondence makes
it possible for the first time to introduce the time factor into a great
number of geophysical investigations which were hitherto beyond
our reach. ‘Thus, to mention a few examples, the possibility of map-
ping and dating synchronous land-ice borders over great areas in
different regions of the earth renders it possible, in connection with
the physics of land ice, to make a rational study of the movement
and extension of ice, and of its recession as a function of melting as
well as of fracturing. In the papers quoted some hints are given
concerning the use of time determination for a closer geophysical
study of other processes, such as the evolution of climate, and the
erosion along rivers as well as along the shores of lakes and seas.
Special mention is made of the magnificent example of the Niagara
Canyon, the age of which has now been geochronologically dated by
means of good varve connections. Thanks to the excellent measure-
ments of American and Canadian geologists we have here a first-class
example of the amount of river erosion under certain conditions dur-
ing a determined space of time. There is only room here to mention
fresh possibilities of studying the way in which the recession of
the ice was followed by the formation of soil and vegetable mold,
and the immigration of flora and fauna into the former great ice
deserts.
ARCHEO-CHRONOLOGY

In the autumn of 1924 I had the welcome opportunity of starting,
under the auspices of the university,’ a geochronological institute for
the preservation, elaboration, and extension of material in connection
with the Swedish time scale and its international use. Up to the
present time 12 preliminary papers have been issued from the insti-
tute and published in various Swedish scientific journals under the
common title of Data. The first of these, Data I, was published in
Swedish and was entitled “ Férhistoriska tidsbestimningar,” or pre-
historic datings. It may be well to summarize here some of the views
expressed as exemplifying the archeological use of the new time scale.

The period of man is a late conception in the history of the earth,
for the first reliable traces of beings who can be considered deserving
of the name of man can hardly be found in deposits earlier than the
Quaternary period. These deposits form the comparatively thin
soil which covers the older formations with their remarkable re-

8 Of Stockholm.
GEOCHRONOLOGY—DE GEER 693

mains of plants and animals, which more or less differ from any ex-
isting species. Naturally enough these earlier layers formerly
attracted the most attention, and the Quaternary deposits were looked
on mainly as a hindrance to the study of the older formations.
Geologically speaking, the Quaternary period was a very short one,
and the corresponding geological deposits are, in many places, incon-
siderable and uninstructive. Moreover, they vary considerably from
one region to another, both in thickness and material, and no general
classification of subdivisions has hitherto been possible. Now, how-
ever, there are special opportunities of gradually establishing a real
time scale for the Quaternary period.

It would seem that the remarkable deterioration of the climate,
which caused the glaciation of the Quaternary period and can now
be shown to have affected the whole of the earth simultaneously,
must have had a great influence upon the ancestral forms of man, and
especially so in the regions where it was most severe. This influence
may indeed have been the immediate cause of that adaptation to more
and more exigent natural conditions and the consequent evolution
of intelligence which led to the beginning of the human stage. This
was especially true of regions where the supply of edible fruits
became insufficient and fishing and hunting became necessary. This
led to the development of skill and weapons, while the rigors of
climate necessitated the use of clothing and sheltered dwellings.
One invention led to another, such as the making of boats, the art
of pottery, and that important step in human evolution when man
took fire into his service. By extensive excavations in many regions
archeology has now been able to establish the succession in which
the various types of tools and weapons follow each other, and also
which species of animals and plants have been observed together with
these finds. In this way, for certain regions, it has been possible
to establish so regular a succession of strata as may well justify at-
tempts at correlation within limited areas. With regard to finds
from more widely separated regions, however, the risk of error is
naturally growing. Primitive types of tools, for instance, are known
to have originated independently in different places and epochs and
may likewise have been used for varying lengths of time in different
regions. Thus, to take a well-known example, certain tribes have
existed up to the present day with no knowledge of metals, and are
still to all intents living in a kind of Stone Age.

Attempts have often been made to establish the sequence of those
climatic changes which seem to be indicated by the organic remains
found in various archeological strata. At many places, however, the
sequence of strata is very incomplete and, as the Quaternary period
shows several considerable climatic variations, it is often difficult to

24034—29—45
694. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

decide to which of these isolated prehistoric finds should be at-
tributed. Most Quaternary geologists, however, seem to agree that
at least two separate glaciations must be regarded as well established,
those known respectively as the “ great” and the “last glaciation.”
Of these the last is incomparably the best known, since it is the only
one of which the deposits are accessible for close investigation. The
deposits of the great glaciation are nowadays preserved almost no-
where but outside the limits of the last glaciation. Deposits from the
older stages of the glaciations are often concealed or totally destroyed
by the later movements of the land ice. It is not, therefore, surpris-
ing that geologists hold very different views with respect to the num-
ber as well as the extent of the oscillations of the ice, and also to the
question of how many of these may be ranked as independent glacia-
tions. The difficulties in the way of solving this important question
are very great, but until they are overcome it is too early to attempt
to relate the older cultural epochs of the Paleolithic Age with the
glacial or interglacial stages.

The last receding land ice has, however, left to posterity a re-
markable and complete autoregistration, covering the whole of the
melting epoch. There is here no question of relative computation,
but the direct reading and counting of the varves deposited by the
water formed every year, as long as the melting epoch lasted. For
the late Quaternary epoch, after the maximum of the last glaciation,
we have already a very comprehensive series of measurements from
a great number of localities, and when the whole has been worked
through we shall have an exact time scale for the period which is by
far the most important in the evolution of prehistoric cultures. The
next stage is to find some region where sediment accumulated during
the whole of the Quaternary epoch, in its glacial as well as post- and
interglacial stages. These conditions may be found to prevail in
several delta regions which received sediment from some greater
glaciated area throughout the Quaternary period. Such was the
relation of the Ganges-Brahmaputra delta to the eastern Himalaya.
It would, however, be impracticable to begin with so immense an
area before the method had been tried on a smaller one. The Indus
delta would, from every point of view, be more suitable. This delta
has recorded the sedimentary deposits from the Kashmir area of
the northwestern Himalaya, where, in connection with the Geochro-
nological Institute, E. Norin has begun to make a comprehensive
analysis of the Quaternary deposits, which already seems to give a
direct correlation with the Swedish time scale. It might, however,
prove still more convenient in the first instance to take up the in-
vestigation of a delta more easy of access, such as that of the Po,
which might be expected to offer a fairly complete registration of
Quaternary deposits from the whole southern slope of the Alps.
GEOCHRONOLOGY—DE GEER 695

In order to connect archeological finds with the time scale, several
different phenomena can be used. Thus, the situation of the ice
border at different stages of its recession can be dated and mapped,
whereby it is possible to date cultural remains as well as traces of
animals and plants, which immediately followed in the track of the
retreating ice. This can probably be done in the case of the Quater-
nary ice-dammed Lake Pulawy, which was discovered by N. Krichta-
fowitch, southwest of Warsaw, between the Vistula and the Bug.
This lake reached as far as the limits of the last glaciation and its
sediments, showing no varves, are covered by the last moraine and
contain remains of plants and animals, including Hlephas primi-
genius, Rhinoceros tichorhinus, Bos priscus, Equus caballus fossilis,
and Sus scrofa fossilis,; also pieces of bone, and flint tools which were
referred by S. Krukowski to the Solutrean epoch.

It is obvious, however, that all attempted coordinations founded
only on the occurrence of certain organisms must be merely approxi-
mate. Amongst the more reliable geophysical phenomena a first place
will doubtless be occupied by such ancient shore lines as can be dated
with some accuracy and are adapted for the dating of prehistoric re-
mains, especially those pertaining to shore dwellings. It is true that
positions of the edge of the retreating ice can be dated with still
greater accuracy, but, in the central parts of northern Europe at least,
human occupation had not begun at that time. During the last few
years it has been found possible, by a new method of investigation, to
follow step by step, and fix by levelling, the present height of a series
of unevenly uplifted shore lines dating from the nordic Bronze and
Stone Ages. These measurements, which I started some years ago
in the Stockholm-region, now embrace the greater part of the Neo-
lithic marine area within the eastern-central parts of Sweden from
Ostrogotia to the south of Helsingland. In this way very reliable
and detailed knowledge can be obtained concerning the withdrawal of
the coast line and the growth of the emerging land. It has also been
found possible to connect the different stages of coastal evolution
with the Swedish time-scale, and so to date approximately all the
phenomena which can be connected with such coast lines.

The question of eustatic shore lines seems to be more complicated
and has not been brought into any connection with geochronology.

On the whole it seems desirable that relative as well as approxi-
mate time computations should be expressed in another way than real
datings and without figures, which give a misleading impression of
precision and certainty.
696 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928
BIBLIOGRAPHY

1888-90. GreRARD Dp GreeR—Om Skandinaviens nivaférindringar under qvartir-
perioden. [On the Quaternary Changes of Level in Scandinavia]. Geol.
Foren. Férhandl. x (1888), 366-79, pl. 2, and ibid. xii (1890), 61-110. [In
Swedish. ]

1908. On late Quaternary Time and Climate. Geol. Foren. Forhandl.
xxx (1908), 459-64.

1910. A Thermographical Record of the Late Quaternary Climate. Die
Veriinderungen des Klimas seit dem Maximum der letzten Hiszeit. (Stock-
holm, xi Geol. Congr., 1910.) Pp. 303-10.

1912. A Geochronology of the Last 12,000 Years. Compte rendu de la
11: e sess. du Congrés géol. intern. (Stockholm, 1910), fase. 1. 1912, pp.
241-57, pls. 1-2.

1921: Correlation of Late Glacial Clay Varves in North America with the
Swedish Time Seale. Geol. Féren. Férhandl. xliii (1921), 70-73.

1922. Ernst AnTEVS.—The Recession of the Last Ice Sheet in New England.
Amer. Geogr. Soc., research ser. no. 11, 1922.

1925. Retreat of the Last Ice Sheet in Eastern Canada. Can. Geol. Sur
vey, mem. 146, Ottawa, 1925.

1925. GreraRD DE GereR.—Forhistoriska tidsbestimningar. [Prehistorical Dat-
ings.] Ymer, 1925, pp. 1-8—Data, 1. [In Swedish.]

1925. Ertk Norrin.—Preliminary Notes on the Late Quaternary Glaciation of
the Northwestern Himalaya. Geogr. Ann. 1925, pp. 165-94, pls. 4, 5—Data 2.

1926. GrerRARD DE GrEeR.—Om New York-Moriinens verkliga Alder och betydelse.
Geol. Foren. Férhandl. xlviii (1926), pp. 148-48—Data, 7. [In Swedish.]

1926. On the Solar Curve as dating the Ice Age, the New York Moraine
and Niagara Falls Through the Swedish Time Scale. Geogr. Ann. 1926, pp.
253-84, pls. 1-8.—Data, 9.

1927. Late Glacial Clay Varves in Argentina, Measured by Dr. Carl
Caldenius, Dated and Connected with the Swedish Time Scale. Geogr. Ann.
1927, pp. 1-8, pl. 1—Data, 10.

1927. Ertxk Norrin.—Late Glacial Clay Varves in Himalaya Connected with the
Swedish Time Seale. Geogr. Ann. 1927, pp. 157-61, pl. 2.—Data, 11.

1928. Eppa Hutt Dre GEER.—Late Glacial Clay Varves in Iceland Measured by
H. Wadell, Dated and Connected with the Swedish Time Seale. Geogr. Ann.
1928, pp. 205-14, pl. 4-5.—Data, 12.

THE PHYSIOLOGY OF THE DUCTLESS GLANDS?

By N. B. TayLor
Department of Physiology, University of Toronto

[With six plates]

Thirty years or so ago the study of the ductless glands was a field
of practically virgin soil. If we should look into a textbook of physi-
ology of that day, we would find the subject disposed of in a very
few words. Since then much has been learned and the work that has
been done on these hitherto little-known glands is enormous. Each
year literally millions of hours of laboratory and clinical work are
performed and thousands of papers are written upon the subject.
Unfortunately the great bulk of this work is quite barren of any real
or lasting value, for just as a ton of rock must be mined and milled
in order to secure an ounce of gold, or several tons of pitchblende be
treated to obtain a gram or two of radium, so an immense amount of
work must be done by the laboratory mills in order to recover a few
grains of truth. We read, from time to time, in the daily papers, in
semiscientific publications, and in the advertising literature of some
of the drug houses sensational and glowing accounts of the activities
of these glands. But most of these glittering tales are misleading
and arise from nothing more genuine than a very vivid imagination.

The qualifying or negative word “ductless” implies that these
glands are peculiar and distinctive in being without ducts. It im-
plies also that they were discovered later than the more usual type
of gland with ducts. It suggests something new and out of the
ordinary.

A word first with regard to the usual type of gland. These have
been familiar to anatomists and physiologists for hundreds of years.
Each is composed of a mass of cells arranged in one or other definite
pattern so as to form myriads of tiny spherical cavities. On the out-
side of the wall of each cavity are blood vessels so that one side of
each cell is practically in contact with the blood. From the blood
flowing past their doors the cells take what chemical materials they
require and with these raw materials manufacture in some mysterious
way a very complex substance which they pour into the bowl-lke
cavities. This material, the gland’s secretion, passes into fine hairlike
tubes which lead, one from each of the numberless cavities. ‘These

1 Reprinted by permission from The Scientific Monthly, Vol. XXVII, No. 5, November,
1928. The illustrations here reproduced did not appear in the Scientific Monthly article.

697
698 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

fine tubes are the ducts. They join with one another and form larger
ducts. These in turn join to form larger ones, until finally the secre-
tion finds its way into one or two large tubes which open into one
of the body cavities, the mouth or intestine, for instance. The ar-
rangement of the ducts is like the stem system of a bunch of grapes—
the hollow masses of cells representing the grapes.

Some, such as the tear glands, the sweat or mammary glands,
empty upon the surface of the body. Since the activities of many
of these glands are associated with experiences of every-day life—
crying, sweating, salivation, etc.—it is not surprising that they
should have been known for so long. They are characterized by
two main features. Their secretions are collected by ducts, and
through these they are poured either into one of the body cavities or
upon the surface of the body. In short, they are glands of external
secretion.

The ductless glands pour their secretions directly into the blood
stream. None of their secretions pass outside of the body. They are
on this account also called the glands of internal secretion, endocrine
glands, or simply the endocrines. Their secretions are also known
as hormones. The cells of these glands take in their raw materials
by the front door, the arteries, and after fabricating a most pow-
erful chemical material turn the finished product out at the back
door, the veins. Thence the hormone is purveyed to all parts of
the body.

These glands are little chemical factories of a marvelous ingenuity ;
and what apparently miraculous effects their concoctions can bring
about! Nothing more wonderful was ever dreamed of by the ancient
alchemists with their elixirs and potions. It is the action of one of
these secretions that paints the plumage of the male bird in such
brilliant colors and also prompts its song. Others cause the growth
of bone and direct the development of stature along normal lines—
overactivity of this or underactivity of that, and a giant or a dwarf
is made. Others influence various psychic processes—instinct, emo-
tions, and intelligence. In order that mind and body shall be healthy
and normal, all the glands must pour their secretions into the blood
stream in proper and due proportions; none must be a sluggard, nor
yet overzealous in performing its duties.

Some of the glands are of such a size and prominence that they
could not escape the notice of the ancient philosophers. Their uses
were pondered and speculated upon, and many fanciful conjectures
were made to account for their presence in the body. But their true
functions were undreamed of; they were beyond even the imagina-
tion of those days.

Before the discovery of their true functions the control of the
various parts of the body was believed to be vested entirely in the
DUCTLESS GLANDS—TAYLOR 699

nervous system. It was the master tissue. It was the headquarters
staff which issued its orders to the various organs, and its authority
was believed to be supreme. With the discovery of the ductless
glands, an entirely new type of control of the bodily function was
brought to light. Their influence, if less evident than that of the
nervous system, is nevertheless just as important in their own par-
ticular sphere.

The internal secretions have authority over slowly moving proc-
esses, such as the development of particular organs, the growth of
the body as a whole, and the metabolism of food materials—processes
measured by hours, months, or years; whereas the nervous system
presides over those rapid processes of thought—muscular movement
and ‘the external secretion of glands—processes measured by frac-
tions of seconds (or minutes).

There are many sides from which the functions of the ductless
glands may be viewed. I might, for instance, discuss them in their
relation to character or to personality or heredity, or even to morality
or criminality! And there is little doubt but that they have an
influence upon some or all of these, but so far science has been unable
to place a finger upon anything very definite. Or I might discuss
them in their relation to our “ decline into the vale of years,” as the
poet with such a pleasant euphemism refers to old age. But this
side of the question, which has received a great deal of attention in
France and on the Continent, is so befogged by pseudoscience and
beset with quackery that I would rather leave it alone. I prefer to
take up more definite and known effects, effects that can be proved
by direct observation or experiment, and to avoid the more specula-
tive side of the subject, which, after all, is no stranger than the truth.

Several methods have been and are still made use of to unravel the
mysteries of the endocrine glands. In the first place, extracts of the
gland tissue may be prepared which may then be injected into ani-
mals and a study made of their effects. Secondly, particular glands
may be removed from animals and the subsequent life history of
these animals watched, taking careful notice of their subsequent de-
velopment, growth, or any unusual symptom. Or, thirdly, we may
study diseases in the human subject in whom a particular gland is
known to be deficient or overactive.

I shall consider first a gland with which everyone to some extent
is familiar. This is the thyroid, which lies beneath the muscles of
the neck embracing the larynx. When enlarged inordinately, it con-
stitutes the condition known as goiter. All the methods of investi-
gation which I have mentioned were used in the study of the thyroid
before any clear idea of its functions was formed.

A certain slight enlargement of the thyroid above the average is
an adjunct to feminine beauty. Indeed, one of the older anatomists
700 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

thought that therein lay its premier function. It gives a pleasing
fullness, a roundness to the contours of the neck, no doubt. This fact
was not lost sight of by many of the old masters, who carried the idea
to extremes and painted their maidens with necks which verged upon
the goitrous.

The thyroid’s greatest power for beauty, however, lies not in its
size or its shape, but in its secretion. Everyone who has ever seen one
of those unfortunates who, from birth or shortly after, had been
deprived of his thyroid secretion will know what I mean.

In Switzerland, in the valleys of the Alps, there was to be seen
a type of dwarf known as a cretin. A cretin is the direct result of
the absence or extreme deficiency of the thyroid hormone. These
individuals were truly the most pitiable and grotesque parodies on
mankind. They were stunted and deformed in stature and mentally
defective or quite imbecilic. Their features were misshapen and
flabby. The brow was low, the bridge of the nose depressed, and the
nostrils wide; the tongue appeared too large for the mouth, which
was coarsely molded. The skin was thick and the hair dry and
sparse. I think the description of Caliban must have been inspired
by the poet having at one time seen a cretin. Cretins never grew
up, but remained for the rest of their lives children in mind and
body. Yet had they been Peter Pans—attractive, happy, and intelli-
gent children—all might have been well. But no; they dragged their
uncouth bodies through a drab existence, a burden to themselves and
their families, or a charge upon the community. The word “ cretin ”
is simply a corruption of the French for ‘ Christian ”—chrétien—
used in the same sense as the English words “ innocent ” or “ simple ”
are applied to the feeble-minded.

Though cretins were more common in Switzerland than in other
parts of Europe, they were by no means confined to that country.
Osler, “ within a few years,” as he says, was able to collect the his-
tories of 58 cases in Canada and the United States. Cretinism was
at one time not uncommon in England, especially in Derbyshire.
But it was in the valleys of the Alps, of the Pyrenees, in the Tyrol,
and in the Himalayas that it was seen most frequently.

It was not until the gland was removed in young animals that a
clue to the cause of the condition was uncovered. Sir Victor Horsley,
the famous London surgeon, performed this operation upon monkeys
and showed that the symptoms which followed were practically
identical with human cretinism. Through this work the responsi-
bility for the cretin was definitely fastened upon the thyroid. This
was the gland at fault.

The questions had still to be answered: “ Why is cretinism com-
mon in certain regions and practically unknown in others?” “ Why
does the gland fail to perform its proper functions?” The most gen-
DUCTLESS GLANDS—TAYLOR 701

erally accepted answer to these questions was that the drinking water
was at fault. Even as late as 1910 Sir Hector Mackenzie, a pioneer
in this field, wrote, “the most potent cause is the water used for
drinking purposes.” He admitted that the particular something in
the water which affected the thyroid in this way was unknown.
Later, however, it was thought to be an infecting organism.
(McCarrison. )

Without going further into detail I may say that the question has
at last been settled. It is not due to something in the water that
should not be there but to something that is not there which should
be there, if I may so express it. It is due to a dearth of iodine in
water and food. For this knowledge we are indebted to Marine, of
Cleveland, who showed a few years ago that thyroid disease in
brook trout could be cured by the addition of minute amounts of
iodine to the water in which they swam.

That explains why cretins are practically never seen on the sea-
coast. The sea is an inexhaustible storehouse for iodine, which finds
its way into the food and the drinking water of the coast’s inhabi-
tants. It is always in inland territories that thyroid deficiency is
seen, particularly in the mountains and the highlands, since they, asa
rule, are farther removed from the iodine supplies. Analyses of
the soils of goitrous districts have shown a marked scarcity of iodine.
Chatin, a Swiss, pointed this out 75 years ago, but no attention was
paid to the observation.

The thyroid must have iodine in order to manufacture its secre-
tion. Without this element it struggles on as best it can, but it
can not make bricks without straw. It becomes enlarged, yet the
enlargement is made up, to a large extent, of worthless tissue with
its spaces filled with an impotent fluid. The important glandular
tissue has degenerated, and though the gland is of greater bulk it is
a fraud and is quite incapable of manufacturing an active secretion.
We would also find that such a gland was almost barren of iodine,
or at any rate held but a fraction of the normal amount. It is now
an axiom of thyroid pathology that the larger the gland the less is
the iodine which it contains.

This is the usual way in which cretinism occurs, following goiter,
which destroys the functional activity of the gland. But in rare
instances thyroid function may be destroyed by some acute disease
of childhood, or rarer still, some unlucky individual may be born
without one.

A similar condition, and one having the same cause, may arise in
adult life. It is known as myxedema and is essentially the same as
eretinism. There can, of course, be no stunting of the stature or
maldevelopment of the bones, since it appears after the period of
702 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

growth. Myxedema was common in the same regions where cretins
were found.

In my discussion of cretinism and myxedema I have deliberately
kept to the past tense, for the very good reason that they are practi-
cally things of the past. Medical science in its progress has swept
them from its path. We might travel through the Alps to-day and
I do not think that we should see a single cretin unless it was a case
of long standing.

Cretins and myxedematous subjects owe their changed fortunes to
an English physician, Dr. George Murray, now emeritus professor
of medicine at Manchester. It occurred to this investigator to extract
the thyroid glands of sheep with glycerine and to inject this into the
subjects of thyroid deficiency. It is interesting to recall how this
idea first came to Murray. He read of an operation performed by
two foreign surgeons, Bettencourt and Serrano, in which they had
acted upon the suggestion of Sir Victor Horsley and grafted a por-
tion of a sheep’s thyroid beneath the skin of a victim of thyroid defi-
ciency. They reported an improvement in the condition. Murray
says, “this observation indicated to me that the gland carried on its
functions by means of an internal secretion.” He therefore con-
cluded that it might be possible to extract this secretion from the
glands of animals and that it might serve as a suitable substitute
for the secretion that was lacking. In 1891 he reported the results
of his first trials with the extract.

Of all the discoveries in the field of medicine this was one of the
most brilliant. The extract fulfilled the hopes of even the most
sanguine. Its success was complete. It was able within a remark-
ably short time to conquer all the symptoms of thyroid deficiency
in the adult, that is, myxedema.

His success with the cretin depended upon how long the condition
had existed before treatment had been commenced. Obviously not
such great benefits could be expected in a case which had existed for
years where brain, bone, and muscle had been confirmed in their
abnormal state. Yet even in these the improvement was often very
striking. But in the early cases the effects appeared to be little short
of miraculous. No potion brewed in magic caldron ever produced a
greater change than did Murray’s extract. As though enchanted,
the stunted and gnomelike body of the cretin grew to normal pro-
portions. The ugly mask fell from the face, and the limbs took on
the human grace which nature had hitherto denied them. But, great-
est benefit of all, the hght of reason returned to the clouded mind and
in a short time these apparently hopeless imbeciles were turned into
happy and intelligent children. It is no longer necessary to inject
the extract, for it can now be taken in tablets. To-day there should
be no cretins under 40 years of age. If one younger than this should
DUCTLESS GLANDS—TAYLOR 703
be seen, he is a sad reproach to some one, whether physician or parent,
who has failed to bring to this blighted one the certain cure which
is ready at hand.

There is another reason why cretins are rare to-day, and that is
the occurrence of goiter is prevented. The cause is removed. Iodine
is added to the drinking water or the food, or given in small doses
a few times a year to the children of the Swiss cantons and other
regions where goiter is prevalent.

There is little doubt, then, of one function of the thyroid gland.
It controls the growth and the development of both body and mind.
It takes iodine and other materials from the blood and manufactures
a secretion or hormone which produces these effects.

In order to bring further conviction, I shall cite a very interesting
experiment that was carried out a few years ago upon tadpoles,
ordinary polliwogs, whose destiny is, as you know, to grow into frogs.

A group of tadpoles which had been hatched from the same batch
of eggs a short time previously was placed in a small aquarium.
A number of these creatures were operated upon and their thyroids
removed—rather small subjects, you might think, for a major opera-
tion, and rather poor risks, too. But a certain proportion of them
made a good recovery and continued to swim about after their con-
valescence, just like a number of their brothers who had been allowed
to keep their thyroids.

The animals without thyroids, however, never grew into frogs.
The experimenter, with his scalpel, had shaped their destinies.
The joys of frogdom were not for them. Never were they to spring
from slimy pools to breathe the air or bask in sunshine upon a lily
pad. They remained polliwogs for the rest of their lives. They
were the counterparts of human cretins in so far as body growth
and development went. Since their mentality is scarcely of a meas-
urable quantity, no one can say how they progressed in that direc-
tion. They can not be subjected to intelligence tests, nor do we
know what their brothers thought of them; so that side of the ques-
tion must be left to the imagination. Their normal brothers, which
were kept under precisely the same conditions, lost their gills and
tails, grew arms and legs, and matured into frogs in the usual way
and in the usual length of time, two and a half to three months.

If thyroid extract was given to the cretinoid tadpoles—a small
quantity merely dropped into the water in which they swam, or fresh
thyroid tissue fed to them—they commenced to develop in the usual
way and in due time were hopping about, perfectly normal frogs.

On the other hand, when extract was added to the water in which
the normal tadpoles lived, those which were not deprived of their
thyroids—they developed into frogs ahead of time. Their develop-
ment was speeded up. The gills and tail disappeared and the hmbs
704 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

grew out in about a third of the usual time. It can easily be under-
stood why this should be, for their bodies were receiving an ex-
cessive amount of thyroid principle, that manufactured by their
own thyroids plus that given to them by the experimenter.

Thyroid function has been tested out on another close relative
of the frog family. In Mexican waters there is a strange creature
known as the axolotl. It is considered quite a delicacy by the
Mexicans, though I think that if you ever saw one its gastronomic
possibilities would not interest you. The axolotl is a sort of halfway
house along the evolutionary path, between a fish and a frog. It
looks like a huge tadpole, for it is several inches long, that had
started out to be a frog but thought better of it, and remained a
grotesque-looking object with gills, a finned tail, square head, and
short fore and hind limbs. This is the usual adult form of these
creatures; they breed in this form, many of them never developing
into land animals and a few others doing so very, very slowly. If
they are fed upon beef thyroid—even one or two meals is enough—
they develop into air-breathing animals. They lose their gills and
tail fin and develop air-breathing organs. The head becomes oval
and the eyes prominent.

Here is an instance in which an animal, forsaken, as it were, at a
certain wayside station in the evolutionary journey, has been brought
a step further by an internal secretion. I promised not to speculate,
but I can not help but wonder just how important a part the ductless
glands have played in the evolutionary process.

The thyroid has another entirely different duty to perform be-
sides those mentioned before. Its hormone is to the body as a
forced draft is to a furnace. It fans the fires of life. You all know
that the body shows a very real likeness to a furnace or an internal-
combustion engine. Its muscles consume fuel and in doing so use
oxygen and give out carbon dioxide, just as any combustion engine
does. Energy is liberated, heat is produced, and work is done.
Thyroid extract increases the combustion in the muscles. More
heat is produced with extract than without. The fire in each cell
burns more fiercely. The metabolism, as the physiologists say, is
increased.

In those suffering from thyroid lack the fires are dampened down.
They glow dully, not brightly as they should; metabolism is lowered.
The metabolism may be altered 50 per cent either way by an increase
or a decrease in thyroid secretion. On this account very serious
effects will result if a normal individual should take thyroid extract
for any length of time, for in that case the administered dose added
to the natural secretion would increase the combustion within the
body to a dangerous degree. Sometimes the thyroid has an exagger-
ated sense of what is required of it and manufactures more of its

[le ee.

wins Gr Me "Se ee
DUCTLESS GLANDS—TAYLOR 705

very potent secretion than the body needs. The symptoms of over-
dosage soon become evident. I shall not dwell upon the details of
this condition. There is of course increased metabolism, which re-
quires special methods for its detection. The most evident feature
is protruding eyeballs, though it is by no means certain that this
symptom can be laid at the thyroid’s door. Indeed there is much
evidence that it can not.

Ever since Murray showed that the functions of the thyroid were
due to an internal secretion and that this could be extracted, many
investigators have endeavored to isolate the active principle, or es-
sence, one might say, from the more or less crude extract which he
first obtained. Asa result it was not long before some knowledge of
the chemical nature of the active principle was gained. A few years
ago this principle was obtained in pure form by Kendal, of Roches-
ter, Minn. He “dubbed ” it thyroxin. It contains iodine, about 60
per cent combined with certain well-known organic materials. The
iodine radical is believed to be responsible for the growth-promoting
functions of the thyroid, and part of the organic radical (pyrrol) for
the effect upon metabolism. For if the iodine portion be broken off,
the remainder still increases the metabolic rate, yet it has now lost
its influence upon the metamorphosis of tadpoles. On the other hand,
if the pyrrol group alone is broken off, the material exerts its usual
effect upon the tadpole.

Harrington, in England, within the last couple of years, has actu-
ally succeeded in manufacturing this material in the laboratory, that
is, in producing it artificially from its chemical constituents. It has
all the physiological properties of the natural product. But it, as
well as Kendal’s thyroxin, is many times more powerful than Mur-
ray’s crude extract; an almost insignificant amount will produce the
most profound effects. It may be looked upon as the quintessence of
the thyroid juice, a superextract.

The pituitary is another ductless gland which has just as important
duties to perform as the thyroid. But it is only a fraction of the
size of the thyroid. In man it is scarcely larger than a cherry and
les like an Atlas at the base of the brain with the huge hemispheres
heaped above it. And like Atlas, its responsibilities are great, for
if it is removed or destroyed the whole body is thrown into chaos.
It is cast into an abyss from which all the gods are powerless to
raise it; death follows inevitably and swiftly. As may be seen, this
gland is composed of two parts, which, though they are in intimate
contract with one another, have entirely different functions to per-
form. The two divisions are spoken of as lobes, the anterior and the
posterior.

The pituitary has been a puzzle since ancient times. It is only
within recent years that a glimpse of its true functions has been
706 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

allowed us. Since it lay on the floor of the skull not far from the
root of the nose, some of the ancient writers thought that it existed
for the purpose of secreting mucus into the nostrils—indeed, that was
how it got its name; pituita, mucus, and phlegm were cognate terms
in the middle ages. Others, with perhaps more poetry in their
make-up, thought that it was the throne of the soul.

As I have said already, one of the main avenues of approach to an
understanding of the internal secretions has been through a study
of their disorders in the human subject. The first step toward our
present-day conceptions of pituitary function was-made by the
French physician, Pierre Marie. It was he who first described a
condition characterized by overgrowth of the bones of the face,
hands, and feet. The enlargement of the facial bones was seen par-
ticularly in the ridges above the eyes, in the nose, and lower jaw. In
some cases reported by Marie this member measured 18 inches from
ear to ear, and the chin was some 4 inches deep. The soft tissues also
were thickened, the combination of fleshy and bony overgrowth pro-
ducing extreme coarsening of the features. This in many cases
amounted to grotesque ugliness. . The bones of the hands and feet,
especially the former, showed a similar overgrowth. This was no
moderate enlargement, for the hand of one of these individuals might
be double the size of that of a normal person of the same height.

Marie ascribed this condition to disordered function of the pitui-
tary and called it acromegaly, which any Greek scholar would at
once tell us simply meant “ big extremities.” Marie thought that it
was the result of depression of the pituitary function, but we know
now that it is due to just the reverse, increased secretion by this
gland. ‘The disease comes on more or less gradually, but the changed
facial expression is rendered very noticeable if a photograph of the
subject, taken perhaps 5 or 10 years previously, be compared with the
same person in the flesh.

The disease, if it progresses, is invariably fatal, and in all these
cases an enlargement of the anterior part of the pituitary has been
found after death. There is no doubt then that it is this part of the
pituitary which is at fault.

Sir Arthur Keith, the noted anatomist and anthropologist, has
thrown an interesting side light on this condition. While classify-
ing a collection of skulls in the museum of the Royal College of
Surgeons in London, he came across one that was undoubtedly
acromegalic. He at once recognized the prominence of the bone
above the eye sockets, the massiveness and elongation of the lower
jaw, and the general enlargement of the face area of this skull. The
other stigmata of acromegaly were unmistakable. But what struck
him most was the remarkable resemblance which this skull bore to
the skull of Neanderthal man—one of the earlier of the prehistoric

DUCTLESS GLANDS—TAYLOR 707

men in Europe. By careful measurements of the two skulls, the
acromegalic modern and the normal prehistoric, he found that each
showed the same essential characteristics. Upon the skulls of the
higher apes are also seen many of the features of the acromegalic
skull.

These facts prompt the question: Is the pituitary of man of to-day
less active than was that of prehistoric man? In other words, was
a secretion which would be considered excessive and pathological to-
day normal and physiological to Neanderthal man? We are also
tempted to ask whether a gradual lowering of pituitary function
has been an aid or an important factor in the evolution of the facial
and other skeletal characteristics of modern man. These questions
may be asked, but no one, I think, has been bold enough to answer
them dogmatically. And there is one great difficulty in considering
these suggestions. We shall show in a moment that the growth-
promoting power of the pituitary is not confined to the bones of the
face and extremities, but extends to all the bones of the body. We
would, therefore, expect, if the gland had the effect which Sir Arthur
suggests, that the prehistoric man with the beetling brows and the
massive jaw would have been a giant. But he was nothing of the
sort; he was in fact below the average height of modern man.

Acromegaly is a disorder of the anterior lobe of the pituitary in
adult life; that is, after the normal period of growth. But this part
of the pituitary may suffer the same disorder in earlier life; that is,
during the growing period. The gland may, just as in the case of
acromegaly, become too zealous and secrete an inordinate quantity of
its very powerful hormone at this time. When it does, it is not
only the bones of the face and extremities which overgrow, but all
the bones of the body are urged into an extraordinary overdevelop-
ment. In this way are giants made. ‘Those men of tremendous
stature who earn their livelihoods in circus side shows are instances
of overactive pituitary glands. Some of these giants reach the “ alti-
tude” of 8 or 9 feet. They would knock their heads against the ceil-
ings in the modern Toronto house and would need to bend nearly
double to pass through a doorway. The tallest which I have seen
reported was a Finn, 9 feet 5 inches. But there has been a Chinese
giant reported who was 8 feet 1 inch, and an American recorded by
Dr. Harvey Cushing as over 8 feet 2 inches. These are the extreme
cases, but there are many degrees of giantism or gigantism, as the con-
dition is called. A certain French baron some years ago sought by
encouraging the intermarriage of giants and giantesses of this type
to produce a race of supermen, but the experiment, for which a mil-
lion francs was subscribed, proved a dismal failure. The gigantic

parents had average-sized offspring. And this is a characteristic
708 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

of pituitary giantism. The giants are usually the children of nor-
mal parents and they themselves have normal children.

The pituitary by these excesses, acromegaly and gigantism, has
revealed itself. There is every reason to believe that its physiological
function is to urge the growing bone within normal limits.

If the pituitary can increase its output above the normal and pro-
duce giants, the question naturally arises whether it ever fails to
manufacture enough of its hormone and produce dwarfs. It does,
and there are two kinds of dwarf which may result from a deficient
pituitary secretion. Only one of these is caused by deficiency of the
anterior lobe alone. He resembles the midget, but differs in certain
essential features from that popular attraction of the side shows.
The midget remains unexplained; he may be a pituitary case, but
there is no evidence that he is. The true anterior lobe dwarf is a
rather quaint little person. He (or she) is perfectly proportioned,
delicately formed, and usually of a pleasing appearance. To the
casual observer he appears normal in every way except in size, and
his intelligence is usually of the average grade, though in some cases
it is below the normal. They are men and women in miniature—
adult figures, seen as it were through the wrong end of the telescope,
for their bodies are never proportioned upon the plan of the child,
that is, with relatively large heads. Nor are their facial features
childlike.

Very frequently the posterior lobe as well as the anterior is defi-
cient. The disorder then is one of the pituitary as a whole. There
will be seen a combination, a mixture of effects, some caused by one
lobe, some by the other. 1

Before these combined effects can be described the functions of the
posterior lobe must be outlined. The duties of this part of the gland
are not so clear as those of the anterior. True, an extract may be
obtained from it which produces immediate and very definite effects
when injected into an animal. It causes, for instance, a rise in the
blood pressure and induces contractions of the muscular walls of
various organs of the body. But whether they are part of a true
physiological function or merely effects produced through artificial
methods of extraction can not be said.

There is no evidence that the posterior lobe is concerned in any
way with the development and growth of the bones. There is one
function, however, of which there seems to be no doubt. It is con-
cerned with the disposal of sugar by the body. When its secretion
is produced in insufficient amount, there is a remarkable increase in
the quantity of sugar which the body can use. If a normal person
takes a large quantity of sugar, it is not all utilized by the body cells.
The excess can be found in the blood and is later excreted. The
subject of posterior-lobe deficiency can utilize several times that
DUCTLESS GLANDS—TAYLOR 709

which the normal individual can use. It would appear that this
excessive utilization can not be accounted for by increased combus-
tion of the sugar and consequently by a greater production of heat,
for these subjects have a body temperature that is lower than the
normal, and the general metabolism is actually depressed. The excess
sugar is evidently used for the formation of fat, since the outstanding
feature of these subjects is the great overdevelopment of fatty tissue.
Injections of an extract of the posterior lobe produce the opposite
effect, a reduction in the body’s ability to use sugar.

Pituitary disorders of this nature are not infrequently seen in chil-
dren. Many children, as we know, have a tendency to increase their
fatty tissue at a certain age, and this may be due to a normal varia-
tion of the posterior-lobe hormone. But these individuals with
posterior-lobe deficiency are not just ordinary fat children. Their
fatness is really extraordinary; they are veritable roly-polies and
present a striking appearance. They have often a voracious appe-
tite and have, even for children, an inordinate longing for sweets of
all kinds. They are, as a rule, somewhat below par mentally, progress
slowly at school, and show an unchildlike lethargy—ready to sleep at
any time. Dickens’s fat boy, I think, must have been a pituitary
case; and the little fat boy whom many of you may have seen in
the movies, as a member of that humorous group of children known
as “the gang,” has, I think, if the truth were known, a pituitary
whose posterior lobe is not quite doing its duty. Great obesity may
result from posterior-lobe deficiency in adults also, and the fat
woman of the circus is in many cases, no doubt, an example of this
condition. Indeed the vagaries of the pituitary have proved a great
source of profit for the circus proprietor.

When there is a deficiency of the anterior lobe accompanying the
deficiency of the posterior lobe, there is a combination of the effects
characteristic of both parts of the pituitary. Arrested growth, added
to the extreme obesity, produces a remarkable type of dwarf. His
length and breadth approach equality. Gigantism with obesity will
also occur if overactivity of the anterior lobe be associated with
deficiency of the posterior.

EXPERIMENTAL

All these instances go to show the direction in which the activities
of the pituitary he. If disorders of its function produce these ab-
normalities, it is, I think, logical to assume that its physiological
function is to influence the growth of the body within normal limits
(anterior part) and to furnish a hormone which controls in some
way or other the conversion of sugar into fat (posterior part). Until
recent years little support for these conclusions, arrived at from

24034—29—46
710 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

the study of human cases, could be obtained from animal experi-
mentation. ‘The other two methods of approach, use of extracts and
removal of the gland, failed to produce decisive results. Recently,
however, Evans and Smith, of the University of California, have
been able to show in a truly spectacular fashion the profound effect
which the anterior lobe has upon growth. They have been able to
prepare an extract of the anterior lobe which has this effect. The
experiments were carried out in this way: Pituitary glands (anterior
lobe) of the ox were minced and extracted with salty water. The
extract obtained in this simple way was then injected into young
white rats over a period of several weeks. Other rats of the same
litter were kept under precisely the same conditions and received the
same food, but were not injected with extract. These untreated rats
served as standards or controls, as they are technically called, to
which the injected rats could be compared.

The period of growth of the normal laboratory rat is now well
known. It is from 150 to 180 days. At the end of this time it has
reached the adult form and size and ceases to grow further. The
control rats followed this normal course. The treated rats, that
is, those injected with the extract, did not cease to grow when the
end of this period was reached, but continued to grow for several
weeks afterwards. They finally developed into huge, giant rats.
Though they were not, perhaps, as large as the rats that Gulliver
adventured with in Brobdingnag, they were at least 60 per cent, and
in some cases 100 per cent, larger than their brothers and sisters of
the same litter which had received no extract.

The other side of the picture was also outlined by experiment;
that is to say, depression of the pituitary function produced the
reverse effects, retarded growth. On account of the small size of the
pituitary in the rat it is impossible to destroy one part of the gland
without injuring or destroying more or less of the other part as
well. There is also the danger of damaging too severely the anterior
lobe, which is essential to life. It was therefore impossible to pro-
duce pure effects of one or the other lobe. The effects were what
might have been expected from partial destruction and consequent
deficiency of both lobes. The animals became very fat and failed
to grow to normal size. They corresponded very closely to the type
of dwarfs already described for human subjects as a result of defi-
ciency of both lobes. ‘These animals, however, usually showed the
obesity more than the dwarfing; they were so rotund that they
resembled nothing so much as little balls of cotton wool.

Before leaving the subject. of the pituitary I must speak of another
strange effect which its secretion has upon certain members of the
amphibian and reptile families. Many of you no doubt have been
fascinated by the way in which some of these creatures, such as the
DUCTLESS GLANDS—TAYLOR 711

tree toad and certain varieties of lizard, particularly the chameleon,
apparently change the color of their skins to match the background
upon which they lie or cling. Many fish also are endowed with this
ability. Even the common frog is of a darker tint in subdued light
or on a dark background than it is in bright sunshine, where it
appears to become “bleached” to a much lighter shade of green
or yellow.

The frog’s skin, as you know, is not of a solid color, but is marked
with dark spots or blotches which overlie a light greenish-yellow
ground. This mottling is particularly well marked in one species, the
leopard frog. If the dark spots are examined beneath the micro-
scope, they will be found to be made up of groups of cells with
many branching arms and containing granules of a dark pigment.
These cells expand in the dark or in dim light and contract in bright
light. Or, I should say, rather, that the pigment collects near the
center of the cell when the light is bright, but streams throughout
the whole cell and into its branching arms when the frog is in dark-
ness. So the blotches become larger and take up a greater part of
the skin pattern, and less of the underlying green or yellow pigment
of the skin shows through. This action of the cells of the frog’s
skin was a puzzle to biologists for years. They thought that nerves
must be concerned in the reaction, yet this could not be demonstrated
with general satisfaction. One competent observer, for instance, was
convinced that the reactions were carried out through the sense of
touch in the skin of the toes, for, he said, when the toes were rendered
anesthetic by cocaine the responses did not occur. He thought that
the textural qualities, hardness, roughness, etc., of the various ma-
terials, such as stone, grass, wood, earth, etc., upon which the animal
rested produced color reactions in the pigment cells corresponding to
the color of these materials. In other words, the nerves established
an association between the texture or any other “ touchable ” quality
of a material and its color. This theory, on the face of it, seemed
improbable, and it is not at present entertained.

If a few tadpoles be taken and their pituitaries removed—this can
be done quite easily in this creature, for the gland lies in an accessible
position beneath the upper surface of the head—very soon we should
find that the animals had lost their natural dark color and appeared
as mere silvery ghosts of their former selves. This suggests to us at
once that the same thing which bleaches the tadpole also bleaches
the frog. Does the lack of pituitary secretion cause the pigment
eranules to retreat to the center of the cells, and does the presence of
the hormone in the blood cause them to spread throughout the cell
body? We can easily put this suggestion to the test. If a frog be
injected with an extract of the posterior lobe, its skin within a mo-
ment or two becomes coal black, After removal of the pituitary, on
v2 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

the other hand, the frog is unable to alter the color scheme of its skin
when the illumination of its surroundings is altered. There is little
doubt, then, of the action of this portion of the pituitary upon the
pigment cells of the frog. If the eyes of a normal frog are covered
with some opaque material, the color reaction does not occur.

Now, we can form a picture of the mechanism by which the animals
change their tinting according to the light. If the frog is in a bright
light or upon a light background, the retina is stimulated by the
rays of light. Impulses pass along the optic nerves to the brain, and
some of these impulses are sidetracked to the pituitary’s posterior lobe
and its secretion is suppressed. The suppression persists so long as
the rays of light are entering the eyes. The pigment cells, however,
cdo not at once become pale, for the secretion which had been circulat-
ing in the blood, and which keeps the cells expanded, must first be
used up. This takes a certain time, but as soon as it is complete the
cells appear to shrink, and a sickly greenish-yellow pallor creeps over
the amphibian skin. In this way does the frog, leopard, or other
variety, change his spots; but the Ethiopian can not change his skin,
for no corresponding reactions have been shown to occur in man
or in any of the higher animals.

Limited space permits me to consider only two ductless glands. I
have chosen these two because more is known of them than of others
which I have not touched upon. I might, for instance, have discussed
the parathyroids, those tiny glands which lie beneath the thyroid.
They are essential to health, and indeed to life itself, though even in
an ox they are no larger than a bean. They govern the amount of
calcium in the blood. If they are removed, the calcium is reduced,
and an extract prepared from them when injected into an animal
causes the calcium to rise.

Or I might have taken up the adrenal glands, which lie near the
kidneys and are believed by some to enhance the reactions of the
primitive emotions, hate, fear, anger, etc. There are also those glands
which have been shown to exert such influence upon the development
of the secondary characteristics of sex, such as the plumage of birds
and the antlers of stags. There are also the pineal gland and the
thymus, the one lying deep in the brain, the other deep in the chest,
and both shrouded in the deepest mystery. ‘There is also the pan-
creas, which pours insulin into the blood stream, but the study of this
hormone is a very large subject in itself.

I have treated the glands of which I have spoken as though they
were quite independent one of the other. This is unavoidable, be-
cause this is the way in which they have been studied, and this is the
way in which most of the information regarding them has been
gained. Yet there is no doubt that their actions are very closely
related one with another and that it is purely artificial to study them

=

DUCTLESS GLANDS—TAYLOR 713

in water-tight compartments. It is, however, at the present time
impossible to do otherwise.

We should look upon the secretions a the ductless glands rather,
I think, as forming with the blood a suitable environment, an appro-
priate aut ae to bathe the cells of the tissues. When all secre-
tions are present in their correct proportions, the cells are healthy,
they flourish and grow normally. If, on the other hand, one or other
constituent of this nicely balanced mixture be present in reduced or
excessive proportion, the environment becomes unsuitable and the cells
suffer. Their development along the particular paths which heredi-
tary impulses direct them is thwarted, and abnormalities result.

In order that there shall be physiological harmony, each endocrine
gland must play its part in tune with its fellows.
’ Mn W THY iy ti

Gh hy A: HE
De th Aiees

aa ih ayy iy NV si val. a y ae ty einen
hove MIE ‘Raa nee ya hes) eae Abbie ies ree Dhue
tee Ren RS | Ta aiid Hee aah Ba he ok spa inl
fh) CE Gas AA ae Sa CaN gee Pane Ks ie tye eat we nid
rhe My ay nt, tet Snead ca whe A ;
64 rd " mired npn Baas F Line
ral ee 4 Patty tia eo A ties heh
bobcat ch ud PT Ou i ne My

: h
Paes natn rn Py onary me

i, » n Pay
wetiie ey tal RAL That Say) the at Eon

ae hr Bhar sky my Ng RANI Pagan Bs ee aaa Ae sea ‘bp ve
ae ty ty, Pia? MER nee dC Nn. ey: ag itt
WAG.) 4.4) rar al yaad Tern) ‘awit ya ia any

rs m4 erate hee) CCraith thy tage ® RT | ig
ay 4; eae on WG a oe ine fay? NO ine
it ie heer a A aa bse - ie ae ig

nish te
AV antelb Ne re Hitt
| " ne | a death ns ve
Mey Le bait nit ‘ |
"HE VeaaT a ae be sigh age it Get he’
Oy hive peer iBa een We wieh rT Hav
en teat ee cunt (anh Ge (ehOhe: Dehwed ae eit
me? Ri a ith ity Hib WAC ae ae ee

Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Taylor PLATE 1

1. CRETIN AGED 10 YEARS

(From MecCarrison, after Thomson)

2. MICROSCOPIC SECTION OF THYROID TISSUE IN GOITER (LEFT) AND THE NORMAL
STRUCTURE (RIGHT)
(AVYYNIA)) “GIOYAHL JO LOVYLXA HLIM
INSWLV3SY]L YSLAV SHLNOIW SSYHL ‘| SYNDIA SV AWVS *S NOILVYNG ,SYVAA Gl AO VNAGOXANW ‘1

i

JOoJ|AB{—'8ZSl ‘Wodsy uvluOsSYy}IWS

@ ALV1d
Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Taylor PLATE 3

1. EFFECT OF THYROID ADMINISTRATION UPON CRETINISM

Center, after short course of thyroid extract; left and right, same child before treatment. (From
J. S. Huxley)

: =
ACROMEGALY

2. SHOWING ELONGATION OF FACE FROM EYES TO CHIN IN ACROMEGALY
Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Taylor PLATE 4

1. DIAGRAM TO SHOW ELONGATION OF FACIAL AREA IN
SKULL OF PREHISTORIC MAN AND IN ACROMEGALIC
SKULL

Normal skull on the left of vertical line in each case

2. COMPARISON OF ACROMEGALIC AND PREHISTORIC
SKULLS

Normal skull, top right; acromegalic skull, top left; prehistoric skull,
bottom left; prehistoric skullcap, to show prominence of eye ridges,
bottom right
SAHON]| 2 15454 G
‘LHDIW NO NVI ‘SYVSA 1G
39V ‘AONSINISSQ 3gO7 YOIY 14357] NO 4YVMQ ‘LHDIY NO NVWOMA IVNYON
“-ALNY OL ANG WSITILNVAN] °S “SSHON! 6 15454 8 ‘NASNAG NVA ‘LNVIDN HOLNG ‘1

G ALVId JojAP1—'8Z6| ‘}4odey UB!UOSYyIWS
Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Taylor PLATE 6

1. DWARFISM DUE TO
DEFICIENCY OF BOTH
LOBES OF PITUITARY.
(CUSHING )

2. EFFECT OF EXTRACT OF ANTERIOR LOBE OF PITUITARY UPON
GROWTH OF RATS. LEFT, CONTROL; RIGHT, TREATED WITH
EXTRACT. (EVANS)
Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Walker PLATE 1

SVANTE AUGUST ARRHENIUS (1859-1927)

SVANTE ARRHENIUS?
By Sir JAMES WALKER

[With one . plate]

A little over 40 years ago the conjunction of the ideas of osmotic
pressure and of electrolytic dissociation ushered in a new era in the
development of the physical chemistry of solutions—an era of unex-
ampled fertility. Van ’t Hoff and Arrhenius, the originators of
these new ideas, have now both passed away. It is 16 years since I
was charged by the society to deliver the van ’t Hoff memorial lec-
ture. To-day it is my task to discharge a similar duty in honor of
Arrhenius. My relations to these men were altogether different;
Arrhenius was a close friend, van ’t Hoff a remote immortal. The
sketch of the life and work of Arrhenius which I present is there-
fore not that of a completely detached historian, but is shaped by
personal reminiscence and tinged with personal affection.*

I well remember when I first encountered his name. It was in
the autumn of 1887 in the small departmental library of Baeyer’s
laboratory in Munich. On a shelf there lay the loose numbers of the
first volume of the Zeitschrift fiir Physikalische Chemie, newly
founded by Ostwald. Turning over the pages of this interesting
new journal, I saw what seemed to me the very odd name of Svante
Arrhenius as author of a paper on the influence of neutral salts on
the velocity of saponification of ethyl acetate. I did not find this
paper of more than moderate interest, but later in the year there
was published another by the same author on the dissociation of
substances dissolved in water. This was plainly a novel and striking
conception, and although I was not altogether convinced by the
arguments it contained I marked it for closer study at a later time.

In the spring of the following year I left Munich for Leipzig and
was caught in the wave of Ostwald’s enthusiasm for the new doc-
trines of osmotic pressure and electrolytic dissociation. In Ostwald’s
laboratory I used to work in a small room with Wilhelm Meyerhoffer,

1 Arrhenius memorial lecture, delivered on May 10, 1928. Reprinted by permission
from the Journal of the Chemical Society, 1928, London.

2T take this opportunity of thanking the many friends, both Swedish and English to
whom I am indebted for information regarding Arrhenius. A bibliography of his work
up to 1908 is to be found in Z. Physikal. Chem, vol. 69, and up to 1918 in Medd. K.
Vetenskapsakad. Nobel-institut, vol. 5.

715
716 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

who afterwards collaborated with van ’t Hoff in his phase-rule
investigations. One day Meyerhoffer burst into the room, and
pointing excitedly along the corridor, said, “Arrhenius is there.” I
peered out and saw a stoutish fair young man talking to Ostwald
near the entrance hall. It was Arrhenius. We were made ac-
quainted by Ostwald, but at that time I saw little more of him.
Next year he came to work in Leipzig, and I had the opportunity
of meeting him daily. He was one of the simplest and least assum-
ing of men. He gave himself no airs and treated us young fellows
as if we were his scientific equals, although at that time he was
being recognized in Germany as a leading spirit in physical chem-
istry. In his own country he was still unregarded.

Svante Arrhenius came of Swedish farmer folk, a remote ancestor
being one Lasse Olofsson, who in 1620 moved to the village of
Arena, from which the family derived its surname in the Latinized
form of Arenius, the spelling being changed in the early part of the
nineteenth century to Arrhenius by the uncle of Svante, Prof. Johan
Arrhenius, a botanist and secretary of the Academy of Agriculture.
Johan and his younger brother, Svante Gustav Arrhenius (1813—
1888), the father of our Svante, went as students to the University
of Upsala, and the latter subsequently established himself in that
town as a land surveyor. He was appointed collector to the univer-
sity, but the emoluments of the post were so meager that he was
forced to undertake in addition the management of the estate of
Wijk, on Lake Malar, which belonged to Count von Essen. He
married in 1855 Caroline Thunberg, and at Wijk there was born on
February 19, 1859, a son whom they called Svante August Arrhenius.
Owing to improved prospects the family moved to Upsala in the
beginning of 1860. Young Svante was educated at the cathedral
school of Upsala, and was fortunate in the fact that the rector of the
school was a good teacher of physics. He left at the age of 17 with
a good record in mathematics and physics to enter the University
of Upsala, where he soon passed the candidate’s examination, ad-
mitting to study for the doctorate. It seems to have been his orig-
inal intention to take chemistry as his main subject under Cleve,
well known for his investigations on the rare earths and on complex
ammoniacal compounds. Cleve, however, was apparently an unin-
spiring teacher and neglected the theoretical side of chemistry.
Arrhenius records that he never heard any mention from the rostrum
_of the periodic law, although it was already 10 years old, nor when
le came to write his thesis had he any knowledge of the existence of
the law of Guldberg and Waage, which was even older. In 1881
he definitely turned to physics, although the conditions for its study
in Upsala were far from ideal. Thalén was at that time professor
of physics there. His reverence for his master and predecessor
SVANTE ARRHENIUS—WALKER rhikyg

Angstrém was so great that, beyond the apparatus for elementary
students, there was little else in the department but instruments for
exact measurements of wave lengths, a subject for which Arrhenius
had no hking. Thalén did not encourage independent work in his
laboratory, and Arrhenius was forced to look about for some other
opportunity to begin physical research. He, with a fellow student,
repaired in September, 1881, to Stockholm with the intention of
working in the laboratory of Erik Edlund, professor of physics to
the Swedish Academy. Edlund gave them a hearty welcome, and
they began by assisting him in his work on electromotive forces in
the spark discharge. In the spring of the following year Arrhenius
started his first independent research on the decay of galvanic polar-
ization with time, an account of which was published in the Bihang
of the Swedish Academy in 1883. From this he passed to the
measurement of the conducting power of electrolytic solutions.

It is of interest to inquire into the reasons which induced Arrhenius
to take up this line of work. The pursuit of science, like other
human activities, is not exempt from the prevalence of fashions.
At the period under consideration the study of the properties of
solutions was in the air. Van ’t Hoff was busy tracing the analogy
between dilute solutions and gases; Raoult was developing empirical
methods for the determination of the molecular weights of dissolved
substances; Kohlrausch had just perfected his telephone method for
determining electrolytic conductivities; Ostwald was working at reac-
tion velocities and the affinities of acids and bases in aqueous solution.
Arrhenius yielded to the same influence, but curiously enough what
led him to the investigation of electrolytic solutions was not. directly
concerned with the conducting substances themselves. He tells us
that Cleve in his lectures had emphasized the impossibility of ascer-
taining the molecular weights of substances, such as sugar, which
could not be volatilized without decomposition. Arrhenius rightly
recognized that this was a great drawback, by the removal of which
a considerable advance in chemistry would be rendered possible. He
was unaware of Raoult’s work, and thought that some light might
be thrown on the molecular weight of dissolved substances by meas-
urements of electrolytic conductivity. He knew that when some of
the water of a conducting solution was replaced by more complex
nonconducting substances, such as alcohol, the conductivity was low-
ered, and he thought it might be feasible to deduce the molecular
weight of this added substance from its effect on the conductivity.
He had not proceeded far with his measurements, however, when he
recognized that the state of the conducting salt was the matter of
primary importance.

The theory of electrolysis and electrolytic solutions was also de-
cidedly in the air at the same period. The chains of Grotthus, the
718 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

hypothesis of Clausius on continual momentary separation of ions.
Hittorf’s work on migration, Helmholtz’s conception of the atomic
nature of electricity, the work of Kohlrausch on conductivity, were
all leading up to some definite comprehensive theory which in the
end was furnished by Arrhenius.

Arrhenius completed his experimental work in the spring of 1883
and wrote the theoretical part at his home in the summer of the
same year. The memoir containing the results of his conductivity
experiments, and the conclusions he deduced from them was sub-
mitted to the Swedish Academy of Sciences in June, 1883, and pub-
lished in the following year. (Bihang, vol. 8, Nos. 13 and 14.) It is
in French and is entitled “ Investigations on the Galvanic Conduc-
tivity of Electrolytes. Part I. Determination of the conductivity of
extremely dilute solutions by means of the’ depolarizer; Part II.
Chemical theory of electrolytes.” Arrhenius undertook the experi-
mental investigation of dilute solutions himself, for, although Kohl-
rausch had made similar measurements and had quoted some numeri-
cal data, the final publication of his results was delayed till 1885.
The depolarizer which Arrhenius used was an apparatus devised by
Edlund in 1875, and corresponds roughly to a hand-driven rotating
commutator. It is of interest to note that the conductivity cell which
bears Arrhenius’s name is described in this paper.

Arrhenius measured the resistance of a considerable number of
salts, acids, and bases at various dilutions, sometimes as high as
v=10,000. Unfortunately the actual dilutions are not given, so that
it is difficult to correlate the data of Arrhenius with those of other
authors. He tabulated his results so as to show in what ratio the
resistance of an electrolyte is increased when the dilution is doubled.
This ratio, as Kohlrausch had found earlier, is nearly equal to 2 for
most salts, i. e., specific conductivity is nearly proportional to con-
centration. Departure from this ideal value he took as a basis for
classification of the dissolved electrolytes, and showed that chemi-
cally similar substances fell into the same category when classified
according to dilution ratios. A discussion of the data led Arrhenius
to the conclusion that “if on dilution of a solution the conductivity
does not change proportionally to the amount of electrolyte, then a
chemical change has occurred on addition of the solvent.” He exem-
plifies this by the consideration of potassium cyanide with the ab-
normally high dilution ratio of 2.14, which he attributes to the
partial splitting of the salt into acid and base on dilution with water.
The abnormal values obtained for soluble hydroxides and dilute solu-
tions of acids he attributes to the presence of small quantities of
ammonium carbonate in the solvent water.

The importance of this paper, however, does not lie in the experi-
mental measurements or in the detailed deductions, but in the general
SVANTE ARRHENIUS—WALKER 719

ideas which Arrhenius developed in the second part. Instigated and
encouraged by Otto Pettersson, then professor of chemistry in
Stockholm, Arrhenius greatly expanded this theoretical section, which
contains the germ of the later theory of electrolytic dissociation.
He bases his theoretical treatment on the hypothesis of Williamson
and Clausius. How this hypothesis presented itself to a clear
and critical contemporary mind, unacquainted with the work of
Arrhenius, may best be gathered from the admirable report on
electrolysis presented by Oliver Lodge to the British Association in
1885.

Lodge writes: “No polarization exists inside a homogeneous
electrolyte; there is no chemical cling of the atoms there, but only a
frictional rub. Such a fact as this, if well established, renders neces-
sary some form of dissociation hypothesis. The form of dissociation
hypothesis suggested by Clausius and Williamson is well known. It
supposes that the vast majority of molecules in an electrolyte are
quite insusceptible to the influence of electrodes, but that a few of
them (the number being increased by complexity of composition and
rise of temperature) are, by collision or otherwise, dissociated and
exist in the free atomic state, each atom with its appropriate charge.
These alone feel the influence of the electrodes. ... Individual
atoms, although permitted to combine as soon as they like, on this
theory, are commonly thought of as existing in the dissociated state
for a finite time. If there are chemical or other objections to such
a view, it need not be held; all that the facts of electrolysis require
is the most momentary dissolution of partnership—temporary but
quite perfect freedom... Provided a sufficient supply of such
temporary severances occurs throughout the liquid, no individual
atom need remain uncombined for a thousandth of a second, so far as
the phenomena of electrolysis are concerned.”

Arrhenius derives from the hypothesis the notion of closed circu-
lar currents in the electrolytic solution in its normal state (1. e., when
not undergoing electrolysis) which are due to the separation of the
ions and their recombination with other than their original partners.
This notion he uses in dealing with the equilibrium between elec-
trolytes in aqueous solutions. But by far the most important original
idea, on which he bases his further treatment, is that of the distine-
tion of the dissolved molecules into active and inactive. He arrives
at it in the following way. <A solution of ammonia exhibits a
feeble molecular conductivity which increases with dilution. This
Arrhenius attributes to the progressive conversion of the non-
electrolytic NH, into the electrolytic NH,OH as dilution is increased.
He proceeds: “ It has been shown that pure anhydrous hydrochloric
acid is a nonconductor, that is, a nonelectrolyte. If water is added
to it, it is converted into an electrolyte, naturally in a progressive
720 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

manner. It is impossible to deny the complete analogy of this
phenomenon with that occurring on the dilution of ammonia or
acetic acid, although it takes place much more rapidly.” He sums
up in the following statement: “ The aqueous solution of any hydrate
[1. e., acid or base] is composed in addition to the water, of two parts,
one active (electrolytic), the other inactive (nonelectrolytic). These
three substances (viz, water, active hydrate, and inactive hydrate)
are in chemical equilibrium, so that on dilution the active part
increases and the inactive part diminishes.”

Arrhenius gives nowhere in this memoir a precise account of the
nature of the active and inactive portions. He indicates and illus-
trates what they might be, but that is all; he does not define. The
most important special feature of the paragraph is the statement that
the active part increases on dilution. He continues: “ In what respect
these two parts differ remains to be elucidated. Probably the active
part (as with ammonia) is a compound of the inactive part and the
solvent. Or possibly inactivity may be caused by the formation of
molecular complexes. Or again the difference between the active and
inactive parts may be purely physical. The same statement applies
to bases, and we may also speak of the inactivity of dissolved salts,
in which case the notions of inactivity and complexity completely
coincide.”

With regard to solutions of normal salts he makes the following
statements: (1) “Aqueous solutions of all electrolytes contain the
dissolved electrolyte at least in part in the form of molecular com-
plexes. (2) If the attenuation of the solution of a normal salt is
continued, the complexity approaches asymptotically an inferior
limit. (3) The limit to which the complexity of a normal salt at
extreme dilution tends to approach is of the same degree for all
normal salts. Probably this limit will not be attained before all
the salts are split up into simple molecules, represented by the
chemical molecular formula.

“To fix our ideas, I have introduced the notion of coefficient of
activity defined as follows: The coefficient of activity of an
electrolyte is the number expressing the ratio of the number of
ions actually contained in the electrolyte to the number of ions it
would contain if the electrolyte were completely transformed into
simple electrolytic molecules.

“Before going on we shall describe more precisely the notion of
coefficient of activity by the aid of the hypothesis of Williamson
and Clausius. According to section 2 this coefficient is defined by
the number of ions present in a solution. But to each pair of ions
there corresponds an electrolytic molecule which can take part in
the production of a circular current; that is to say, its ions are
endowed with the movement assumed by the hypothesis. If, now,,

ag a ee ee ee ee
SVANTE ARRHENIUS—WALKER (GA

an electrolyte is constituted in such a manner that only a certain
fraction 1/n can at the same time take part in such a movement,
it is evident that its coefficient of activity is 1/n. It is not neces-
sary, however, that a chemical difference should exist between the
active and inactive parts. For greater clearness we choose an ammo-
niacal solution as example. In this solution there are two different
parts, one active NH,OH, the other inactive NH,. If the latter is
transformed into the former, the sum of the molecules of the two
species is not augmented. Thus if m and m are the numbers of
molecules of NH,OH and NH,, the first factor of the coefficient of

activity will be Now several of the NH,OH molecules may

m
m+n
be associated with each other, so that the number of physical mole-
cules of NH,OH is p, of (NH,OH), g, of (NH,OH), 7, etc., where
evidently p+2q+38rt+ ...=m. Again of the molecules NH,OH
only a fraction 1/A presents a simultaneous movement of ions. ‘The
corresponding numbers for (NH,OH), and (NH,OH), are 1/p and
1/v. In this case the coefficient of activity of the ammonia will be
equal to

LOR AD CPR RIN A Aa ”
m+n md * mut my” ; aE re Wrage 2)

It is interesting to compare with this coefficient of activity the
“ dissociation ratio” of Lodge, which is defined in the report from
which I have already quoted. Lodge writes: “mn is the number
of grams of the electrolyzed or dissociated substance in a unit cube,
and this we may write Vy where JW stands for the number of monad
gram-equivalents of the really electrolyzed substance per cubic centi-
meter and » is its molecular weight compared with hydrogen.” Con-
sidering the case of two electrolytes dissolved in the same solution, he
proceeds: “there will be V, and 4, to represent the amount of dis-
sociated substance present, reckoned in gram-equivalents per cubic
centimeter of solution. We come to the conclusion that we do not
know the absolute velocity of any ion, and can not know it without
further information regarding the dissociation ratio (that is, V,/N’
or V,/N’) of each substance present, where WV’ is the total number
of monad gram-equivalents of the dissolved substance in a cubic
centimeter of solution.”

To Lodge the “dissociation ratio” is in all probability small.
Arrhenius, on the other hand, contemplates the variability of the
“ coefficient of activity ” with dilution and the likelihood of its being
large in very dilute solutions.

So far the considerations are purely theoretical; now comes an
important step, their union with experimental data. Kohlrausch
had shown that the molecular conductivity of an electrolyte was
722 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

additively composed of two terms, one depending on the positive
radical and the other on the negative radical. But in extremely
dilute solutions of salts the value for negative radicals was nearly
the same; therefore, according to Arrhenius, “the molecular con-
ductivity of the active part of an acid (in dilute solution) is con-
stant and independent of the nature of the acid,” and as a corollary
from this “the better the (dilute) solution of an acid conducts
electricity, the greater is its active part.” For want of precise data
for calculating the absolute value of the coefficient of activity, Arrhe-
nius takes it as proportional to the molecular conductivity. Thus
he is enabled to compare the activities of acids amongst themselves,
and of bases amongst themselves. He finds at once that the activi-
ties of acids as thus determined from their conductivities agree well
with our general notions regarding their strengths, and is led to the
statement that “for acids and bases galvanic activity is accom-
panied by chemical activity.” He proceeds to discuss double de-
composition in electrolytic solutions, on somewhat hypothetical
grounds, and arrives at a formula (containing coefficients of activity)
which he applies practically to many important reactions. If in
the general equation of double decomposition

AB/+ CD = AC 4:BC,;
De ie ed Ma hes ict

are the molecular proportions at equilibrium, and a, 8, 8, y are the
coefficients of activity of the various substances, then at equilibrium
(l-ax)(n—a) o&=(pt+a)(q+a)By. If the action considered
is Acid+Base= Salt+Water, the product of the coefficients of
activity on the left is, when acid and base are strong, enormously
greater than the product of those on the right, and salt-formation. is,
therefore, practically complete. If acid or base is weak, the two
products are comparable, and in consequence, entire neutralization
will not take place, notable quantities of acid and base remaining
free. If the activity coefficient of one of the substances (say alcohol
regarded as acid) is smaller than that of water, only traces of the
salt are formed. Here we find a definite treatment of salt-hydroly-
sis based on the following principle: “ What is common to all these
cases is the necessity of regarding water as an acid (or as a base)
which competes with other acids (or bases) present in the equilib-
rium.” Arrhenius states further the proposition, which requires
some restriction, that “at a dilution not excessively great the quan-
tity of salt decomposed is approximately proportional to the square
root of the quantity of the solvent water.”

The theory is then applied to the displacement of one acid by
another, to the influence of acid salts, and to equilibrium in hetero-
generous systems. The consequences of the variation of the coefficient
SVANTE ARRHENIUS—WALKER Fipas)

of activity in homogeneous and in heterogeneous systems are con-
sidered, and sections are devoted to the behavior of molten electro-
lytes and to thermochemistry. He deduces the following important
principle: “ The heat of neutralization evolved by the transformation
of a base and an acid, both perfectly active, into water and a simple
salt, is nothing but the heat of activation of water.”

After a review of anterior theories Arrhenius summarizes his work
thus: “ We have first shown the probability that electrolytes can
assume two different forms, one active, the other inactive, such that
the active part is always, in the same external circumstances (temper-
ature and dilution), a certain fraction of the total quantity of the
electrolyte. The active part conducts electricity, and is thus in reality
electrolytic; not so the inactive part. Moreover we have proved that
the necessary consequences of the hypothesis of Clausius and Wil-
liamson is that there exist continuous circular currents, in which the
active parts alone participate. The molecules participating in such
currents are necessarily decomposed according to the scheme of
double decomposition, new electrolytes being thereby formed. On
this basis we have founded a chemical theory of electrolytes, which,
being deduced from very probable sources, possesses also a high
degree of probability. This theory leads to formule valid for chemi-
cal processes, formule very conformable to those proposed by Guld-
berg and Waage, which have been verified in a great number of
instances. ... As a provisional approximation we have assumed
the coefficient of activity to be equal to the molecular conductivity.
The numbers calculated on this hypothesis and the reactions thus
foreseen, agree very well with experimental facts. . . . These propo-
sitions and these laws are taken from the most different parts of
chemical science; but as the theory agrees so well with reality on these
different’ points, it seems probable that it ought to do so also in inter-
mediate regions. . . . The theory is completely free from any hy-
pothesis of an affinity different from physical forces, and in this re-
spect is preferable to all prior theories. . . . True, it may be objected
that the theory is only valid for electrolytes, while previous theories
have embraced all substances. Against this we remark that chemical
knowledge is mainly based on the reaction of electrolytes . . . Reac-
tions in general seem to manifest a considerable analogy to those of
electrolytes, so that one could perhaps in the future enlarge the theory
until it becomes, with some modification, applicable to all substances.”

Nowhere does Arrhenius mention the word dissociation, although,
as we have seen, the word is currently used by Lodge. The idea is,
of course, there, but there is no identification of the “active part ”
of the electrolyte with free ions acting as separate molecules. The
theory of electrolytic dissociation is as it were in solution in this
memoir; it has yet to be crystallized out.
724 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

This comprehensive paper, which runs to 150 printed pages, was
presented to the University of Upsala as a dissertation for the
doctorate of the university. Its somewhat strange form is no doubt
due to the use thus made of it. At the ends of sections and para-
graphs there are numbered and italicized propositions, of widely
different degrees of probability, and deduced by arguments of very
different degrees of cogency. The paper then on a cursory inspec-
tion might convey an unfavorable impression if only the italicized
portions were attended to. ‘These propositions were probably the
theses which were to be defended by the candidate in public debate
with an opponent appointed by the university. The disputation
passed off successfully and it must have been a bitter disappointment
to Arrhenius when his dissertation was awarded a fourth class (non
sine laude approbatur) and his defense a third (cum laude appro-
batur). After every allowance has been made for the novel and un-
usual character of the dissertation, it is difficult to see how the Uni-
versity of Upsala, the University of Bergman and Berzelius, should
have condemned a brilliant thesis on the very subjects of affinity and
electrochemistry associated with these names. For the award
amounted to a condemnation; in view of it Arrhenius could not
normally become a docent in the University of Upsala.

Arrhenius sent copies of his paper to Clausius, Lothar Meyer,
Ostwald, and van ’t Hoff. ‘‘ These celebrated men,” he says, “ with
whom the Upsala professors were not to be compared, treated me as
a colleague and not as a stupid schoolboy.” Ostwald was eminently
friendly. He himself in his work on chemical dynamics was being
drawn to the conclusion that velocities of reactions in which acids
participate are connected with the electric conductivities of the acids.
He writes (J. pr. Chem., 1884, 30, 93): “To test the idea I have
during the past six months made preliminary experiments, which
however have often been interrupted by other work. Meanwhile
Svante Arrhenius, working in another range of ideas, undertook simi-
lar experiments and has published them in two memoirs, which also
contain a very notable theory of chemical affinity developed from
them. To the author of these memoirs, which belong to the most im-
portant ever published on the subject of affinity, there must be ac-
corded not only priority of publication but priority of the idea.”

Oliver Lodge was impressed by the paper and wrote for the Reports
of the British Association in 1886 an abstract and critical analysis
of it extending to 30 closely printed pages. ‘The paper seems to me
a distinct step toward a mathematical theory of chemistry. The
title affixed to it is ‘The Chemical Theory of Electrolytes,’ but it is
a bigger thing than this: It really is an attempt at an electrolytic
theory of chemistry.”

SVANTE ARRHENIUS—WALKER 725

In August, 1884, Ostwald visited Arrhenius in Upsala, and his
visit had a marked effect on Arrhenius’s future. Ostwald undertook
to get Arrhenius appointed as a docent in Riga, and the offer no
doubt led to the favorable reception of an application by Arrhenius
for a similar post in physical chemistry at Upsala. The two men
had, while together, projected a scheme of research on physicai
chemistry to be undertaken in Ostwald’s laboratory in Riga, but
the illness and subsequent death of Arrhenius’s father kept him in
Upsala. Through Edlund’s influence he received in December, 1885,
a valuable traveling scholarship from the Academy of Sciences which
enabled him to work in continental laboratories at discretion. ‘The
next five years were Wanderjahre. In 1886 he was with Ostwald in
Riga, and Kohlrausch in Wiirzburg, during 1887 with Boltzmann in
Graz, during 1888 with van ’t Hoff in Amsterdam and again with
Ostwald, now in Leipzig. In 1889 and 1890 he worked in the
laboratories of Ostwald and Boltzmann. When in Sweden he lec-
tured on physical chemistry in Upsala or worked in Edlund’s labo-
ratory in Stockholm. It was during this journeyman’s period of his
life that the theory of electrolytic dissociation was finally developed.

His original papers left the nature of the difference between the
active and the inactive portions of the electrolyte unsettled, and
the absolute value of the dissociation vague. As I have said, the
theory was still in solution. The nucleus which determined its crys-
tallization came through van ’t Hoff’s theoretical work on osmotic
pressure and his interpretation of Raoult’s experimental results.

Van ’*t Hoff, in a memoir presented to the Swedish Academy on
October 14, 1885, showed that it was possible to write for solutions
an equation PV=f’7, analogous to the gas equation, where P,
however, is the osmotic pressure instead of the gaseous pressure.
The constant R’ was in many cases equal to the gas constant, but
in many others differed from it. Wan ’t Hoff then wrote the general
equation for dissolved substances in the form of PV =¢R7’, where
is the gas constant and 7 a coefficient sometimes equal to unity,
but sometimes assuming values much greater, in particular for
aqueous salt solutions when the results are calculated from Raoult’s
experiments. For example, z is 1.98 for hydrochloric acid, 1.82
for sodium nitrate, and 1.78 for potassium chlorate. Van ’t Hoff
contented himself with these empirical values and made no attempt
at an explanation. His paper was published in 1886, but Arrhenius
did not receive a copy until March, 1887. On the 30th of that month
he wrote to van *t Hoff from Wiirzburg: “ Your paper has cleared
up for me to a remarkable degree the constitution of solutions. If,
for example, sodium chloride were normal in its behavior, i. e., if it
consisted of simple molecules, its coefficient ¢ would be equal to unity.

24034—29—47
726 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

But since 7 is much greater than unity, the natural explanation is
to say that NaCl is partially dissociated, just as we say that at
high temperatures I, is dissociated. Now this assumption might
be deemed very rash, were it not that on other grounds we are led to
look upon electrolytes as partially dissociated, for we assume that
they decompose into their ions. But as these ions are charged with
very great quantities of electricity of opposite sign, conditions are
such that we can not in all cases treat a solution of NaCl as if it
simply consisted of Na and Cl. The pressure on the walls can not,
however, be appreciably affected, so that in this case the solution
acts as if Na and Cl were free. And when we consider which sub-
stances (according to Raoult’s experiments) are abnormal, it is not
the inorganic (e. g., not HgCl,, CO,, H,S, etc.), but the electrolytic
substances (1. e., substances which are conductors of the same order
as salts) even when they are organic, e. g., oxalic acid. Trichloro-
acetic acid and sulphonic acids must show this still more clearly when
they come to be investigated. Since according to the above assump-
tion electrolytes decompose into their ions, the coefficient 7 must lie
between unity and the number of the ions. This in reality holds
good; for example, the coefficient nearly reaches 2 for NaCl, KCl,
KNO,, NaOH, etc., which have two ions; for Ba(OH),, CaCl,
K.,SO,, etc., which have three ions, it almost approaches 3, and so
on. ... From the above assumption we can even calculate the value
of 7 from the conductivity, and this I shall probably soon carry out;
till now time has failed me. What I called in my paper ‘ Sur la con-
ductibilité ’ active molecules, are thus the same as dissociated mole-
cules. One of the propositions which I then put forward would
now be written: In all probability all electrolytes are completely dis-
sociated at the most extreme dilution.” Here we have the first ap-
pearance of the theory of electrolytic dissociation. If we can not fix
its birthday, at least we can its birth month. It is clear, definite,
and concise, and all Arrhenius’s previous theoretical treatment can
easily be translated into terms of it. Van ’t Hoff accorded the new
idea a favorable reception. He replied on April 7: “ Your statement
that the number of ions roughly keeps pace with the values of 4,
and that the conductivity also increases with 2, agrees with most of
the cases known tome.” ... Heremarks that he had always thought
of the dissociation into ions as being confined to an extremely small
portion of the salt, but confesses that he sees no grave difficulty in
assuming a greater dissociation. Arrhenius in a letter dated April
13 is pleased to learn that this is van ’t Hoff’s view, and states that
Emil Fischer, with whom he had discussed the matter in Wiirzburg,
although he was friendly to the idea, was of opinion that most
chemists would be opposed to such far-reaching dissociation. Arr-
henius continues: “It is true that Clausius had only assumed that a
SVANTE ARRHENIUS—WALKER 727

minute quantity of a dissolved electrolyte is dissociated, and that
all other physicists and chemists had followed him; but the only
reason for this assumption, as far as I can understand, is a strong
feeling of aversion to a dissociation at so low a temperature, without
any actual facts against it being brought forward. In my paper
on the conductivity of electrolytes I was led to the conclusion that
at the most extreme dilutions all salts would consist of simple con-
ducting molecules. But the conducting molecules are, according to
the hypothesis of Clausius and Williamson, dissociated; hence at
extreme dilutions all salt molecules are completely dissociated. The
degree of dissociation can be simply found on this assumption by
taking the ratio of the molecular conductivity of the solution in
question to the molecular conductivity at the most extreme dilution.”
These two short excerpts give the gist of the complete theory.

Van ’*t Hoff and Arrhenius now made their ideas available to a
wider public by publishing them in the first volume of the Zeitschrift
fiir physikalische Chemie in the latter half of 1887. Van ’t Hoff
accepts Arrhenius’s theory for electrolytes and adds _ finally
Avogadro’s Law to those of Boyle and Charles as being applicable
to dilute solutions. Arrhenius gives the relationship between van ’t
Hoff’s constant 7 and the degree of dissociation « in the form
é=1+ (k—1)«a where & is the number of ions into which the molecule
of the electrolyte dissociates, e. g., 2 for KCl, 3 for K,SO,. He com-
pares the values of z calculated from Raoult’s freezing-point data
on the one hand, and from the molecular conductivity on the other,
for some 80 different substances, and finds a very satisfactory accord-
ance. In the second part of his paper he discusses the properties of
electrolytes in aqueous solutions from the point of view of their
additive character, which he attributes to the independence of
their ions.

The theories of osmotic pressure and of electrolytic dissociation
were now fairly launched, and, propelled by the driving power of
Ostwald through the waters of scientific opinion, they soon attained
a world-wide recognition, though often meeting very heavy weather.
That their reception was so favorable is indeed somewhat surprising,
for it must be remembered that in those days the marvels of X rays,
of radioactivity, of wireless transmission, had not prepared the way
for that loosening and abandonment of fixed physical ideas to which
we are to-day accustomed, if not altogether reconciled. Their gen-
eral acceptance was largely due to their comparative simplicity.
They could be easily tested practically, and little mathematics was
required in their development, so that experimental work, centered
originally in Ostwald’s laboratory but gradually spreading to others
in Germany and abroad, was in the next decade assiduously carried
out by a new generation of physical chemists. Their application by
728 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

Nernst (1889) to electromotive force was an advance of the first
order. Arrhenius himself played a principal part in the develop-
ment. Amongst his important contributions to the subject published
in Ostwald’s Zeitschrift may be mentioned the theory of isohydric
solutions (1888), the heat of dissociation of electrolytes and the influ-
ence of temperature on the degree of dissociation (1889), the condi-
tions of equilibrium between electrolytes (1890), the determination of
electrolytic dissociation of salts from solubility experiments (1898),
the hydrolysis of salts of weak acids and weak bases (1894),
the alteration of the strength of weak bases by the addition of
salts (1899).

At this point it may be well to refer to Arrhenius’s position with
regard to the problem of the abnormality of strong electrolytes,

which, unlike the weak electrolytes, do not conform to Ostwald’s .

dilution law. Naturally this puzzling exception to the theory he
had put forward constantly claimed his attention. Although he
did not succeed in accounting for it, he had arrived at a clear con-
ception of the lines along which a solution might be sought, as may
be seen from his book, Theories of Solution, published in 1912 from
the Silliman lectures delivered at Yale in 1911. He groups the
theories which might be brought forward to explain the anomaly
under four headings:

1. Change of ionic friction with dilution.

9. Electric attraction of the charges of the ions.

3. Influence of foreign substances on the osmotic pressure (so-
called salt-action).

4, Hydration of the ions.

The second of these, with its effect on the first and third, is now
recognized as the chief cause of the abnormality. Arrhenius’s origi-
nal theory is sometimes spoken of as entirely obsolete. But it is well
to remember that if the younger men of to-day see a little further into
the nature of electrolytic solutions than Arrhenius, they do so by
standing on Arrhenius’s shoulders.

During these years Arrhenius also worked on other physico-chemi-
cal subjects, for example, on viscosity of pure liquids and solutions, on
conduction in hot gases and flames, on diffusion in aqueous solution,
on the velocity of hydrolysis of ethyl acetate and on the inversion
of cane sugar in acid solutions. In a paper on the last subject (1889)
Arrhenius makes another theoretical contribution of great significance.
He is discussing the effect of temperature on reaction velocity which
amounts at the ordinary temperature to an increase of 10 to 15 per
cent for 1° rise. This is much too great to be accounted for by in-
crease of molecular velocity or diminution of viscosity. Besides, the
nature of the increase is altogether different from that exhibited in
the temperature coefficient of ordinary physical properties. For

ee ee

ee ae
SVANTE ARRHENIUS—WALKER 729

equal increments of temperature the increase is not approximately
arithmetical, but geometrical. This circumstance indicates that the
increase in reaction velocity with temperature is not due to change in
physical properties of the reacting substances. A similar very rapid
change in reaction velocity is observed when ammonium salts are
added to ammonia which is saponifying ethyl acetate. Here the
explanation is that the ammonium salts greatly reduce the concentra-
iion of the free hydroxide ions which really determine the reaction.
May we not then surmise that in the inversion of cane sugar the
amount of the really active substances is increased by temperature?
The amount of hydrogen-ion, one of the active substances, is little
affected by temperature. We must, therefore, assume that the other
really active substance is not cane sugar, as this is not changed
in amount by temperature, but another hypothetical substance,
which is produced from cane sugar as fast as it is removed by
inversion. Arrhenius here reverts to his old distinction between
“active” and “inactive” molecules. The hypothetical substance is
“ active cane sugar ” formed from the inactive substance. It is pres-
ent at all available temperatures in very minute amount, and the
quantity of it in equilibrium with the inactive cane sugar increases
about 12 per cent per degree. We are therefore dealing principally
with the effect of temperature on an equilibrium, namely, that be-
tween the active and the inactive substance, and can apply van ’t
Hoff’s equilibrium equation d log.k/d7T = q/2T’, where k is the equi-
librium constant and q is the heat of activation. For a small range
of temperature this leads to log k=C—A/RT, 1. e., a straight line
should be obtained on Arrhenius’s assumption if we plot the logarithm
of the velocity coefficient against the reciprocal of the absolute tem-
perature, the slope of the line measuring the heat of activation.
Arrhenius’s equation actually applies to many homogeneous and
heterogeneous reactions, and although there is much that is arbitrary
in its derivation, it is in its general character quite in accordance
with modern ideas.

Returning once more to his personal fortunes, we find that after
1887 he was recognized abroad as one of the chief figures of physical
chemistry, but the death of Edlund in 1888 deprived him of his
stoutest champion at home, and greatly reduced his chances of ob-
taining suitable academic employment in Sweden. Abortive negoti-
ations to establish him in a chair of physics at Utrecht and of chem-
istry at Graz were succeeded by a definite call to the chair of chemistry
at Giessen in 1891. Arrhenius, however, notwithstanding the invidia
inter suos to which he had been subjected, was intensely patriotic and
declined the offer on the chance of being appointed chief of the
laboratory of physics in the Hégskola (University College) at Stock-
holm, a post which at this time had become vacant. Arrhenius was
730 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

successful in his candidature and obtained this lectureship, which was
in 1895 converted into a professorship, although once more against
formidable opposition, only overcome by-the strong backing of Ger-
man physicists. This chair Arrhenius held till 1905. During the
years 1896-1902 he was rector of the Hégskola, and through his
personality did much to stabilize and develop the struggling insti-
tution notwithstanding that he had no fondness for administrative
tasks. Although his laboratory was small and poorly equipped, the
name of Arrhenius was sufficient to attract foreign workers, among
whom may be mentioned Abegg, Bredig, Cohen, and Euler, who after-
wards succeeded him in the chair. Foreign distinctions also began
to come his way. He was elected an honorary fellow of this society in
1898, and was awarded the Davy Medal of the Royal Society in 1902.
At last he received recognition, and that of the most handsome de-
scription, from his own countrymen by the award of the Nobel prize
for chemistry in 1903.

His interest had meanwhile been diverted from the study of solu-
tions to other fields of science, at first to cosmic and meteorological
problems.

One of his very early papers (1883) dealt with an observation of
globe lightning near Upsala, and his work on conducting gases had
led him to study electrical phenomena in the earth’s atmosphere.
With his friend the meteorologist, Nils Ekholm, he investigated the
influence of the moon on the electric state of the atmosphere, on the
aurora and on thunder storms. In a long memoir (1896) he at-
tempted to account for the onset and passing of glacial periods by
the variation in the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere.
This gas exerts a selective absorption, allowing the solar radiation
freely to pass inwards, but to a great extent stopping the lower-
temperature radiation from the earth outwards. Arrhenius calcu-
lated that from this greenhouse effect the temperature in the Arctic
regions might rise 8° C. if the carbon dioxide content of the atmos-
phere increased to somewhat more than double its present value, and
that in order to get the temperature of an ice age between the fortieth
and fiftieth parallels, the value would have to sink to about half.
The variation in the carbonic acid content he attributed chiefly to
variation in volcanic activity. The problem of the ice ages is still a
vexed question amongst geologists, but Arrhenius made a notable
contribution to its discussion.

Another important paper on a geological subject was a theory of
vulcanicity based on physico-chemical principles (1900). According
to it the sea floor acts as a kind of semipermeable membrane, permit-
ting water molecules to pass but not silicate molecules. Water at no
very great distance under the surface of the crust would be at a
temperature above its critical point, and therefore a gas, and would

Le ee eee
SVANTE ARRHENIUS—-WALKER for

be absorbed by the fluid magma under the great pressures existing.
But by extrapolation from known data it may be shown that, al-
though at room temperature water is a much weaker acid than silicic
acid, yet at high temperatures the reverse is the case, water at 1,000°
being probably 80 times stronger than silicic acid. In the magma,
then, water will attack and decompose silicates, and thus be poten-
tially stored up in the form of acid and base. When the magma on
rising is cooled, the reverse process takes place; water is liberated
and at a certain height will overcome the pressure of the column
above it, eject the superincumbent fluid, and cause a volcanic erup-
tion. A volcano thus acts in much the same way as a geyser. The
theory aims at explaining the proximate cause of eruptions, and has
met with wide acceptance.

In 1898 Arrhenius wrote a remarkable paper on the action of cos-
mic influences on physiological processes, and in 1903 he surprised his
chemical friends by publishing his ‘“ Lehrbuch der kosmischen
Physik,” a work of extraordinary learning and scholarship. In it
he passes under review an extensive collection of observational ma-
terial and deals with it according to his own methods. The most
striking novelty of treatment is the use he makes of radiation pres-
sure, the existence of which had been predicted by Clerk Maxwell.
It was applied by Arrhenius to various cosmic phenomena even be-
fore its experimental confirmation in the laboratory by Nichols and
Hull and by Lebedev. Arrhenius calculated that at the surface of
the sun the repulsive force of the radiation would balance the sun’s
gravitational attraction on black particles of diameter about 1.5, and
specific gravity 1, and that smaller particles than these would be
repelled. Schwarzschild made some necessary corrections and
showed that the maximum repulsion would be for completely reflect-
ing particles (sp. gr. 1) if their diameter was about 0.16,, and it
would then be 10 times the gravitational attraction. From the sun
then we might expect streams of such minute particles to be shot
out in all directions. Many of these particles would be electrically
charged from the ionisation existing in the sun’s gaseous atmosphere.
Arrhenius shows how the phenomena of the solar corona, comets, the
aurora, and the zodiacal light may be caused or influenced by these
particles.

With the beginning of the present century Arrhenius’s thoughts
took a new turn. Thorvald Madsen had succeeded in arousing his
interest in the application of physico-chemical ideas to serum
therapy. In 1900 and 1901 he did some experimental work with
Madsen in Copenhagen, and later in Ehrlich’s laboratory in Frank-
fort. In 1902 he published jointly with Madsen a memoir on the
occasion of the opening of the Danish State Serum Institute, of
which Madsen had been appointed director. It was entitled “ Physi-
732 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

cal Chemistry Applied to Toxins and Antitoxins.” Madsen was
responsible for the experimental methods, Arrhenius for the theoreti-
cal treatment. They maintained that the toxin-antitoxin combina-
tion (held by Ehrlich to be a firm chemical union) was in reality
reversible, and governed by the ordinary mass-action law. The
immunological phenomenon of antitoxin action was likened to the
interaction of a weak acid and a weak base, such as boric acid and
ammonia, which only partly neutralize each other. The work con-
stitutes a classical study among the early researches into the under-
lying nature of immunity phenomena, and contributed to laying the
foundation of “immunochemistry,” a term first applied by Arrhenius
himself to a branch of biological research in which reactions of
markedly specific character occur between biological principles of
unknown chemical nature. Arrhenius pursued this type of research
for a decade, and published two books dealing with it, Immunochem-
istry in 1908, and Quantitative Laws in Biological Chemistry in
1915.

In the year 1905 Arrhenius happened to be in Berlin and was asked
by the university adviser of the Prussian Ministry of Education if
he would be inclined to accept a position in the Prussian Acadamy,
similar to that held by van ’t Hoff. This was a very tempting pro-
posal, but Arrhenius, with his usual patriotism, requested time to
consider it, and asked and was granted permission to speak of it to
the Minister of Education in Sweden. It had been the intention of
the Academy of Sciences to found a Nobel institute for chemistry
and one for physics, but the wish having been expressed by King
Oscar II that Arrhenius should not be allowed to leave Sweden,
the aeademy resolved to found forthwith, instead of the two pro-
posed institutes, a Nobel institute for physical chemistry, and of this
new foundation Arrhenius was appointed director. It was housed
at first in temporary quarters in Stockholm, but at Experimental-
filtet, a pretty park in the neighborhood of the town, a small labo-
ratory was erected with an official residence attached. The laboratory
was inaugurated in 1909. Here, with an assistant and a few re-
search workers as guests, Arrhenius could work and write under
ideal conditions on such problems of physical chemistry, physiologi-
cal chemistry, immunochemistry, meteorology, and cosmic physics
as might please him.

The stormy period of Arrhenius’s career was now definitely over,
and from the time of his appointment to the Nobel Institute life
went very smoothly with him. From being a scientific outcast in
Sweden he became a scientific oracle, known and respected by all
classes of the people.

He himself did little practical work in the new laboratory, but
stimulated and encouraged others. One of his chief pleasures was

SVANTE ARRHENIUS—WALKER kaa

to attend conferences in all countries for the purpose of meeting
his scientific colleagues and discussing with them their special prob-
lems. He often visited England and was elected a foreign member
of the Royal Society in 1911. In the same year he lectured in Amer-
ica and was presented with the Willard Gibbs Medal of the Ameri-
can Society. In 1914 he gave the Faraday lecture to our own society,
and the Tyndall lecture to the Royal Institution.

Arrhenius liked to acquire knowledge at first hand, and visited
many laboratories for this purpose. He spent, for example, three
weeks in Rutherford’s laboratory in Manchester, working at a prac-
tical course in radioactivity under Geiger. At the end of a week
he had started a research on the solubility of active deposits, and was
with difficulty dragged away from his electroscope to witness some
of Jacques Loeb’s starfish experiments at the marine biological
station.

He devoted a large part of the later years of his life to populariz-
ing science. <A firm believer in progress through enlightenment, he
sought to bring a knowledge of scientific fact and method before
the general public. His clear and easy style made his books attrac-
tive, though the matters dealt with were often in themselves difficult.
The first of these books, Virldarnas Utveckling (Worlds in the
Making), which treats in a popular manner some of the subjects of
his Kosmische Physik, had an immediate and world-wide success,
being translated into all the important European languages.

Happy in his work and happy in his family life, Arrhenius dur-
ing his later years radiated contentment. He was twice married—
in 1894 to Sofia Rudbeck, and in 1905 to Maria Johansson. By the
first marriage he had one son, Olov Vilhelm Arrhenius, who is
known for his work in soil science and agricultural botany, and by
the second a son and two daughters.

His health remained good until the autumn of 1925, and although
he recovered in a remarkable way from the first seizure, he retired
from the directorship of the Nobel Institute in February, 1927, when
he was granted a full pension and the right to remain in the official
residence. On October 2, 1927, he died after a week’s illness, and
was buried in Upsala on the 8th of that month after a solemn
service in Stockholm on the previous day.

Arrhenius was of the old breed of natural philosophers, a true
polyhistor, devoted to science at large. Being endowed with a
memory both tenacious and accurate, he had a marvelous command
of scientific fact. He was, however, no unimaginative empiric;
his synthetic fancy played over the vast store of knowledge and
sought relations between apparently isolated regions. In conse-
quence, his original ideas were concerned with borderland sciences—
physical chemistry, cosmic physics, geophysics, immunochemistry.
734 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

The conjunction in him of two special faculties explains the char-
acter of much of his work—his aptitude for scientific speculation,
and an extraordinary facility in dealing with figures. He loved
statistics and it is recorded of him that as a very small boy he de-
lighted to sit beside his father and help him in casting his laborious
accounts. Arrhenius might begin a new line of work by the con-
sideration of tables of numerical data collected by himself or others.
He would frame a formula to fit them—an exercise at which he was
uncannily expert—and then evolve a physical hypothesis to account
for the formula. Or he might start with a bold speculation as to
how two entities were related, formulate this relation, and check the
formula by means of data of observation or experiment. ‘There was
constant interplay between the speculative and the quantitative
sides of his mind. I recollect that one day in the laboratory at
Leipzig, after a long spell of very arduous experimental work, he
downed tools, saying, “ I have worked enough; now I must think,”
and did not reappear in the laboratory for a fortnight. Extreme
experimental accuracy he never aimed at, considering it rather a
disadvantage in the search for a general law, and he used to boast
that he had never performed an exact experiment in his life. But
this statement must be taken with a grain of salt. I know that his
work at Leipzig was certainly more accurate than that of most of
his fellow workers in the laboratory, although carried out with the
simplest possible apparatus.

Arrhenius had nothing academic about him save learning. In
person he was stoutly built, blond, blue-eyed, and rubicund, a true
son of the Swedish countryside. His nature was frank, generous,
and expansive. He was full of robust vitality and primitive force.
He had hearty likes and dislikes, and beneath his inborn geniality
and good humor was a latent combativeness, easily aroused in the
cause of truth and freedom. .

He was not politically active, but he was fond of discussing the
large questions of world politics. He spoke very bitterly of Norway
when she broke the union with Sweden, but later admitted that the
separation had been best for both countries, and expressed to me the
hope that Britain would give Ireland similar complete freedom.
The World War he regarded as essentially a struggle between Ger-
many and Britain, and although his greatest scientific friends
belonged to the Central Powers, his sympathy was definitely with
the Allis.

A word may be said about Arrhenius as a linguist. He held that
to speak a foreign language what one wanted was, not so much
knowledge as courage. Being liberally endowed with this latter
quality he spoke and wrote many languages with ease and confi-
dence, if not with accuracy. Indeed he considered it a waste of time

|
|
SVANTE ARRHENIUS—WALKER 735

to acquire the niceties of a language, and was of opinion that there
should be a universal language—he suggested a simplified English.
Any shortcomings of accent or idiom in his own English were amply
compensated by a Shakespearean richness of vocabulary, which gave
extraordinary pith to many of his sayings.

He paid little regard to literature or art, but keenly appreciated
natural beauty, especially the gladdening phenomena of spring.
His life-long interest in the lovely northern dancers and in comets
that “brandish their crystal tresses in the sky ” had most likely an
esthetic as well as a scientific basis.

Sweden can boast of many eminent names in science, of which
two are by common consent of the first magnitude—Linneus and
Berzelius. Since the death of Berzelius she has had no name to
rank with these save the name we commemorate to-day—Arrhenius.
Yet withal Svante Arrhenius was so simple, so genuine, so human
a personality that those who had the privilege of his intimacy always
forgot the great scientific master in the genial companion and the

kindly, lovable friend.

Smithsonian Report, 1928.—Baxter PLATE 1

THEODORE WILLIAM RICHARDS (1868-1928)
THEODORE WILLIAM RICHARDS?

By Grecory P. BAXTER

[With one plate]

On April 2, 1928, the scientific world was shocked by news of the
death, after a short illness, of Theodore William Richards, Erving
protessor of chemistry in Harvard University. Until within three
weeks of his death he performed his usual duties, but from that time
he failed rapidly. His father, William Troost Richards, noted
marine artist, as well as his mother, Anna Matock Richards, were
natives of Pennsylvania, and it was in Germantown, Pa., on January
30, 1868, immediately after the return of his parents from a European
trip, that Theodore Richards, the fifth child, was born.

Childhood was passed under stimulating surroundings. His father
was a very wise and far-seeing man as well as an artist; his Quaker
mother an author of both prose and poetry; his three brothers and
two sisters as well as he possessed a rich intellectual inheritance;
artists, authors, and scientists were intimate family friends at his
father’s Germantown and Newport homes; two years were spent in
Kurope, largely in England. By a wise decision on the part of his
parents Richards’ early education up to the time of entering college
was obtained at home from his mother. His quick intelligence was
impatient of delay, and to conform to normal educational speed
would unquestionably have been irksome if not disastrous. Although
he was prepared to enter Haverford College at the age of 1314,
because of his youth entrance to college was postponed for one year.
But in the meantime he undertook the studies of the freshman year
at home, still under the tutelage of his mother, and joined the
sophomore class at Haverford in the fall of 1882.

Scientific interest showed itself early. As a boy he lived through
two “boughten” sets of chemicals unharmed, and while still at
home was taken into the chemical laboratory of the University of
Pennsylvania Medical School by Doctor Marshall and given special
instruction in qualitative analysis. In Haverford College, under
Prof. Lyman B. Hall, he laid a firm foundation for his future work
in chemistry, although his interest at that time was divided between

1 Reprinted by permission from Science, Vol. LXVIII, No. 1763, Oct. 12, 1928.
7387
738 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

chemistry and astronomy. Possibly only the accident of defective
eyesight deterred him from selecting the latter field for his life work,
but it is probable that acquaintance with Prof. Josiah P. Cooke,
of Harvard, who was a summer neighbor at Newport, exerted a
strong influence on his decision. At any rate, after graduating with
high honors at Haverford in 1885 he entered Harvard College as a
senior specializing in chemistry. In order to do this, it was neces-
sary for him to pass the examination in Greek for entrance to
Harvard. Again, with the help of his mother, he succeeded in
preparing for the examination in six weeks of study during the
summer. As a senior at Harvard his time was devoted to complet-
ing under Professors Cooke, Charles L. Jackson, and Henry B. Hill
the fundamental preparation necessary for advanced work in
chemistry. On commencement, 1886, the bachelor of arts degree was
awarded with highest honors in chemistry, summa cum laude.

At Harvard the influence of Cooke upon Richards was immediately
apparent. Cook’s interests were largely in the field nowadays
labeled physical chemistry, partly by inclination, partly, perhaps,
through association with the French physicist Regnault, under whom
he had worked some years earlier as a student. One of Cooke’s
earlest publications concerned the numerical relations between the
atomic weights of similar elements. But this investigation had made
clear to Cooke the necessity for more accurate determinations of the
atomic weights and he had undertaken the experimental revision of
some of these constants. Under Cooke, Richards as a graduate stu-
dent at Harvard carried through a redetermination of the relative
atomic weights of hydrogen and oxygen, which holds its place to-day
as one of the outstanding determinations of this important ratio.
No problem of the sort could have presented more difficulties than
did this one, and in this investigation appear all the qualities which
later were so vital for the work which Richards was to do. An
infinite capacity for taking pains, an uncompromising attitude to-
ward the possibilities of hidden errors, a determination to be certain
that no precaution had been overlooked, an extraordinary persistence
in the patient repetition of exacting and laborious experiments were
combined with unusual manual dexterity and ingenuity, the exercise
of which must have given great satisfaction to the possessor. One
can not but feel that although these qualities would unquestionably
have brought success wherever they were directed, chance favored
him in presenting at the outset a field in which his talents could be
so profitably employed.

After receiving the doctor’s degree in 1888 at the age of 20,
Richards spent the following year as the holder of a traveling fellow-
ship in study at German universities under Jannasch, Victor Meyer,
Hempel, and others. His plan of devoting half of the year abroad

;

—
THEODORE WILLIAM RICHARDS—BAXTER 739

to intensive study in one institution, followed by a half year of
peripatetic study, was one which he always advocated afterwards to
students with a similar opportunity as offering on the whole the
greatest good for the time available.

In the fall of 1889 he returned to Harvard as assistant in quantita-
tive analysis, never again to break his connection with the university
as a teacher. Promotion to an instructorship came in 1891 and to an
assistant professorship in 1894. In 1901 he received the very unusual
honor, at that time, of a call to a chair in a European university.
The University of Géttingen invited Richards to accept a full
professorship in chemistry, with only nominal teaching duties be-
yond the conducting of investigation. To a man impatient to make
rapid progress in research, but working with a heavy teaching load,
in a laboratory far from ideal, such an opportunity was tempting in
the extreme. Fortunately Harvard appreciated the value of the
promising young scientist and rose to the occasion with the offer of
a full professorship and an agreement of a drastic reduction in the
amount of teaching and administrative duties expected. Upon the
retirement of Professor Jackson in 1912, Richards was appointed to
the Erving professorship, founded in 1792, the oldest endowed
professorship in chemistry in Harvard University.

Immediately after his return from Europe to Harvard in 1889
Richards reentered the field of chemical investigation in which he
had already made a beginning, and which was to occupy a large part
of his attention during the remainder of his life. Always convinced
that only through a precise knowledge of the properties of matter
was progress in chemical science to be made, he was fond of making
the following quotation from Plato: “ If from any art you take away
that which concerns weighing, measuring, and arithmetic, how little
is left of that art!” Furthermore, at that time the atomic weights
and the periodic law seemed to him to offer more promise of con-
tributing to the understanding of the laws of the universe than any
other field of chemistry. In a paper printed in 1910 he says:

But some may contend that the very exact determination of these quantities
is after all an abstract and academic question, not of great practical sig-
nificance. How will this remote philosophical knowledge yield any practical use?
Who can tell? Faraday had no conception of the electric locomotive or the
power plants of Niagara when he performed those crucial experiments with
magnets and wires that laid the basis for the modern dynamo. When man-
kind discovers the fundamental laws underlying any set of phenomena, these
phenomena come in much larger measure than before under his control and are
applicable for his service. Until we understand the laws all depends upon
chance. Hence, merely from the practical point of view of the progress of
humanity, the exact understanding of the laws of nature is one of the most
important of all the problems presented to man; and the unknown laws under-

lying the nature of the elements are obviously among the most fundamental of
these laws of nature. In brief, that is the reason why more than 20 years ago
740 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

the systematic study of the atomic weights was begun at Harvard University
by the author.

Observations during the work upon hydrogen under Cooke led
him to suspect inaccuracy in the atomic weight of copper, and this
subject engaged his energies both before and after his trip to Europe.
The thoroughness with which this work was done was character-
istic. In order to avoid the danger that a single method might be
affected by some constant undetected error, not one but several meth-
ods were employed, after each method had been scrutinized with the
greatest care. The copper was subjected to the most elaborate purifi-
cation, and in order to make sure that copper always possesses the
same atomic weight, no matter where it occurs in the earth’s crust,
specimens from widely different sources were examined. As a result
of this work a new value for the atomic weight of copper was ob-
tained which has shown no evidence of requiring even slight alter-
ation up to the present. The research on copper was followed by
similar investigations upon the atomic weights of other common
elements, barium, strontium, and zine being those next attacked.
Up to the time of his death, either with his own hands or with the
aid of assistants, Richards redetermined the atomic weights of 24 of
the 84 elements which have been isolated in quantity.

Greater academic responsibilities, as well as an increasing number
of research students, early made it out of the question for him to
carry on a large amount of experimental work with his own hands,
so that in much of his later investigations the laboratory manipula-
tion was performed by assistants. The necessity for this is obvious
if it is remembered that an expert might spend all his time for a year
or even several years in the determination of a single atomic weight.

In the course of this work many new analytical processes were de-
vised and old ones perfected. New methods of purification were
invented and new criteria of purity established. Especially Richards
appreciated the extreme difficulty, not previously recognized, of free-
ing substances, otherwise pure, from the ever-present water, and
devised the well-known “ bottling apparatus ” for inclosing and pre-
serving the carefully dried substances in a dry atmosphere prepara-
tory to weighing. The “nephelometer ” for comparing and measur-
ing traces of solids suspended in liquids was another product of
necessity. ‘The importance of taking into account the solubility of
“insoluble ” substances was pointed out and the great danger of the
contamination of precipitates through inclusion and occlusion was
emphasized. All these perfections of analytical methods have been
of subsequent service not only in the determination of atomic weights
but in analytical chemistry in general.

At the outset of Richards’s career the work of the Belgian chemist
Stas upon atomic weights was universally accepted as representing

.
|
q
y
|
THEODORE WILLIAM RICHARDS—BAXTER 741

the nearest approach to perfection which had ever been attained.
Constant study of Stas’s work enabled Richards to improve upon
the former’s methods in many ways, without, however, at first arous-
ing any suspicion of inaccuracy in Stas’s experiments. For the most
part the work of the two had not overlapped, and there had been
insufficient basis for comparison. But ultimately discrepancies be-
gan to appear, and in 1904 a redetermination of the atomic weights
of sodium and chlorine was completed which showed conclusively
that in the case of these elements Stas’s work was vitiated by appreci-
able errors not difficult to trace. Subsequent developments in Rich-
ards’s laboratory have shown that Stas, although years ahead of his
time, was in error by important amounts in nearly all his work.
A new era in analytical accuracy was thus inaugurated by Richards
and the students who worked under him.

Later, in 1913, when the question was raised of probable differences
between the atomic weight of common lead and those of isotopes of
radioactive origin, it was to Richards’s laboratory that Dr. Max
Lembert was sent from Karlsruhe with specimens of uranium lead in
order to settle this important question. The first direct evidence of
the lower atomic weight of uranium lead resulted from their
investigation.

Richards is most widely known for his work on atomic weights.
It was this work which brought him membership in the American
Academy of Arts and Sciences at the age of 23 and in the National
Academy of Sciences at the age of 31, as well as the Nobel prize at
47. From 1899 to 1902 he was a member of the International Com-
mittee on Atomic Weights and since 1919 of the International Com-
mittee on Elements and the subcommittee on atomic weights. He
never lost interest in this field, and there has seldom been a time
when the investigation of one or more atomic weights has not been
under way in his laboratory. Furthermore, the experience in exact
methods thus obtained was invaluable in the quantitative develop-
ment of other fields in which he ultimately became interested.

While Richards’s original contributions in fields of physical chemis-
try other than that of atomic weights are too numerous and varied
to be described in detail here, certain phases of the work should be
emphasized because they represent steps in advance as important
from the standpoint of precision as his determinations of atomic
weights. His first published paper was concerned with a minor prob-
lem in thermochemistry, the constant heat of precipitation of silver
chloride. Later, recognizing that this portion of the field of thermo-
dynamics was of fundamental importance, he devoted much time and
energy to its practical and theoretical aspects. From a practical
point of view he endeavored very successfully to increase the accu-

24034—29-—_48
742 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

racy of thermochemical measurements. This was largely effected by
means of the “adiabatic calorimeter,” in which the calorimeter is
surrounded with a larger vessel the temperature of which is caused
to follow closely that of the calorimeter during the experiment.
This ingenious device, original with Richards, although the sugges-
tion had been made earlier by Person, enables the troublesome cor-
rections for loss of heat to or gain of heat from the surroundings,
and for lag of the thermometer, to be avoided. With this apparatus
he made accurate measurements of the specific heats of solids at low
temperatures, the specific heats of liquids, the heats of evaporation of
liquids, the heats of solution of metals in acids, the heats of combus-
tion of organic substances, and heats of neutralization.

From a theoretical point of view he early recognized the im-
portance of alteration in the heat capacity of a system undergoing a
chemical change, and several years before the publication of the
third law of thermodynamics by Nernst he pointed out the close re-
lation between this alteration and the difference between the “ total
energy change” and the “free energy change” during a chemical
reaction, together with the high probability that this difference grad-
ually disappears as the absolute zero of temperature is approached.

Richards was the first to make exact determinations of the transi-
tion temperatures of hydrated salts, and to suggest their advantages
as fixed points in thermometry, since extreme alterations in the tem-
perature of the thermometer may be avoided by their use.

In electrochemistry Richards made very detailed investigations of
the copper and silver coulometers and showed that Faraday’s law
holds with great exactness both in aqueous solution and with fused
salts. The study of single potential differences, especially that of
iron under varying conditions, and of the electromotive forces be-
tween amalgams of different concentrations with their theoretical
implications engaged his attention at various times.

For more than 25 years Richards’s activity was very largely con-
cerned with the experimental and theoretical consideration of the
apparent volumes and compressibilities of the chemical elements.
Experimentally this involved the devising and using of new forms
of apparatus for the very exact measurement of the compressibilities
of the elements and their compounds, as well as the related proper-
ties, surface tension, and heat of evaporation. He first developed
clearly the close parallelism and periodicity of atomic volume and
compressibility, and the relations between compressibility and in-
crease or decrease in volume during a chemical change on the one
hand and chemical affinity and cohesion on the other, and called
attention to the extreme improbability of constant atomic volume of
an element in different states of chemical combination. In this work
he was led to very definite and interesting ideas as to the effect of

THEODORE WILLIAM RICHARDS—BAXTER 743

chemical affinity and cohesion upon the configuration of an atom and
their relation to such properties of material as surface tension, vapor
pressure, and heat of evaporation. In recent years he was engaged
in the derivation of a mathematical expression for computing from
the compressibilities and other data the actual internal pressures
which hold matter together, and had obtained extremely interesting
and striking results. The importance of the facts and generaliza-
tions in this field brought forward by Richards is beyond question,
and while he had made little effort to correlate them with the most
recent ideas of the constitution of matter there seemed to be no con-
flict in the two points of view.

Besides the foregoing topics many problems in chemical equi-
librium and in analytical chemistry are included among the subjects
considered in the nearly 300 scientific papers published during his
40 years of activity as an investigator.

While it is always difficult to evaluate the ultimate importance of
contemporaneous advances in any field, I believe that everyone will
agree that Richard’s contributions to the technique of precise physico-
chemical investigation will always stand out prominently in the
history of this period of American chemistry. In time further ad-
vances will surely come, just as Stas and Richards himself were able
to make vast improvements on the existing situations. Doubtless
Richards could have carried the refinement of his work to a greater
extreme if the needs of the time had required it. Certainly up to the
present no one else has dong so.

To me one of the most striking features of his work is the uniform
care with which every aspect of an investigation was considered and
every contingency foreseen. It was never his way to close up the
bunghole and leave the spigot open. This was due in part to never
losing sight of the fact that measurements, no matter how accurate,
are of no permanent value unless the materials being measured are of
undoubted purity and definiteness, and the process free from defects,
but in part it was undoubtedly due to an excessively cautious tempera-
ment, which probably saved him from making false steps. To one
familiar with the experimental methods of his laboratory it is inter-
esting to see the widespread adoption of these methods by other lab-
oratories in the fields where they are applicable.

It was Richards’s belief that his career as a scientific investigator
brooked no interference outside the inevitable calls of the university
and his home. For this reason he never found time for the writing
of books. Aside from several monographs printed by the Carnegie
Institution and a collection of papers printed in Germany, his writ-
ings were confined to scientific papers, addresses, and biographies.
Hor the same reason he was always unwilling to undertake technical
or consulting work. And especially during recent years he was sel-
744 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

dom seen at scientific meetings because he found the necessary jour-
neys and the attendant excitement too much of a drain on his store
of nervous energy.

Jt was not only as an investigator that Richards’s influence was very
great. His teaching experience began while he was a graduate stu-
dent, when he served as a laboratory teaching assistant. In the sum-
mer of 1890 he taught elementary chemistry in the Harvard Summer
School and devised for the purpose a new inductive method of pre-
senting the subject. This method was later adopted by Harvard
University as the approved method of preparing for the entrance
examination in chemistry and exerted a profound influence on the
teaching of chemistry in secondary schools, especially in New Eng-
land. He taught quantitative analysis in Harvard College from
1889 to 1902. In the advanced course the lectures were largely de-
voted to the application of the most recent advances in physical
chemistry to analytical chemistry, an unusual thing at that time. In
1895 the death of Professor Cooke left the course in physical chem-
istry without a permanent instructor. Richards spent the late spring
and summer in Germany studying under Ostwald and Nernst, and in
the following year gave for the first time the advanced course in
physical chemistry with which he was associated during the re-
mainder of his life. This course dealt especially with the underly-
ing causes of phenomena without involving the student hopelessly in
mathematical details. Since the members of the course were largely
graduate students, in order to keep in touch with the undergraduates
Richards gave the whole or a part of a course in elementary physical
chemistry presented from a historical standpoint, a side of the sub-
ject which he considered of very great importance. Since he
possessed to a high degree the faculty of understanding the difficulties
of others and of presenting a subject in a simple and illuminating
way, these courses were always especially valued by both the students
and his colleagues. Fortunate as are those who have had the privilege
of hearing his lectures, even more so are those who were his collabo-
rators in research. His daily visits to the laboratories of his re-
search students invariably brought encouragement and inspiration,
either through his enthusiasm or by crucial suggestions. Satisfied
with nothing but the best, he aroused the students to new levels of
carefulness and thoroughness, at the same time insisting on a judicial
sense of proportion as to the essential and the nonessential. What
wonder therefore that not only American students came to Cambridge
for his instruction but also selected pupils from European institu-
tions, who were sent to his laboratory for special training in exact
reasurements, a reversal of the old order! Of these, Gilbert N.
Lewis in America and Otto Hénigschmid in Germany are best known.
In 1907 he spent the second half year at the University of Berlin as

THEODORE WILLIAM RICHARDS—BAXTER 745

exchange professor, the only instruction which he ever gave away
trom Cambridge.

Although theoretically exempt from administrative duties after
his call to G6éttingen, in time of need he did not hesitate to step into
the breach as chairman of the division of chemistry from 1903 to
1911, and in this capacity served the division with the most consci-
entious attention to detail and with far vision for the future.

All of Richards’s early experimental work was performed under
most trying conditions in an old and inadequate structure. At no
time could he feel sure that noxious gases produced in some remote
part of the building would not find their way into his laboratory to
ruin the products of days or weeks of labor. On one occasion the
ceiling of his laboratory was brought down about his ears by a
miniature flood in the room overhead. At this period constant watch-
fulness to avoid untoward accidents of this sort was as important for
his work as analytical skill. That he was able to carry on his work
at all under these conditions is a splendid example of the superiority
of man over circumstances. Visions of a new laboratory, with free-
dom from dirt and fumes as well as vibrations, were in his mind al-
most from the outset. At times the fulfillment of his hopes seemed
so imminent that he prepared detailed plans for a research laboratory
for exact work, only to be met with disappointment. It was not
until 1912 that he was enabled to realize his ambitions in this direc-
tion. Largely through the generosity and interest of Dr. Morris
Loeb funds for a research laboratory of physical chemistry were
secured. Richards immediately set about the perfecting of the de-
signs of an ideal laboratory with the same care, thoroughness, and
imagination with which he undertook a scientific investigation. In
equipment, convenience, freedom from fumes and dirt, and from
rapid temperature changes the Wolcott Gibbs Memorial Laboratory
has probably never been equaled.

The list of honors which he received was a most imposing one. Be-
tween 1905 and 1923 he was the recipient of honorary degrees of
D. Sc. from Yale, Harvard, Cambridge (England), Oxford, Man-
chester, and Princeton; of ae D. from Haverford, Pittsburgh, and
Pennsylvania; of Ph. D. from Prague and Christiania; of Chem. D.
from Clark, and even of M. D. from Berlin. The Davy medal of the
Royal Society (London) was received in 1910. On the occasion of
the award to him of the Faraday medal of the Chemical Society
(London) in 1911 he delivered an address*on The Fundamental
Properties of the Elements. In 1912 the award of the Gibbs medal
of the Chicago section of the American Chemical Society was the
occasion of an address on Atomic Weights. The Franklin medal was
given to him by the Franklin Institute in 1916. The second Amer-
ican scientist and the only American chemist to receive the Nobel
746 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1928

prize, that of 1914 awarded in 1915, he was deterred by war con-
ditions from visiting Sweden at that time, and when later, in 1922, he
went to Europe with the intention of delivering the Nobel address,
the critical illness of his older son, who accompanied him, again inter-
fered with his visit to Scandinavia. At this time he was given the
LeBlanc and Lavoisier medals of the French Chemical Society. In
1925 he was made an officer of the French Legion of Honor.

Besides holding membership in various American scientific so-
cieties, he was a vice president of the Eighth International Congress
of Appled Chemistry in 1912, president of the American Chemical
Society in 1914, of the American Association for the Advancement
of Science in 1917, of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in
1919-1921, and was to serve as the honorary chairman of the Sep-
tember, 1928, meeting of the American Chemical Society. Honorary
memberships in the Royal Institution of Great Britain, the Chemists’
Club of New York, the Harvey Society, the Franklin Institute, the
Royal Irish Society, the Royal Society of Edinburgh, and the French
Chemical Society were received in that order. He was foreign mem-
ber of the Swedish Academy of Sciences, the Royal Italian Academy
(dei Lincei), the Royal Society of London and the Danish Royal
Academy, and corresponding member of the Prussian Academy of
Sciences, the Brooklyn Institute of Arts and Sciences, the Royal
Academy of Sciences of Bologna, and the French Academy of
Sciences. In 1908 he was appointed lecturer in the Lowell Institute
in Boston and gave a series of lectures on The Atomic Theory. He
was a member of the National Research Council from the time of its
organization throughout the war, and during the war was consulting
chemist under the War Department. Since 1902 he had been a re-
search associate of the Carnegie Institution.

It is seldom that an endowed professorship is named for a person
then living, but in 1925 Richards’s friends were delighted by the
announcement that Mr. Thomas W. Lamont, in memory of his
brother, Hammond W. Lamont, had established at Harvard the
Theodore William Richards professorship of chemistry.

Genial and social in his inclinations and with a whimsical sense
of humor, he was a welcome addition to any gathering, for his inter-
ests included practically every form of human activity, especially art
and music. His artistic inheritance might well have been developed
as his vocation. Asa youngster he planned to follow in his father’s
footsteps and always obtained enjoyment from exercising his ability
to sketch and paint. One of the most interesting sights in the Gibbs
Laboratory was a marine picture which was the joint production of
father and son. He was particularly warm-hearted and generous
toward his friends. No trouble was too great for him to take in their

THEODORE WILLIAM RICHARDS—BAXTER T47

interests, and no pleasure greater than his at their success. To me the
35 years of close association with Richards as his pupil, colleague,
and friend will always be one of the greatest privileges of my life.

Although never an athlete in a strict sense, he was fond of various
outdoor sports. He was especially interested in yachting, and for
many years as a young man spent a portion of his summers on his
cruising yawl. At one time he was a good tennis player, and he
was one of the earlier devotees of golf in America. The latter pas-
time he never gave up.

In 1896 Richards was married to Miss Miriam Stuart Thayer,
daughter of Prof. Joseph Henry Thayer, of the Harvard Divinity
School. Of their three children, Grace Thayer is the wife of Prof.
James B. Conant, of Harvard; William Theodore has inherited his
father’s scientific tastes and is assistant professor of chemistry at
Princeton University, while Greenough Thayer is a student of
architecture.

His domestic inclinations were very strong and his wife’s apprecia-
tion of his work was extraordinarily sympathetic. It would be hard
to decide which was greatest, his devotion to his family, to Harvard
University, or to science, but it is certain that no one could have been
more forgetful of self in the interest of any of them. His creed with
relation to the last one of the three has been left in his own words
and is typical of his desire to give faithful service:

First and foremost I should emphasize the overwhelming importance of per-
fect sincerity and truth; one must purge oneself of the very human tendency to
look only at the favorable aspects of his work, and be ever on the lookout for
self-deception (which may be quite unintentional). Next, one should never
be content with a conventional experimental method or scientific point of view;
one should be open-minded as to the possibility that the procedure or hypothesis
may be incomplete. Each step should be questioned, and each possibility of

improvement realized. And then, patience, patience! Only by unremitting,
persistent labor can a lasting outcome be reached.
INDEX

A

Abbot, Dr. Charles G., Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution_______ III,
XI, XU, 10, 11, 15; 22, 28, 49, 51,53, 59, 62, 69, 84,°96:110; 118, 1225) 125,
133, 139, 157, 159, 160, 161.

OV ESC SAM DAR YR ol yee ecg oS a la Se Na ep nee Th 8, 19, 34, 40, 41

fund, archeological exploration in Dominican Republic__-------- 150, 151

@hingivexpeditiow ll> Pe MUNA OL Ure aie ise y CVV Ny yu) Ye 150;\ 151

Haitianiand (San) Domingo) expeditions 10 Dee wie Si ly ety 150

JogSlbean¥eRa J es ES oy eh ey ape lps ls pe MUR) LIS val 88 ep NG ee gy as CM 53

JSS 00198 Dp eg URIS a Bg SLUM NED ae eae BAO a A a Mi 117
Agricultural Economics, Bureau of, United States Department of Agri-

CULE UIT ea NS RUC AE REI tr RUA TU) NG ME SI Se eg 37
Agriculture, Secretary of (member of the Institution) _._._._.._..-------- 2G
EUG WCE) gl Db eGo) ni aM Lak suk af NE Sts A ds RD pa sae AL 1A Fis xt, 42
JNiTeo ber Cel oN Of f2 hel Bh, ete TRS TS eae ty Ne A at SH Ue SI Te xi, 6, 24, 112; 1108, 118
Allard, H. A. (Our insect instrumentalists and their musical technique)-_ 563
IO CINE MPS HOT pTLA TE DCs epee nL a Se hays SANE PLE 16
American Association for the Advancement of Science_-_-_-_-- 17, 89, 80, 125, 132
American Counciliof, Learned/(Societiess 22" Set toon as pee DE EE ee 30, 80
American distorical Associationreports---- 22. 2 2 Be Se ee 16, 184, 139
American Indian costumes in the United States National Museum

(DES LETEH Ay SOLD TRIN a RG CRM at Here ee Peet UPR aE UE Pry BL b Etec 623
American Museumuofi Natural ristonyot2 ou oe See oe ee 127
PITIE RY TN SORE Pin ees NN ae) Ve eC eine Pa aS ork 14, 49, 160
PRIMES ETO WO a eR ii ais ALIN NUR raay Wale Le Awe Re ei PEPIN THe Reet ere 43
A NIOGVOr sank Ory 0 LE 17 Nepal fe pe a el A eR Rr arene eS le YEO a a al 35, 43
Amory-bowman, abrador expeditiont 4) cwae ea s Biya ae eee SE 35
Animals in the collection June 30, 1928, National Zoological Park___-__-- 101
Annals of ‘the; Astrophysical; Observatory2._..2 2 20-42 eek a 15, 1384
Anthropological collections, National Museum___.----.-------+2L--2-- 33
Archaeological; Society OfnwWeasmima tomes 2/00 1 oye ies Re SO NNN aa 34
Archeolopicalwlnstituceof Americ ey eis ey aM UN cee oo A CR aE PAC
Archeology, Geochronology as based on solar radiation and its relation

COM CID Gi Geers) MCRL TONE SPANIARD VY Aiea ITAA Lan SLL SLID 687
PATRI MINIS WONG CNV AET eres er icoNe UNE RSS OU NO A YL a a TANS)
Assistamtisecretany Of they lmsticution ou fies Wi 2 ees Me ea AE Gin

XII, 19, 28, 41, 51, 125, 133, 157, 159, 160; 161

ASCLONOMICAliGelescOpes! (EEASE) ily aie MAT Wy AN SR UE eR TO Ea 201
Astropnysical Observatory, 22s 000 Ll yea tk 1, 4, 5, 9, 10, 16, 24, 149, 155
GUTTeXCL KO} POA LEAD UM AS AOU Ath eRe SION A Ra MNO GR AL eb aul a CS XII

ITU SDE eye LNA lA le ON pO ee a 18, 123, 125, 127, 129

OWI] OW LK eee HH Coy ays paUM aN fea A Ty a Ms AN a CES AAT a ear ue ie LB a 15, 134

TOPO YOUR 1 Nl a aS aya coe sa AS LO la NLU PE reg ee Aer fat 111
FSHRER OT eM i aE A STE TST Re Wa old ag lee Die a Ly aNa  N  M CLG AA XII
sO Hes Cer Dadi eh OV Ssh OLS) Ko Lees sal LRN STUD ep a LA Ae WS AA LS CGB 115

FW BUA UEENS) aud ava] KO ga G1 PAM MS Uh LU PA OO LV eM onary Ed eA EU AN LY MAD 111
Attorney General (member of the Institution) _.___...._..-._.--_-_------- XI
PANS ev ayia OG PENNE NE NSE AN ka SIA oC SUR ee Ea a a a 7, 149, 150, 151

749
750 INDEX

B Page
Bacon fund, Virginia se urdiye ooo ee ee ae eee yee eee ee 7,149, Vda
Bacon; Hemmy sf siete eee a a ee 54
Baird fund, Tey Ws s.2 2 ee ae ae ee Sees oe eee 7, 149, 151, 152
Baird, Spencer Pullerton=- 2 S22 or ee ee ee 28
Baker, Arthur B., assistant director, National Zoological Park__________ XII
Baker; -Dr: Guha tganl cop le tah eee gh hy set eat 20h eee ee 34
collection! of insects 22. 2D_2S 05 See 2 the Be Oe RE el Aree 19, 34
Bakewell-Green, Mrs. Estelle.....-..-.-.-/20. Sab ee Ser eee ee 59
BaltourstlHiarl Gf, WS: (Go ee ee a ee ee 56
Barneés,' Miss’\ Helen Au iuost sewer tpt hat seal periterey Pos inn Cig 62, 124
Barrell, Joseph (On continental fragmentation and the geologic bearing of
the moon's. surficial features) -. se baees see 20) eee hae eee 283
Bartlett we rol. ci. se See ee es 19, 36, 48, 44
Bartsch Dr. Pauls oe fae ee a ee ea ae ee ee a x11, 43
Bassler;/ Dr Ray Sas fenget! watt ee betes > ee seen ee eteeyn ee Deel xr, 45
Baxter, Gregory P.. (Theodore William Richards) —..---.-22-2-22=_ 737
Beach-fund; African) Expedition 4t22) 5a is sayin ee ee gaa aay
Beach WalliaimeN 2322" oo See eo Bee eee eee 8, 35, 42
TINTS CSE ev A a a IS na ee ee 42
Bell; Alexander Graham2ius jal fen shall aba eau deen eee ye 130
Bells RobertAnning JR. (Aa = 2 ee ee eee eo oe epee 56
Belote; ‘Theodore 1.2). et tee Sepa eee ae? eth eign as Re XII
Benjamin, Dr. Marcus, editor of the United States National Museum_ xu, 17, 137
Bennett, Mrs:, Natalie Moo 2 22.) 2 aie ee pelea fe hip ae 124
Bent; Arthur Clevelandwé wane. ities tk oa euleeeeii sree ae 50
Berkshire vAGheme waa) 2/5 ee a ee ee a ee ee ee 127
Berry; Re Dei ee fee eee ee Jo. ee Oe ee eee 8
Biologicalt Survey, United States. 222 2) ke ok ae ee 97
Birds of the past.in. North America (Wetmore) -----.-._-_._S2225) ws St
Birkenhead, Mario Ke (Ore 0. 8 eee ee eee a eee ae 56
Bishop, Carl Whiting, associate curator, Freer Gallery of Art___--__- xu, 21, 67
Bixby, W., Ko. bentl Santini beset te RE OS seek seres tel Ee apres ee 53
Blanchard, Mrs..Adella, Bo. .2 4 ee eae pele eee: pee 124
Block. Rudolph=.-2..22 22522552422 0S5ie ine ae aa ies ieee) San pee 38
Bolton, Dr. Hi. Wee Slee se Le Se elect feats 2
Borie, Charles.L., jric <0 2-35-4252 = = SS ee ee 53
Bostrém, W., Swedish minister in Washington___________-_-_---_----- 55
Bowman, Pawlves 22552502 eS ae oe eee ee Se ee oe eee 43
Mrs cn 2 aaa eS aS a ee ies a ee ee ae ee ee ee 43
Brady,.Mirs.. James, Cox 2-425-222-2552 22 SURE eee hey ee a eee 97
BrentiiMisstA gest! 208 ech e Beek ee ee oe eee eee eee 38
Bricey Anthun Ds 222 soc. 222 gee ee ee a re ee ees 59
British art; collection of,contemporary...-.-.---~-.= = 4a sete) tae 56
Brookings, -Robert@S: (wegent).. = 32 --2 = ee ee KI, 2
Brown, HHenrysmanke. 23-0 oe oe See Se ee 54
Brown, R. N. Rudmose (Some problems of polar geography) - ---------- 349
rowan: Weds oe Ae Be eRe ae Sat Bie er ee eee 19, 35, 41, 42
Bryant, Herbert S., chief of correspondence and documents, United States
National. Museum2 {220022222 fo eee 2 ee eee xi
Buildings and equipment, United States National Museum_-_-_---------- 46
Bundy, John, superintendent, Freer Gallery of Art__._-_.--.---------- XII

Bushnell, David I., jr. (Mounds and other ancient earthworks of the

i United States) 24-2225. Sule ls eee ee ee eee ee 663

(G Page

RO ur CHOIN OLE D.C Yee AC reat eet LAE APE CS ee cele 56

Cameron, G. H. (See Millikan, R. A.)

@anteld) Frederick "A collection’‘fund! = 2. 282 Cee eer eo ak 7, 149, 151, 152
SLUG fie eat ae aes OP EN 2 eS Se ere Ss 8
TROYG ONG PST Cayo sae ety el calgon Sue wrG age NSS 5

Ca AwANTAIt COM set ee NEVE CONS Eee est ane eee ee 150, 155

Caregie Institution-of "Washingtones* Us L eee Sees ee See eese 14

(CPG ETI SEM SHINY ADTSZ DD 0 pg i a a ea mR a Rage PAC/

Cassnowicz, Dr: iammanuell Mosesi2 2425222 - 22254528225 26, 27, 50, 51, 125

Gaceyrund Mrs. oaura Welshesi. Ss Seno u se Se See ee on sks ae 8, 151, 152
ESTO MVS He Ne Sra A RIM na NE Nee ee ee 7, 149, 151, 152

Catalogue of Scientific Literature, International, United States Regional

TEN DEREH Deo) eal OV S\ges = plese NN as ar oe te Pt Ua x1, 1, 3, 9, 16, 22, 149, 155
rH] OC by Reap ran stuck cal ora ach epee NER lig py a ete apepiny megs Fa ro eh SA 119

Ceylon jungle, Some adventures of a naturalist in the (Wood) ----------- 525

CHamberlainiwtund. Prances Wea-ooo. see ne oa 7, 19, 35, 149, 151, 152

Chancellor of the Institution= == =222= 22 --2_ = XI, 2, 13, 14, 49, 157, 159, 160, 161

Chanivenecusvy.oem eee ee ee ee ee Seer aoe oA eee 130

GhasemPrmWretle soa a2 coe we een reas Antes eee wus n es ee eee 100

@miefecterike ofthevlnstitmuione = 2 ee ee ne ee ee eee XI, 84

Chief Justice of the United States (chancellor and member of the In-

BulLMIULOM teen te ee et in Se Se Xi, 2) 13) 14) 490157, 159; 160,061

Siro Wanleasbeny ieee see nee a eee eae eee 2, 25, 157

Clark. sANisvin His. ee ae pi Beart co res, pair «open ees Sen x11, 125

CHTTEES » TESS) ol a Ss ea a nc pep tee ppt i en A 83

(CUTTS: (Cela TRL S eet ee nm pe se rene = ye ps ON eT 19, 35, 42

Oar ce pare Be Wie reat ee ee ee ene ae aes a ae XII

CCTAIBE TORN GEOL Pe ei eg es ne eee ee eae meee 56

Wrekerellemenote mle Dy tAee ee Rae one en oe ae oe ee i es 35

Collections Navonal MuseuiMoeo2 225. 2a) ee en eae 33
SEMI O POLO Ca etn eee a es a ee ee eee eae 33
SUECSHAT CATT CLUS UT CS ene ee ee rr A rer ee ee es eee eet 37
[Die aya eee Ha am i a ape pa Rhy Sng hy OP a ASS 34
TSG Way ea MO a ee in be pa Sk Stag ei Rt hr Pt Pegi a 36
TSS ECG ap CS Ucn egal ei AN ed Lp a NL 38

Colngetlcunyy Dug == oleae cL sat ence 18, 22, 33, 34, 39, 40, 80, 81

Colorzdo Museum on Natural History. 2-2 Se oe ee ae 37

Commerce, Secretary of (member of the Institution) ____-_------------ XI

Communication amone insects (Melndoo)_ 922-2. 2-2 eae eee 541

Continental displacement, The hypothesis of (Schuchert) _------------- 249

Continental fragmentation and the geologic bearing of the moon’s surficial

FEATS SOM Ub arhell\pes see teat ee ie ee ee oe ee hp eeceee eet ee 283

Coolidge, Calvin, President of the United States (presiding officer ex

oOliciojand member.of the Institution) 2—2—- eet SS Pee ee ee eee xI, 20

Corbin, William L., librarian of the Institution__.....--------------- x1, 133

Cosmic rays, New results on (Millikan and Cameron) ----------------- 213

Cosmogony, The wider aspects of (Jeams) _-...-.--.+-.-------+-------- 165

Costumes, American Indian, in the United States National Museum

CERT GT) ere a ep tf rc nn ON rs Aa es 623

Wotirell Dr phrederi cle Ge eee trp te rt sere 11, 159
HUTT CL Re ep ee etch i = SO AS Pa SO EEE GE ES 152

Council of Learned. Societies, American... 2 cE UES ek ete 39, 80

Coville. Dr... Predereks Ws: They lt) seuldbie Seeteih 2. 0 Des ees xii
baz INDEX

Page
Cowes, W i Shethiel d'un he EN RE NO Re eA pa a 8
Cox, 'P.'E., State archeologist of Tennessee) 20 22 va Sua Aa 12
‘Cratersof the, Moon’”in\Iidaho:) The (Stearns) ysis ee epee auc ae ne 307
Crompton''&' Knowles oom "Works 202300 2 yO ea Rich a ee 20, 37
Crosby; Oscars T5005 2 a NE WEN gs eC Eee Ste re 33
Curators of the United States National Museum_____________________- XII
Cushman, Dry Josep At 6 2h i Ne aes eI Sao a ae Ne 45, 51
LOUIS) ob Ca¥. oN 5 HA. RGA pie BNRal ng Oa CNL La META ue DINE) 34, 50
D
Dall William ve collection 2. 52 eave ee ewe cae ke ee a he Aa a a 18
ESCATC OR ane ye LAC SME De a eee AS el Re DS en a 8
funds sbibliosrap iy remal labors ey rye tae re et ee eee ee ec 151
Dediys MVPar CUS S222 ar RRS SHON A SD DOP LONE AF Ae RIE RNa oe Sr eee 8, 35, 42
di 06 0.6 Meet ae gtd Pa age A mS ee eg Rae el AL a EPEAT CARE 151
Daughters of the American Revolution, National Society, report________ 139
Davis, Dwight Filley, Secretary of War (member of the Institution) _____ XI
Davis, James John, Secretary of Labor (member of the Institution) _____ Xo
Dawes, Charles G., Vice President of the United States (regent and mem-

berrot thew stiGubrom) me are as ates cee eee ge ee ee xi, 2) 159° 160; 161
De Geer, Gerard (Geochronology, as based on solar radiation, and its rela-

GOD LO JATC COLO RY) oie: ae Ae Se A ene ae mea a 687
Delano, Frederic A. (regent) _._--.-__.=_____- x1, 2, 155, 157, 158, 159, 160, 161
Dela sorrel rs C hanlesicaysee om alumnae rae PRES Aaa MW Egle espe ie Rise I nr 35
Denies odin -E hOTMpPSO me ws 2 Hs Aes bt Nie age LE Message a ee eo 72
PS) rari ire ee ET shay Ga AAR pe tol ETN rl le ete WEA ln eT ea en XII
EN SITIOTS ABTA CO ius a VR Mga ant ain ae IRL a NA TU OAL LE IN a Rg CWE
Diving: Wiaber (GLEE OIY) Sek ww 225s Fa nee hoa a Se 325
Dobson ares UVic B e270 200 SOM ERN MB Teen est 2 erie eee ee eee 102, 116
Dodgeche AMAssesiy hie Le Face Nel PSN ASM eee Weasel NO ne N 38
Dorsey, Harry W., chief ‘clerk of the Institution. 2- = 2-2. 22-22-22 x1, 84
Dorsey, Nicholas W., accounting and disbursing agent of the Institu-

LEV Gy Yi i i eA Me SR Re RS SA I a NR eS Xi) Sal
Mouglas."Ac Vibert (island galaxies) 2 vee see Sen 2 a eee 193
Ductless glands, The physiology of the (Taylor) _._.-.....-...22---.-- 697
ADD USES. aA Be rece oi oa Ney ey a rev eG a as Negi MRE uN 8 yA 113
BUS acer eT TERS VW oe hes PRS OSA NGA ee Se GE ck rs a Be SR 48
Du Pont de Nemours & Co., E. I., experimental station._____________-_ 127
DurPontViscoloid'' Coe io 225 sure Saws Baw sees eek ok te ee Rea ee oe 38
Prydvaiar NEOSES Wi oie Brcko sae a ae ee eV Wh De es oe Se 61

E

Earthworks, ancient, of the United States, Mounds and other (Bushnell)_ 663
Ecology. of ‘the red squirrel: (Klugh) 22. fa irendiowt 2H Ne te ee 495
Eddystone,Cement Co. 2-2 head Veh fe epee eee 37
Eidison;,;Chomas A 2002-2 a eeeep nd Bites spat OPDE ILL lls A epee al ere ao 44

fund, rubber collecting expedition! 23242 {uk = key ei a ae 151, 152
Editors:of.the ‘Institution 22:99. peweal ewe le XI, xu, 17, 81, 137, 138, 139
Bidrringtom;, Mims) Birt iy: Ye ea ae es La cee ee ee 59
POG, OC a a ae aac ca 8
Findowment fundiof the Institution 42 oe foe ee eel 149, 151, 152, 158
Engelhardt, Fr.’Zephyrim so 8 2.8 2 eg AAA oes hela Raed 72

Entomology, Bureau of, United States Department of Agriculture____--_- 35

INDEX hoo

Page
PENSE elas JeclenvAMOnye ec ee cee ate ee ee i eh ee ae en 59
staplishment Smithsonian: 23) Dye ore) Bebe HO eS oo ee 1
Ethnological and archeological investigations, cooperative, between the
Smithsonian Institution and State, educational, and scientific insti-
LELUI F101 a=} Se een a TR RN RONAN NNR d £11 SBR oe yk DP es CARA ce ey te Ue ial
Ethnology, Bureau of American__.._.-------- 1, 4; 5, 6, 9, 10, 18, 22, 33, 39,134
COLL Ul TNS ey pt Na EL oe CA fa pee a A 83
CAibOTIAl mWOTKrAnN Geo UbliCA TOMS ys sees ye ee 15, 16, 81
distribution, olpublieations == 26.3 o oe ee ee 82
SUD UTS Yee; G10 Sa pce een ea a aR NR eA 82
reps yp eee ea Ns in et les ie ale NL ia ae 17, 83, 123, 129
3] OX} 3 Rane Pm NN ULES ATED NURS 2 Le Rese CED: Eger tube TL) Berar Ls eat Pe Me pe ENE 70
special iresearches.\.. 5 os eo ko seo eke kee we estou NES eee 77
FS] Fes 2 eh eee eG INA EIN 1 2) NE lo SM Ue RTE Gea E LS RT aaa at XII
Bxchances. intermationales) 22 s2ee2 oes tee ee x11, 1, 3, 9, 16, 22, 149, 155
foreign depositories of United States governmental documents. ---_-- 88
foreleniexchangerdaig en cies see ee ee aes OLS 2S eee 94
interparliamentary exchange of official journal______.__.----------- 91
TOTO OT Ue meee ental ttt pgp ee Se el ON ee ee ee 85
Pxplorations and field works ss. 50.52. PE eS) Un Clee 9, 39
F
Hederalebureaswot, Waucation 2. 4-- 2244522 22ee) ease eee eeeeese ae 80
Ferris, Senator Woodbridge N. (regent) _-.____----- 2, 25, 157, 159, 160, 161, 162
Be KeSwme)y rT VOme NW eLlCe res 2s Pile es SE EO ee ee 17, 22, 70, 84
ice mO pr oo dmmutne. GRR twniy. Ne tik ee a ea ae 35, 42
inanceskotarheulnstitwmblome ea ee eee hs
Fisheries, Bureau of, United States Department of Commerce---------- 30
BixediNivrozenslaborstorya ss Shee beet ee EER 6
ROerstenur svAtmaT iB sik ne ee in cere re 36
Forest, petrified, The oldest known (Goldring) ---__------------------- 315
5 DIY=L 04-951 DY GRgah UNG Sat Aes lh Be no SEO Oe ot a Ne er Se ena AS 10, 19, 86, 44, 45
Rowleysnrederick ais frases toes se Se oboe 2. es oe SOM xi, 24, 112, 118
MUTE ar TRC NE ee IRN ty Ae a se 2 2 SE SE OL ee ee ee 8
LDIRSSo0017 ON & [i BY wer ae ee Se an ee ee Frage ae Se Yee 118
BreemGalleny/ovArte es ete ya WP Se 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 9, 10, 21, 124, 125
ALEC MCE an amn WLIO Taio Wetted 2 oN GST canal A Of UU 65
| SKC ROSY) on OR A a A a RP La 154, 159
Ry CHR Ga rn oe ree PUN One ci orl hh LA MRED 65
(Koll heyeymVonovsp it nlayepa none alee ene oi Mean ne Ry Sa ae GR Searcy Es Se ee te 63
TN Les wu OT Ke Ne eS NIU SPR Aah gil AL WIESE te MA EMP 67
Siig z4) nth aces ear RIN A CO NO NN Ie A aA 64, 123, 130
TSE [DLO gE Me a oS A Le Se ee ye Py rym ee 63
ES SR Te Sear Al a aa i i ee perp se Bal yale Sp IRE XII
HrenchasDaniels@hesters ne a eee es ene es LEE DAIS ONE SMES CA 53
1G) 2. C1 ae FESS oe Re ee ee ee ere eee, SN a 8, 46
fund, vertebrate paleontological exploration__~----------------- 151, 152
RTE Gel tATMOS GA msgid es punt ops de i 2k oa EN Ra 48
Prothingham: Hon? and Mrs: Louis-A.- 2222 22s-- 22 2s2es----- 4222 61
G
EAD ROUSA Te CreOL ee meee ene aL Sk ie TS oe eee 73
Gaelactes Palani CD OUgias) eae ee vee a eee ee ae 193

(Coase acre, TEED] D8 eae I SAS A A I OW Crepe) SP A EEE LS 5 125
754 INDEX

Page
Gates, Walter dae o-oo eee ee eee ee me 39
Geochronology, as based on solar radiation, and its relation to archeology
(De! Geer) eiecwee © eh op ye eile an ee ih Rae oe 8 Dalai ls Is ap eh Bigg liga it 687
Geographic ‘Board; United: StaitesaLjecee 11 ane bes nob nT eee es 72
Geography; polar, Some problems of ((Brown)|..-- 5-52 eee 349
Geological: Survey United States... 912k eee 3 eo ee 15ten
leet eA re Wy ek ee 124
GestitGuy (Mi oo ee ee er ee RE eee a 37
Gest, Joseph H_-_+--- =) op ee _  eet a 53
Gibbons:, Herbert Adams... se ee ee ee 48
Grdlevsy Der Jamey tee fo. ee ee ee 37, 46, 75
Gill, De Lancey, illustrator, Bureau of American Ethnology____-_~-_- x11, 82, 83
Gilmore; Dr.cChatles YWiet bot See 2 2 ee x11, 19, 87, 45
Glands, ductless, The physiology of the (Taylor)..............-_--.-2 697
Godard! ‘GeongeiS sb see55 oe en ee ene eee 87
Goldring, Winifred (The oldest known petrified forest) _______---------- 315
Goldsmith, James S., superintendent of buildings and labor, United States
National Museumis22 928 fet ese Bete De ala pe a a a ae ge XII
Graham Drs! C Renee Sie Nt AI AS Seed De en Tt ee 42
Greene Coleoptera collection, George M___--._.-.-.--------_----------- 19, 35
GregoryavJ. Wir (Waterdivining)/ 223 ee See Ee ee eee 325
Guest, Grace Dunham, assistant curator, Freer Gallery of Art_______--_- XII
Gunnell} Weonard iG se ee rte DS x11, 122
Gunther;Mrs(iNellietCe ek ee ees 20, 38
H
Habel fumdeielue esd oe ee a Cp ale pees Agel ap peggy hare a
Hachenberg,::George, P., bequest (2,2, 2=236T 25.2 32 Solita by poe he 159
estate Of. ogo 2 es es be Oe ee Slee ae 8
AUN TO GE a ct es es an lee Sey Leese oe er ke a a 7, 149, 151
Miamilton fund? sc oe ee ke oie ig elt ee eee ee 7, 149, 151, 152
Harcitti@harles Wisco sue eas fa CS ee le A 19
hydroid- collection: 22s 2-2 5nd ee 34
Harriman Alaska) Hixpedition reports. .-222 ==) 228 2S) 22 oo eee 134
ernman, Mire (Eis iene.) set ako eee eee pee ae ee ee 8
Harriman trust Gundezs. 2 303 = ee 151, 152
HarringdonirohmwP a2 2 tye 250s tee tye ecw ese sete orbs oe ee aah ae a xi, 71,72, 73
Farris’, ee suDistrict architects 225. eye oe ee ee ee 109
Marvard:Wmiversibyieu. o2 262 2-259 ae oe ee ee ee ee 36
fund: botanical expedition to Honduras. —--._2.- 5 22_ 2 yee 151, 152
Henry fund Caroline.2 hii ete tae ee eee era ee ee ee 7, 149, 151, 152
htenmye tJ ohm cio ech Ee oie a he gs, Baan et hae eee eg TAC
1 29 00 wate Koy={=) 0 0 Wipe alpen aged ace Raps AL ee ND py Ar LOS SE Ca 3, 4, 28, 122
JEU TAUE A ROL ORM, ) BpRparse miaye Se RE Apes iaielnle Nl a5 Sey Aen Ml PN SNe as AE wa XII, 72, 73
Hill, James H., property clesk of the Institution_—.__._-.4.220- b2222t- <r
MEAT GTN COCK Te A cee ae ae eR Ca ap ant 48, 44
Hobbs fVliss “Eliza beth. oe ae ee ea a er a ee Se 124
Hodgkins funds generale. ee Oey nce i eee etn eeye ot ee eee ce een 7, 149
SPOCHUG = oro ns Sehr ee a at eat) SR ee tee eee ee Glolelaz

Holmes, Dr. William H., director, National Gallery of Art_ x11, 21, 53, 61, 125, 130
Hoover, Herbert Clark, Secretary of Commerce (member of the Institu-

1 F1 (0) 01) RBIS le pe eceRaPN oa em VER Me ad dean ded Oy tl Wed (ahve Ses TR a al as x
EVOO VEL, J Wie ee ee ee ee a eee a 118
ouch, Dri Walters ee eee ee a ae eee xu, 40, 125

INDEX (aE

Page
wenn: Flom Alanson) p26 2a oe 2 he ese BE bel ie ie ew 56
Howard, His Excellency Sir Esme, G: C. M. G___..-.--___22u22-220u2 56
EKowiatGem Or. tiuelam Ge Oye er. a eee ere agp ee laces ep XII
1 EE SECG DLC etal Baga SN Yelp on aad aa el al lA a al At RU xu, 39, 40
(ihe! Neanderthal phase:of man)i 2. (2.422 t Ve eon Ge 593
iardson, River: Day Plime ss!w WS att) ees bee ee Ue 37
Hiyehes: Charles Evans (regent) _-_-_-..._..--....--_-__. XY, 2, 159) 161,162
Firahespeund, J3ruce 426 sea. ee ee ee 7, 149, 151, 152
RT DOS Ever ips CM Tee aS le yA oI oh pach wig ll Setar 78
Human ‘‘missing links,’”’ The controversy over (Miller) ______..____.__- 413
ACNE TE CO TU arnt Ghee eee oye reese Ee ee NA Le a ee 54
Praae yar Vins OAMaAnuna las oa ee oe i ee 15
lrenehuTs OE LUbEV see re se oe ee we seed a eee ante eee 59
I

Indian costumes, American, in the United States National Museum

(Eerie rer) pre eee Vege ees 8 he i 2s 8 eS, I he A 623
RordustrialsNiueeums 2020 os 2 ee De Se te ee 159
Insect instrumentalists and their musical technique, Our (Allard) _______ 563
Insects, Communication among (MeIndoo) £21. 2. s2sece) eeecke sess 8 541
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature, Regional Bureau of the

WiminCAGSUaLes: — a oS 2s he eee ce eee xi, 1, 9, 16, 25,149; 155

FTE JO) TEU es ee nee ep Nh aE ate Lana ae REO a Le ee ee 119
Imbernstionalsbixchances i. 2 ee oo oe xi, 13; 9, 16)22) 149) 155
foreign depositories of United States governmental documents__-___- 88
foreionvexchancer agencies: a2 S a = xin tye RN ye ee ce ated 94
interparliamentary exchange of official journal________._____..____-_ 91
TREY OXON Gy caches se Se ge ee Red He Es cy Bee TY 85
Interior, Secretary of the (member of the Institution)_______.________- XI
iriamoresl ames (OUCTAS)) 2244 aa ete teh Pe Dp eS te pee 193
J
MUO bie Oem Wing leas eer oe See Tie IE FU Ae ur ie Ra ea aap 74
Jardine, William M., Secretary of Agriculture (member of the Institu-

THEO) aos SPE SR a PS ce a ee pe lp See Sal, XI
JeansJs H., (ihe wider aspects of cosmogonmy).._.---.2--252-- 222-325 165
ote COnwncan Gl Ch os ys 8 a 2k ey 43
Johnspiliopkinss Medical School] 3 222802 = ee ee ee 101
Johnson, Representative Albert (regent) _..__..------- x1, 2, 157, 159, 160, 161
VOHNSOnsp insane alton CTOSS aoe ai ee a hee eee ee Seb ue 21, 59
Jovan Alinedebee Gihestarssmvactiony = —s 22-422 52. wae See ete 179
Blac) let Vite na ees one k. Ne See! eye Le ok a a xl, 22, 34, 39, 40, 51, 78

K
Cell er cmp) rapier © tomeran mune eee ee oes ie Ata ak regs po yr Cea a LTE 97
Kellogg, Frank B., Secretary of State (member of the Institution) __.____ XI
Kellogg, Remington (What is known of the migrations of some of the

WA EO ON em Males) ppm Mea ty ee ae Ur, ee epee na eM gel oe 467
Vea aN eS eae wIA DRS Sid Ws (EEN INA a el i ae Petey op eta bby, 59
Cerin C KA) Okara tue erep tine alee Men eaes ehey Mi Ak Lee ee a NA 8
Menyon jor brederic Gr Gaia Bees 22 ee kh pee PE SOs
evecollection Of paimtings Jobm HOSS. - 2 le el 57

Meyer virs. Kllenore Wutehere. 2 foe fe ey TES ee ee 57
756 INDEX

Page
Keidder, Dr. Au Mita Cai el et lle a 22, 74, 75
Kallip, Blisworthy Bisiecto seen tO RT. TE DERG AEM EEA ana 0d G8) x11, 51
Kinney;: Miss: Josephine!) a a a a 124
Wan osbita, Yiarb oko toch 2 Be esac 2 Ns Wh el eo Ng ie 69
Klugh, A. Brooker, (Keology: of the:red.squirrel)): 22) San) Nae ee es 495
Knowles, William A., property clerk, United States National Museum____ XII
Kramer, A's) (eos lt a rt el ee oo OT 112, 118
Krieger: Herbert) Wes 2252 20220 So UN ae xu, 19, 22, 34, 39, 40, 41, 78
(American Indian costumes in the United States National Museum). 623
L

Labor, Secretary of (member of the Institution) _.........________-_____ xl
Dieyliel stig Miarreys? ae a a a ee 124
Wa, Wleschey Drs, Hiram is) 27se ions kb A se nee eae a ee alr ey x1, 73, 74
Camon, AMissiittizabeth: Ward: 25.0082 8 ee ad et ieee ee ee 51
Langhorne}\Mr: and Mis; Marshall: iS) fu) eggs. | Be 59, 60
bangley,Samuel-Pierpontin.. 22. nese eee ee ee 28, 130
aeronauticaltlibrany =s5-..2 0a ee 18, 1238, 127, 130

medal, presentation of the, to Col. Charles A. Lindbergh and the
deposit of the “Spirit of St. Louis’ in the National Museum_ ____ 13
Laughlin’ Irwin G@egemt) es eee Be ee Le eke Le XI, 2, 159, 160, 161
Hieasy, sche PRM WN eh AN alg le Bi ofa tl th ie A a lS Ne yg 36
KoVUCerou nop abe eA Neeser eee sel Ok oe any ied pee eG nyu yea eon unupnev ana). Aue ie SE fy 19, 36
Teas Eis IN ae hE a st Sl i ea tal 19, 36
Learned Societies; ‘Councilof American 20120) 220) So omens ga 39, 80
Leary, Ella, librarian, Bureau of American Ethnology________2__-__._- x11, 83
Thee; “Mire Aa Gate see A ret NR URE EG ERS A I 59
Beoraredls Himes y © veil aa ois atv i pe ll ach ce il bl el ae aS 51
Lewton) “Frederick Tawa s.08 QO MOA GUE) UL ESLER Mt 8 I eee 8 xl
Bad FPG bai oe ep i pe ne oc rafal ffl A 21, 67, 69
iranian of Con preg sta ols wlll ot Ns a hs NR se NI a 133
Libraries ofthe Institution and branches22 222 ee 117, 1850
ACCESSIONS SUE a Tys OEE a RIN 131
exchange of/ publica trons. sis fo Amnesia Me ued LenS Tye NCE) eran Lo 124
TES SN Se aN AN ee EP Gt EPO LN Lg 124
BS) OY 0) eg at co caplpe a av aN eae Nahe roel VAM a A SG Ne a YO a, 123
SLT 6 an oy an i ee eer ean ea AS EA ira Ag Mua Va aia tree gM ats) LI 123
Library of Congress, Smithsonian deposit in-___________- 17, 128, 125, 126, 128
Eandbergh, "Col Charles vA = fcc ths aera nen MUO Oe eae 14, 19, 37, 49, 157

Presentation of the Langley medal to, and the deposit of the ‘Spirit
of St. Louis” im the’ National’ Museums 22.22") Bee ee sean 13
Lieyd: mycological collection: C1 Geos s ye ot  A in re Sh - 19, 34
Bode, ‘George: Cabotis ijk i oa le te Sl A a A ee 59
IB rg ke Se I se nr ak A al gl lot i a 125
Lodge, John Ellerton, curator, Freer Gallery of Art_______________- xu, 53, 69
Loeb ‘collection ‘of chemical: types, Morris: 1 02 eke ee 39
i oo Lene ape Ped OR EP RNa IE UIST Ne MPP NTVN UL 151, 152
Lovering DoS. Boe 2g ey a dee ie a eRe NR a 37

M

MacCurdy,..Dr« George-Granta< 2/6 oes eat Nh i 34
Mace, Josephine eee ee he I PO 28
Mallinson: & Coc, Ei.) Beas Sele RS 38
Misilom oy; Sevmmes sO) 0 8 eh aU TLE ee as

INDEX tab

Page
Mammalogy and the Smithsonian Institution (Miller)_________________ 391
Man, athe: Neanderthal phaselof (Hrdlitka) ay tas gees Poiana wari 593
Mann, Dr. William M., director, National Zoological Park_________ xu, 17, 110
Merle Gens Wa: Steere ee ee ee ee a ce ORC Be pd aN 8
Nanvilang. University. Olan osteo Sees mee eee Ppa AAO Narellpepereiibaes. fy ho het) BBN 127
Metheny krank Jewett:qnesosee oe oe Oe a er ihicg ee 53
Merxonnelr.. Walliams coe ee et el i eee ee ages xu, 125
Nile © aps lining cls OT ais Ale ete tes ae ele pate Me ya A eee ty Ni eae As eae 50, 125
Mcekadden, collection.,JohnvHis 22222220 ete ee ee aS 21, 60
Lee Caeaezenes 1D Yee) Svea O5N 2 alle ae GE Bish CRS Oe Rea a See a apa Sey ane mek UE x 2 35
MelIndoo, N.. E. (Communication among. insects) -.... 228 8 sk eee 541
ue Niuitian! Marveys@ eo eset eee eee eee ce cee ce oe 35
AINELES ELON ype (EN TN gs pe gece pea a Lge sc eas aa I a pes capa 130
Meetings and receptions, National Museum____________________------ 47
IMTS OVEN ISO zeYs tpt Sree NR em Pa Pe Sete aE a ae Sener see sade ORE SEEN ee 53
Mellon, Andrew W., Secretary of the Treasury (member of the Institution) _ XI
Merriam .Dravohny ©.)(regent) s2222 2. oe x1, 2, 14, 49, 155, 159, 160, 161
Merrill br: George Rs 255s asa 5 SE. Be Tegel x11, 10, 17
Michelsom 2 Drs alrum amet) oe as ere oe I Oe tea Pe xu, 71

Migrations of some of the whalebone whales, What is known of the
CECT Go) Fa ect pe ce a ES re Wei Ce aT ee NE ee cya 2 AIR 467
VAST Tp Gy eA tes eh Te ees ley so Aya aegis xi1, 19,35; 40, 41
(The controversy over human ‘‘missing links’’)___________-.--__-- 4138
(Mammalogy and the Smithsonian Institution) ___-_____---------- 391

Millikan, R. A., and Cameron, G. H. (New results on cosmic rays) _____- ESO

Tess TES {OVEZEY ON EY MAL ICC) A 0 Near a ree a ae mS ee eee orn ee ee oe TE OPS 2 5S 73
“Missing Links’, human, The controversy over (Miller)_._________-__-_- 413
IMs SU oaNE aL OR He | \ Se aa yu pee ea ea meena) hs PUN aD ee ss OANRE XII
“AVioon.Lheveraterssot the2”, in. idaho. (Stearns). o-oo 2 307

Moon’s surficial features, On continental fragmentation and the geologic
peamines ofstine s(arnell) eee se er ee eS Opes 283
AURORA IL eet 3 ot 8 ts ine RO os ais HE Se a BS aah eth rs 118
PPAR ore eC be CS a on re ei lpr Oe en en nnn Sn at 53
Moore, Representative R. Walton (regent) .________----- Xa, L55; Lovells 9: 162
MoranwiViissuRathy Bion = och tent Oe tee eer eee pore RE Se 55
iN GeO RIA PD ya ent rs NY SAGO G e(2Y ae a) Vacs od CNR ts ea eNn Pe ante eeu x7 (2):8, 161
Mounds and other ancient earthworks of the United States (Bushnell)___ 663
J TEU TROYEYS “DAM UTUSISI S (2 (= eB oy Ra POR Se Nese NUP a ent SSC + | 82
Museum: United: States, National... 222.2... 1, 2, 4, 6, 9, 10, 127, 149, 155
buuldinesfandiequipment._ = faae ves) We Beers ie Sesh eee 46
collections 1. f200/% 2: 20 SOOLSee7 DD oti, su ool 2 ee Pe 33
UAT. a eee go ls to pew en) od 18, 28, 50, 125, 127
meetingsiand -receplionss 422 - e SL se) BS. ere ae Se 47
TOMI Oboe He KON MS ao Ieee SER Say ea ST aren ou ears seas eee a A, 16; SOM S4LSE
report. =. UI ss Sulk 16 Douay ui) eee eed eR 29
BVALSHUO Tees eye Sa ee ye yep cpp en Teele 50
MyeriCatherine, Waldén: estate of04 ee In, No ore) Ate 8
AMULET Gl See pep ae ye fee cieinn MAME Oy SRO eee 7, 149, 151, 152

N

National AcademyszofeDesign= = jyct e222 ee ee 54, 58
National’ Academy Of Sciences.) keris) 2p hye pees spree I oy ser ep ye A 39
National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics____.._.__-.------------ 14

24034—29 49

758 INDEX

Page

National Gallery. of, Arts: Sect 24! gunpiy thta earn yee aed 1, 9, 20, 149, 155
art works received during the year2.!)2-4 3) Woee 8 bee 58
buildimg |!) 2's bret tee se abl dees pu 5 aa TOE Ee ape aeeae e E 159
Collections scare) OFM As 85) Lee Nae are eee 0 Pye ee oe te 2 ey ee ea 58

Net be lian ee ee ES a rer str 2 es see Ree ee el 58
reinstallation ofio. 2) Sool oe Sees ee ee ee 57
CGMIIDISSION 72225 so 50S > ere ee eee ee 20, 52, 158
CUURYS GTR Ete hee Ne Ee Te a te SO ee XII
GIStriDUtiONS es eee eee eS eae oe eee eRe sy ps Da 59
pranye 2 ae oe eae eee ee he 61, 123, 130
loans acceptediby the: 2- == Sahegayd Merlegapie eel) yep arrenpipay! De, ee 59
publications= 22 “o.oo ee eek ee 15, 64, 134
POPOls 26 a os oe ee eee eon ee eee 52
special. exhibits held'in the... --waksee beveite Wl ae etieese dupeaem 55
SERA A og BN al ees XII
National ,Geagraphie Society soecuoeusest od) Ys eye te ee 34, 39, 40, 118
National Herbariuine2 b.8 yo Ale OR De 18
National sHistorical. Maritime. Museum... = See 159
National Museum, United States__._._._.._______-- 1, 2, 4, 6, 9, 10, 127, 149, 155
buildings and:equipment!!? ectbdes see into ae wml oe ete Sie opp 46
collections)= 38S t iia et 8 eo eee ee ee ee a ene 33
EUCY 3)! a 20 a 2 i ei nent aR EON Ts ele Yi pop eR a SM ECan Spe a EOC 18, 23, 50, 125, 127
meetings,and receptions 42 eo e7) seein ey oe _aeny es Ree ee a 47
publications“. =) Speed ae ee a eee 15, 16, 50, 134, 137
report. 2.4 saw eiseis gee shh nee oye A ayer ea eee ee ae ae 29
DSCNS 0 ena IE a a sr ih Al Ss et 50
National Press: Club of Washington) cuo142)ece eS eel ee 53
National Zoplogical Park 220 eo so ee eee 1, 9, 16, 23, 149, 155
ACCESSIONS S224 2 ok beech ui iake dee SNA Ne oly he cree gee 97
animaisjim the collection:Junei 30. 19284. yon 20 ses a UE tebe 101
causesiofideaths 2 52. as 2 eke te oe age 100
GireetoOrsc. 2 4x seie bay. aoe BS ee a Ee eee ae ee xu, 17, 110
LIMPYOVEMONtS = Lc au aie oe en ee ee a 109

Wp wairiye se eh pie ae OE aE aye Eee 123, 131
needs. ofthe: ZOOS 22-5225 22820 oe eee ee a eee 109
ODOT ne Oe oe ee ee ee eee 97
summary as) wate de fosters Ol mae Bsc eve teen i eee ee eee ieee & 108
RT 0 nae ne eae Oa Seca ee ee Oe RS 2 ile 2 XII

SVL LOS BePh fay) oie ae ARE I a Ap ga Pini DAs as de cary ee 108
Natural philosophy, Three centuries of (Swann) __--.___-_-------____-_- 233
Naturalist in the Ceylon jungle, Some adventures of a (Wood) ____-_____- 525
Navy, Secretary of the (member of the Institution) _._______----_____- XI
Neanderthal phase of man, The (Hrdli¢ka) -_-__-__=..--s2-5--24-2.--- 593
Merrelobytt 26 We 8c A ee ae 25
New, Harry S., Postmaster General (member of the Institution) -______- XI
Ne wa Faw emi @ lo ke Co te ea eth eC a a 20, 37
Wew York Commission on Ventilation... ....-=- 5228s. eta lees 8, 24, 113
hind > radiation from the human body... =o 151, 152
Newton, Representative Walter H. (regent) _______ x1, 2, 157, 158, 159, 160, 161
INtcholss Mors: Wram Ces e cise 2 ay 25 os SSN pe ee $1, 84
Mobile: Wi) Clarkes aii eh tal Na ue fag NS es 9 AO 59
North American Wild Flowers publication fund___._____________ 151, 152, 159
North Carolina, University. of 2.2.2 ie U0teA 10) UO ERO PORES te 127

INOVes; UR Web he sae a sek ah Sea ale 124

INDEX 759

O Page
OficralsiofmtherxImstiGucrom WISt On ey te ee Ne ON ie Rae YS TY aa erie XI
Olmsted, Arthur J., photographer, United States National Museum___ xu, 83
(ONS Om, MUU ES SE RON VN es cate NA dl it le pace RSL HAN ri at ae atk ES ia 56
CCHRGRMLE py, Cog ah Hah ech Nha he elias ake weal al eel ohn val NA ella bia ebay dl gle 35
56a a UT PP ta RAL YA a 151, 152
Ortecmean. Bernard eens sak on shee nas wn siecials sn le ee hel 20, 55
COWS CEL OT Sts eee ee eee RUE He ROY BND aC Demin Se MRS LOR RD MR th tlerieraeseeee Lae 55
iP

IFpeeaiT eV TREE SC BAN Gece pp ee ce ttt re AIR 10
IPSEIYeICe?, JaAIMeCS es Boul bbe ee ie de el ene I Se 53
Rearson,avinss Charlottes 2 wu ese eel eae el a OR eR RET 56
Reaseni. Ga cAstronomicaltelescopes)___ 2 i 201
Pellicollection;, AlfredsDuaneso ce <6 5 2 ee ee ore ee 54
elite Mrsy. Cornelia wbivingstone noe eee Oe A 8, 54, 58
Ci cct/e ARMREST G0 DANG NE NER CG PES RAL ASA a iets NN 7, 150, 151, 152
Rerking, denny, (Cleveland sHsqeeti sae alee. Rs re es 21
COMMS C tio maya ak Nes eye SM A NARS EBM, AC 60
1 ET ET aS) he) [Et Le oe ta a Oe ET cP MP LU i Uy hh 125
Rersonnel Classification Boardte. 25 kee ce eee ote ee oe 29, 30
Retrifedsforest,...he.oldest_known. (Goldring)... 4.2525) Seo Pee 315
PPO ERNE ls ee eee we WU Oe aT CO 38
Philippine BureaucofsScience. 2 -2.22..-.22 ESR 2 eo. Sere oe 35
Philosophy, natural, three centuries of (Swann)_______-_-_---__----__- 233
iPphysiolocyotithe ductless/glands,,,Uhe, (Laylor)-. 222-82... wus es ee 697
JSS A AVTUD ER Wace) 22 Ree ieee eee ee ian s Were DOC oE Entrees Leet Meh te Waele th Ae ee SES Aye 36
Plant Industry, Bureau of, United States Department of Agriculture___- 36
LEXY ab ytd Oe Da yok) pe, asa tare Sh eo ann ey REI aS AAEM 9) He Py Na 36, 45
Polar. geography,,.Some problems of (Brown)........-...-2.2-..20)22902 349
RO OLempA MAG HUI eRe oy ae eRe aay ee ee eee a he I re ee ne 19, 35, 41
RooLenmund) Mucywu bl. andiGeorges Wee see i ee 7, 150, 151, 152
Rortrait of theisecretary, Presentation of. 20222) eek 2 15
Post.Oftice-Department,,.Umited States..22 22222-2532 ee 38
Postmaster General (member of the Institution) _____________________- XI
Brat tra eOrce Op Otek lel eee eel AN a eel alle le 54, 55, 58
JE AREEABTR 1 [EGE oY Epi rg) Vee ess et ns cS Ot ad CN Cc ge) Uw el 0h 53
PrecancelsotampesOclety suka mee) ocho ence 3h os a ete ie ee cee ee 39

President of the United States (presiding officer ex officio and member of the
Gros AT SADI CON OW) 5 a LONE Bee AN sd A la le i MSA ed A AN th xI, 20
PTT Cet om MUM eT STUY eee ore eae ee meee ee Fa CN WO 127

Printing and publication under the Smithsonian Institution, Advisory
CE CUTMTANTE GE sh OTT wea eA Dati eC Ege en TENE IN ERR a ped CN ea a ip
Publications:of the Institution and) branches == 22. 2 eee ee ae 15
TREY OVON Pct ee aah 2) NA AE A le a aC Mp BR og le a ea 134

R

RadiowWorporation of Ament Gas 52.505 seat Remy Ae Shee ene TS 20, 38
LaceUavereve ni pacvo lees Kevau case Ny Mech 2s Wey einer a SMUT R (RM re Nap SU Saar co gn Amn NL 8 AR se CT a 20, 58
| ONU TEE OVE HSK SYS RCA delve AN au NC ey AO RMN URN AN oD Negrete AU Ba MU a Dr 54
1 SFET LE) Ov OU oy (IY ESTIMA [Fa ex [MANS apa eee eM Ue CENTER a Lee Bala 125
Ravenel, W. de C., administrative assistant to the Secretary____________ XII
Rays, cosmic, New results on (Millikan and Cameron)_________________ 213
Redisquirrel: Heology, ofthe: lugh) Meee AEE aa eee Bea ae 495

Ae CLT) CAE vy eT CLAW ail Greer ae maps oe, AES Pa A Oy AN RI eat UE RU Fe 53
760 INDBX

Page
Redington, Paul G., chief, United States Biological Survey_____________ 97
Reed," Mrsvci.. Landon’ 1))04 5 28 spp aor ee ee 124
Regents of the Institution) Board of. 222" 222 22 ae ee a ae eee xe
executive committed. oy 022 oo hss Stee Oe ee Xe
TEPOFG SS sen SNS A es Nae ce Ree RS SEY i GS 149
PLOCCeMIN gay Shi Ci 2 bo Is Ee Ie SO ee 157
annual meeting, December 8, 1927-22 2.2222 22.5. aaa 157
postponed meeting, February 17, 1928___.__=.-2.-_-.__-_______ 160
special meeting, January 10, 1928252 5 ss ee 159
March: 15; 1928 220 ou ar oe hares 2 Brie ns ee 161
Arik by VODs 2s fe ore hit gery ae ee re 161
Reid fund? Addison. |) veel nse ein eae 72 U50; 151; l52
Research Corporation: 2005. oo aeyaesnlgt feorpeneas 8, 11, 159, 162
fund for researches in solar radiation: —- =. sa 4928 eels eae 151, 152
Resse Dr. "Charles Be oo ee ee peta beg eT aa ere pene xu, 45
TEM aReYeS), 1 ELOU DY 6 | Ay ggg Seep iM pg Ale ea Wie te at cae a G150; 152
Rhoades, Katharine Nash, associate, Freer Gallery of Art______._______ XII
Richards, Theodore William (Baxter) 2-2 22222-22222 eee als
ch areason: PT: Furnes. se ce one Sa ee 132
Richmond, Dr:'Charles Woo)! <2. ee ee ee xu, 125
Roberts, Dr, Frank Hy Hi, jroo fe ey) sadly dt tea ee pega XII, 22, 74
Robinson Nise betty o 20. ie ee rire re ee ee 48
Robinson, Senator Joseph T. (regent) _._______________- x1, 2, 157, 159, 160, 161
Robinson, Seth B.; \jr.;. and’ Thomas Dudley x2ita45 erty. Teepe ee 59
Roeckefeller Institute. 3.1 eaten eee giets goelineh ee ean 127
Rockhill, William Woodville, Chinese library of____________ 17, 21, 64, 127, 131
Rockhill,” Mrss;WilliaimWoodvillexaf sates Has Yo, eee 17, 64, 124, 131
fivoebling collectton.: 2) 02 ne ee se hl ee ae Sees eee 18
foundations. 20 226. oe Se fe be aii ean pes 5
| ACT 6 My a a cp ee Ae aaah Ge ate tye Es ae age Mt PY 7, 19, 36, 150, 151, 152
Roebling Jolin A TOMS ee er A aera e), Ries SP ee 111, 116, 152
Rose, Dr> Joseph Nelson 222. 2 2" Wa ee bind en ea gl ei 26, 48, 44, 51, 125
Rudge; “William HMa@wint ss. 2 2) os) eae eegta Dotan ee 38
Rudmose Brown, R. N. (See Brown, R. N. Rudmose).
Russell Paul Geet te: eae on os 2 es Cee Ree ee eee een 4i
Ss
Sanfordsfund= George, By veces ec ia ea es eel een Cy 150) AST 52
Sargent, John G., Attorney General (member of the Institution) ______-__ XI
SaulsburyeeVirss MayeDupon tele 22 Se wee ere ea eee 58
Sela en: LOW pis oe. late Ai eee A km Pt Oi
ShawanicantProductsiCorporationseo) sete ees Ee 2 ee eee 38
Schmitt rsswWial dows Mika ntes ise eS, iy ON hd kde ee ee XII
Schuchert, Charles (The hypothesis of continental displacement) ______-_- 249
ScotteeMiss: Wstheey Witenes = a= oe Ue ee el 49
Searles, Stanley, editor, Bureau of American Ethnology__-_-_-_-__- x11, 17, 81, 138
Secretary ‘of the’‘Smithsonian Institution....:.. .eciweacel Jo kel ee TT,

XI, xu, 10, 11, 15, 22, 28, 49, 51, 53, 59, 62, 69, 84, 96, 110, 118,
122, 125, 133, 189, 157, 160, 161.

report; generalconsiderations._- as 2 = Se ee ee eee 2
Shoemaker, Coates W., chief clerk, International Exchanges_-__-____--_-_- x1, 96
Shumaker, ‘ColiH. Ae 2. ores teeenyol bape ace ues eh dette a 97

Sigsbee) Rear Admiral ‘Charles 1D), relicstof ees: sake ie ale ee 20

INDEX 761

Page
pmamons. Mrs. Hope HetaaJitots teeta SA a reptisa ee PT a a a 124
imma mO MaTles T0728 oe ee i pS ret Oia we ee 8
FECT OYG |LOSS Si RRM as FL aS eer eo pa Eel: o Pe 8 eg 151, 152
"SH TDYTA LES OTTER a CRAM ee Spi NT, a a PP fA a a ely Tc ee A 46
rSUBETTSD,» Ae UTP ALOT gm Bye 2 TS ea se Ey A ve Br 109
Denipammibt, Goorre, Ofis ets sleet oe 2 oe oe ee 15, 49, 160
SEPT. VO VRAAD SU Ye wey hate) Bae | 60 Na gk a en i ge adh ie wh gM et os apd? LS 19, 35, 42
Simin Cape. John: Monnell; botanical library of2- 222227222 Pe 26
PTB Da LB ah GARG 2c ta ep Nagy al ah ad Pa leaf dep aah eye 125
SUB UMTHLOVSY ONL oe EWN SYS ir ad lac ah shartaad lad Cee MIEN A es las 2s
TBO [pate ESC ES ae dale rot gil elie fea aaah a an eh sedan st Bah to ahs fi tee lan See 7, 150
Smithsonian advisory committee on printing and publication___________ 139
AMMA DORGS 25s Aas ee Ree ee ie ee oe ee TP nie hs 15, 16, 134, 135
contributionsitosknowledges===—" 2" == 222" 22 es nse Saar se tee 15, 134
explorations pamphiets=s9s=e8 == 9s 5552s sNews esis = 22d Rete er ee 10
ATTN EDTA COS Sores eee ta he Se ERE ae Me CR ee LT er ee ON LO Ree ener an a
UT) OF eENTPY vase = i phe enc ne eles Lh A i ce pe A ge adel es Lag i a 1, 17, 18, 50, 123
mMIscelancousicollectiGns = sea =a = a =e ee eee te ee ee ee 15, 16, 134
TORU OD GEM AON GTS eat fel een aes hn encased Pa bp he leh hy aR Res hh ap ol Se WAS 15
TREY OL OA seer gee ta ga ee ld Say a ap le rh aren wi REC Ae Natl © 28) 134
PSY OLE CHEN 2 ete adc teeneh l eaeaf cmap balay ol ti rR wh A A Rs et 15, 16
Smithsonian Institution, Mammalogy and the (Miller)________________- 391
MiNi hsoOManhocrengniic Seriesea= 2222 22-2 4s ane seme eee Bee oe 10, 159
TFOSOVS Le ee eet a NEE iceiecrm te pee ae ene: eh sae AON aed Neder ee haem Ev 151
James Smithson Memorial edition of___.......-.-..-~22-2.2.-_.- 1
LIS tVOMSUDSCHIDErSHuOnbNel| 5 sts a a Se ae en ye 140
Smithsonian-Chrysler African expedition_________ 23, 99, 108, 134, 137, 151, 152
Smoot, menstor Reed. (regent) =_ _- 222. en. XI, 2, 5-159, 160; 16
pAclotwmor Washington. Artists). 40.2) 0220 Lk ee hie, ome ag 20
Solar radiation, Geochronology as based on, and its relation to archeology
(ID ORG Cer, eee Nrtencoete! tr lege re Tes UO UNS oly bay tee Un Ma a ye RE 687
SETHE OS CNRS CNC Ro ad re Ue 19, 35, 42
‘Spirit of St. Louis,’’ deposit of the, in the National Museum, Presentation
of the Langley medal to Col. Charles A. Lindbergh and the_______--_- 13
SrUnper er jimamiet Ob. 2d o9e FO et aoe Ee 27
| OYSXGTUUYEYS| es Re eas Bm a eee AN ae pe Sas cee 2S a Sarees 36
collection of fossil echinoderms s4-o42 e bsk OY eal ea ee 18, 19, 36
FAUT pe eee a Sey et eee iaa yD ap ena eR ane 7, 151, 152, 154
Springer Mrs «Josephine Mio 8 2. bo hee eh fate Pale 8
auirrel; red) Heology. of the (Kluch)itu-end odt jo eulaeca) SA eet 495
pisndleyiPauhG 2. 32 62 ete d fost Vo gd ateinkh protbeed 19, 36, 48, 51
Bian invaetion, he (Josie wet sit oe tie ah. fd oil nL arid Re elie 179
State, Secretary of (member of the Institution)_______...2.._-_---_-_- mal
Stearns, Harold T. (The ‘‘Craters of the Moon,’ in Idaho) _____-.---_-- 307
Bre mepcr Dr wbeombartee 1. (a5. 00 20 Jo MID L125
SCTE ET Ie (Ge On oew Bie ks Se ny sc el ol Ce a 45
SPOVenE EH OneMsAacCyel 520) es ren Dee it 72
Peewantik. Wale. trtbatessyel ais 2.) 4 oe au ue yt etedes ily 18, 33, 34, 39, 80, 81
Surin Miatihemmyalliam Pate ee es 22, 48
Stmmerall; Maj) Gen. Charles: P., U. SaAmowd. cee 4. ah tame arid Waka 48
Swaleswiradshawerlallayleirutve 514 3 vapeeiel ah te _ ae IPs ota aul Ie
FiUTT Cl eee seen eat Oe eee yoteaNye oetIea A Ye At tals ty 2b Tn i bi yt SAN PSP 152
762 INDEX

Page
Swann, W. F. G. (Three centuries of natural philosophy) -------------- 233
Swanson,.senator Claude.A..(regent)22 2555425 2345235. 2 eee KI, 2, 161, 162
SVP STATON EDT, OUR CE so ne ate de aa le le aaa ey Aaa xu, 70, 71, 84
ab
Taft, William Howard, Chief Justice of the United States (Chancellor and
member of the Institution) ese es ee ee eee x1, 2, 157, 159, 160, 161
Macros rt Sieg Hite se ute! ken LY ERS Nae I eh A ey ee 124
Talbot; Miss’ MeO."B, Hise... 225. Spa as ti ERR es YOM ee 38
‘Raylor: Admiral David W222) 2. 6 5553 hole eee ee 161
Taylor, N. B. (The physiology of the ductless glands) ..___.._--------- 697
Feleseapes; Astronomical (Pease) =.......--- 2255+ 4.22562 2. eee 201
chia Oma son: iso Ns OS a. Boer aS ee a al oe 58, 69:
MOLOMCOA WMV ETSI ye te a = oy Sra s es aa a ee pe 127
Towner, Isabel L., assistant librarian United States National Museum -_-- XII
Traylor, James G., appointment clerk of the Institution____._.-_-_------ 1
(breasurer ot nexOnitedss alesse esas a= a ae eee ae eee 154
mreasury Department, United States: 2222227222 -2 22252022 eee 20, 38
Treasury, Secretary of the (member of the Institution) ____-_-__------- XI
True, Webster P:; editor of the Institution... -.-..--.22.2-222- 6 xi yl0, 17, 139
Muaclkcer cise Vi We sei ae hee Cre oe cp eels ree a 17, 73, 84
SUT REZ; NE POMOC RL RNR a es ee eee 21, 67
U
Gang rato Wl chi cig Oro On a rea tty UL A eA Bn SUEDE CNT PGI CM NI Se al ep pe 43.
V
AV S400 CH 3 FOU PVE eA a nt ERs 2 ee a ASR Pm en 50, 125
Ventilation: (New ‘York! Commissiom onl: 522422529202 2822 see 8, 24, 113
fund radiation trom they human bodys oss he ene oe fee 151, 152:
Vice President of the United States (regent and member of the Institu-
11 @ Tas) ees aaa LHe 08 Lis ay ain eA Se ee ee x1, 2, 159, 160, 161
W
Walcott, rsCharles i cae Sue 5, 11, 45, 49, 125, 151, 154, 158, 160
NNO TINO TTA TY COLLIN 2a ca 14
research fund (Charles D. and Mary Vaux) _-.-_..-L---+---- 22 Tul5O) 152:
Walker: Siri James. (Svante Arrhenius)... 5.2 el ee eee 715
War Department, United, States... .-.22-...-22_ Bee ee _ 37
War, Secretary of (member of the Institution)_--._.....-_.-.+-:------- XI
Washington Artists, Society of, annual exhibition_-_-___.-__.__---------- 56
Washington Water Color Club, Annual exhibition of the-_-___-_------- 2157
Waterdivinings (Gregory, bo 553 Se ee ee ee eS eee ee 325
Weather Bureat, United States See. Sh) oe ee Se SU eee 115, 118
IWreilllssslieniac Mia epee ee et ee Mora lee PEE Em tS 38
Wenley, cA Gh ais ep es a oe hae 69
Weestiield: NonmaliSchoolice.s 2 se. Se ee ee ee ee eee 127
Wetmore, Dr. Alexander, assistant secretary of the Institution________-- B14 4116
19, 28, 41, 51, 125, '133,:157, 159, 160/164
(Birds of the:past.in North America)s U2) Se Sean 2 ee eee eee 377
Whales, whalebone, What is known of the migrations of some of the
CREM gag) seated IOS ga i a ok teh ge SN Sia a 467

PW klibe:,: Dor aid ace aioe is Sh et x1

INDEX 763

Page

A Vne mein o me sl erimye eerste en nn ween Gwen jcey laden a alae eget el 2 ee 2,20; Loe
Wilbur, Curtis D., Secretary of the Navy (member of the Institution) _____ XI
Williarmmsy Colleges uty ames en UN Eos ee ip a ee Bi ges Ss Se ee 127
VB co wages a es TG CTT SHRI URS gp EL TR ee SR ee ee 51
Wehr eie aa PS aR NR, URL ae ON Aree ea ne eon ped LN 37
Wood, Casey A. (Some adventures of a naturalist in the Ceylon jungle)__ 525
Woodhouse: ID reSammite WaW cess ee ye eee eens eh eene Meeetnhe ey Saree Lae 50
NWiOOGIMERIVIISSHGERUGUG GMs ete te sa sles ee ee be eee te peal ieee 124
Work, Hubert, Secretary of the Interior (member of the Institution) ____ Dat
AVViTsOnTiGamIVIT SSI Te eee CS ke a ee 71

Y
BYES CT mV VAM carne DE mt co tee ah a a IR egy Seta aes a 8 155
Mouncertund Helen) Walcott -.2.2 2-222 2 ee 7, 150, 151, 152, 154
Z

AoOleraave,' LE RNG LL Ne: See Ne 8 eg perme Je Nye ele Pp Rae ay ce eee A 118
Zoological Bark p Nationals 22. es Jae ee 1, 9, 16, 23, 149, 155
CSW YOLSTSISS WON OVSIE, Sat a Bt A BER LS Se Pp aus Pp LL np gg gD 97
animalsunethecollection June 30, 192822222222 aoe a eee 101

COLD TTISTENSIN OVW (0 (S42 5 01 RN IS a TD ae ee ea A Oe Ae eee Pees 100
GUE CEO Ee ROC sac Ba ek ee OR ES Oe Oe eee tee ge xu, 17, 110

INGO OV RONG SEAM SY OI a]e ge are Ns es ROR wag Ee Fe eae A See ee 109
NTL Te aay ete oe et cs TU LA a Be ae ad et, ne Rae 123, 131

EC USRO LECH ENL:OO =a es ease a PEE ee UI we cee OY gS ORR cee) 109

TC OT ile eeen em wee ere Oe Pe dG Cy cyl Se a Ee, YE sl OE Ce DS an Sn 97

SS ULTY ITT EL Tey arenes evan eerie gy ge LE UR ReaD) A ae or i 108
FSRAREN gy a cA ce ant A Om CE eae Stn XII

SVL UG TS ae ees em ae an ee ee el Bs ye ae edly ps Se 108
0 Etc neve anions thesia, phe
- i Hania le hen uy OW 3 ve kiae he Nant On Pit rare eit (a:

f

ue ‘4 sf Me ayliatiou tats % ryleomiyn) toradat aes van

LU), Aru ie a nN NS se skis ic noes Sm
: F a i, ey Ty ms hl Bl Hk he Po ck iat a a nda
fae o peat Like Hairy vent ¢ aca on ee oa
re Pits F Stu il x © '« Q

RSH aie lene ete Saale

= Ata bie? Wh ie, Halabns Hinde vii an R Niahinrend Me ‘On Pe
Lyebedi oreo ‘igae NE

CLM eo ta a vrai islet ae ing dept Aut ryt
| a ea) Lepr ie moray -slanoliee feat was
u ‘ Tot oy eng Se, ipl ole
ulin Pe to icp grins 4 a 0 ne et om mbt ectnthahetebatales dic :
i ia Wik nay ie nual pene lie’ ine anges wi lac

cen Mi ie? ie fit yf Oia Eh orale ib
(y . oe ieite Tale ie be

fe one Fe ge ini et ee,

coaebeee

” ae

i 1
i* 5

ayer ges

“ae
vel

iy

=~ dies iyseanen on mance Phi

he ai : aay, Sea de seve :
{hulgiyts theese ‘neat on eA len ep wm
Cena ae Frcs hie ORO ee i

7 hs KA ima ay) a Aa Litre tate Ome al,
1 Aides! has: Ohathid, aa ean ni een | yy i ag) ey bie he
ak +a eeihat busbar Da ielUe ne: Vee aa aii a eee ee
sro t eA Whale ui De hi, heya by Wi at tie ¥: Da wate es
A A ne ra ee aseallis ene
a, wiih a feat Palin, taf .
Me WAiov! lon Line PA ae aie
Data hae ne ey erie)
‘ibaa wt i i ee hia tak

: A ge i i if 7 j i
Rel Won Sede cate
ey bath on bt,

AD oe ra ares mT
thy typ We ia ‘a iacyeanionie ‘a

shea vid Whine.
a ey =i
ay a4 Wie peikianie, . \

te

rine os rh

: eal nile " ih " saNl,
' oe De (on
y ns Ce hy
aah

2 Area

‘
|
|

ue arte

(a
riphse

H
abe
i

qh Ph)

ayia!

ul
eas Ly

A A Fa a q
SU ee VEN a ATL
rd Le j r,

} Wile

i ay | U i

oe ea

5 wy
full Nich
ea

i

AMG

Ways

beeuteyys
Pit

ies)

we

Win
ey ay

bee |

iiss)
cay } Lay rn
ay

Re Mu nih

i
oD)
, Mi pa

Nell

ety, \

L Ke
4

——

a

er

oe ad

Spaiee*

1
es =
. *
= ai
.
4
~
we
'

al
sal
SS
ash
woe
oe
——
owes

x 3
4 ae
ey
Bias me
ra oe
ay ie
x7
er eet
“ Gees
ae oJ
“ a
ee sa
Sat 3
S sae

al

<
—t
— -
soe <n,
om
See ms
a
—<s
a ie
(oe
4
Me
»
mane
a a
ob
nes
om

i
§
c a
a a
¥, Ww
ae
io» R
«| -

>

y 3 Sy en
4 ; 4

: { ‘ ’ #
ae é ‘ r i
re ¢ > r + .

,

ie
-
oe, eee ay
*
7
rie
a
= a
«
—_— «
Sal
*
“
~>
35
z z
a

ad

‘
=

we

ss
anwy —oy
re oe
—
ys

*
—
ei
Geo
~
‘

—_
~
=
ty
~_
-
—
—
‘pen

ip

aes

ss

~
in
ini
aol
‘
Seema
el
_
—
ad
|
_
er
ae
ae
—
cota

en wo"
ca
anes ens
nt
oJ «
: —
a
é ~~
name “
4 —
es
wee
as
weer oe
ao
oe
—

~
y
mn

ve

=

ro

ro

{
:
\ Feet |
jo
: 4
4 ’
tt ¥ ‘
¢. +
Ye jeae
14 Be | y
¥ y
:
ad
¥
ee |

; :
é yy
f
t . a
f
gee
qe

a

at

¥

Bah

és

ate
ie
~oty
oa)
are
ote
~
naar)
at
fins
@
fee
Lo bape
=
oe

ety,

aoe

a2

oem

