Se ae re
t Bea
hae = oP a.
- ————® —< » 2.
i. aee = .
Sab Seaton poke m Goa ea = tw <i

¥ : (Reig. .
y ae 2 4 ee Ry he be y i is
“ih 4 a { t Lae ij ‘ 7 * dy ey 7 &, ; iv
a Pi Fe ip. a pi ee A ce See Me
pe i ra ‘Jd hn it Pd } a pi itee 7 y ey j ‘4 hi: ‘ Y,
Bi i a H ae ¥ r 2 *¥ we LBD. , i a sf f b) ee hl i" 5 f
ip x ee te tee FRE yp y - . iy ee he. Ye Ge:
re A ‘ted : a o he 4 why ei ¥ 1B : y . to batten .*
a te Pe PP Pe ee
’ ¥, ch § P. E ee : sae 7 ye i - yy F a, ; Pan |: iad |
oe eee ee a a 7
Bay yy a : 5
Eat eR are

*,

on

Pao.
oe,

eee =

SOOT Penn Oe a

= a>

a A
. ke

dX». BS \ Sa :

i

Ra) nae cy)
Pere

i j ’ eu ¥

ie
a :
iin) Tatil i
hans

35TH CONGRESS, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. { Mis. Doc.
2d Session. | No. 5T.

ANNUAL REPORT

OF THE

BOARD OF REGENTS

OF THE

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

SHOWING THE

OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION OF THE
INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR 1858.

WASHINGTON:
JAMES B. STEEDMAN, PRINTER.
1859.
4

"i rere Td FOr k

~ :
5

MOTT La cae |

Al “oe are re atl

- v r , . ‘ *
Me s Ie a¥ied “tin a

ee Chi ARNE HOUMA RL score ATE glen’ “0p
: Ase thd st Oe ae wees RANA ~ es CUE
: renee nat

4 OF we | neaw
ne ee a aa
ee «2, 3

my \/
—— s
LETTER

OF THE

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

COMMUNICATING

The Annual Report of the operations, expenditures, and condition of
the Smithsonian Institution for the year 1858.

y

Fepruary 25, 1859.—Laid on the table, and ordered to be printed.

Marcu 2, 1859.—Resolved, That there be printed five thousand extra copies of the Report
of the Operations of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 1858; three thousand for the
use of the members of the House, and two thousand for the use of said Institution.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, February 24, 1859.
Str: In behalf of the Board of Regents, I have the honor to submit
to the House of Representatives of the United States the Annuai
Report of the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Smith-
sonian Institution for the year 1858.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JOSEPH HENRY,

Secretary Smithsonian Institution.
Hon. James L. Orr,

Speaker of the House of Representatives.
ANNUAL REPORT

OF THE

BOARD OF REGENTS

OF THE
4

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

SHOWING

THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION
UP TO JANUARY 1, 1859, AND THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD UP TO
FEBRUARY 15, 1859.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

In obedience to the act of Congress of August 10, 1846, establishing
the Smithsonian Institution, the undersigned, in behalf of the Regents,
submit to Congress, as a report of the operations, expenditures, and
condition of the Institution, the following documents:

1. The Annual Report of the Secretary, giving an account of the
operations of the Institution during the year 1858.

2. Report of the Executive Committee, giving a general statement
of the proceeds and disposition of the Smithsonian fund, and also an
account of the expenditures for the year 1858.

3. Proceedings of the Board of Regents up to February 15, 1859.

4. Appendix.

Respectfully submitted.
R. B. TANEY, Chancellor.
JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary.
OFFICERS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

JAMES BUCHANAN, 2x officio Presiding Officer of the Institution.
ROGER B. TANEY, Chancellor of the Institution.

JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary of the Institution.
SPENCER F. BAIRD, Assistant Secretary.

W. W. SEATON, Treasurer.

WILLIAM J. RHEKS, Chief Clerk.

ALEXANDER D. BACHE, )
JAMES A. PEARCE, | Executive Committee.
JOSEPH G. TOTTEN, i

r

RICHARD RUSH,
WILLIAM H. ENGLISH,
JOSEPH HENRY, J

Building Committee.

REGENTS OF THE INSTITUTION.

JOHN C. BRECKINRIDGE, Vice President of the United States.
ROGER B. TANEY, Chief Justice of the United States.

JAMES G. BERRET, Mayor of the City of Washington.

JAMES A. PEARCE, member of the Senate of the United States.
JAMES M. MASON, member of the Senate of the United States.
STEPHEN A DOUGLAS, member of the Senate of the United States.
WILLIAM H. ENGLISH, member of the House of Representatives.
L. J. GARTRELL, member of the House of Representatives.
BENJAMIN STANTON, member of the House of Representatives.
GIDEON HAWLEY, citizen of New York.

RICHARD RUSH, citizen of Pennsylvania.

GEORGE E. BADGER, citizen of North Carolina.

CORNELIUS C. FELTON, citizen of Massachusetts.
ALEXANDER D. BACHE, citizen of Washington.

JOSEPH G. TOTTEN, citizen of Washington.
MEMBERS EX OFFICIO OF THE INSTITUTION.

JAMES BUCHANAN, President of the United States.
JOHN C. BRECKINRIDGE, Vice President of the United States.
LEWIS CASS, Secretary of State.

HOWELL COBB, Secretary of the Treasury.

JOHN B. FLOYD, Secretary of War.

ISAAC TOUCEY, Secretary cf the Navy.

JOSEPH HOLT, Postmaster General.

J. 8. BLACK, Attorney General.

ROGER B. TANEY, Chief Justice of the United States.
WILLIAM D. BISHOP, Commissioner of Patents.
JAMES G. BERRET, Mayor of the City of Washington.

HONORARY MEMBERS.

WASHINGTON IRVING, of New York.
BENJAMIN SILLIMAN, of Connecticut,

A. B. LONGSTREET, of Mississippi.

JACOB THOMPSON, Secretary of the Interior.
PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION

OF THE

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

[PRESENTED IN THE FIRST ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SECRETARY, AND
ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF REGENTS, DECEMBER 18, 1847.]

INTRODUCTION.

!
General considerations which should serve as a guide in adopting a
Plan of Organization.

1. Witt or Suiruson. The property is bequeathed to the United
States of America, ‘‘ to found at Washington, under the name of the
SMITHSONIAN INsTITUTION, an establishment for the increase and diffu-
sion of knowledge among men.”’

2. The bequest is for the benefit of mankind. The government of
the United States is merely a trustee to carry out the design of the
testator.

3. The Institution is not a national establishment, as is frequently
supposed, but the establishment of an individual, and is to bear and
perpetuate his name.

4. The objects of the Institution are, Ist, to increase, and 2d, to
diffuse knowledge among men.

5. These two objects should not be confounded with one another.
The first is to enlarge the existing stock of knowledge by the addi-
tion of new truths; and the second, to disseminate knowledge, thus
increased, among men.

6. The will makes no restriction in favor of any particular kind of
knowledge ; hence all branches are entitled to a share of attention.

7. Knowledge can be increased by different methods of facilitating
and promoting the discovery of new truths; and can be most exten-
sively diffused among men by means of the press.

8. To effect the greatest amount of good, the organization should
be such as to enable the Institution to produce results, in the way of
increasing and diffusing knowledge, which cannot be produced either
at all or so efficiently by the existing institutions in our country.

9. The organization should also be such as can be adopted provi-
sionally, can be easily reduced to practice, receive modifications, or be
abandoned, in whole or in part, without a sacrifice of the funds.

10. In order to compensate, in some measure, for the loss of time
occasioned by the delay of eight years in establishing the Institution,
8 PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION.

a considerable portion of the interest which has accrued should be
added to the principal.

11. In proportion to the wide field of knowledge to be cultivated,
the funds are small. Economy should therefore be consulted in the
construction of the building ; and not only the first cost of the edifice
should be considered, but also the continual expense of keeping it in
repair, and of the support of the establishment necessarily connected
with it. There should also be but few individuals permanently sup-
ported by the Institution.

12. The plan and dimensions of the building should be determined
by the plan of organization, and not the converse.

13. It should be recollected that mankind in general are to be bene-
fitted by the bequest, and that, therefore, all unnecessary expenditure
on local objects would be a perversion of the trust.

_ 14. Besides the foregoing considerations deduced immediately from
the will of Smithson, regard must be had to certain requirements
of the act of Congress establishing the Institution These are, a
library, a museum, and a gallery of art, with a building on a liberal
scale to contain them.

SECTION I.

Plan of Organization of the Institution in accordance with theaforegoing
deductions from the will of Smithson.

To Incruase Knoweper. It is proposed—
1. To stimulate men of talent to make original researches, by offer-
ing suitable rewards for memoirs containing new truths; and

2. To appropriate annually a portion of the income for particular
researches, under the direction of suitable persons.

To Dirruse Know tener. It is proposed—
1. To publish a series of periodical reports on the progress of the
different branches of knowledge ; and

2. To publish occasionally separate treatises on subjects of general
interest.

DETAILS OF THE PLAN TO INCREASE KNOWLEDGE.

I.—By stimulating researches.

1. Facilities afforded for the production of original memoirs on all
branches of knowledge.

2. The memoirs thus obtained to be published in a series of volumes,
in a quarto form, and entitled Smithsonian Contributions to Know-
ledge.

3 No memoir on subjects of physical science to be accepted for
publication which does not furnish a positive addition to human
knowledge, resting on original research ; and all unverified specula-
tions to be rejected.

4. Hach memoir presented to the Institution to be submitted for
examination to a commission of persons of reputation for learning in
PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. 9

the branch to which the memoir pertains; and to be accepted for pub-
lication only in case the report of this commission is favorable.

5. The commission to be chosen by the officers of the Institution,
and the name of the author, as far as practicable, concealed, unless a
favorable decision be made.

6. The volumes of the memoirs to be exchanged for the transactions
of literary and scientific societies, and copies to be given to all the
colleges and principal libraries in this country. One part of the
remaining copies may be offered for sale; and the other carefully pre-
served, to form complete sets of the work, to supply the demand from
new institutions.

7. An abstract, or popular account, of the contents of these memoirs
to be given to the public through the annual report of the Regents to
Congress.

Il.—By appropriating a part of the income, annually, to special objects
of research, under the direction of suitable persons.

1. The objects, and the amount appropriated, to be recommended
by counsellors of the Institution.

2. Appropriations in different years to different objects, so that, in
course of time, each branch of knowledge may receive a share.

3. The results obtained from these appropriations to be published,
with the memoirs before mentioned, in the volumes of the Smithsonian
Contributions to Knowledge.

4, Examples of objects for which appropriations may be made.

(1.) System of extended meteorological observations for solving the
problem of American storms.

(2.) Explorations in descriptive natural history, and geological,
magnetical, and topographical surveys, to collect materials for the
formation of a Physical Atlas of the United States.

(3.) Solution of experimental problems, such as a new determination
of the weight of the earth, of the velocity of electricity, and of light;
chemical analyses of soils and plants; collection and publication of
scientific facts, accumulated in the offices of government.

(4.) Institution of statistical inquiries with reference to physical,
moral, and political subjects.

(5.) Historical researches and accurate surveys of places celebrated
in American history.

(6.) Ethnological researches, particularly with reference to the dif-
ferent races of men in North America; also, explorations and accurate
surveys of the mounds and other remains of the ancient people of our
country.

DETAILS OF THE PLAN FOR DIFFUSING KNOWLEDGE.

1.—By the publication of a series of reports, giving an account of the new
discoveries in science, and of the changes made from year to year in
all branches of knowledge not strictly professional.

1. These reports will diffuse a kind of knowledge generally interest-
ing, but which, at present, is inaccessible to the public. Some of the
J0 PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION.

reports may be published annually, others at longer intervals, as the
income of the Institution or the changes in the branches of knowledge
may indicate.

2. The reports are to be prepared by collaborators eminent in the
different branches of knowledge.

3. Each collaborator to be furnished with the journals and publica-
tions, domestic and foreign, necessary to the compilation of his report;
to be paid a certain sum for his labors, and to be named on the title-
page of the report.

4, The reports to be published in separate parts, so that persons
interested in a particular branch can procure the parts relating to it
without purchasing the whole.

5. These reports may be presented to Congress for partial distri-
bution, the remaining copies to be given to literary and scientific
institutions, and sold to individuals for a moderate price.

The following are some of the subjects which may be embraced in
the reports:

I. PHYSICAL CLASS.

1. Physics, including astronomy, natural philosophy, chemistry,
and meteorology.

2. Natural history, including botany, zoology, geology, &c.

3. Agriculture.

4, Application of science to arts.

II. MORAL AND POLITICAL CLASS.

5. Ethnology, including particular history, comparative philology,
antiquities, &c.

6. Statistics and political economy.

7. Mental and moral philosophy.

8. A survey of the political events of the world, penal reform, &c.

III. LITERATURE AND THE FINE ARTS.

9. Modern literature.
10. The fine arts, and their application to the useful arts.
11. Bibliography.
12. Obituary notices of distinguished individuals,

II. By the publication of separate treatises on subjects of general interest.

1. These treatises may occasionally consist of valuable memoirs
translated from foreign languages, or of articles prepared under the
direction of the Institution, or procured by offering premiums for the
best exposition of a given subject.

2. The treatises should, in all cases, be submitted to a commission
of competent judges previous to their publication.
PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. Tl

3. As examples of these treatises, expositions may be obtained of
the present state of the several branches of knowledge mentioned in
the table of reports.

SECTION II.

Plan of organization, in accordance with the terms of the resolutions of
the Board of Regents providing for the two modes of increasing and
diffusing knowledge.

1. The act of Congress establishing the Institution contemplated
the formation of a library and a museum; and the Board of Regents,
including these objects in the plan of organization, resolved to divide
the income* into two equal parts.

2. One part to be appropriated to increase and diffuse knowledge
by means of publications and researches, agreeably to the scheme
before given. The other part to be appropriated to the formation of
a library and a collection of objects of nature and of art.

3. These two plans are not incompatible one with another.

4. To carry out the plan before described, a library will be required,
consisting, Ist, of a complete collection of the transactions and pro-
ceedings of all the learned societies in the world; 2d, of the more
important current periodical publications, and other works necessary
in preparing the periodical reports.

5. The Institution should make special collections, particularly of
objects to illustrate and verify its own publications.

6. Also, a collection of instruments of research in all branches of
experimental science.

7. With reference to the collection of books, other than those men-
tioned above, catalogues of all the different libraries in the United
States should be procured, in order that the valuable books first pur-
chased may be such as are not to be found in the United States.

8. Also, catalogues of memoirs, and of books and other materials,
should be collected for rendering the Institution a centre of biblio-
graphical knowledge, whence the student may be directed to any work
which he may require.

9. It is believed that the collections in natural history will increase
by donation as rapidly as the income of the Institution can make pro-
vision for their reception, and, therefore, it will seldom be necessary
to purchase articles of this kind.

10. Attempts should be made to procure for the gallery of art casts
of the most celebrated articles of ancient and modern sculpture.

11. The arts may be encouraged by providing a room, free of ex-
pense, for the exhibition of the objects of the Art-Union and other
similar societies.

“The amount of the Smithsonian bequest received into the Treasury of the

(WinitedtStatesiseoo. aa2a-eueee Sake Ser eeiaereane oe econo hace See $515,169 00
Interest on the same to July 1, 1846, (devoted to the erection of the
DUNLGING) esc: S25 es eee ease Suess ste Seems ee ee cisen Saks 242,129 00

Annual income from the bequest... .ccscenscas en acccc nse ene-occnnccn- 30,910 14
S

{2 PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION.

12. A small appropriation should annually be made for models of
antiquities, such as those of the remains of ancient temples, &c.

13. For the present, or until the building is fully completed, be-
sides the Secretary, no permanent assistant will be required, except
one, to act as librarian.

14. The Secretary, by the law of Congress, is alone responsible to.
the Regents. He shall take charge of the building and property,
keep a record of proceedings, discharge the duties of librarian and
keeper of the museum, and may, with the consent of the Regents,
employ assistants.

15. The Secretary and his assistants, during the session of Congress,
will be required to illustrate new discoveries in science, and to exhibit
new objects of art ; distinguished individuals should also be invited to
give lectures on subjects of general interest.

This programme, which was at first adopted provisionally, has be-
come the settled policy of the Institution. The only material change
is that expressed by the following resolutions adopted January 15,
1855, viz:

Resolved, That the 7th resolution, passed by the Board of Regents
on the 26th of January, 1847, requiring an equal division of the in-
come between the active operations and the museum and library,
when the buildings are completed, be and it is hereby repealed.

Resolved, That hereafter the annual appropriations shall be appor-
tioned specifically among the different objects and operations of the
Institution in such manner as may, in the judgment of the Regents,
be necessary and proper for each, according to its intrinsic import-
ance, and a compliance in good faith with the law.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY FOR 1858.

To the Board of Regents of the’ Smithsonian Institution :

GENTLEMEN: The principal event of importance in the history of
the Institution during the past year is the transfer of the government
collections from the Patent Office to the large room of the Smithsonian
building.

It will be recollected that by the law of Congress incorporating this
Institution ‘‘all objects of art and of foreign and curious research,
and all objects of natural history, plants, and geological and mine-
ralogical specimens belonging to or hereafter to belong to the United
States which may be in the city of Washington, in whosesoever custody
the same may be, shall be delivered to such persons as may be author-
ized by the Board of Regents to receive them.”’

The law thus giving to the Smithsonian Institution all speci-
mens illustrative of nature and art to be found in the several offices
and departments of government was not construed as rendering it
obligatory on the Regents to accept these objects if they considered
it inexpedient to do so. Inasmuch, then, as this collection was
neither essential to the plan of organization nor directly subservi-
ent to the comprehensive purpose of the donor in regard to a
world-wide benefit, it was the ultimate decision of a majority of the
Board that it ought not to be accepted and that no part of the dona-
tion ought to be expended in the care of property belonging to the
government of the United States.

Previous to the discussion of this question it had been assumed that
the Regents were under an obligation to take charge of the museum,
and, on this account principally, a large and expensive building had
been thought necessary. After it was settled, however, that the
Regents were not bound to accept this trust, the work of construction
was carried on more slowly, with a view at once to secure certain
advantages to the building itself, and to increase the principal by
funding the interest of the money which would be absorbed by its
completion.

In the meantime a very large amount of specimens of natural his-
14 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

tory had accumulated at the Institution from numerous exploring
parties sent out by the general government; and as these collections had
been made under the direction of the Institution, and their preser-
vation was of the highest.importance to the natural history of the
country, it was finally concluded that if Congress would make an
appropriation for the transfer and new arrangement of the articles
then in the Patent Office, and continhe the annual appropriation
previously made for their care and exhibition while in charge of the
Commissioner of Patents, the Institution would, under these con-
ditions, become the curator of the national collections. This propo-
sition was agreed to by the government, and the contemplated transfer
has accordingly been made.

It is believed that this arrangement will be mutually beneficial to
the Patent Office and the Institution, since the former will be relieved
from a duty scarcely compatible with the design of its establishment,
and will gain possession of one of the largest rooms in the city for
the exhibition of a class of models to which the public have not pre-
viously had ready access; while the Smithsonian Institution will be
able to present to the strangers who visit Washington a greater num-
ber of objects of interest, and appropriate that portion of the large
building not required for its own most important operations to a use-
ful purpose.

The cost of keeping the collections at the Patent Office, including
fuel, was about $4,000 annually, but the Regents might with justice
have asked for an additional amount sufficient to pay the interest on
the cost of that portion of the edifice occupied by the museum. It was,
however, thought more prudent to restrict the application to the sum
above mentioned, and to request that the appropriation might be con-
tinued under the charge of the Secretary of the Interior, thus obvi-
ating the necessity of an annual application to Congress by the
Institution itself,

The cases at present required for the accommodation of the collec-
tions have been constructed at a cost within the appropriation made
for that purpose; and the Institution is indebted to Hon. J. Thomp-
son, Secretary of the Interior, and Hon. J. Holt, Commissioner of
Patents, for the use of glass sash and shelving no longer needed in
the room which formerly contained the museum in the Patent Office,
but which have been applied to good purpose in supplying deficiencies
in the Smithsonian building. The Regents are also indebted to Thos.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15

U. Walter, esq., architect of the United States Capitol extension, for
the beautiful design of the cases, and to Edw. Clark, esq., architect of
the Interior Department, for the inspection of the work during its
progress and the examination of the accounts presented by the con-
tractor.

In order to increase the capacity of the large room appropriated to
the collection, the cases have been arranged in two stories, forming a
series of alcoves and a gallery on each side. By the adoption of this
plan space can be provided for double the number of specimens which
were exhibited at the Patent Office.

A considerable portion of the collections has been arranged, and a
taxidermist employed to repair the specimens of zoology which have
been damaged, and to prepare for exhibition others which had not
previously been mounted. The museum will soon be an object of
continued and increasing interest to the inhabitants of the city and to
strangers who visit the capital of the United States.

Among the specimens many duplicates occur which might be ad-
vantageously distributed perhaps to the principal societies of natural
history in this and other countries; and I respectfully ask the Board
of Regents to determine, regarding this point, whether, in their judg-
ment, the Institution can venture to make such distribution without
further instruction from Congress. If within its power, this measure
would seem evidently calculated to further one of the legitimate ends
of the Institution in diffusing more widely the materials of science and
the means of education.

An assent to the arrangement above stated for taking charge of the
government collections is by no means inconsistent with the regret
expressed in previous reports that the Jaw of Congress directed pro-
vision to be made from the Smithsonian fund for a public museum and
library. It must be evident to any one who attentively studies the
past history of the operations of the Institution that the interest of
the money expended on the building intended for this purpose would
have been much more efficiently applied in the development and publica-
tion of new truths. But, in all cases where many views are to be
consulted, the question is not merely what ought to be, but what can
be accomplished. From the first there has existed a clear conception
of the means by which the idea of the donor could be best realized,
and the aim of the majority of the Regents has continually been to
approximate, as nearly as the restrictions of Congress would allow, to
the plan originally proposed. The policy has been invariably the
16 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

same, and the present reputation and generally acknowledged success
of the Institution are the result of this undeviating course.

It is a matter of congratulation to be able to announce to the Board
the continued prosperous financial condition of the Institution. The
investment of the extra fund in State stocks has proved to be judicious.
They now yield the Institution an annual income of upwards of seven
thousand dollars. It may also be mentioned in this place, as a fact of
interest to the friends of the Institution, that from the report of the
governor of Arkansas it appears that the original fund received by
the United States,from Smithson’s bequest, and lent by the govern-
ment to that State, will in due time be repaid, and that the general
government will in no respect be a loser by having accepted the
charge and administration of this trust.

The income of the Institution being payable periodically on the 1st
January and Ist July, it is obvious that the current expenses, which
are continuous, cannot all be met as they accrue. An effort has there-
fore been made for the last two years so to curtail the expenditure as
to accumulate in the treasury a half year’s interest. This object will
be fully accomplished during the next year. For the future, there-
fore, we shall be enabled to pay cash for printing, paper, Wc., and
thus save a considerable per centage on the cost of these articles.

Comparatively few repairs have been required during the past year
on the building, though the changes which have been necessary to
accommodate the increasing operations of the Institution have involved
considerable expense. The corridors, which were entirely open to the
northwest wind, have been enclosed with glazed sashes; a large amount
of space has thus been rendered available, and a considerable portion
of the interior of the buildij'g, protected from the inclemency of the
weather.

The heating of the building is a heavy item of expense, and must
continue to be so until double windows can be furnished, particularly
on the north side, and a more economical as well as efficient method
of warming be adopted. The whole length of the building is four
hundred and fifty feet, one-third of which, at least, is occupied by a
series of windows, through which the heat of the air within so rapidly
escapes by contact with the cold glass that the cost of inner windows
would be saved in the course of a few years.

The smaller rooms are mostly heated by stoves, and the larger ones
by furnaces. Estimates have been procured for ;ubstituting hot water
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. a ling

apparatus, but the expense of introducing this method is so great that
we would hesitate to advise its adoption at present.

It may be proper again to mention the fact that the grounds on
which the Smithsonian building stands, are under the charge of the
Commissioner of Public Buildings, and that, though several thousand
dollars of the income of the Smithsonian fund were originally expended
for their improvement, the Institution has surrendered all control over
them. It is believed, however, that Congress will in due time make
a more liberal appropriation for the improvement of the public Mall,
of which the Smithsonian reservation, as it 1s sometimes called, forms
a part, and for carrying out the original design of the lamented
Downing, which connects in one common plan a succession of enclosed
parks, extending from the Capitol to the Potomac.

The proposition to supply the public grounds with a complete series
of American trees has long been contemplated, but as no appropria-
tion has been made by Congress for this purpose, the Patent Office,
conjointly with this Institution, has taken the preliminary steps by
issuing a circular asking for seeds of every species of our forest trees
and shrubs that would be likely to thrive in this latitude. This
circular has been widely distributed, and it is hoped will meet with a
favorable response from all who are interested in making more gen-
erally known, and in introducing into more extensive cultivation, the
natural ornamental products of our own soil. The seeds are to be
sent by mail to the Commissioner of Patents, and placed in charge of
the officers having the care of the public grounds.

It may be mentioned in this connexion that the original plan of
Captain Meigs for the supply of the city with water contemplates a
series of fountains to ornament the pub .c reservations. To the same
valuable improvement we shall also owe the introduction, probably
during the present year, of a full supply of Potomac water into the
Smithsonian building.

Publications.—The publications of the Institution may at present
be divided into three classes: Ist, the ‘‘ Contributions to Knowledge,”’
in quarto form; 2d, the annual report to Congress, printed at the
expense of government; 3d, irregular series, such as the meteoro-
logical and physical tables, directions for observations, special reports,
&c., in octavo, to which has been given the name of ‘‘ Smithsonian
Miscellaneous Collections.”’

The tenth volume of the Contributions has been printed, and is
2
18 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

now ready for distribution. It contains the third and concluding
part of the Nereis Boreali Americana, a Grammar and Dictionary of
the Yoruba Language, and the magnetic observations made under
the direction of Dr. Kane during his last Arctic expedition.

The issuing of this volume has been delayed on account of the in-
terruption in the printing of the Yoruba Grammar, caused by the
absence of the author, the Rev. Mr. Bowen. It was, however, essen-
tially completed within the year 1858, and will bear that date.

The articles which the volume contains have been described in
previous reports, with the exception of the magnetic observations
made by Dr. Kane.

1. It will probably be recollected that the plan of exploration proposed
by Dr. Kane for his last voyage was recommended to the favorable
attention of the Secretary of the Navy by the Smithsonian and other
institutions, and that the expedition was furnished with magnetic
and meteorological instruments jointly by the Coast Survey and this
Institution. The observations above mentioned are a part of those
which were made with these instruments. They were reduced and
prepared for publication at the expense of the Institution, under the
direction of Professor Bache, by Charles A. Schott, esq., and form
additions to our knowledge of the direction and intensity of the mag-
netic force in the inhospitable regions of the north, of sufficient value
to fully justify the interest which was taken in promoting the organi-
zation and the fitting out of the expedition.

The following extracts from the remarks of Professor Bache to the
American Association will serve to exhibit the light in which these
observations were regarded by him, nor can they be otherwise than
acceptable as the expression of an opinion in which all will concur
who were acquainted with our lamented fellow countryman, or who
are capable of appreciating his labors:

‘The scientific reader of the narrative of the second Arctic expe-
dition would be struck by the fact that while in the preface Dr. Kane
disclaimed all pretensions of @ scientific character for his work, it
contained, nevertheless, some of the most important contributions to
our knowledge of the natural history and physical phenomena of the
interesting regions visited by the intrepid explorers. Dr. Kane appre-
ciated highly all the relations, direct and indirect, which science has
to an exploring expedition. He was ever careful to surround himself
with those who could, in their special departments, make valuable
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 19

observations, while his own rare administrative capacity always gave
them opportunity for the exercise of their abilities. Himself an
admirable observer and well trained in the use of instruments, he
was always at hand to direct or to assist, as the occasion might require.
The labors in physical observation of Dr. Kane and his associates
had few parallels when the difficulties to be surmounted and the
results produced are considered.”’

The magnetic observations were properly placed in the hands of Mr.
Schott for discussion, as he had been selected for similar service by
Dr. Kane himself, and felt a strong interest in the work. The prin-
cipal. magnetical results were obtained on the coast of Greenland
during the years 1853-’54-’55, andin regard to the high magnetic and
geographical latitudes in which the observations were made, as well as
the completeness of the observations for diurnal changes of the hori-
zontal needle at a station before unknown to geography, ‘‘ they
deserve,’’ says Professor Bache, ‘‘ the attention of those engaged in
the study of the law of the changes of the magnetic elements in the
Arctic regions.’’ Ata late meeting of the British Association reso-
lutions were passed making application to the English government to
send a vessel to the vicinity of Mackevzie river to institute obser-
vations with special reference to the determination of the laws now
known to govern the magnetic storms. The resolutions also insist on
the importance of observations in the northern regions. Captain
Younghusband, of the royal navy, remarks, in his discussion of those of
Sir John Richardson, that ‘‘so few observations of the diurnal variation —
of the declination in high latitudes are up to this time at command,
that not even an approach can be made towards indicating a general
law of the phenomena in such localities.”’

The Winter Quarters at Van Rensselaer Harbor, where most of the
observations of Dr. Kane were made, is in latitude 78° 37’, to the
northward and eastward of Cape Alexander, beyond Smith’s sound.

The following is an outline of the discussion and of the results
obtained by Mr. Schott from Dr. Kane’s magnetic observations at
Van Rensselaer Harbor. The diurnal ranges of the declination were
deduced from observations on seventeen days in January, February, and
March, 1854. The mean diurnal range or motion of the needle was
found equal to 2° 29’, and the greatest range observed amounted to 4°
52’, The results were compared with similar ones at Lake Athabasca,
Fort Simpson, and Port Bowen. A classification was made of the
observed ranges according to their frequency and magnitude. The
20 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

values of the diurnal inequality of the declination were deduced for
every hour (mean local time) and also compared with similar values
for the same period observed at Greenwich. This inequality at these
two stations presents, in general, the same characteristic features,
namely: the principal deflection of the needle to the west shortly after
noon, and the opposite eastern deflection about midnight. The ex-
treme westerly position at Van Rensselaer Harbor is attained at noon;
the easterly extreme is reached at 2 a. m. A small disturbance is
noted at the hours of 4 and 5 p.m. While the diurnal variation
agrees with that observed at Lake Athabasca, Fort Simpson, Sitka,
Toronto, &c., it shows no trace of that marked deviation exhibited at
Reikiavik, in Iceland, and Fort Confidence. The results were further
compared with similar ones at Whalefish islands and Port Bowen.
The range of the mean diurnal inequality was 1° 7.

The mean disturbance of the declination for each hour was found
greater than at Lake Athabasca and Fort Simpson. The disturbing
force is least from 10 a. m. to 7 p. m., and greatest and equally
regular from 8 p.m. to 8 or 9a.m. At noon, as at Lake Atha-
basca, Toronto, and Sitka, an increase in the mean disturbance is
noticed. The minimum disturbance takes place at 5 p. m. The
mean monthly disturbance was greatest in February. The recog-
nition and separation of the disturbed observations was effected by
application of a method proposed by Professor Peirce, according to
which, one in every eighteen of the whole number was found disturbed,
that is, differing more than 1° 38’ from the mean, while at Toronto
the disturbance was one in every seventeen. The aurora borealis was
carefully noted, and in no case did the needle show any special
deviation during its occurrence—a remarkable circumstance, in con-
sideration of the fact of the great disturbances noted during the
appearance of this phenomenon farther south.

The term-day observations, made once in each month, from January
to July, 1854, were exhibited graphically, and compared with corre-
sponding observations at Washington and Greenwich. The observa-
tions are marked by the absence of any considerable disturbance,
and by the small diurnal range at the time of the equinox. The
absolute declination was determined on three days in June, 1854,
and found to be 108° 12’ west. The magnetic inclination was obtained
at ten stations, which gave for Van Rensselaer’s Harbor a dip of
84° 45/.8 from observations between January, 1854, and May, 1855,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. PAL

The magnetic intensity was derived from observations of deflections
and vibrations made between January, 1854, and May, 1855, the
magnetic moment of the magnet having been determined at Wash-
ington. From twenty-three separate values the horizontal intensity was
found equal to 1.139, corresponding to the epoch of June, 1854. The
total force was 12.48. In thesummer of 1855 the horizontal intensity
at Hakluyt island was found to be 1.344, and at Cape York 1.573.

The remaining series of the Arctic observations under the direction
of Dr. Kane are still in process of reduction; though a portion of the
tabular matter has been sent to the printer to avoid delay in the pub-
lication, and will be included in the eleventh volume of Smithsonian
Contributions. They relate to temperature, winds, moon culminations,
twilight, halos, moisture, atmospheric pressure, and tides. The mere
enumeration of the objects which engaged the active mind of the
distinguished explorer, is sufficient, when we consider his feeble
physical powers, to account for the untimely loss which science and
humanity have been called on to deplore.

2. Another paper shortly to be put to press consists of an account of
the results of a series of physical observations by Dr. Luis Berlandier,
the notice of which may perhaps be best introduced by a statement
of the following facts given in my Report to the Regents for 1854.
Dr. Luis Berlandier, a member of the Academy of Geneva, visited
Mexico in 1826 for the purpose of making a scientific examination
of the country. Soon after his arrival he was appointed one of a
commission, organized by the then new republic, with the object
of defining the boundaries, extent, natural resources, &c., of the
northern or frontier States. The position gave him unusual facilities
for observation relative to the character of the country, and for
making collections to illustrate its natural history. He, however,
never returned to his native country, but married and settled in
Mexico, and there continued his researches until the period of his
death in 1851. In the year 1853 Lieutenant Couch, U.S. A., made a
scientific exploration in Mexico under the auspices of the Institution,
and was so fortunate as to procure the manuscripts and collections of
Dr. Berlandier. He presented to this Institution all of those which
related to meteorology and natural history, and offered to sell to
the government at a low price the remainder, containing historical
and geographical information, chiefly pertaining to the States of the
old republic which lay between the Sabine and the Sierra Madre. It
- is to be regretted that this proposition was not accepted, since in
22 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

order to reimburse himself for the original cost of the manuscripts
he was induced to dispose of them to a private individual.

The portions of the manuscripts relating to meteorology were
placed in the hands of Professor Coffin for reduction. They consist,
either in summary or in detail, of the results of a series of nearly three
hundred and fifty thousand observations commenced at Havre, France,
October 14, 1826, and continued during the voyage of Dr. Berlandier
to Tampico, and afterwards at intervals in various parts of Mexico,
chiefly at Matamoras, till April 26, 1851; also, of a series taken at
the city of Mexico, in 1827, by General Teran, and at Goliad, Texas,
in 1832 and 1833, by Dr. Raphael Chowell. The whole had been
collected and arranged with care by Dr. Berlandier, preparatory
to a thorough reduction, which was intended to show not only the
mean results, but all the more important relations existing between
different atmospheric phenomena, when death closed his labors, and
put an end +o his interesting and useful investigations.

3. The family of the lamented Dr. Hare has presented to the Insti-
tution a paper describing an instrument denominated by its author a
cycloidegraph. It is intended to illustrate the motions of particles of
air when subjected to a gyratory or whirling motion, combined with
one of translation. This instrument, of which a drawing will be
given, evinces the ingenuity and power of mechanical combinations, of
which Dr. Hare gave so many manifestations during the long course
of his industrious and successful scientific career.

The paper is accompanied by engraved illustrations of the curves
produced by the machine, and contains a series of propositions in-
tended to demonstrate the centripetal theory of storms. As the last
contribution to physical science of one of the patrons of the Smith-
sonian Institution, and its first honorary member, it is proper that it
should find a place in the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge.

4, The next communication to be mentioned, is an account of obser-
vations made on the great solar eclipse of September 7, 1858, in which
the total shadow of the moon passed obliquely over South America, a
few degrees south of the equator. Accurate observations of the
phenomena presented during the total obscuration of the sun afford
such important means of enlarging our knowledge of the physical
character of that luminary, and the event is of such rare occurrence,
that the opportunity to study the phenomena should never. be
neglected. The Smithsonian Institution, therefore, readily agreed to
a proposition made by Lieutenant Gilliss, to undertake the observation
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 2a

of the eclipse, if an appropriation could be made sufficient to pay at
least a portion of his expenses and his free passage procured. In
accordance with this proposition letters were addressed to the British
Pacific Steam Navigation Company, to the United States Mail Steam-
ship Company, to the Pacific Mail Steamship Company, and to the
Panama Railroad Company, setting forth the objects of the expe-
dition, and asking for free transportation for Lieutenant Gilliss and
his instruments, and for such other facilities as it might be in their
power to bestow. This request was generously complied with ; not
only were free passages granted to himself and his companion, but
every other facility was proffered which it was in the power of the
officers of the companies to afford.

The British Pacific Steam Navigation Company not only furnished
with great cordiality free transport, but so instructed their agents on
the coast, that when an accident on the Panama railroad separated
Lieutenant Gilliss from his instruments, and caused a delay in their
arrival, the steamer bound to Payta waited in port several hours for
them. When returning home, the commander of another steamer of
the same line was instructed to make all possible speed in reaching
Panama, so as to save Lieutenant Gilliss the detention of two weeks
which passengers coming to the United States from the South Pacific
frequently experience. For the acts of enlightened liberality on the
the part of the above-mentioned companies in facilitating the advance
of science, special acknowledgment by resolution immediately from the
Board of Regents is due.

The necessary meteorological instruments were furnished by the
Institution ; the astronomical by the National Observatory, the Coast
Survey, and Mr. Henry Fitz, of New York.

Lieutenant Gilliss, though highly favored with the necessary means
of accomplishing the desired result, encountered many difficulties in
reaching the proper spot at which to make the observations. Accom-
panied by Mr. C. H. Raymond, of New York, he arrived at Payta,
Peru, on the 21st of August, 1858. The French admiral command-
ing in the Pacific placed the war steamer Mégére at his disposition,
should it be desirable to proceed to any other point on the coast’
Information, however, obtained from residents, and his own experience
during the ensuing eight days, convinced him that there was little
probability of a clear sky in the morning near the sea. But, in
order to obtain observations from a second party, should clear weather
occur there, he arranged with the commandant of the Mégére to pro-
24 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

ceed with the vessel to a point south of Payta, where the eclipse would —
be total, and furnished him with a telescope and a special chronometer
for the use of the officers selected to make the observations on shore.
The accounts of these gentlemen are embraced in the report of Lieu-
tenant Gilliss to the Institution.

Leaving Payta, on the morning of August 29, with such instruments
as it was possible to transport on mules across the desert in the northern
part of Peru, Lieutenant Gilliss proceeded to Olmos, a small town
within the outer range of the Andes, and in approximate latitude 6°
south, longitude 80° 10’ west. Illness prevented his reaching the
summit of the Andes, as he intended, and on the 5th of September he
encamped on an eminence one mile southeast from Olmos, and almost
on the central line traversed by the moon’s shadow. From August
21 until the day of the eclipse, there had been but two clear mornings.
On all the other days the sky was obscured until after 9 a. m.,
before which time the eclipse terminated. It was also cloudy at sun-
rise of the 7th, and until after the eclipse had commenced ; but as it
progressed the thin masses of vapor rapidly rolled from a portion
of the sky, and for some time before and after total obscuration only
a delicate film of mist intervened between the observer and the moon.
The observations, though unpromising at the beginning, were highly
successful.

The different astronomical phases of the eclipse were determined
with accuracy, and thus afford data for the improvement of the solar
and lunar tables. Interesting facts were also obtained in regard
to a phenomenon which has attracted much attention during later
eclipses, and is known under the name of the pink-colored protu-
berances or flame-like appearances projecting from the sun beyond
the limb of the moon. Simultaneously with the total obscuration of
the sun, Lieutenant Gilliss observed four marked protuberances of this
character beyond the lunar disk, one of them being more than 30° of
the sun’s circumference in extent. Their elevation did not exceed 1’
or 1’ 10” of the celestial arc, the largest one being scarcely half that
altitude. They resembled clouds, the thinner portions of which trans-
mitted the sunlight, but were wholly destitute of the rose color hith-
erto observed in total solar eclipses, and seen on this occasion by
the French officers at Sechura bay. Those to the west and north
continued visible for one or two seconds after the sun’s limb was
uncovered. These prominences were plainly visible to the unassisted
eye, and their proximate position and the absence of expected red color
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 25

were also noted by Mr. Raymond, who had been charged with the
meteorological observations. The total eclipse lasted 603 seconds.
A corona light appeared at the same time as the solar clouds, extend-
ing from the sun farthest in radial lines drawn from the centre, and
passing through the clouds, but was nowhere traceable more than 15!
or 16’ from the solar disk. There was no appearance of fasces or
bundles of rays, but only a uniformly diminishing and slightly orange
tinted light, whose brightness and extent were apparently influenced
by the film of mist. It vanished with the first appearance of the sun.

As already stated, Lieutenant Gilliss was accompanied by Mr. Car-
rington H. Raymond, of New York, who rendered him essential
assistance during the whole expedition, as well as at the time of the
eclipse.

The communication of Lieutenant Gilliss will be accompanied by a
drawing of the appearance of the eclipse at the time of greatest obscu-
ration, and will form a part of the eleventh volume of the Smith-
sonian Contributions.

5. The investigations of Mr. Meech relative to the heat and light of
the sun have been continued during the past year and are still in
progress. The memoir containing the result of these investigations
obtained previous to September, 1855, was published as a part of the
ninth volume of the Smithsonian Contributions, and has received the
approbation of the scientific world. It is noticed with credit to the
Institution in the proceedings of the Astronomical Society of London,
and in a letter on the subject from Sir John Herschel.

The memoir already published contains a discussion of solar heat
in all its astronomic phases at the exterior of the earth’s atmosphere.
The labors of Mr. Meech have since been directed to the partial
absorption or extinction which the rays experience in passing through
the atmosphere to the earth’s surface. The phenomenon is one of
special interest, and various instruments have been devised for its
measurement; among which the pyrheliometer of Pouillet, and the
actinometer of Herschel, may be mentioned. The observations with
these instruments, says Mr. Meech, are certainly valuable and in-
structive, but, with one very doubtful exception, they fail to exhibit
any distinct law. The law of absorption not being obvious directly
from observation, the simple hypothesis has generally been adopted
that equal thicknesses or strata of the medium absorb equal pro-
portions of the light or heat incident upon each stratum. Lambert,
Laplace, Pouillet, and others, have expressed this assumption in an
26 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

analytic form, which applies very correctly at higher altitudes and
near the zenith. For low altitudes, Laplace combined the same assump-
tion with his theory of refraction, and derived an approximate expres-
sion for the relative amonnts.

But the inquiry arises how far the fundamental assumption is sus-
tained by experiments. During the trigonometric survey of India,
the astronomer, Jacob, observed the extinction of light reflected
through an extent of sixty miles of horizontal atmosphere. His results
were found to correspond very nearly with the law that ‘‘as the
first differences of distance increases in arithmetical progression, the
intensity of light diminishes in geometrical progression.’’ The ex-
periments of Delaroche and Melloni also indicate that the hypothesis
of equal thicknesses absorbing equal portions of the incident heat, is
only an approximation, which, in extended media, will differ widely
from the truth ; indeed, their experiments show an increasing facility
of transmission through equal strata in the direction in which the
rays proceed. ¢

The necessity of a change, therefore, in the theory of atmospheric ab-
sorption to render itconformable to such experiments being obvious, the
greater part of Mr. Meech’s time available during the past year has
been devoted to this object. The remaining discussions relative to
the theory of climatic heat, of which this forms a part, are yet in
progress. It may here be stated, however, that on computing by this
method the observations given in the translation of Kaemtz’s Meteor-
ology, p. 150, Mr. Meech shows that out of 100 rays descending
vertically from the zenith, 22 rays are lost or absorbed in the atmo-
sphere, and 78 are transmitted to the earth’s surface. The same pro-
cess applied to the mean of observations made with Herschel’s actino-
meter on the Faulhorn and at Brientz, in Switzerland, leads to
precisely the same result when reduced to the sea level.

6. A proposition was made to the Institution in 1856 by Dr. James
Deane, of Greenfield, Massachusetts, to publish a memoir containing
a series of illustrations of his researches relative to the celebrated fossil
foot-prints in the sandstone of the Connecticut valley. It is now well
established that these foot-prints consist of impressions made by gigantic
birds and other animals, and were first brought to the attention of the
scientific world by the ardent and persevering efforts of Dr. Deane
and the critical investigations of Professor Hitchcock. The number
of plates required to illustrate the memoir, as originally proposed,
would have involved too great an expense to be met in one or even
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 2

two years by the portion of the income of the Institution which
could be appropriated to any single publication. It was therefore con-
cluded that Dr. Deane should continue his investigations, and endeavor,
by means of photography, to produce representations of all the most
important specimens, and that from these a selection should be
made sufficient to illustrate the characteristics of the different
species of animals by which the impressions had been left. Dr. Deane
enthusiastically devoted all the time to this object that he could spare
from a laborious practice, on which the support of his family depended,
until his career was suddenly terminated by death. ‘To assist in the
experiments of photography and in lithographing the illustrations a
small appropriation was made, with which about fifty drawings were
finished on stone by Dr. Deane himself. The work, however, is in
such an unfinished condition that it cannot be published unless some
person well acquainted with the subject will undertake the task of its
completion.

7. The Annual Report to Congress for the year 1857, together with
the appendix, forms a volume of 438 pages. Of this Report the Senate
ordered 10,000 and the House of Representatives 7,000 extra copies,
of which 5,000 of the first and 2,000 of the latter were given to the
Institution for distribution. The volume was restricted in size to 440
pages, and the wood-cuts were furnished, as usual, at the expense of
the Smithsonian fund. The statement may be again repeated that the
Institution is not responsible for the quality of the paper, nor for all
the errors which may be found in the text, since the whole work is set
up by a large number of different compositors, and is driven through
the press without sufficient time being allowed for revision and proper
correction. The distribution, however, of the copies of the Reports
has done much to make the Institution favorably known throughout
the country. The applications for them are constantly increasing,
and even the number liberally furnished by Congress at its last session
has been found scarcely sufficient to supply the demand. They are pre-
sented to the meteorological observers, and to all libraries and educa-
tional establishments. Besides furnishing a kind of knowledge not
readily accessible through any other channel, these Reports serve to
gratify a laudable public desire for information as to the management
and operations of the Institution.

The important truth has now become known in every part of the
world, that the property of Smithson was not given for the support of
a local establishment, but in trust to the United States for the promo-
28 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

tion of knowledge, for the discovery of new truths, and for the diffu-
sion of these among men ; that the honor of the government is pledged
for the faithful administration of the trust in accordance with the ex-
pressed will of the donor, and that consequently every intelligent
citizen is interested in all which relates to the administration of the
bequest.

8. The collection of the meteorological and physical tables prepared
for the Institution by Professor Guyot, has been stereotyped and the
first issue has been distributed to the meteorological observers and to
foreign institutions. It has been received by the scientific world with
warm acknowledgments and special commendation. The Institution
has not lost sight of the proposition mentioned in the Report for 1856,
to prepare other series of tables for facilitating scientific calculations,
and to present in a convenient form the ‘Constants of Nature and
Art.’’ In order, however, fully to realize all the good which will
result from this work, it may be necessary to solicit the aid of foreign
institutions; and we think it probable that the co-operation of the Brit-
ish Association, as well as that of some of the academies on the conti-
nent of Europe, may be secured.

9. Among the miscellaneous publications of the past year should be
mentioned a pamphlet, accompanied by a map of the solar eclipse of
March 15, 1858, with an account of an instrument by which the latter
was projected. This instrument was invented in 1842 by Rev. Thomas
Hill, has since been improved, and now affords a ready means of de-
lineating the general phases of an eclipse, as exhibited over a large
portion of the earth, with sufficient accuracy for a first approximation.
It consequently saves much labor, and obviates, to a considerable
extent, the liability to larger errors in the numerical calculations.
The eclipse here mentioned was visible throughout Europe, Greenland,
and the North of Africa; also partly visible in the northern part of
South America and the eastern part of North America. The map exhib-
its the time of beginning and ending and the different phases of the
eclipse over the greater portion of North America in which there was
any probability of observations being made. Unfortunately, however,
the face of the sky in the United States on the day of the eclipse
was overcast, and few if any observations of value were obtained. The
projection of the map, however, illustrates the use of the ingenious
mechanical contrivance of Mr. Hill, and will serve to make it gene-
rally known to practical astronomers.

10. A new and revised edition of ‘‘ Directions for Meteorological Ob-
servations’ hag been stereotyped and distributed. To the directions
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 29

given in the first edition there have been added instructions for noting
periodical phenomena, earthquakes, auroras, &c., and special remarks
suggested by the experience of previous years. This publication forms
an octavo pamphlet of seventy pages, and is now, perhaps, the most
convenient and complete work for the purpose to be found in the
English language.

The catalogue of the Dipterous Insects of North America, prepared
by Baron Ostensacken, described in the last Report, has been published.
It forms an octavo pamphlet of ninety-two pages, and constitutes a
portion of a series of works which will be alluded to in a subsequent
part of this Report.

11. It was mentioned in the last Report that the Institution had
subscribed for a few copies of a treatise on the Fossils of South Carolina,
which was commenced by Professors Tuomey and IF. 8. Holmes, and,
after the death of the former, continued by the latter. Copies of five
parts of the continuation have been received, and will be distributed
in exchange for other works of foreign authors of thesameclass. This
work has been patronized by the State, and is alike creditable to the
industry, talents, and knowledge of the author, the skill of the artist,
and the intelligent liberality of the government of South Carolina,

Another publication to which a subscription has been made is Peirce’s
Analytic Mechanics. This is not an elementary compilation, but
consists principally of original solutions of many of the most important
problems of theoretical astronomy and pure physics. The author at
first offered to present this work as a series of memoirs to the Insti-
tution, but by means of the subscriptions which have been obtained
for it, the publication has since been undertaken by private enter-
prise. The copies subscribed for by the Institution will be distributed
to some of the first class learned societies in Europe, and will doubt-
less be regarded as an important contribution of new truths, as well as
of methods of establishing some of those which have been previously
discovered, alike indicative of the genius of the author and of the en-
lightened and liberal appreciation of the country.

A subscription has also been made for a number of copies, for foreign
distribution, of the Mathematical Monthly, edited by J. D. Runkle, of
Cambridge, a journal intended to promote the study of mathematics
in this country. The plan and execution of this work are such as to
commend it to all who are interested in the advance of the important
branch of knowledge to which it pertains; and it is gratifying to learn
that the patronage which it has received, as well as the number and
30 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

character of the articles furnished, are such as to insure its entire
success.

12. In accordance with the plan mentioned in the last Report of direct-
ing attention to departments of knowledge needing special stimulus, the
Institution has made arrangements for the preparation of a series of
works on the different orders of insects found in North America, with
a view of identifying the species and of systematizing the study of their
relations and habits. This is a subject not only of much scientific
interest, but also of great practical importance in regard to its con-
nexion with agriculture. When it is considered how much loss is
annually caused to this country by the ravages of the Hessian fly, the
army and cotton worms, the curculio, the grasshopper, and numerous
other species of insects, it must be evident that anything that may
tend in however slight a degree to throw light upon the means of pre-
venting such ravages is of great commercial importance. But
before we can make use of the experience of other countries on this
subject, it will be necessary to identify the insects, since, in regard to
them as well as other objects of natural history, the same name is
often popularly applied to widely different species. _

The greatest deficiency in American natural history is to be found
in the department of entomology, there being no original treatise in
reference to this country applicable to the wants of the present day.
The Institution has therefore made arrangements with eminent ento-
mologists for the preparation of the following series of reports on the
different orders, inthe form of systematic lists, of all the North American
species hitherto described, and an account of the different families and
genera, and, whenever practicable, of the species of each order :

Coleoptera, (Beetles, &c.,) by Dr. John L. Le Conte, Philadelphia.

Neuroptera, (Dragon flies, &c.,) by Dr. Hagen, Kinigsberg.

Hymenoptera, (Wasps, bees, &c.,) by H. De Saussure, Geneva.

Diptera, (Flies, mosquitoes, &c.,) by Baron Ostensacken, of the
Russian legation at Washington.

Lepidoptera, (Butterflies, moths, &c.,) by Dr. J. G. Morris, Balti-
more, and by Dr. B. Clemens, Haston, Pa.

Hemiptera, (Chinches, roaches, &c.,) by P. R. Uhler, Baltimore.

Catalogues of the Coleoptera and Diptera have been already pub-
lished, while the descriptions of these orders by Dr. Le Conte and
Baron Ostensacken, and of the Neuroptera, by Dr. Hagen, are in an ad-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. SL

vanced state of preparation. Moreover, it has been thought desi-
rable as introductions to these catalogues to give an account of the
best methods of capturing the insects and preserving them for the
cabinet as well as for breeding the larvee with a view of studying the
habits and peculiarities of the species, and with this object arrange-
ments have been made with gentlemen particularly acquainted with
different orders for articles relating to them.

A commencement has already been made in the preparation of mate-
rials for these works, a part of which will be given in an article to be
found in the appendix to this report.

The description of the method of capturing insects and preserving
them will be widely distributed, and it isto be hoped that the different
correspondents of the Institution interested in this branch of natural
history will assist in completing the collections.

Specimens of Neuroptera were last year referred to Dr. Hagen, consist-
ing chiefly of those collected by Captain Pope’s expedition, in New
Mexico as well as by Baron Ostensacken in the District of Columbia
and elsewhere, together with various series from other sources. Three-
fourths at least of all the specimens of the collection sent to Dr.
Hagen have never before been described. For example, among thirty-
four species of Odonata (dragon flies) twenty-seven were found to benew.
‘‘The materials for study which I have thus received from the Smith-
sonian Institution,’’ says Dr. Hagen, ‘‘are the richest 1 have ever ob-
tained at one time before.’’

Meteorology.—The arrangement between the Patent Office and this
Institution in relation to the collection of meteorological statistics still
continues, and is, we think, producing good results. The number of
observers now reporting is about three hundred, and it is only in re-
gard to the want of persistency on the part of some of these that there
is room for the expression of regret. Incomplete and irregular records,
however, are of importance in furnishing data for the general in-
vestigation of the subject—an investigation which is based, as was
stated in a former report, upon the preparation of a series of maps of the
United States for each day in the year, on which are represented with
different colors the portions of the country over which the sky is clear,
cloudy, snowing, raining, &c., and, by arrows, the direction of the
wind. These maps indicate the place of commencement, the succes-
sive stages of development, the changes and the final disappearance of
storms. Any person, therefore, who may furnish a daily record of the
face of the sky, of the beginning and ending of rain, snow, hail, and
32 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

storms, and the direction and intensity of the wind, (which can be
done without instruments,) will render valuable service in advancing
a knowledge of the laws of the atmospheric disturbances to which
we are constantly subjected, and which exercise so important an in-
fluence on our health, comfort, and occupation. To induce persons to
furnish this simple but valuable information a blank form has been
prepared for more general distribution than the one required by those
who are provided with instruments. If sufficient data of this kind
could be obtained to complete a series of maps, comprising one for
each day in a single year, over the whole United States, the laws of
the general phenomena of our storms could be determined. Tor this
purpose observations are particularly desirable from regions west of
the Mississippi river, and every traveller over the plains would render
important service by making a record of the weather at least three
times a day, viz: at 7a. m., 2and 9 p. m., and transmitting a copy
to the Commissioner of Patents. The principles which have been
already determined in regard to the development and progress of
storms fully demonstrate the importance of the information to be de-
rived from daily telegraphic despatches as regards probable changes
of weather in the eastern portions of the United States. The Institu-
tion and the public generally are indebted to the Morse telegraph line
for the gratuitous reports which its operators have daily furnished.
An object of much interest at the Smithsonian building is a daily
exhibition on a large map of the condition of the weather over a con-
siderable portion of the United States. The reports are received about
ten o’clock in the morning, and the changes on the maps are made by
temporarily attaching to the several stations pieces of card of differ-
ent colors to denote different conditions of the weather as to clearness,
cloudiness, rain or snow. This map is not only of interest to visitors
in exhibiting the kind of weather which their friends at a distance are
experiencing, but is also of importance in determining at a glance the
probable changes which may soon be expected. It is to be hoped that
reports may hereafter be received from all parts of the country to
which telegraphic lines extend. The value of the information thus
received would be much enhanced if a brief record of the direction of
the wind and the indications of the thermometer were in all cases added.
At the last meeting of the American Association for the Advancement
of Science a committee was appointed, on motion of Major Lachlan, of
Cincinnati, to petition the several States of the Union and the govern-
ments of other portions of the continent to co-operate with the Smith-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 33

sonian Institution and the Patent Office in establishing systems of sta-
tions for observations furnished with standard instruments. Though
this committee, consisting of Major Lachlan, Dr. Hough, Professor
Coffin, and myself, have not had an opportunity of fully discussing
the several points to be recommended, yet it is thought they will
adopt the following suggestions, which have been considered and ap-
proved by a majority of the members :

1. That stations for observation be established not over sixty miles
apart.

2. That at each station the pressure, temperature, and humidity of
the air, the direction and velocity of the winds, (both upper and lower
currents,) and the kind and amount of cloudiness be observed three
times a day—at 7 o’clock a. m., 2 p. m., and 9 p. m.; also the date
of the commencement and termination of each rain or snow, with the
amount of water that falls, and any other atmospheric phenomena that
the observer may deem of interest to note and record.

3. That each station be furnished with a barometer having a zero
adjustment, a pair of thermometers carefully compared with each
other throughout their entire range, and a rain-gage.

4, That a superintendent be appointed in each State, who shall
select the stations and instruments, secure reliable observers, keep
himself informed as to the condition of the instruments and observa-
tions, and report annually to the legislature of the State, and also to
the Smithsonian Institution.

5. That the superintendent be furnished with standard instruments
with which the others may be compared when necessary.

6. That these standard instruments be themselves compared with
some common standard.

7. That each observer publish his observations monthly in some
neighboring newspaper, as an item of local interest, and have, per-
haps, five hundred extra slips of the same printed for exchange with
other observers ; these slips to be sent to the Smithsonian Institution
for distribution.

8. That monthly and annual abstracts of these observations be
published in a uniform style throughout the United States, and the
continent if possible; and that, for the sake of securing such uniformity
as well as reducing the cost, they be prepared and published by the
Smithsonian Institution, each State contributing a sum sufficient to
defray the expense of its own observations; and the whole being com-
bined in a single volume.

3
34 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

9. That each State receive for distribution within its own limits a
number of copies of the above-mentioned volume of abstracts, equal to
perhaps twenty-five times the number of stations in the State: two for
the State library, six for each observer, one for each incorporated college
within the State, and the remainder to be distributed at the discretion
of the superintendent.

10. That to carry the foregoing provisions into effect, each State
appropriate per station $40 for the supply of instruments, and $36 a
year afterwards; the latter item to be distributed as follows, viz: $20
to each observer to pay for the printing and postage of the slips con-
taining his monthly observations, $5 per station to the superintendent
for his expenses, and $14 per station for preparing and publishing the
abstracts.

It gives me pleasure to state that a system of twenty-five stations for
minute and accurate observations, with standard instruments, has
been established along the northwestern lakes, under the direction
of Captain Meade, of the Topographical Engineers, U. 8. A. The
records are to be made four times a day, and to be reported to the
bureau in charge of Colonel Abert, at Washington, and will thus be
accessible for investigation by the Institution. In this connexion, I
am also pleased to be able to state that the meteorological system con-
templated for some years past in Upper Canada has been actually
commenced, and that twelve stations have been established at the
senior county grammar schools, from most of which reports have been
received during the past year. Copies of these observations will be of
much value in enabling the Institution to extend the area now included
in the field of its meteorological investigations. The report relative
to this system presented to the Canadian legislature will be found in
the appendix. It is also proper to mention that Doctor Shumard,
State geologist, has established a system of stations, furnished with
standard instruments, at three important points in Texas. In this
he has followed the example of Professor Swallow, who instituted a
similar system in connexion with his geological survey of Missouri.

The reductions of all the observations which have been made under
the direction of the Institution and the Patent Office are now com-
pleted, and will be printed as rapidly as the means necessary for the
purpose can be appropriated. A large number of maps have been
constructed for the investigation of storms, and considerable additions
have been made to the material previously collected relative to the
climate of this continent.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 35

One of the most important operations with which the Institution
has been connected during the past year is the construction of a map
to represent at one view the arable and forest land of the United States.
This work has been intrusted to Dr. J. G. Cooper, a young naturalist,
who has paid particular attention to botany, has been engaged in
government explorations in the western part of the United States, and
has critically examined all the authorities to be found on the subject.
The facts presented at once to the eye by this map are in striking
accordance with the deductions from the meteorological materials which
have been collected at this Institution, and serve to place in a clear
point of view, the connexion of climate with the natural productions
of different parts of the earth.

No appropriation has been made for the last two years for the pur-
chase and distribution of instruments other than rain-gages and ther-
mometers. The attempt to furnish barometers to important stations
at a distance has not been successful. In the majority of cases they
have been broken before they arrived at their place of destination, and
we find from experience that this instrument cannot be safcly trans-
ported, except by hand or by water.

Magnetic Observatory.—F rom the date of the last report the declina-
tion needle of the magnetic observatory, established at the expense of
the Coast Survey and the Smithsonian fund, was in continued opera-
tion until October, 1858, when the introduction of a large iron pipe
for the supply of the grounds with the Potomac water made a new
adjustment of the apparatus necessary, and interrupted the continuity
of the record. Up to that time the remaining instruments had not
been received from London, though they were ordered by Professor
Bache before the erection of the building, several years ago. The
delay, we have since learned, was occasioned by death in the family of
the inventor, who had kindly undertaken to superintend their construc-
tion, and especially to make the adjustments for the compensation for
changes of temperature. The instruments have at length been re-
ceived, and will be put in operation early in the spring of the present
year. They were completed and forwarded under the direction of
Mr, Charles Brooke, the author of this ingenious and truly valuable
mode of automatic registration.

The importance of putting this observatory in full operation will be
manifest by a reference to a communication in the appendix to this
report from General Sabine to the Secretary, in which it is stated that
it is in contemplation to establish similar observatories at Pekin, the
36 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Falkland Isles, Newfoundland, and Vancouver’s Island, and in which
the hope is expressed that the magnetic observatory on the Smithsonian
grounds may be in a condition to co-operate in the efforts that are thus
about to be made to determine the laws of the perturbations of the
intensity and direction of the magnetic force in a continuous belt en-
circling the globe.

Laboratory.—During the past year the laboratory has been under
the charge of Professor Shaeffer, late of the United States Patent Office,
and Dr. Craig, of this city. These gentlemen have reported to the
Institution on all articles of public interest which have been referred
to them for examination, and have made a series of investiga-
tions on a large number of specimens of guano, which were sub-
mitted to the Smithsonian Institution by the general government.
The policy adopted in regard to the specimens of various kinds referred
to the Institution for examination, is to furnish a report free of cost to
the parties making the reference, provided the information is of general
interest or immediately connected with the advance of science, but if
the examination is required principally to promote the interest of indi-
viduals or companies, a charge is made sufficient to cover the expense
of the investigation. By the adoption of this plan the laboratory is
kept in operation by means of a small appropriation for chemicals and
apparatus from the Smithsonian fund.

Exchange —The system of international exchanges continues to be
highly successful, and the amount of material transmitted abroad and
that received in return is constantly increasing. Few, if any, Ameri-
can Institutions publishing transactions or reports have any other
means of effecting exchanges with foreign societies, and although the
income of the Institution will not warrant a much greater extension of
this part of the operations, yet we trust that nothing will interfere to
lessen its present efficiency and usefulness.

It will be seen from the report of Professor Baird that during the
year there were 913 packages sent abroad by the Institution, weighing
22,674 pounds. The number of parcels received by the Institution from
other parties for foreign distribution was 4,425.

Library.—The fact has been repeatedly mentioned in preceding re-
ports that the principal object aimed at in the collection of the library
is to procure as perfect and extensive a series as possible of the trans-
actions and proceedings of all the learned societies which now exist
or have existed in different parts of the world. It is to works of this
character that the student of science is obliged to refer for the minute
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. St

history of the progress of any special branch to which he may be de-
voted, and to ascertain accurately what has been published on his
particular subject previous to commencing his own labors, or at least
before he gives the results to the world, in order that he may do justice
to those who have preceded him in the same path, and have due re-
gard to his own reputation in not publishing facts and principles as
new discoveries which have long since been recorded in the annals of
science.

Principally by means of the system of exchange, which has been
so successfully prosecuted by the Institution, the library is now richer
in this class of books than perhaps any other in the country, and
every year it is increasing in value, not only from the current publica-
tions of the various societies of the world, but by almost constant
additions of series and of volumes to complete sets which had before
been imperfect.

The value of this library to the country will be much enhanced,
first, by the publication of a list or catalogue of the different series
of transactions and proceedings of which it is now actually in pos-
session ; and secondly, by a general index or list of titles of the various
memoirs or papers contained in the whole collection. The first of
these objects will soon be accomplished by a complete catalogue of
the whole collection, which has been prepared under the direction
of Professor W. W. Turner, and is now in the press, and will be
distributed to all the correspondents of the Institution in the course
of afew months. This catalogue will not only serve to make known
to the men of science in this country what the library actually con-
tains in the line of transactions, but will also indicate to the foreign
contributors its deficiencies, and thus enable them, from their store
of duplicates, to complete imperfect sets, as well as to increase the
series.

The second desideratum is one which is felt as such by the whole
scientific and literary world, and it will be recollected that in the
report for 1855 I mentioned the fact that, in behalf of this Insti-
tution, I had addressed a letter to the British Association, setting
forth the importance of the publication of a list of the titles of the
different memoirs or papers contained in all the transactions of the
learned societies of the world, and offering to co-operate in the im-
portant enterprise by furnishing a list of the contents of the volumes
of transactions and proceedings of the different societies of this country.
I am now much gratified in being able to inform the Board of Regents
that this proposition was favorably considered by the Association, and
38 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

that the great work has actually been commenced at the expense and
under the direction of the Royal Society of London. It is estimated
that the whole number of titles will amount to 250,000, the cost of
printing which will probably exceed even the income of the endow-
ment of the Royal Society; but the hope is entertained that other
institutions of Great Britain, as well as those of other countries, will
contribute towards defraying the expense.

At the last session of Congress a bill* passed the House of Repre-
sentatives in reference to the present copyright law, which was in ac-
cordance with the views presented in the several reports of the Board
of Regents.

The requirement that three copies of every original work secured by
copyright should be forwarded to Washington, to be deposited respect-
ively in the Libraries of Congress, the Department of State, and this
Institution, has been found as oppressive to the author, in the case of
valuable and costly works, as it was burdensome to the libraries in-
tended to be benefited, in the case of trifling and ephemeral ones.
The change in the law, by which this requirement will be in future
limited to the archives of the Interior Department at the Patent Office,
while it affords relief on the one hand, will on the other furnish ample
security in case of contested title; and, being more easily and con-
stantly complied with, will insure to those who feel an interest in the
progress of American literature at least one entire and connected series
of these publications.

The additions to the library of the Smithsonian Institution by
exchange during 1858 have been large and important, the total being
considerably greater than in 1857. They consist of the following
items, viz: 553 octavo volumes, 156 quarto, 14 folio; also, 1,695 pam-
phlets and parts of volumes, and 122 charts and maps, making in all
2,540; being an excess of 780 volumes and parts of volumes over 1857.
Many of the receipts for the year consist of series of transactions of
societies more or less complete, tending to add greatly to the resources
of the library. Among these may be mentioned the Memoirs of the
Academie des Sciences of Dijon, 30 volumes; of the Haarlem Society
of Sciences, 41 volumes; of the Royal Netherlands Institute at Am-
sterdam, 14 volumes quarto; of the Academy of Sciences of Montpe-
lier, 9 volumes quarto; a full series of the publications of the Hydro-

* Since the date of this report, the bill referred to having passed the Senate also, has

become a Jaw, and henceforth it will be requisite for the author to deposit only a single
copy with the clerk of the district court from whom the certificate of copyright is obtained.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 39

graphical Department of St. Petersburg, in many volumes; the charts
of the British Admiralty Board for the year; the Allgemeine Deutsche
Bibliothek, in 77 volumes, from the library at Cassel ; the Memoirs of
the Landwirthschaftliche Gesellschaft at Klagenfurt, in 14 quarto
volumes; and many others.

Alexander 8. Taylor, esq., of Monterey, California, sent to the
Smithsonian Institution, for examination and use, a manuscript which
he had borrowed from the library of the Right Rev. Bishop of Monterey;
and of which he gives the following account: ‘‘This manuscript con-
taining 94 pages, is a vocabulary of the Mutsun tribe of California
Indians, living in the country around the mission of San Juan Bau-
tista, in Monterey county, and now nearly extinct. It was written in
1815, by P. Felipe Arroyo, an old missionary of great natural talents |
and, as I am informed, very learned in the Indian languages of this
country. He died at the mission of Santa Inez about 1842.’’ This
manuscript, on examination, proved of so interesting a character in its
relation to American philology and ethnography, that to afford to
American scholars opportunities for its study and to lessen the chances
of loss of the work, it was thought advisable to have it copied. This
accordingly has been done, the labor being performed by a Cuban
gentleman, under the supervision of Alexander J. Cotheal, esq., of
New York, who has added an English translation of some portions.
The number of pages in the transcript corresponds to those of the
original. The first seventy-seven pages, after the title and preface,
(which, as well as some of the explanatory matter, are in Latin,) are
occupied with a collection of Mutsun words and phrases, ranged some-
what irregularly, under the letters of the alphabet, accompanied by a
Spanish translation. The Indian words and phrases are written in
black, and the Spanish in red ink. The remaining pages contain
hymns, prayers, and catechetical exercises composed by the priests,
and some specimens of the music used in the native songs and dances.
The original, of course, has been returned, and the copy’is placed in
the library of the Institution.

The extensive alterations in the wing of the building appropriated
to the library, mentioned in the last report, have been completed, and
the additions have been found not only of importance in the better
arrangement and accommodation of a larger number of books, but
also in increasing the general architectural effect of the apartment.
40 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Museum.—The portion of the Smithsonian income which can be
devoted to a museum, and the $4,000 per annum appropriated by
Congress, would not together be sufficient to establish and sustain a
general collection of specimens of the natural history of the world.
It will, therefore, be the policy of the Institution, unless other means
are provided, to confine the collections principally to illustrations of
the products of the North American continent. For this purpose
efforts have been made, principally through the varicus exploring
expeditions, to obtain a large number of specimens of all the species
of the different kingdoms of nature found in North America; and at
this time the collection under charge of the Institution is more exten-
sive in number and variety than any other which has ever before been
made relative to this portion of the globe. It is not in accordance
with the general organization of the Institution to form a museum
of single specimens, interesting only for their rareness, but to collect
a large number of specimens of each species, particularly of such as
have not been described, and to distribute these among the several
naturalists who may have the industry, ability, and the desire to study
them; the primary object of the Institution, namely, the increase of
the existing sum of knowledge in this case, as in all others, being
kept prominently in view.

The Institution has now become the curator of the collections of
natural history and ethnology of the government, and by law is
empowered, as it appears to me, to make the same disposition of the
materials contained in these collections as it does of those procured at
its own expense; the design will be to render the specimens in
the greatest degree serviceable to the advance of knowledge. The
museum now consists of the following collections, of which, according
to Professor Baird, about one-fifth were brought from the Patent
Office :

First, those of the naval expeditions; second, those of the United
States geological surveys; third, those of the boundary surveys; fourth,
those of surveys for railroad routes to the Pacific; fifth, of miscellane-
ous expeditions under the War and Navy Departments; sixth, those
of miscellaneous collections presented or deposited by societies and
individuals; and, lastly, of an extensive series of the results of explora-
tions prosecuted by the Institution itself. By far the greater portion
of the whole has been made under the stimulus and immediate direc-
tion of the Smithsonian Institution. A number of the special collec-
tions are still in the hands of those to whom they were intrusted for
scientific investigation and description. The arrangement of the cases
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. Al

and the disposition of the articles intended for public exhibition has
been a subject requiring considerable thought and experiment. It was
not only desirable to obtain the largest amount of space for the accom-
modation of the articles, but, also, to arrange the whole so as to har-
monize with the architectural embellishment of the large hall and
thus to produce a proper esthetical effect.

For a particular account of the present condition of the museum,
and for a detailed history of the several series of collections of which
it is composed, I beg leave to refer to the report of Professor Baird,
herewith annexed.

It is proper to add that the Institution continues to be under great
obligations to the steamer line to California via Panama (consisting of
the United States Mail Steamship Company, the Panama Railroad and
the Pacific Mail Steamship Company,) for its most generous and
liberal aid in carrying packages between New York and the Pacific
coast free of all expense. The agents of the line, Mr. I. W. Ray-
mond in New York, and Mr. A. B. Forbes in San Francisco, have
also paid particular attention to the secure and certain transmission
of these pazcels. When it is known that the aggregate amount trans-
ported for the Institution during the year has been not far from one
hundred packages, embracing valuable Natural History material, and
that merely the ordinary expenses of the transit would have been pro-
hibitory of the reception of most of them, some idea may be gathered
of the part taken by these companies in the development of the
Natural History of the west coast of America. Nor must it be for-
gotten that the packages carried free of charge by them contain not
only specimens of Natural History from the Pacific, but also large num-
bers of valuable books, presented by or through the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, to libraries in California, Oregon and Washington, thus adding
greatly to the literary and scientific resources of the west. Hearty
acknowledgments are also due for service of similar character to the
Pacific Steam Navigation Company, and to the Express Company of
Messrs. Wells, Fargo & Co. Mr. Banning, the government freight
contractor between Fort Tejon and Los Angelos, has also transported
several boxes free of charge.

Gallery of Art.—A large number of portraits, formerly in the
Patent Office, of Indian chiefs and a few females of the different tribes
which have from time to time visited Washington, which were painted
at the expense of government, has been added to the Gallery of Art.
These, with the Stanley paintings, now form perhaps the most
42 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

valuable collection in existence of illustrations of the features, cos-
tumes, and habits of the aborigines of this country.

This gallery is an object of special interest to all visitors to the
national metropolis, and to none more so than to the deputations of
Indians frequently called to Washington to transact business with
the government. A suggestion has been made that there be procured
photographic likenesses of individuals of these deputations, with
which to increase the number of portraits. It would be a matter
regret were the collections ever to be separated, and it is hoped that
Congress will in due time purchase the portraits belonging to Mr.
Stanley, which will become more and more valuable in the progress
of the gradual extinction of the race of which they are such faithful
representations.

A number of busts of distinguished individuals, that formed a part
of the objects of art at the Patent Office, have also been transferred
to the Institution, and although these are not very choice illustrations
of sculpture, they serve as a beginning of a collection in this line
which may hereafter be worthy of the Institution.

Lectures.—Provision was made for the usual number of popular
lectures during the present season, and thus far they have been
attended by large audiences. This part of the operations of the Insti-
tution, though somewhat restricted in its effects to the city of Wash-
ington, has been of considerable importance in awakening a lively
interest in the welfare and operations of the Institution on the part of
a large number of intelligent and influential gentlemen, who have
been invited to lecture, from different and distant sections of the
United States. It has likewise been the means of presenting, through
the annual report, summaries of particular branches of science inter-
esting to the general reader and of value to the teacher of schools
and academies.

It will be recollected that the rooms in the second story of the
Smithsonian building are arranged for the accommodation of associa-
tions and conventions, of which the following have gladly availed
themselves during the past year of the facilities thus offered, namely:
The National Medical Association, the United States. Agricultura]
Society, American Pharmaceutists’ Association, the National Musical
Convention, the Art Association, and the American Colonization
Society. The Teachers’ Association for the District of Columbia also
continues its monthly meetings in one of the apartments.

The influence the Institution is having on the character and repu-
tation of the city of Washington is by no means small. The free
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 43

lectures, it is evident, from the interest which they still continue to
excite, must tend to promote the intelligence and morality of the citi-
zens, and the various scientific operations which are carried on in
connexion with the Institution diversify the objects of interest to the
public generally in what pertains to the national metropolis. The
following is a list of the lectures delivered at the Institution during
the winter of 1858-59:

Two lectures by Dr. Joun Raz, of Canada, on ‘‘Arctic Explorations
and the Probable Fate of Sir John Franklin.’’

One lecture by J. G. Saxz, esq., of Vermont, on ‘‘ Poetry and
Poets.”’

One lecture by Professor G. W. Greens, of New York, on ‘‘ The
Artistic Life of Thomas Crawford.’’

One lecture by Professor J. D. Dana, of Yale College, on ‘‘ Coral
Islands.”’

Two lectures by THomas CLEemson, esq., of Maryland, on ‘‘ Water ”’
and ‘‘ Nitrogen,”’

Two lectures by Professor P. A. CuapBourns, of Williams College,
on ‘‘ Natural History as related to Intellect, Taste, and Wealth.’’

Four lectures by Rev. H. J. Cominco, of Ohio, on ‘‘ Rome, its His-
torical Reminiscences; its Antiquities and Ruins; its Architectural
Monuments ; its Fine Arts.’’

Four lectures by Professor A. Caswett, of Brown University, on
‘¢The Magnitude and Figure of the Earth;’’ ‘‘ The Law of Gravita-
tion;’’? ‘*The Dimensions of the Solar System, or the Extent of our
Knowledge of Planetary Distances ;’’ and ‘‘ Sidereal Astronomy.”’

Five lectures by Professor J. P. Coox, of Harvard College, on
*¢ Atmospheric Air,’’ ‘‘Oxygen and Ozone,”’ ‘‘ Nitrogen,’”’ ‘‘Water,’’
‘¢ Carbon,’’ &c., &c.

The lectures of Professor Caswell will be inserted in the Appendix
to this report, and, it is believed, will be found interesting to the
teacher, as well as to the general reader, on account of the informa-
tion given relative to many points not usually dwelt upon in popular
works on the subject.

Respectfully submitted.

JOSEPH HENRY.
APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, December 31, 1858.

Sir: I have the honor herewith to present a report, for 1858, of the
operations you have entrusted to my charge, namely, those which
relate to the printing, to the exchanges, and to the collections of
natural history.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,

SPENCER F. BAIRD,
Assistant Secretary Smithsonian Institution.
JosepH Henry, L. L. D.,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.

PUBLICATIONS.

The publications of the Institution during the year are as follows:

Annual Report of the Board of Regents for 1857. One volume, 8
vo., pp. 438.

Catalogue of the Described Diptera of North America, prepared for
the Smithsonian Institution by R. Osten Sacken. 8vo., pp. 112.

Map of the Solar Eclipse of March 15, 1858, by Rev. Thomas Hill,
of Waltham, Massachusetts. 8vo., pp. 8.

Directions for Meterological Observations and the Registry of Pe-
riodical Phenomena. 8vo. pp. 70.

Tables, Meteorological and Physical, prepared for the Smithsonian
Institution, by Arnold Guyot. 8vo. pp. 634.

Nereis Boreali Americana, or Contributions to a History of the
Marine Algae of North America, by William Henry Harvey, M. D.,
M. R. 1. A. Part III, Chlorospermeae. 4to, pp. 142, and fourteen

lates.
9 Magnetical Observations in the Arctic Seas, by Elisha Kent Kane,
M. D., United States navy, reduced and discussed by Charles A.
Schott. 4to. pp. 72, and two plates.

A Grammar and Dictionary of the Yoruba Language, by the Rev.
T. J. Bowen. 4to. pp. 232.

The following publications are in an advanced state and will be
completed early in the year:

Catalogue of Transactions and Periodicals in the Library of the
Smithsonian Institution. 8vo.

Catalogue of North American Birds, by 8. F. Baird.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 45

EXCHANGES,

The system of international exchanges organized by the Smith-
sonian Institution a few years ago continues to be highly successful,
and is rapidly developing to an enormous magnitude. Every year
witnesses a great increase in the amount of material transmitted
abroad and received in return, and it is not too much to say that any
abrupt termination of the undertaking on the part of the Institution
would be felt as a great public calamity. Few, if any, American
institutions of note, publishing transactions or reports, have any
other medium of exchanging them with foreign correspondents.

The details of operations in this department will be found in the
following tables, all of which exhibit a marked increase as compared
with 1857:

A —Receipt of books, dc., by exchange in 1858.

RC OCIA NO: < cnionsiy et guecdanodlens todvenwwchsuaetaaesamiee 553
Quarto ..... diviwesidnedWONE IA eRe SeeeR Aes ee 156
TQNO! je ceuasecieseerountsasdens iReisese savessageses vouae 14

—_ —_:‘723
Parts of volumes and pamphlets:
Octavo ..... Gabi Arends dicate paeweanceess ganicedicn sats T 1ST
COSTCO. cc casesiee ahGae edu nee cere tes casdasecewiunaseane 451
TOMO sc acdas Gace siden tate Moanetatne ee 57
—— 1,695
Maps and charts........ paecaees? Ren eGadies cab eatpecdiceetlas cists ue ngante 122

46 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECKETARY,

.

B;

Table showing the statistics of foreign exchanges of the Smithsonian In-

stitution in 1858.

ry nd & =
cj 3 tal Mos
for [o) Vv =
Sten ugg = A >
Agent and country. og Sa oa sa
BB | Bb a “8
Es 3 °
ala | 2 | ae
5 i 2 =
A A A a)
1. Dr. Fenix Frucen, Leipsic.
Swedenkeeees ste sass eh 10 ie. Sian Ri rperan Bop i ee ee Se
Notwayjesees coe ssetensaesee 4 i Wesmscsecltasaooee
Denmarkas. cocoate seca 6 ial eee eas ee
Russia. 2oswet. Sh Sees 23 SOS | Sa es ee She
HMollandecicee Sa eae eee 18 Tara tee ralitagesre tual eats a
CKei aN eh pee Ss rer EC OCC ES oe 200 310) 4 cnemacceletaneeee
Switzerland <2 4.028 scjasocqe oe aly 2. |\ a craimteaie: Se eerie
Beloium =. 20 Sabena ies 9 SLE i ee Se cen | a aes
Motel... ce weemesiscescmessee 289 440 28 336
2. H. Bossanen, Paris.
Hirancerse ste see eae ne ee ee 78 2 2B lee aaeeelnceecte oe
Ttally/s..- ondmocasnwesecumiesss 37 CAs err nseeehl eee WE SS
Ronbuis alyssa ee ian 2 Di vale sm mepoaaa Maecenas
Spain Ss Sees eee eneietaae 5 Bo Weed. See SNS lee
Totales Lasse ses ssseuss seek 122 199 11 132
3. H. Srevens, London.
Great Britain and Ireland...-..- 96 250 17 204
4. Rest of the world. 18 2A: ee weeersllesso nse
Totaly Sess eee ae 525 913 56 672

Weight of boxes
in pounds.

eee ew ewe ew

22, 674

C.—Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution for foreign dis-

tribution in 1858.

No. of packages.

Albany, N. Y.—

New York State Agricultural Society........0....sssccsseees 20
Boston, Mass.—

American Academy of Arts and Sciences......ccccccsssssee 251

Boston Society of Natural History...... cl deneecnmaenee taeeees 36

Fublhie tnbrary, of City. of Bostomicnvevisesccsecesusescceveaere 3
Cambridge, Mass.—

American Association for Advancement of Science....... 64

Camibrid Se ODservatOry .....csicerssasswcsceceaeveterorsesersees. Lao
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

Charleston, S. C.—

rote de SAGO se 9. Re es

Chicago, Ill.—

Cold: D; Graham, Ue DB sck..csvssevensce cose venas

Cincinnati, Ohio.—

Die a Tg, Wana Pps Beach. sev secs ncsesaseadlecereee ce

Columbia, Mo.—

Hag 0) a Sa Oe a ee eee

Columbia, Pa.—

MOL. or Ds ELQUOCIUOI cot ecadesilaeccscescensce sccaavic

Georgetown, D. C.—

Georgetown Colleges: ccistiverssnnsd sevewaninettersd

New Haven, Conn.—

American Journal of Science.........ccccccceseeceess
Pomichicam OLien tal MOC. dccwacdesesdsaseescxecisaas
WV Agee LOS ec asides SB vc ans Uses saosveanionededcuwn eae

Philadelphia, Pa.—

Academy of Natural Sciences..........cssecsessceeees
American Philosophical Society......cecessesssseres
Central High School of Philadelphia...............

Historical Society of Pennsylvania
Isaac Lea

Providence, R. I.—

RIGHEO UL MOC LSIRIIC .ccccs ce cnebeclessctedcesccusageses

St. Louis, Mo.—
St. Louis Academy of Sciences

Toronto, Canada.—
Canadian Institute

Washington, D. C._—
U.S. Patent Office
U.S. Coast Survey
National Observatory
Secretary of War
Surgeon General

Capt. Charles Wilkes

Wohi | Ae ee Sea MEN EEON cee ous dvldenep

eeesecereeesesense

FORO T RTH e eee rare ee HEHE OEE EESeBeee. SHH EHOOE HS

Pee eeeeesesenerer rence

reat tre OMIT Co «ccscx cates ccpoiancnlaeiec caiosvie taienees

CHC CHHHES CHORE POOH SEO SE EOS EEE REE EE

see ve seers ee seeeeeeseeeanseness ORGS E8
Pee woe THEO EHE EERE HEE Eee eee nanesoee
SOPHO HHT EHH EERE HH EEE EHH ER EES
POPP meee eee ees HHH TE HE OEE EEE TOE eEOeE
TO e eee ew Poem eee eeu ear eeeesseeesersresacre

47

No. of packages.

see veaiean 188

daeelteieoie 4,425

48 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

D;

Addressed packages received by the Smithsonian Institution from Europe
Jor distribution in America in 1858.

Number of
packages,
Albany, N. Y.—
NewYork State Mibranmy, 2345. sccSs6 cee ean oe eer ae eee ees 18
New York State Agricultural Society......--.----<----------e-e- 7
New Mork State MedicaliSociety.- -2- --+--—meseeeassemeae eee 1
Amherst, Mass. —
Ame COMER es case wie Se ei clemininln ie Selanne aeeeeeeE Ee eee 11
Ann Arbor, Mich.—
Observatory a aeecee saa see ee neon ae eee eae oreo 10
Boston, Mass.—
American Academy of Arts and Sciences... ..-..<.--..eename-- 59
Boston Society of Natural Tistory ose ccewes ose cecemenioeamceac 4G
Bowditch" Libraryss jane a oe eee aise a ae ae elas 10
Eistoric: Genealopicall Socletyn a2. = - since nao eee eae 2
SlAlishicdlSOClely, sesame ae eee ee eee a eaea einen alae see seer 10
Bowdoin, Me.—
Bony don ole eee oe sa pala ia ie ee er erie tei 8
Cambridge, Mass. —
American Association for Advancement of Science...----..------- 12
CambridgevAstronomical Journal. = 22 -25-- co~ aceasta aeeaenee ee 9
CambridrerObservatoryiese ee ae a ee mine ee amie eloe ines 27
Hanvardi Colles eRe ess ase na seem nee aa eee nemo an eet 22
Professor, 1u.,Agassiznuca:< peas s Seas eon cee em eee semen 16
Professor Asa (Graye os oe sete eta to eee siete eae a 13
Professor ReMCe Sacre iceman e eee eet a eee aa ee 11
Charleston, S. C.—
Elliott. Society of ‘Natural. History ---- -<--0s-ceess5e-te----+--- 8
Cincinnati, Ohio.—
Observatory s se seme esac seems oe ae ea open le ae eee teste elt 10
Columbia, Mo.—
Professor (G:C swallowe- sdec=—--sese= coco ease eee eee eri 5
Columbus, Ohio. —
@hio|State Board) of Agriculture. 23 -e assoc see sepe nose ane 22
Dartmouth, Me.—
Dartmouth: .Collevestints<fenesecSeo cee esate one anaes tacoma 26
Georgetown, D. C.—
Georgetown! Collese\-- Se cccccccc ee camer e eee aes eases ee eee 22
Lansing. Mich.—
Michigan’ State AgriculturaliSociety.---\0cseminenan sos ae nie 17
Madison, Wis.—
Wisconsin State Agricultural Society.......-----------.-----.-.- 25
Historical Society of Wisconsin... see see Seen aaa eae 4
New Haven, Conn.—
American Journal. of ‘Science <=. --<ssceesee= soos pe oe see 17
AmenicanOniental SOCIELY = <mism cece nicane eee a meme se ee 5
PEO LESSON ey) py OTL les rete aterm mete ce nena ere eee rose et 19
YaleiWolleges «2 shoe seduce setts scteuetiese ene beta cee 2 aaee 8
New Orleans, La.—
New Orleans Academy of Natural Sciences ---...---~--..---.~-.-- 23
New York.—
American Geographical and Statistical Society---.-..---------.-.- 29
New York Lyceum of Natural History .....-..-.-.-----.---.--.- 38
3

American’ HithnolopicalS0cletyps-sameneemaese eee eiaemee see =
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. AY

D—Continued.
e Number of
packages.
New York —Continued.

Ne wa Vonks, Omiyersiiy apa mcte aca nate see nas eee a se toeie aa sieiarae 7
Philadelphia, Pa.—

Academy) Oh UN ahure lb ClEN COS tetea setae eta siae an een erat alc 86

AN eNGam antl OSOp MiGs ly SOCICUY sara cia eiaeiansia a ein i a we a ie ri 65

Central High School of -Philadelphias- 72-2 sso-occccc5en cs ccl ss 1

Pennsylvania Institute for the Blind......---.----..-.-..------- LL

Waoner Pree: Institute csi <s2ct. chosen cnc sce celine ecceowicws sue 4

1 ESE 69 ete eS pg ae En eS Pa eee ne eae, me &

Dr; John Tuidie. Contes ss sac0cesncc sscetesoswceecocl ssa Sots Sine 4

ID re A o}s2] 0} 10) Us 8 area eee ee eee ee eee ee as 12
Providence, R. J.—

BYOWMSUNLVEISIUY: co ceassiccaesetsccccateewscsos cee qua cece encam 5
San Francisco, Cal.—

California: Academy of Natural Sciences.-<--.------.<s<-cccecceen 17
St. Louis, Mo.—

St. Lours Academy Of Sciences ss se cosa estonia cece soso eae eee 26
Santiago, Chili.—

Winnversitye, Ofn ChWe ae meee ene ne eaeem em seiee eae ace eae See 6
Springfield, Lll.—

Iimois State Agricultural Society ....2---<-co--sc<eceeessesccn; 1
Washington, D. O.—

United Statestbatent: Oftice 42525 se sco ssc ceeesccs seas ose 68

Ordnance Bureamemseas 2 ate aa ae on Se eat ce amas e ace sees 3

Wnited States: Coast/Survey <cosasseccoscecsoSc occ h ace ceee sees 41

NationaltObservatory 254 sa sccsccsoccticesecceccc et ecckascsed 73

NECK LALY OL NV eS eae PAN et cre ota e ak oo St aia S

National Institutes sscosoosnnes sscesae ossce So sese sa Sas seseeae 2

State Wo) epanumen terse ermine eras ciciminie selec eee ee eae oe 1

Congress: Inbrany. sesame meee ence canoer eee hon tammeee 15

Lieutenant J. M. Gilliss, United States navy-........-.-.-.-..... 16
West Point, N. Y.—

Militarya ACAMeM y= oa ciccicocence scm sciasoeeccese a socteetenaes 3
Worcester, Mass.—

Arperican’ Antiquarian. Society 22... <2 <ssseccce ce ascememmeco ce 6
Miscellancous institutions 2s2sL 2 -scss selec cecse Soa ctseieacheodasces 261
MiscelAncousmMCInONAlSe tee em cases en aice coe meae ecicaces ae snme cane 221

Bo LS ee ee ee ane P539
MUSEUM.

Additions to the museum.—Independently of the collections of the
Patent Office, transferred in 1858, and of which a more detailed notice
will be found on another page, the additions to the Smithsonian
museum during 1858 have been of great magnitude and importance,
in many respects exceeding those of any previous year, occupying, as
they did, more than 200 boxes, 20 kegs or barrels, and numerous
single packages of greater or less size. It is impossible within my
present limits to mention the contents of these in detail, and a general

4
50 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

statement at the end of this report is all that can be given for most of
them. <A portion, however, of the collections received belong to pub-
lic or private explorations of such interest as to require a further
notice.

%

EXPLORATIONS UNDER THE WAR DEPARTMENT.

1. Exploration of the valley of the Platte river, especially of the Loup
Fork, under Lieutenant Warren, U. S, A.—This exploration was con-
ducted in 1857, but the collections (filling 21 boxes) did not reach
Washington until 1858. The chief features of the collections con-
sisted of the fossil remains of animals and plants, gathered by Dr.
Hayden, geologist of the expedition; but a large and valuable series
of recent species was also procured, embracing several new to science.

2. Exploration of the Colorado river of California, under Ineutenant
J. CO. Ives, U. S. A.—Dr. J. 8. Newberry, geologist and botanist, Mr.
B. Mollhausen, artist and zoologist. Large collections were made in
all departments on the Colorado and across to Albuquerque.

3. Wagon road over the 35th parallel, wader Lieutenant Beale.—A
valuable geological collection was made by this party.

UNDER THE STATE DEPARTMENT.

4, Survey of the northwest boundary, under Archibald Campbell,
esqg.—Dr. CU. B. Kennerly, surgeon and naturalist, George Gibbs,
geologist. The collections of animals and plants, minerals and fossils,
made on Puget Sound and on the boundary line, were very full.

UNDER THE NAVY DEPARTMENT.

5. Survey of the Atrato ship canal route of the Isthmus of Darien, by
Lieutenant Craven, U. S. N., and Lieutenant Michler, U. S. A.—The
natural history operations were conducted by Mr. Schott, assisted by
Wm. S. and Charles Wood, under the supervision of Lieutenant
Michler. A valuable collection of animals and plants of the Isthmus
was brought back by this party.

UNDER THE INTERIOR DEPARTMENT.

6. Wagon road construction through the South Pass, under Wm, M.
Magraw.—This expedition was fitted out in the spring of 1857, with
Dr. J. G. Cooper as surgeon, and Mr. C. Drexler as hospital steward
and taxidermist. Dr. Cooper returned to Washington before the be-
ginning of the year, bringing large collections with him, Mr. Drex-
ler continued with Mr. Magraw’s party, and wintered on Wind river.
In March he crossed to Camp Scott, near Fort Bridger, where, re-
maining until June, he made a very extensive collection of birds,
illustrating very fully the ornithology of the Rocky mountain region,
and throwing much light on the geographical distribution of the
species. His success in this was mainly due to the protection and aid
afforded by General A. E. Johnston, in command of the forces, by
whose direction every facility was afforded him.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. Bl

EXPLORATIONS UNDER THE AUSPICES OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

7. Exploration of the vicinity of Fort Tejon, California, by Mr.
John Xantus.—During the year 1858 a natural history exploration,
commenced in 1857, has been nearly completed by Mr. Xantus, while
connected with the military post at Fort Tejon, which, for extent and
thoroughness, has perhaps scarcely a parallel on our continent, con-
sidering the fact that it was made in about sixteen months by one
person, almost constantly occupied in official duties, and under
various discouragements. The collections of Mr. Xantus filled 24
large boxes, and included nearly 2,000 birds, 200 mammals, many
hundreds of birds’ nests and their eggs, with large numbers of reptiles,
fishes, insects, plants, skulls, skeletons, &c., all in the highest condi-
tion of preparation and preservation, and furnishing such accurate and
detailed information of the zoology and botany of Fort Tejon as we
possess of but few other points in the United States. Mr. Xantus
also made copious notes of the habits and characters of the species,
with numerous drawings.

8. Other points on the west coast.—Valuable collections from the
vicinity of Fort Umpqua, Oregon, have been received from Dr. Vol-
lum, from about San Diego, made by A. Cassidy, and from Monterey,
made by A. 8. Taylor. A collection of shells, &c., made by Captain
Stone in the Gulf of California, assisted by Mr. Sloat, has supplied
the first specimens ever received from that region, proving of great in-
terest. Mr. James Wayne has also furnished important collections
from the Columbia river.

9. Rocky mountains.—A collection of birds from Cantonment Burg-
wyn, sent in by Dr. W. W. Anderson, has added a new species of
birds to our fauna. Interesting collections of mammals and birds
from Fort Massachusetts were also made and presented by Captain
A. W. Bowman and Dr. McKee. Captain Marcy, in collecting speci-
mens of the Lagopus lewcurus, or white tailed ptarmigan, has added to
the fauna of the United States an interesting species of bird hitherto
only found in British America.

10. Other regions of North America.—Additional collections of the
animals of the Red River of the North have been received from Mr.
Donald Gunn, and of Texas, from Major G. H. Thomas. Mr. Thos.
K. Blackney, of Chicago, has contributed one of the few specimens of
whooping crane (Grus americana) found in collections. The collections
of Florida animals by Mr. Gustavus Wurdemann, made in continua-
tion of previous years, have been very valuable, adding, as they have
done, several new species of birds, reptiles, and invertebrates to our
fauna ; collections made in northern Wisconsin by Mr. Kennicott,
and in many other regions by contributors, mentioned in detail in the
alphabetical list at the end of this report, have also been of much
value,

11. Other parts of the world.—The exotic additions consist chiefly
of collections made in the Sandwich Islands by Mr. W. H. Pease,
and on the Isthmus of Panama by Captain J. M. Dow and the Rev.
Jos. Rowell.
52 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

4

12. Astronomical expedition to Peru.—The expedition to Peru, for
the purpose of observing the total eclipse of the sun of September,
1858, by Lieutenant Gilliss, United States navy, under the auspices
of the Smithsonian Institution, was accompanied by Mr. Carrington
Raymond, who made such collections of birds, reptiles, and fishes as
his time and opportunities would allow, and succeeded in obtaining
several species not previously in the collection.

Among the collections received during the year, not strictly made
by single expeditions or individuals, one presented by the Museum
d’ Histoire Naturelle of Paris deserves especial mention. This consists
of the types of many of the genera of serpents described by M. Duméril,
selected with special reference to American forms. A labelled collection
of land shells from Mr. Binney, and of rare eggs of North American
birds from Mr. John Krider, are also worthy of particular notice.

PRESENT CONDITION OF THE MUSEUM.

The museum of the Smithsonian Institution, as at present constituted,
has been supplied with materials chiefly from the following sources :

First. The collections brought from the Patent Office, and made up
principally of the results of various explorations. They are as follows:

1. United States exploring expedition, under Captain Wilkes,
United States navy, 1838-1842. The collections made by this naval
expedition are supposed greatly to exceed those of any other of similar
character ever fitted out by a foreign government, no published
series of results comparing at allin magnitude with that issued under
the direction of the Joint Library Committee of Congress.*

The collections made embrace full series of the animals, plants,
minerals, and ethnological material of the regions visited, such as
the coasts of South America, the islands of the South Seas, &c.

2. Exploration of the Amazon and its tributaries, by Lieutenant

* The following reports relating to the operations and collections of the expedition have
been published or are in press, the text in quarto, the plates in folio:

1. Narrative of the expedition by Captain C. Wilkes, 5 vols. text, one of plates.

Zoophytes. By Prof. J. D. Dana, 1 voi. and atlas.

Geology and Mineralogy. By Prof. J D. Dana, 1 vol. and atlas.

Crustacea. By Prof. J. D. Dana, 2 vols. and atlas.

Philology. By Mr. Hale, 1 vol.

Races of Man. By Dr. C. Pickering, 1 vol.

Geographical Distribution of Species. By Dr. C. Pickering, 1 vol.

Mammals and Birds. By T. R. Peale, 1 vol.

Mammals and Birds, 2d edition. By J. Cassin, 1 vol. and atlas.

Meteorology. By Captain Wilkes, 1 vol.

Shells. By Dr. A. A Gould, 1 vol. and atlas.

Reptiles. By Dr. C. Girard, 1 vol. and atlas.

Ferns. By Mr. Breckenridge, 1 vol. and atlas.

Botany. By Dr. Gray, 2 vols. and atlas.

Botany of Western America, By Dr. Torrey, 1 vol. and atlas.

Mosses. By Mr. Sullivant, 1 vol. and atlas.

Fungi. By Messrs. Berkeley and Curtis, 1 vol. and atlas,

Algae. By Prof. Bailey, 1 vol. and atlas.

Charts. 2 vols. folio.

Jn addition to these, the report on the fishes, by Professor Agassiz, is stated to be nearly
ready for the press.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. Ho

W. E. Herndon, United States navy. These consist chiefly of verte-
brate animals and ethnological material.

3. Exploration of the valley of Great Salt Lake, by Captain Stans-
bury, United States army. Collections in character much like the
last.

4, Exploration of the Zuiii and Colorado rivers by Captain Sitgreaves,
United States army, and the survey of the Creek Boundary by Cap-
tains J. C. Woodruff and Sitgreaves.

5. Presents made to the United States by the King of Siam and
other foreign governments, deposited by the State Department.

6. Collections of Commodore M. C. Perry, United States navy,
made while negotiating a treaty with Japan, and the presents to the
United States government through him from the Japanese authoritiés.

T. Collections made by Dr. D. D. Owen in his United States geolo-
gical explorations in the west.

8. Collection of birds, &c., of British Guiana, from Rev. C. W.
Denison.

9. African curiosities, deposited by Rev. Dr. Gurley, in behalf of
the American Colonization Society.

10. Miscellaneous specimens belonging to the old Washington
Museum and deposited by Mr. John Varden.

11. Miscellaneous specimens, including paintings and statuary, from
different individuals, presented to or deposited i in the national gallery.

12. Collection of Indian paintings from the War and Indian Depart-
ments.

In addition to the collections above enumerated, the old hall con-
tained numerous specimens of different kinds belonging to or deposited
in the care of the National Institute. These the Smithsonian Institution
offered to take charge of, subject to such future order as the National
Institute might make in regard to them, but the offer was declined at
the time by its authorities and the specimens were left in their places,
but afterwards concentrated in several of the old cases of the Patent
Office hall. As no supervision is now exercised over them it is much
to be feared that great injury will necessarily result to the more per-
ishable portions.

Second. The collections in the Smithsonian Institution belonging to
the United States, and deposited in pursuance of the act of incorpora-
tion, other than those mentioned, are as follows:

13. Collections of the United States geological survey made in Iowa,
Illinois, and Minnesota, under Dr. D. “D. Owen.

14. Collections made on Lake Superior, by Messrs. Foster and
Whitney.

15. Collections made by Dr. Charles T. Jackson.

16. Collections made in Oregon and Washington Territories, by
Dr. J. Evans.

17. Collections of vertebrates and minerals of Chile, made by Lieu-
tenant J. M. Gilliss, U. 8. N.

18. General collections made by the North Pacific surveying and
exploring expedition under Captains Ringgold and Rodgers, U.S. N.,
chiefly in the China Seas, Behring Straits, Coast of California, &c.

19. General collections made by the United States and Mexican
54 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

boundary survey, under Colonel Graham and Major W. H. Emory,
W..8.-A.

20. General collections made by the Pacific railroad survey of the
47th parallel, under Governor Stevens.

21. General collections made by the Pacific railroad survey on the
38th, 39th, and 41st parallels, under Captains Gunnison and Beckwith.

22. General collections made by the Pacific railroad survey on the
doth parallel, under Captain Whipple.

23. General collections made by the Pacific railroad survey on the
partial route in California, under Lieutenant Williamson.

24. General collections made by the Pacific railroad survey on the
western end of the 32d parallel, under Lieutenant Parke.

25. General collections made by the Pacific railroad survey on the
eastern end of the same parallel, under Captain Pope.

26. General collections made by the Pacific railroad survey in Cali-
fornia and Oregon, under Lieutenant Williamson.

27. Collections made by Captain Pope while sinking artesian wells
on the Llano Hstacado.

28. Collections made by the northwestern boundary survey, under
A. Campbell, esq.

29. Collections made in Paraguay, by Captain Page.

30. Collections made on the Isthmus of Darien, by Lieutenant
Michler, U.S. A.

Sl. Collections made by Lieutenant Bryan during two seasons spent
in constructing a wagon road from Fort Riley to Bridger’s Pass.

32. Collections made on the Upper Missouri and Yellowstone, under
Lieutenant Warren.

33. Collections made on the Platte, by Lieutenant Warren.

34. Collections made on Red river, by Captain Marcy.

35. Collections made by the South Pass wagon-road expedition,
under W. M. Magraw.

36, Collections made during the exploration of the Colorado river,
under Lieutenant Ives.

For an account of the many private collections presented to the
Smithsonian Institution, reference must be made to the annual reports
of 1850—1857, and to another portion of the report for the present
year ; several, however, need special mention here on account of their
extent and value.

37. Collections made in northern Mexico, by Dr. Berlandier, pur-
chased and presented by Lieutenant Couch, in addition to a similar
collection made by himself.

38. Collections made in Texas, Louisiana, and Florida, by Mr.
Gustavus Wurdemann. ,

39. Collections made on the Pacific coast, by Lieut. Trowbridge.

40. Collections made in Washington and Oregon Territories, by
Dr. George Suckley.

41. Collections made in Washington, California, and Nebraska, by
Dr. J. G. Cooper. ;

42. Collections made at Petaluma, California, by Mr. E Samuels.

43. Collections made on the Upper Missouri, by Thaddeus Culbert-
son; and others made by Dr. Hayden and Colonel A. J. Vaughan,
Indian agent for the Blackfeet. .
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 55

44, Collections made at Fort Tejon, Cal., by Mr. John Xantus.
45. Collections made in Wisconsin and Missouri, by Dr. P. R. Hoy.
46. Collections made in Wisconsin, by Rev. A. C. Barry.

47. Collectious made in Illinois and Minnesota, by Robert Ken-
nicott.

48. Collections made on the New England coast, by W. Stimpson.

49. General collections, deposited by S. F. Baird.

Together with very many others of greater or less note.

As the result of combining all the collections referred to in the
preceding notices, it may be said that the museum of the Smithsonian
Institution is entitled to no mean rank among similar establishments
elsewhere. It is certainly superior to any other in the United States
as a general collection, although in the specialities of exotic birds,
shells, fossils, and minerals it is surpassed by the Philadelphia Acad-
emy of Natural Sciences. The material is not even now wanting to
give it a first class position; only the means to properly determine,
arrange, and exhibit the collections already within the walls of the
Institution. With the enormous amount of duplicates of rare and
new species on hand, it will be possible, after the determinations have
been completed, to make additions by exchange to any conceivable
extent, almost without the expenditure of a single dollar in the way
of purchase. It must be remembered, too, that the collections in the
building have been made since 1850, (with the exception of most of
those brought from the Patent Office, which hardly form one-fifth part of
the whole museum,) and that the additions of the past year, independ-
ently of those just mentioned, have exceeded those of any previous
one.

There are many departments of natural history in which the collec-
tions of the Smithsonian Institution are believed to be superior to any
others extant, not merely to those of the United States. In all that
relates to North America, and perhaps to South America, also, it has
no equal anywhere. The collection of crustacea of the world is said
to be superior even to that of the Paris museum; and the same may,
possibly, be said of the recent corals. And yet no special attempts
have been made to this end. With the general interest of Americans
in such subjects, nothing would be easier than to excite the zeal of
officers of the naval and mercantile marine, government officials
abroad, and travellers, to such a pitch as to yield vast results every
year. Unfortunately the Smithsonian Institution has neither space
for such extensive exotic collections nor funds to devote to their pre-
paration and arrangement, all the appropriation of Congress being
required for the preservation of the specimens belonging to the United
States, and for the arrangement and exhibition of the contemplated
North American museum. This latter it is proposed to make as com-
plete as possible, so as to exhibit to visitors from all parts of the Union
a full series of natural objects belonging to each State.

In view of the importance of having some one public museum, illus-
trating as fully as possible the natural history of the world, and
taking rank with those of London, Paris, Berlin, Vienna, and others,
and considering that so excellent a foundation has already been laid
by the collections now in the Smithsonian Institution, and the ease
56 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

with which they may be augmented to any desirable extent, it is
earnestly to be hoped that the day is not far distant when the moderate
amount of funds necessary may be placed in the hands of this Insti-
tution.

It is, of course, impossible, in a few words, to give a detailed account
of the collections of the Smithsonian museum. This can only be sup-
plied by the descriptive catalogues of species and specimens already
published or now in course of preparation, after the plan of those of
the British museum. These will serve not only as guides to the cases
and collections, but as manuals by which the same species may be
readily identified elsewhere.

Work done in connexion with the collections.

The chief labor of the year in reference to the museum has con-
sisted in the transfer and partial arrangement of the collections
belonging to the United States, for many years constituting the
national gallery of the Patent Office, at first under the direction of
the Joint Committee of the Library of Congress, but for some years
under that of the Commissioner of Patents.

In the spring of 1857 the appropriation was made by Congress for
the construction of cases in the Smithsonian building for the reception
of the Patent Office collections, but owing to various drawbacks these
cases were not entirely finished until 1858. As soon as the various
technicalities incident to the transfer of this property were completed,
the work of removal was commenced and the whole collection moved
over in July last. Since that time much has been accomplished
towards giving to the different portions of the collections thus trans-
ferred their final arrangement, but much necessarily remains to be
done before this can be completed. An indispensable preliminary
consists in the entry of every specimen in its appropriate record book
and the ineffaceable attachment of a number, by means of which the
displacement or loss of a label (so likely to occur in the operations of
a large and growing museum) will be of comparatively little conse-
quence. The next step is to post all the specimens of each species on
its appropriate invoice sheet, as fast as accurate identification is
accomplished, and after these sheets are systematically assorted the
final arrangement of the specimens themselves can then be completed
and catalogues printed as guides to the collection.

As none of these details had been entered into with regard to the
Patent Office collections previous to their removal, (with the exception
of the labelling of a portion, and the entry of the crustacea in a
record book,) it becomes necessary to carry them out in the Smith-
sonian Institution. This, however, will require a long time to com-
plete, owing to the magnitude of the undertaking, and in the mean time
the specimens exhibited have been provisionally arranged for the
present, to be systematically placed and accurately and legibly labelled
hereafter. This has already been done by Mr. Varden for the ethno-
logical collections in the galleries of the west end of the hall, and by
Professor Dana for the corals.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY, 57

Considerable progress has been made in recording, determining,
and invoicing the other collections in the Institution, apart from those
brought from the Patent Office. The mammals, North American
birds and their eggs, the osteological collection, and the North Ameri-
can lizards, are at present so well posted up that the number of species
represented in the different series, with the aggregate number in each
series, the locality, donor, and other incidents of all the specimens of
each can be shown at a glance. Nearly all the North American
reptiles, other than saurians, are entered, and many of them deter-
mined ; and the same may be said of the western fishes. The follow-
ing table will show how much of this labor of recording has been
done in 1858.

Table exhibiting the entries in the record books of the Smithsonian
museum ir 1858, in continuation of previous years.

1851. | 1852. | 1853. | 1854. | 1855. | 1856. | 1857 1858
|
Mammals ...... .-...-|------ 114} 198] 351) 1,200, os) 3, 200 3,226
1 E10 Ls 2 oe en ON ag | Oe 4,353 | 4,425 | sy 8,766 | 11,390
Pernt eh ees eee oe hk ale tata elt ede 106 | 239 4,370
IRC eee ee eee ee | ee Slee one. Pose ene (EP A 4 ie eee 5} 618 1,136
Skeletons and skulls--.-| 911 | 1,074 1,190} 1,275 | 2,050 | 3,060 3,340 3,413
Giistaccaweese eee S| Seah Sa eee oh ee ee Pee eee | jc aia 939
Mees. of bitds os oad ele sot Meow | peweenheseeiet ete cha ee soctts 1,032
10) he a 911 | 1,188 | 1,388 | 4,979 7,675 | 11,222 | 16,158 | 25,506

The actual number of entries during the year amounts to 9,348,
being the difference between the aggregates of 1858 and 1857. As
most of these, however, have been made at least twice in the record
book and on the invoices, the total is nearer 18,000.

From the preceding table it will be seen that the entries already
exceed twenty-five thousand. In the case of alcoholic series, how-
ever, each bottle, though containing only one species from one locality,
may, and almost always does, include more than one specimen, the
average being at least five, which would give to the reptiles and fishes
an addition of 22,024 pieces, which would bring the number of regis-
tered specimens nearly to forty-eight thousand. This is, however;
far from expressing the full statistics of the collection, as there are
at least ten thousand jars of alcoholic specimens not yet entered, to
say nothing of the exotic birds and other objects.

During the year the determination of the North American birds in
the Smithsonian collection has been completed, and the results pre-
sented by myself in the ninth volume of the reports of the Pacific
railroad survey, occupying over a thousand quarto pages. The de-
scription of each species is followed by a list of all the specimens in
the collection, with an indication of the locality, collector, date, and
other details, and the report in question thus serves as a catalogue of
the ornithological collections of the Institution, as the previous volume
(eighth) did of its North American mammals, From this report it
58 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

will be seen that the number of known North American species of
birds amounts to nearly 720, or about 225 more than given in 1844
by Mr. Audubon, and that nearly all are in the Smithsonian collection.

The North American eggs and nests have been determined and
arranged in the hall, where they form a highly attractive feature.
The North American saurians have also been monographed and
described in detail to the number of about 90 species. This work is
still in manuscript. Much progress has also been made in a similar
memoir on the serpents, with the assistance of Mr. Kennicott.
Detailed accounts of the fishes col’ected by the Mexican boundary and
Pacific railroad surveys, as also of the reptiles of the United States
exploring expedition, prepared by Dr. Girard, have been published
in their several reports.

Other collections belonging to the Smithsonian museum, in process —
of elaboration during the year, are as follows:

Birds.—The report of Mr. Cassin on the birds of the United States
exploring expedition has been printed during the year. The same
gentleman has now the birds collected by Captain Page in Paraguay,
and those of the North Pacific expedition, and has nearly completed
reports upon them.

Rteptiles.—The collection of North American turtles was placed some
years ago in the hands of Professor Agassiz, from whom a detailed
account of them may shortly be expected. Dr. Hallowell has furnished
during the year a report on the reptiles of the North Pacific expedition.

Fishes.—The fishes of the United States exploring expedition are in
the hands of Professor Agassiz for the preparation of a report, to be
published in the series of the expedition. The collection contains
many hundreds of new species. The fishes collected during the North
Pacific surveying and exploring expedition, under Captains Ringgold
and Rodgers, are in the hands of Mr. J. C. Brevoort.

Invertebrates. —Mr. Stimpson has been occupied during the year in
investigating the crustacea collected by him on the North Pacific
exploring expedition. Dr. A. A. Gould has also had in hand the
shells, and Mr. Barnard the echini of the same expedition. The
Neuroptera of the Smithsonian museum are in progress of examina-
tion by Dr. Hagen, of Kénigsberg, the Coleoptera by Dr. Le Conte,
the Hymenoptera by Mr. De Saussure, the Diptera by Baron Osten-
sacken, the Hemiptera by Mr. Uhler.

« Plants.—Large collections of plants collected by government expedi-
tions are still in the hands of Drs. Torrey and Gray, Mr. Sullivant,
Mr. Curtis, and others.

Geological Collections.—The collections made during Lieutenant
Warren’s explorations of the Upper Missouri region have been in
progress of investigation during the year by Messrs. Hayden and Meek,
and those of Lieutenant Ives’ expedition to the Colorado by Dr. New-
berry.

ee the scientific details connected with the administration
of the Smithsonian museum and collections, much has been done
in regard to the mechanical portion, in addition to the more or less®
complete arrangement of the Patent Office series. A beginning has
been made in the cleaning of the mounted animals belonging to the
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 59

Patent Office collection, which had become greasy, dusty, or distorted,
by time and accident, and by their transfer to new stands. Many
skins of mammals and birds have been mounted and placed in the
cases to supply deficiencies, or to replace defective specimens, although
avast amount yet remains to be accomplished in this respect before
the collection will attain its proper condition. A large number of
skulls have been cleaned and put in place; nearly all the jars of
alcoholic specimens in the building, amounting to over 15,000, have
been washed and replaced with fresh spirits ; more than 1,000 gallons
of alcohol having been required for this purpose.

Distribution of Collections.

As the collections of the Smithsonian Institution become properly
indentified the duplicates are laid aside to be distributed to other
parties. It would, of course, be manifestly inexpedient to make such
distribution before determining the species accurately, as nearly all
are referred to in some official report or special monograph, and the
duplicates will be chiefly valuable as the types of such works. For
this reason not much has yet been done in the way of distribution to
public museums, although materials are constantly being furnished to
men of science for monographic investigations.

Even after the species may have been determined some time must
elapse before any extensive systematic distribution of series can be
effected, as the labor of labelling each specimen, making duplicate
catalogues, and of packing, will be very great. No time will be lost,
however, in doing whatever is possible in the case, not only for the
purpose of supplying a great want, but also of relieving the shelves
and cases of the Institution of a redundancy of material.

LIST OF DONATIONS DURING 1858.

Dr. W. W. Anderson, U. S. A.—Birds of New Mexico..,

Samuel Arny.—Reptiles from Kansas.

Dr. W. O. Ayres.—Fishes from California:

A. S. Babcock.—Hight skins of birds of Massachusetts.

Wm. M. Baird.—Coal from Pittston, Pa.

Thos, Barnet.—Cast of mastodon tusk (perfect) from St. Thomas,
Canada West.

Sidney Barnet.—Box of minerals from Egypt.

Dr. J. B. Barratt.—Skin of Pityophis melanoleucus from South
Carolina, and Lepidosternon floridanum, in alcohol.

Lieutenant Beale.—Four boxes of geological collections, with some
birds and alcoholic specimens.

Thos. H. Blackney.—Mounted Grus americana from [linois.

W. P. Blake.—Zoological collections from New Mexico.

W. G. Binney.—Series of land shells of United States.

Captain A. H. Bowman, U. S. A.—Mammals and birds of New
Mexico.

J. Brakely.—Jar of mammals from New Jersey.
60 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

J. L. Bridger.—Wasp nests and alcoholic collections from North
Carolina.

Dr. Geo. C. Brown.—Alcoholic specimens from Mount Holly, New
Jersey.

Archibald Campbell.—Collections of animals and plants, made by
Dr. C. B. Kennerly, assisted by George Gibbs, esq., and of minerals
and fossils made by George Gibbs, in connexion with the Northwest
boundary survey, on and near Puget’s Sound.

A. Cassidy.—Birds, mammals, and alcoholic specimens from San
Diego, Cal.

LT’. Apoleon Cheney.—Skull and other remains from an Indian mound
in Cattaraugus county, N. Y.

L. D, Cope.—Specimens of Heloecetes feriarum from New Jersey.

Captain J. M. Don.—Two specimens of the Pharomacrus or quesal
from Central America.

C. Drexler.—Collections of vertebrata from Fort Bridger. Living
Spermophilus townsendii and Cynomys gunnisonii.

Dr. A. J. Foard, U. 8S. A.—Skins of Cyrtonyx massena, Spermo-
philus grammurus, and Thomomys umbrinus from Texas.

Dr, W. Gesner.—Reptiles and mammals from Western Georgia.

Th. Gill.—Fishes and crustaceans from the West Indies.

Jas. M. Gilliss, jr.—Alcoholic specimens from Florida.

7’. Glover.—Living turtles from Florida.

Donald Gunn.—Skins of mammals, birds and alcoholic specimens
from North Red river.

Dr. S. HE. Hale.—Skulls of mammals from northern New York.

C. T. Hartt.—Fossils from Nova Scotia.

Rufus Haymond, M. D.—Mammals and reptiles from Indiana.

S. Hayes.—Heloderma horridum from Gila river.

Dr, Hunter.—Reptiles of North Carolina.

Lieutenant J, OC. Ives, U. 8. A.—Collection of animals, plants,
minerals and fossils from southern California and the Colorado river,
and eastward. The animals collected chiefly by H. B. Méllhausen,
the remaining objects by Dr. J. S. Newberry.

Dr. Kellogg.—Fruit of the ‘‘Mara’’ of California.

Thos. Kite.—Casts of sculptured foot marks from near Barnesville,
Ohio.

Prof. Jos. Le Conte.—Skins of birds of Georgia.

Major J, Le Conte.—Hyla, Scapheopus, and Ranacapito from Georgia.

Dr, Lummas.—Jar of reptiles and fishes from Kentucky.

Dr. J. C. M Kee, U. S. A.—Mammals and birds of New Mexico.

J. Mac Minn.—Fossil bones of Cervus and Hrethizon from Pennsyl]-
vania,

W. M. M’ Lain.—Collection of eggs of North American birds.

Mrs, M Peak.—Pectoral spine of siluroid fish.

W. M. Magraw.—Five boxes collections vertebrata of Utah, made
by C. Drexler, in connexion with South Pass wagon-road expedition.

Judge Merrick.—Scorpion from Nelson county, Ky.

Dr. Geo. F'. Moore.—Reptiles from North Carolina. ®

Lieut. N. Michler, U. S. A.—Collection of animais, plants, &c.,
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 61

from the Isthmus of Darien (Atrato expedition,) made by Arthur
Schott, assisted by Wm. 8. and Charles Wood.

Museum @ Histoire Naturelle, Paris.—Collection of 81 species ser-
pents, types of erpetologie generale.

Alfred Newton.—Pair of stellers ducks, and Xema minuta.

Dr. Ed, Palmer.—F¥ossils from Kansas; skin of wild cat.

J. D. Parker.—Horns of moose, deer, skull of bear, &c., from
Maine.

James P, Postell.—Reptiles, mammals, and invertebrates from
Georgia.

Patent Ofice.—Government collections in natural history in Patent
Office, consisting chiefly of those gathered by the United States ex-
ploring expedition under Captain Wilkes in 1838—1842; by Captain
Howard Stansbury in the exploration of the valley of Great Salt Lake;
by Captain Sitgreaves in the exploration of the Zuii and Colorado;
by Commodore Perry in his Japan expedition; by Lieut. Herndon on
the Amazon, &c. (See page 52.)

Wm. H. Pease.—Fishes, crustaceans, lavas, &c., from Sandwich
Islands.

A, Pitman.—Manganese ore from Virginia.

J. P. Postell.—Keg of alcoholic specimens from Georgia.

CU. Iaymond.—Collections of birds and of alcoholic specimens made
in Peru during the astronomical expedition of Lieut. Gilliss.

Dr. Lavenel..—Two bottles of insects from South Carolina.

George M. Roberts.—Box of minerals.

fev. Joseph Rowell.—-Alcoholic specimens from the Isthmus of
Panama.

P. L. Sclater.—Skins of Mexican birds,

A. Sharpless.—Collection of birds’ eggs from Pennsylvania.

Dr. J. B Smith, U. S. A., and Major H. Wayne, U. S. A.—Skele-
ton of a camel from Texas.

Dr. J. B. Smith.—Geomys bursarius from Kansas.

Judge Steele-—Skin of albino deer; alcoholic collections from the
coast of Florida.

J.J. Steenstrup.—Annulata and radiata from Greenland and the
West Indies.

I’. D. Steuart.—Heterodon, Jaculus labradorius, and mink from near
Washington.

W. Stimpson —Fresh Lophius, with fishes and invertebrates in alco-
hol from Massachusetts.

Capt. OC. P. Stone.—Shells, fossils, fishes, &c., fromthe Gulf of
California.

Dr. George Suckley.—Jar of serpents from Kast Indies.

A. S. Taylor.—Marine animals from Monterey, Cal.

Miss Helen Teunison.—Specimens of reptiles and fishes in alcohol,
from Mississippi.

Major G. H. Thomas, U. S. A.—Skins of animals and alcoholic
specimens, Fort Mason, Texas.

Lieut. W. P. Trowbridge.—Starfish and tail of ray from the sea of
Marmora.
62 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY,

Mr. Tufts.—Living marine animals from Massachusetts, for the
aquarium.

Major Twiss.—Living grizzly bear from near Fort Laramie.

Union Lead Mines, N. C.—Massive lead ore.

Unknown.—Jar of fishes from Florida.

Unknown.— Box of copper ores from the Perseverance mines, near
San Diego, Cal.

J. P. Verreaux.—Skins of Mexican birds.

Dr. Vollum, U. S. A.—Fishes and other animals, and specimens
of the ‘‘ rock oyster, ’’ from the coast of Oregon,

Lieut. G. K. Warren, U. S. A.—21 boxes collections of animals,
plants, minerals, and fossils, from the valley of the Platte, gathered
chiefly by Dr. Hayden.

James Wayne.—Mammals, and skins of fishes of Oregon.

Dr. Weinland.—Invertebrates from Hayti.

John R, Willis,—Collection of birds and their eggs from Nova
Scotia.

W. S. Wood.—Alcoholic collections from New Jersey.

G. Wurdemann.—Skins and eggs of birds, and shells and speci-
mens in alcohol from Florida.

John Xantus.—Very large collections of the animals and plants
found in the vicinity of Fort Tejon, California.
“REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 63

-

LIST OF METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS

FOR THE YEAR 1858.

BRITISH AMERICA.

Name of observer. Station. N. lat. |W. long | Height.
° Ort, * Feet.
Bakeng J: Coos 2522-2 = <0 Stanbridge, Canada East.....- 45 08 73 00 |
Craigie, Dr. W....------- Hamilton, Canada West__...-- Ae Lelie TOD |
Delany, Edward M. J--- Colonial Building, St. John’s, 47 35 | 52 38 | 105
Delany, jr., John._----. Newfoundland. |
Gunn, Donald. .2s. -..--<- Red River Settlement, Hud- | 50 06 97 00 | 855
son’s Bay Territory. |
Einll, Dr, Archibald_ ===... Montreal, Canada East.......- 45 30 Homo 57
artis Oy Bape a ae Ses ose. Horton, Nova Scotia........-.- 45 06 G4 25 95
Hensley,-Rev. J. M.-....- King’s College, Windsor, Nova | 44 59 64 07 | 200
Scotia,
Magnetic Observatory. -_--.- Toronto, Canada West.------- 43 39 79 21 108
Smallwood, Dr. Charles.---| St. Martin, Isle Jesus, Canada 45 3: 73 36 | 118
East. |
MAINE.
| - 44
Name of observer. | Station. County. | N. lat. |W. long.} Height.
| Os: o 7 Feet.
Dana, Wi. Di.-s.2<5- | Perry sa 22sace2 Washington ...-| 45 00 67 06 100
Gardiner, R. H. .....- | Gardiner ._...-- Kennebec .....- 44 11 69 46 90
Gilman, Stephen-__-- | Kast Exeter. -.-- Penobscot ..-.-- 45 00 69 00
Gaiptll Ge We aos sac | @ornishville socal) Yorkie. sae = sea 43 40 | 70 44 800
Batker, J... Wecca= soa Steubene=2..s5-= Washington .--.| 44 44 67 58 50
West, Silas.........-. Cornish -...---- NOUR 2322 isecis | 43 40) 70 44 784
Willis, Heury......-- Portland -.....- Cumberland --..) 43 39 70 15 87
= eae Monson jo-c22-5 Piscataquis -.--.| 43 11 69 35 1, 100
pean Ben b = | Dexter=- . 2 Penobscot ....-- 44 55 69 3% 700
|
NEW HAMPSHIRE.
Bixby, As HH. ssccocee2 Hraneeatoyen..0| Hillsborough....} 42 59 71 45
Brown, Branch_....-- Stratiord: since. = | (Coosss2 se. 0s555 44 08 71 34 1,000
Colbyaghn: Poe Sees Concord. a2. ..c.- Merrimack . ..-. Bia? 71 29 378
Hreeman, F. N......- Claremont....-..| Sullivan....--.. 43 29 72 22 535
Hanscam, R. F.....-- North Barnstead. Belknap.....--- 43 38 | 71 27
Odell, Fletcher_._...- Shelburn -_..... | \COOsS ao. ce3 feos 44 23 71 06 700
Purmort, Nath.....-- West Enfield....| Grafton ......-. 43 30 72 00
Sawyer, Henry E-_--..- Concord=..--s=.|*Merrimack=..=.. 43 12 71 20 400

G4

METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.

VERMONT.
Name of observer. Station. County. N. lat. |W. long. Height.
hee cs Oram Feet.
DAD SG il DENN See Semele West Fairlee....| Orange._.....-- 43 55 ZEN |
Buckland, David..--- Brandon.o2 2-2 ee Rutlandesssecee 43) 451 $73) 00%
Fairbanks, Franklin--| St. Johnsbury...| Caledonia ....-- 44 25 | 72 00 | 540
Marsh, Charles....--- Woodstock ....- Windsoresess2= 43 3 M2u3o' | 740
Jackman, Prof, A-.-.. Norwichps2sasee Wandsor=s2-ces 43 42 72 20 |
Paddock, James A... | Craftsbury.....- Orleans,~3-./~-08 44 40 | 7230] 1,100
Parker, Joseph......- Rupertssoscseas Bennington_-.-.- 43 15 | 73 11} 750
Petty McK ee sees as Burlington ~---- Chittenden --_--_- 44°29 }) 73). U1 348
MASSACHUSETTS.

Bacon, William. .---- Richmond: = see Berkshires soe <- 42 23 | 73 20 1,190
Bond. eerol, Wis Ocoee Cambridge....-- | Middlesex -..... 42 22 71 07 aed
Davis, Rev. Emerson.-} Westfield_------ |/ampden se s55 42 06 | 72 48
Mis: 1. Ais Sace-s cet Cantones=-.-=—- | Norfolk ====s-i2e 42 12 | 71 08 90
Halon, Johnie s..25—- bawrence..-2..<- TSsex Ses eiae 42 42 Calieailih 35
Felt, Charles W-..---- Bridgewater ...-| Flymouth --...- 42 00 71 00 150
ee oe Williamstown...| Berkshire....--- 42 43) 73 13 720
Mack A Wiehe Go8 3 Manversecsosaee ESSOXscamesscse|t Aecso umes
Metcalf, Jno. G., M. D.| Mendon..-:----- Worcester ce ceus 42 06 12°33
Mitchell, Hon. Wm---| Nantucket-.-... Nantucket...-.-. 41 16} 70 06 30
Perkins, Dr. HC. 2i22- Newburyport ~--| Essex _.......-- 42 47 70 52 46
Rice Henrye- ss. 22. North Attleboro’.| Bristol --------- AT 59022 175
Rodman, Samuel----- New Bedford-<--| Bristol = ---.---- 41°39 | 70: 56 90
Sargent, John S-.--- |
Blake, George H.--- Worcester -....-| Worcester .....- 42 16 | 71 48 535
Prentiss, Henry C--
Snell> Prof i 9 anis~ ci iAmihersti= =o | Hampshire -~--- 42 22 | 72 34 267
Whitcomb, L. F_----- Hlond aia scunoac | Berkshire... ---- 42 42 | 73 10 2,500

Caswell, Prof. A. .-.--

120

Edwards, Rev. T., D.D.
Harrison, Benj F.----
Ja hbych en Deere Aes =
Johnston, Prof. John...
Rankin, James....---
Scholfield) Np case aeee
Yeomans, William H..

CONNECTICUT.
New London-._--} New London....} 41
Wallingford ~..-| New Haven....- 41
Ronumetmecenione Windham .....- 41
Middleton -....- Middlesex -..--- 41
Saybrook .....-- Middlesex ..---- 41
Norwichys 2.26 New London...-| 41
Columbia. .22=-- Tolland|ce.eseee 41

21
26
52
33
18
32
42

72 12 90
72 50 133
72 23 596
72 39 175
72 20 10
72 03¢@ 50
72 16

METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. ~

NEW YORK.

65

}

Name of observer. Station. County. N. lat. | W. long.| Height
Ss = Se eee +-— ae —
Se) ir 4" * Feet.
Alba-sDrs bes. . 55 Angelica ocienae AWeshany. <2) °42 15))..78: OL 1,500
Arden, Thomas B.---- Beverlyncaiceciciete Putnam... 52! 41 22) 72 12 | 180
Bowman, John......- Baldwinsville -..) Onondaga .....- 83 04 | 76 41
Byram, Ephraim N.---.| Sag Harbor .-.--- Stiffolk. .2.<.cs0% 41 00 | 72 20 40
Chickering, J. W.---- Ovid) ns s8S8 SéneCays.cio2 S56 42 41, 76 52 | 800
Mayton, H. Ay si2- =. 22 Madnidaacieicreee St. Lawrence...-{ | 44 43 | 75 33 | 280
Denning, Wiliam H..-| Fishkill Landing.| Dutchess -....-- 41 34 | 74 18 | 42
Dewey, Prof. Chester, | |
fo C. Clark: 22.5 Rochester ------ Monroe 2. -%2<< S08: 4.08 Os 516
Isaac C. Seely ...- | |
Guest, Wei Wis222... 5 Ogdensburg ..--| St. Lawrence..-.| 44 43) 75 26
Holmes: HS: 222... Wals0n, oo-e.csee Niagara 32 38e= 43 20 | 78 56 259
House, J. Carroll-_---- Lowville -.....- ewist= 222 2ess |e 43 46) |0 T5u38il
House, John C ._---.- Waterford ...... Saratoga ..-..-- 42 47 | 73 39 |
Vowel Re <2 iaa.c—2 6 o- Nicholsizc<2. 2255) WNOP a) Soa = Ss Seere = 42 00 | 76 32 |
Ingalls, 8. Marshall_.-| Pompey - ------| Onondaga ------ 42 56 | 76 05 1,745
Ives, William -....--- BUA Oacenccee Wnley 5c ene 42 50 | 78 56 600
gonnson, BH. Wose-<.<- Canton... ace St. Lawrence..-.| 44 38 | 75 15 304
Julien, Alexis A- ~-.-| Schenectady -..-| Schenectady -.--| 42 49 | 73 55 300
Landon, Anna §8.....- AGEN) 5 ccs makin Se Hnie Ss ocsciees 42 30 79 07 700
a eae Parmer pace acne BeNOCdia caawicaa'= 42 40 76 50 1,000?
Magee, Irving.....--- Spencertown ...-| Columbia-.....- 4219 | 73 41 | 800
Malcom, Wm. S.-..-- Oswego)..3-.<..<..'4 OBweeo:.ci--5)2 43 28 | 77 34 232
Morris; ProfO.°W =. ==) New York....-<.! New York...-.- 40 43 | 74 05 159
‘ Clinton:. .. 2%. Oneida -..- ---- 43 00 75 20 500
lanes ta D..4 Fordhain .. --.- Westchester -...| 40 54 | 74 03 | 147
How, Poter 25252... 42 ERIC! arse ta aes Washington ...-| 43 15 | 73 33 |
Riker, Walter H. ..-.| Saratoga. ......| Saratoga. ...... 306 | 74 00 | 960
Shéerar: Hi. M2 soo. e Wellsville ...... | Alleghany . ....| 42 07 | 78 06 1,480
Sias, Prof. Solomon...| Fort Edward...-| Washington .-..| 43 13 3 42
Spooner, Stillman...-- Wampsville. <-2t\)Madison....<--= 3.04!) 75 50 500
‘Thtus, Henry Wm ..--| Bellport....2..- Suffolk... coc: 40 44 72 54
Van Kleek, Rev. R. D-|} Flatbush -...... Oho: ae eee 40 37 74 O01 54
White, Aaron......-- Cazenovia ...... Madison....<<< 42 55 75 46 1, 260
Wale: Walter Di. .<..a6 Houseville . s<s<|" lewis) 2225 ].see 43 40 tO" 32
Young, Jude M -....-- West Day .....- |) RaeatOgia Stee. final se ceciee lev sents 1, 200
Zaepftel, Joseph - --- -- West Morrisania-| Westchester -...| 40 53 | 74 01 150
NEW JERSEY.
Cooke, Robert L ...-- Bloomfield .-..-- WssCkwaaicaycicass| 40) 49 | 74 11 120
Schmidt, Dr. E. R-..-| Burlington -....} Burlington -.--- 40 00 |; 75 12 26
Sergeant, John T'.-.-. Sergeantsville ...; Hunterdon --.--- 40 29 | 75 03
ee ck Freehold .....-- Monmouth ...-- 4015} 74 21
Whitehead, W. ae Newarkcisoco.. Hesext eect eaine~ 40 46 | 74 10 35
PENNSYLVANIA.
|
Alsop, Samuel ....... | Westchester ....| Chester ......-- 39 57 | 75 34 | 550
Baird, John H...-.... | Tarentum Alleghany .....- 40 37 |) 79 19 | 950
Barrett, James -...... Ihindens <=> = 25-4 Lycoming .....- 41 10 | ude el

5

66

METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS,

PENNSYLVANIA— Continued}

Name of observer. Station. County. N. lat. | W. long.) Height.
. aid et Feet.
Brown, Samuel_-.---- iBedford)..=-ssee Bedford -.- 55586 40 01} 78 30
Brugger, Samuel------ Hileming -\\- 22 Centre naan Se AO) 55,.\ aiiimoe 780
Burrell, Jahs-S2--5 44 Bellefonte... s2<= Centre 23a eee 40 50 77 49
Coffin, Selden J--...-- Haston|.-2-25—28 Northampton ---| 40 43 | 75 16 320
Comly,, Johns_s2. ..-f. BY DER. wsoee ee Philadelphia - --} 40 06 74 58
Darlington, Fenelon --| Pocopson --..--. Chester s-2.saa" 39 540 own 218
ee eo a t Chromedale. .... Delaware. _- 222 D9POO I VOmZO 196.
BHeeert, Johniss2...4 Berwick sj-aa~ 26 Columbia -..-.. 41 05 76 15 588
Jove) [Ad ep he eae Shamokin -_..-- Northumberland} 40 45 | 76 31 920
Hance, Ebenezer.....- Morrisville -...- Bucks.2o5 Se 40 12 74 53 30
Heisely, Dr. John ----| Harrisburg ----- Dauphin = 2<=<4 40 16 76 50
Heyser, William, jr.-.| Chambersburg ..| Franklin _.....- 39 58 77 45
Hickok, WiiO)sS2-. 526 Harrisburg - -..-| Dauphin -.....- 40 16 G67 55 320
eit t Indiana -....--. Indiana .....-.- 4115] 7902] 1,321
Hoffer, Mary H_----.- | Mount Joy-....- Lancaster ....-- 40 08 | 76 70
Jacobs, Rev. M.-.---- Gettysburg ----- FA AMS ore oe 39) ol ES
James, Prof. Charles S.| Lewisburg ~ -...| Union -------.- 40 58 | 76 58
Kirkpatrick, Prof. J. A-) Philadelphia ....| Philadelphia....| 39 57 (oglu 60
Kohler, Edward_----- North Whitehall.) Lehigh--------- 40 40 75 26 250
a ae Pittsburg .. -_-- Alleghany --.--- 40 30 | 80 00
Meybert, Dr. A: P..-2) Scranton --... =: muzerme\=-=.2222 41 25 75 43 1,100
Mowry, George----.-- somerseb sa -2e22 Somerset -.--.-- 40 02 | 79 02 2,180
2 ee eee t Reading....---. Berks -..---2--- 40 19| 75 56 263
Ralston, Rev. J. Grier-.| Norristown .---- Montgomery ---| 40 08 75 19 153
Smith, Prof. Wm .--.-- Canonsburg --..- Washington ....| 40 25 80 07 936
Stewart, Thos. H._.--| Murrysville -. ..| Westmoreland --| 40 28 19 35 960
Swaitt: Dr) Paalay: . 228 West Haverford_| Delaware ......- 40 00 715 21 400
GThickstun, Es HI... Meadville, os. 22 Crawford .- ..-- 41 39 80 11 1, 088
Walson, ProfiweiC . £44) Carlisle =2=. 224 Cumberland -.--} 40 12 TG 500
Wilson, Wi Whe 25. 22% Pittsburg-....-.- Alleghany .----| 40 32] 80 02 1, 026
DELAWARE.

Martin, R.A o----.... Milford 22s o-=- Kentesesseene a 39 55 | 75 27 25
Rorter, Mrs? EB; D...-% Newatke: 22-4" New Castle --..- SO 38)| Wb e Su 120
MARYLAND.

Baer, Miss H. M....-- Shellman Hills.-} Carroll ---- ---- 39 23 | 76 57 700

Bell, Jacob Hy s-----; Leitersburg ..-.. Washington .-.-| 39 35 | 77 30
Clark, PropvAe W =22:| Chestertown’ =-<-|, Kentioo-=-.—--- 39 14 76 02
Cofrau;4uRelseesse: Oakland... 3s225- Alleghany -.---- 39 40 | 79 00
Goodman, Wm. R ....| Annapolis ..---.- Anne Arundel_.-| 38 58 | 76 29 20
Hanshew, Henry E ---} Frederick ...-.- Hrederick <2" =. 39 241 77 26
Lowndes, Benj. O ----| Bladensburg ----] Prince George --| 38 57 | 76 58 70
Mayer, Prof. Alfred M. | Baltimore --..-- Baltimore -....- 39 18 | 76937
McWilliams, Dr. Alex- | Leonardtown . --| St. Mary’s -...-- 38 17 | 76 43

ander.

METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

67

Name of observer. | Station. County. N. lat. | W. long. | | Height.
i oie
Cy 2 EZ Feet.
Smithsonian Institu- Washington -..-| Washington ---.| 38 53 | 77 01 60
tion.
VIRGINIA.
Astrop, Col. R. F....5- Crichton’s Store-) Brunswick ~-.--- 36 40 77 46 500.
Pover. Wit R i) | sBuifalo= 2-225 o Putnam .2 s...< 38 38 | 81 57
as 1 | Point Pleasant -.| Mason -........| 38 50 | 82 31
Couch, Samuel -...... Ves UULO nono esate Potnam ..2. 5.6 38 38 81 57
Dickinson, George C --| Rougemont --.--| Albemarle..._-- 38 05 78 21 450
Fraser, James..-.---- Mustapha ---.-- Wood 2224 s.455 39 20 | 81 41
Hallowell, Benjamin--)| Alexandria ----- Alexandria -..-.- 38 48 GIAOS 56
Hort, Josiah W......- Wirt'@; HW -.2.2- Winthes = o=e= 39 05 | 81 26
Hotchkiss, Jed......- Mossy Creek..--| Augusta.......- 38 20 79 05
Jobnson, Enoch D-.---| Sisterville -.---- 1 eee 39 34 | 80 56 540
Kendall, James E.---- | Kanawha C. H--.| Kanawha....... 38 20 81 21 1,720
Mackee, Rev. C. B...-- | GAMMA 2 non ey Fairfax.....--.. 38 56 | 77 04 180
Marvin, John W....-- | Winchester -. -.| Frederick .. ...- 39 15 78 10
ae ce ee Lewisburg ----- Greenbrier .-...| 38 00} 8000] 2,000
Purdie, John -R-+...=< Smithfield ~-...|\ Isle of Wight~-<| 36 50 76 41 100
Reynolds, W:C:.---<- Kanawha Salines.| Kanawha ----..; 38 30 | 81 30
Ruffin, Julian C -....- Ruthven .....-. Prince George...| 37 21 C1833
Sanders, B, D.cc.----- Holliday’s Cove -| Hancock .......|
Slaven, James...-..-. Meadow Dale .-.| Highland..._...| 38 23 79 35
Spence, Edward E_---- Montross. . ----| Westmoreland ..| 38 07 76 46 200
Upshaw, George W ---| Rose Hill_.._--- HIS8O® - 6 dos cin.a 38 00 16 BT 250
Van Doren, Abram....| Hartwood -...-- Stafford _....... 38 15 10 4 350
Webster, Prof. N. B..-| Portsmouth ~.-..| Norfolk ....___- 36 50 76 19 34
Wells, J. Carson...... | paleMm ce 26.5. ee Roanoke . ...... 39 20 80 01 1, 100
NORTH CAROLINA.
Drysdale, Robt. H....| Marlboro’ .....- i ee |
Johnson, Dr. W. M..-| Warrenton . -...| Warren -...___- | 3630, 78 15
Kerr, Prof. W.'C_..-- Davidson College) Mecklenburgh .-| 35 30 | 80 54 850
McDowell, Rev. A..--| Murfreesboro’.-.| Hertford -...... 36 30 77 06
McDowell; W. W----- Agshewle:-.. 25%. uncombe.....- 35 37 | 82 29 2,250
Moore, Geo. F..M. D.--| Gaston -...-.--| Northampton -..| 36 32 | 77 45 |
Morelle, Rev. Daniel._| Goldsboro’ -._-- Wiatyne ss 28. 323s 35 20 |. 77 St
Phillips, Rey. Jas., D. D} Chapel Hill... Oranse =... ce 35 54 1. 19k
| |
SOUTH C AROLINA,
Cornish, Rev. John H..| Aiken - ......-- Barnwell .....-- 33) 32°) 81 34 565
Glennie, Rev. Alex’r..| Waccaman ..... AI Saints<to2- 33 40 79 17 20
Johnson, Joseph, M.D } | Gharlest Charl .
Dawson, J. L ,M.D t arleston.....- narleston....-. 32 46 | 80 00 30
Ravenel, Thomas P..--} Black Oak... ___- Charleston...... 33 00 80 00 50
Tew, CaptiCiC...-2.. Columbia....-.-- Richland .....<.. 34 00 | 81 07 295

68 METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.

GEORGIA.
Name of observer. Station. County.

Anderson, Jas., M. D--| The Rock...-.-- Upson.2s-2852 48
Arnold: Misi deb oe Zebulon... .=<= = Pike: abies.
Doughty, Wm. H.-.--- Augusta .2-225- Richmond --...-
Easter, Prof. John D..| Athens... -- Clarkes ene
Gibsont, Rete. 282 Whitemarsh Is’d.| Savannah -._--.
GrantseDraWi.abos =e Thomson Safe" Columbias222254
Glover;, HliiS. 35. ..252 Hillsboro) ae. 52 Jasperaccencian=
Pendleton, E. M ,M.D.| Sparta -...----- Hancock... os.
Posey, John F., M.D--| Savannah -- ---- Chatham®= 2-2.

FLORIDA.
Bailey, James B...--- Gainesville -.--. | Alachua... -.- 29 35 |} 82 26 184
Baldwin, A. S., M. D--| Jacksonville ..--| Duval. -..-.--- 30 30 | 82 00 18
Watchelder, F. L...... Efiberniawesseee aD uivalieps ok Sart 30) LS 81 30 15
Bean, James B.....-- Micanopy -- ---- Machuaisssm<t2- 29 35 82 32 78
Mennis, Wimi/C:5 5-23 Salt Ponds.....- Key West ....-- 24 33 | 81 48
Hester, Lt.J.W.,U.S.N.| Pensacola .....- Escambia.....=< 30 20 87 16 12
Ives, Edward R..--.-- Alligator 22.224 | Columtbia.- 22225 30 12 | 82 37 174
Mauran, P. B., M. D..-| St. Augustine _..| St. John’s... 29 48 81 35 8
Steele, Judge Aug..-..- Cedar Keys...-- evyeesue cee 29 07 83 02 12
Whitner, Benj. F...-- Belair onces 2 Iheons2 22 fay uss 30 24; 84 20 70

ALABAMA

| |
Alison, H. L., M. D-.-} Carlowville ---.-- Dallas. ..--.-2-| 32 10 | 87 15 300
Darby, Prof. John_..-) Auburn ........ Macon’ <= 2 -jaes—- | 32 387 85 34 821
Jennings; Dr. 8. K.-..| Selma. <s2sc<2. Dallasiy sesso. t | 32 25 86 51 200
Tutwiler, Henry_---.-- Greene Springs..| Greene -..- ---- | 32 50] 87 46 500
Waller, Robert B. -..-} Greensboro’ .. --| Greene ..-- ---- 32 40 87 34 350
| |
MISSISSIPPI.
Lull, James §....-.-- | Columbus ...-.- Lowndes ...---- 33 30 | 88 29 227
McCary, Robertic.<53- Natchez . .----- | Adams: se 52! S22 31 3 91 25 264
Robinson, Rey. E. se Paulding -...--- “Sha Faspernsesoat o=) 32 20 | 82 20
LOUISIANA.

Kilpatrick, A. R.. M. D. | Grinity.....<--- Chatahoula .__-- 31 30 | 91 46 108

Merrill, Edward, M. D.| Trinity...-..-.- Chatahoula ..... Sl 37, | S91 4% 68

{

METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS,

TEXAS.

69

|
Name of observer. Station. County. N. lat. | W. long.) Height.
| OES o.! Feet.
Brightman, John C -..| Goliad -...----- Goliad..{..-=.@352 1.28 30 | 97 15 50
Friedrich, Otto....... New Braumfels..| Comal --------- | 29 41 98 15
Gantt, Dr. Wm. H.-.--| Union Hill --.-- Washington -.-.| 30 11 96 31 540
Gaps: 4 ays 2s. 2 Be Hunts valle = cc) Walker ...--%- lo54.2.514) see.
Palm, Swantes2-..-=2 Austin | 2: sasce MTavis 2lssse5a4 | 30 15 97 47
Rucker, B.  Ssc2S-ce Washington . ---| Washington --..| 30 26 96 15
Van Nostrand, J----.- Austin =~ jc5-cer MEN VIS: cose wae 30 20 | 97 46 650
Woakum, False... Garissa, ...<, 203 Cherokee . ----- | 81 45} 95 20
TENNESSEE.
| |
Stewart, Prof. Wm. M-| Clarkesville..---| Montgomery - --| 36 28 87 13 481
Tuck, W.d:, M.D .:...| Memphis ....:.. | Shelby 226 =- 232. 35 08 | 90 00 262
KENTUCKY.
Poatty, Onog-e--<sece Danville <2. Boyle... =< 22... | 37 40 | 84 30 | 950
irinnell, (Jes. 2 2-- 2-32 Nolin -+ 2222022. Hardin 5 .2</55-. | 37 10 |, 85° 35 |
Lunemann, John H_--| Bardstown ~ -..-| Nelson ---- ---- 1 ail (2 85 18 |
Ray, L.G., M.D ..-..- Paris _...-..--- Bourbon . .-.--- | 38 16] 84 07 | 810
Savage, Rev. Geo. S.-..| Millersburg -- --| Bourbon . ------ | 38 20 | 84 20) 804
Williams; Shc... 28 Louisville .....- Jefferson ......- | 38 03 85 30 | 452
Young, Mrs. Lawrence.) Springdale------ Jefferson .-.<.-- feos 107; 85 34 | 570
| Le
OHIO.
: ——— fp ee en
Pate ll, esheets ee Welchfield.....- Geanva 225 eo . 41 23 | 81 12 1 ES
PATON te) vee chapman cmine Ripley tees s aoe BLOWN ee eee 38 47 3.31
Anthony, Newton -...| Mount Union ---| Stark --..---..- 41 20 81 01
Atkins, Revels S «s---| Madison..::-=== Wakerss ss Soe cae 41 49 81 10
SenNel dei ease ooo ke New Lisbon. ---- Columbiana. ...| 40 45 80 46 961
Bennett, Sarah E...-- Collingwood ----.| Lucas ....----.- 41 49 3 34
Glarke, Wm: Po22.22 Medina <.. bet Medinay ss... < 41 07 81 47 | 1, 206
Colburn, Edward ----- Cleveland .-...- Cuyahoga. .-.--
Gilmor, Moses -..---- Jackson ....---.| Jackson . .....- 39 10 82 32 | 666
Groneweg, Lewis -.-... Dayton ..2. ~-=- ; Montgomery - --| 39 30 84 10 720
iarper, Geo: We. 2.23. Cincinnati,...2:e Hamilton . ...--| 39 06 84 27 | 150
Haywood, Prof. John--.| Westerville -----| Branklin <.<<.<): 40 04 83 03 |
Herrick, James D.-.--. Jefferson -...- ..| Ashtabula .....- 42 00 81 00
Hollenbeck, F ....... Perrysburg --.-- Wood 2.2.22... 41 39 83 40 |
Hurtt, Francis W--.--- Cincinnati ......- Hamilton ...--- 39 06 84 3
Hyde, Gustavus A_---| Cleveland ------ Cuyahoga. --...} 41 3 81 40 665
Ingram, John, M. D...| Savannah -. .....| Ashland - ___..- 41 12 82 3
Jaeger, H. Wm-.-..-.--- Lancaster . __--- Fairfield _ ...--- 839 41 82 3 1,000
King, Mrs. Ardelia C_.| Unionville... ..- 5 41 52 | 81 00 | 650
Ioather, S) Moo. +. Mira Se ROKtAee = S25 om 41 20 | 81 15 675
Mathews, Joseph McD-| Hillsborough - ..| Highland.....-. 39 138 | 83 3 1,000
Peck, W.R., M.D ....| Bowling Green --| Wood....-.---- 41 27 | 83 45 700
Poe, James Hv... -. = Portsmouth....- BCIOUOL. — cic. saat 38 50 82 49 468
Rorerg: AL bs 2 2 ss55 Gallipo'is....... (E75 U1 aaa 39 00! 82 01 520

70

METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS,

OHIO—Continued.

W. long. |

Name of observer. Station, County. N. lat. | Height.
|
One! Ch Fret.
Sanford, Prof. S. N....| Granville------- mckineyss- sos 40 03 | 82 34 995
Sanford, Smith<2....2 | (Hidinburg 4)22 2) Portage ss224o22 |, 41 20 | 81-00 520
Shaw, Joseph 42. -_-- | Bellefontaine = --| Logan ~ -.-..--- 40 21 83 40 1,031
Shields, Rev. Robert ) | ,
Smith, Cape oe Bellecentre - -.- - lbGe A SeSecoe 40 28 | 83 45 1,170
Treat, Samuel W -_.-- Windham ------ iRortageractecnes 41 1 81 05
J Medina.ctca-cae Nedinavseeeres2 AN OW 81 47 1, 206
Ward, Rey he Be -- 9s) Bronwen Botainr ss sa02e8 41.27 | 8204] 800
Walliams Prof. M.G2.| Urbana ==--.--- Champaign .-.--- 40 06 | 83 43 1,015
Walson, Prof J2 H-= 22)" College Hille 2 Hamiltonis.s. se 39 19 | 84 26 800
Young, Prof. Chas. A. ) | : A
Ghilds, H.W... Hndson|-..-.e26 Summit -....... 41 15] 81 24 1,13
MICHIGAN.
Allen, James, jr= --=--| Port’ Huron 22222 SUC Se oe. == 42 53 82 24 606
Blaker, Dr. G. H., jr.-| Marquette - .-.-| Marquette _._--- 46 32] 87 41 630
Campbell,Wm.M.,M.D.| Battle Creek----.) Calhoun - ------ 42 20 | 85 10 750
Crosby, J Besson. c-e8 New Buffalo ....| Berrien ..-. ---- 41 45 86 46 661
CumerW Aired iO = 322 | Grand Rapids ---) Kent -.-.------ 43 00 | 86 00 752
Pitcher, Dr. Zena..- ) | 3
2 a tL Detroit.......-- Wayne ---- ---- 42 24 | 82 58 597
Sireng, «hi Hess. see | Grand Rapids j=4|)-Kentisc2- cease 43 00 | 86 00 625
Walker, Mrs. OctaviaC.| Cooper --------- Kalamazoo .-..- 42 40 | 85 8
Whelpley, Miss H. I --! Monroe ..-.-. .--- Monroe --- 5255 41 56 83 22 590
|
INDIANA.
Barnes, Charles..----- | New) Albany .22));Bloyd"_ o.oo aes 38 17 | 85 45
Chappellsmith, John_.; New Harmony --.| Posey --..------ 38 08 | 87 50 320
Crisp) Jolnpiy-e. 7-42 | Evansville.....- | Vanderburgh.-..| 38 08 | 87 29 390
Lasselle, Charles B...-| Logansport ----- | Cassife 2252 ace 40 45 86 13 600
Moore, Joseph ------- Richmond .--.-- | Wayne = eee 39 47 84 47 800
Smith, Hamilton, jr --) Cannelton ___--- Perry ssa 37 58 86 40 450
Vagnier, Prof. Thos-.-| Notre Dame --.--} St. Joseph -.---- 41 45 | 86 10
Woodard, C. S .--..--| Michigan City._-_| La Porte -...... 41 41 | 86 53 622
ILLINOIS.
Babcock, Andrew J at Wuroral me eee ee Kineree aac os 41 40 88 15 600
Bapcock, sameness | Rileyrasas2-- = McHenry ~ ---.- 42 08 | 88 35 650
Baker, Prank 22. -=- | SouthPass-2 ce. < Unioniess-- = 37 28 89 14 1,050
Bowman, Dr. E. H.--.| Edgington - ----| Rock Island ....| 41 25 90 46
Brendel, Fred’k, M. D_| Peoria ----..--- Peoniats ace 40_ 36 89 30
Cantril, Joshua EH.---- | Waynesville .-..} De Witt-------- 40° 16 89 07
Capen, Fi 2.22)2 2-20 as | Batawiarss2s <2 Kane se sss 225 4] 52 88 20 656
Collier, Prof. Geo. H--| Wheaton ....-..- Du Page: 22-2 ses 41 49 | 88 06 682
Dudley, Timothy ----- | Jacksonville -.--| Morgan ..-.---- 39 30 | 90 06
Eldredge, William V--| Brighton -....-- Macoupin ....-- 39 00 90 13

METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.

ILLINOIS—Continued.

“1

Name of observer. Station. County. N. lat. | W. long.) Height.
Oe oH one Feet.
Giant, Johnie 2... --2: Manchester -.---- DEOth 2. ose 39 33 | 90 34 683
Hall, Joel a=. 2- 28 ATHONSe ose aste.* Menard ......=.- 39 52 | 89 56
Harris, J. 01; M. D....| Ottawa. -......- Tha Salle. aa.ce5e 41 20 | 88 47 500
James, John, M. D.---| Upper Alton ..--| Madison......-_. 39 00 89 36
Meacham, Hi Gis... Evanston...-..- Cookwess. 552 42 00 10 50
Wead, S. Bij WsD-...¢) Augusta....-L.< Hancock, ~.«cnttee 40 12 89 45
Mead, Thompson.- ---- Batavia, o<s2< <<) HAGAN C5 cia ont 41 52 88 20 636
Newcomb, John B....| Elgin ......-..- Keane <2 3. -2<2=2 42 00 88 15 600
Riblet, J, He se. 24 Bekine.22cecsae Tazewell ...-==- 40 3 89 45
Rogers, O.°Pe ee. 22 Marengo ......- McHenry = 22355. 42 14 88 38 650
pmith, Isaac How. Hremont Centre.) Lake ..-..=.=--< 42 18 | 88 06 736
Swain, John, M. D.---| West Urbana_-.-_-| Champaign ..--.. 40 09 88 17 550
Titcomb, John §._---- Hilisboro’ .....- Montgomery ...-| 39 12 89 26
Titze, Henry A..-.... West Salem. .... Edwards - -...-- 38 3 88 00
Tolman, James W----| Winnebago Depot} Winnebago -..-- 42 17 89 11 800
Whitaker, Benjamin -.| Warsaw --..---- Hancock\<-.2.<< 40 20; 91 31
MISSOURI.
ee ee 1 St. Louis... Beh Touis | 92 38 37 | 90 16 461
is |
IOWA.
|
Beal, Dexter.....---- Franklin ..-.... Buchanan .....- 42 45 |
Beeman, Carlisle D....} Rossville -..-.-- Allamakee .....- | 43 10 91 21 1,400
Rory; Joh C: 255242 Bellevaces 2222 —= Jacksons .525- 42 15 90 25 |
Goss, William K.-.... Border Plains -..}| Webster _....--- 42 3 94 05
Flor, .Asa,,M. 1)... Dubuque... Dubuque ...... == 42 30 90 52 1, 258
McConnell, Townsend-| Pleasant Plain...| Jefferson . .._..- 41 07 | 91 54 |
McCready, Daniel -..-| Fort Madison ~--| Lee.._..._._.-- 40 37 | 91 28
Odell, Rev. Benj. F..-.| Pleasant Spring--} Delaware ......-
= 2 Glinton: —-.<.c005 Clinton’ ..2...<<- 41 48 90 15
sips Gen oes Davenport....-- SCObE soso nace
RaGVvine ch IS fis. oe Muscatine -....- Muscatine .....- 41 26 91 05 586
Reynolds, W2.<<.s- Iowa City.....-- Johnson---.---- 4139 91 33
Savilles Drided.cveaae Sioux City..---- Woodbury.....- 42 31 96 25
Shaffer, J.M., M. D.--| Fairfield.......- Jeterson = So. <n. 41 01; 91 57 | 940
{
WISCONSIN.
Bean, Professor S. A..-| Waukesha.....- Waukesha... .22 42 50.} 88 Il 835
Breed, J. Everett. ...-| New London--.--| Waupacca .....- 44 2] 88 45
Blanding, William M-.-| Falls of St. Croix.| Polk.........-- 45 30 92 40 660
Durham, |Wede~— 2-25 Racinessssaueus Racinents22o2ue 42 49 | 8&7 40
Ellis, Edwin, M. D..--| Bay City -.----- Da, Fointe ss .2242 46 33 | 91 00 658
Gridley, Rev. John...) Kenosha - -.-.-. Kenoshar. 52 235- 42 35 | 87 50 600
Horsford, William F.-! Mount Morris -..| Waushara ....-- 44 06 | 89 14

72

METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS,

WISCONSIN—Continued.

Name of observer. Station. County. | N. lat. | W. long.| Height.

RRR TE SE | ne tees
| Cnn O95 Feet.
Lapham, Increase A.--| Milwaukie--.... Milwaukie ------ 43 03 | 87 57 593
ps: Jacopo sen see Manitowoc -----| Manitowoc.-..-- | 44 07 | 87 37
Mason, Prof. R. Z...-- | Appleton -....-. | Outagamie...... 44 10 | 88 35 800
Nourse, Harvey J.-.-- | ‘Bayfield ocan2808 iia Pointe S2224 2
Pickard, J. L., M. D..-.| Platteville...... Grante 222 42 45 | 91 00
Pomeroy, bares -s2ce Milwaukie...... Milwaukie .~..... 43 04 | 87 59 658
Porter, Prof. Wm....- Beloit-cncae=acud Rock-ssc= <2 S43} 442) '30.. | 18904 750
Schue, A., M. D_...-- | Madison.....-.- Dane-crccss ccd | 43 05 89 25 892
Sterling, Prof. J. W .--| Madison.....--- Danesese sz=228 43 05 | 89 25 892
Struthers, R. H.--..-. | Minds. -t22 .2eue Waupacea ------ | 44 20) 89 00
Underwood, Col. D----| Menasha ----.-- | Winnebago --___- 44.13 | 88 18
Winkler, C., M.D....| Milwaukie.....- Milwaukie... -- 43 04 | 87 57 593
Willard, dL 2o. 202 | Janesville -..... Rockvsee sc ean 42 42 | 89 91 768
MINNESOTA.
Clarke, Thomas ......| Beaver Bay -.--- lakeicoes sees 47 12 | 91 24 675
Garrison, OjMee2-/s25 |Prineéeton’ 22.222 Bentonsooossene 45 50 | 93 45
Hibbard, A, A---.---- \aBarlineton’s such Dake sssscs.uan | 47 OL | 92 30 645
Hillier, Spencer L..-.-) Wabashaw.----- Wabashaw....-- | 44 30 | 92 15 850
Dee ee t Lapham ...--..- Pembina - ...---| 46.10 96 00 850
Riggs Revs. Recess 2 | Hazlewood scieeg| soca se tietetues | 45 00] 95 30
Van Voorhes, A......- | Stillwater ...... Washington --.-| 45 04 | 92 45 756
Walsh, Stephen --.--- wBuchananso ssn eet ee Meee ee 47 33 | 92 00
NEBRASKA.
Bowen, Anna M. ste Elkhorn City...-} Douglas --------
Byers, William N.---- | Omahaeemes=2=- Mouclas~ -eeees: AN LSE} 960
Hamilton, Rev. Wm.--} Bellevue - -.-.-- SaLDY oe eee ae 41 08 | 95. 50
Smith, Charles B..-..-- | Brownville . ..-.| Nemaha.....-... 40 30 | 96 00
KANSAS.
| | |

Berthoudo.2222-2-25- Leavenworth ~ tal Leavenworth.._.} 39 19 94 50 800
Browne Gawieeen sea Lawrence. -....- | Douglase-sesse 2 | *38ro8. 95 12 800
Hish, Edmund) o. 2225 | Couneil City ....| Shawnee .......| 38 42 95 50 |
Giles, Hoy Weeke-ceae PPS Woy afc) see | Shawnee ----.-.- 39 04 | 95 40
Goodnow, Isaac T.----! Manhattan dice) RUBY, saeee laine | 39 13 | 96 45
Himoe, 8. 0., M. D...-| Mapleton..-..-. | Bounbewac..0£ 22. |; 88 04) 94 51
McCarty, ‘HiD.22--- 43 | Leavenworth City, Leavenworth..-., 39 20 | 94 33 1,342

METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.

73

OREGON.
eee — = +
Name of observer. | Station. | County. | N. lat. w. long.| Height.
| ye
| oR | Ca Feet.
Snyder, James A._.--- | Fort Snyder --.-| Thomson Pass...| 42 00 pores 8, 010
| ee bilieg
UTAH.

Phelps, Henry E.-..- Great Salt Lake e OF
Phelps, W. W..---- City. t acne eceeceaens 404°) TER 26°). 4,250
MEXICO.

Name of observer. Station. | Lat. | Long. | Height.
Laszlo, Charles.....-. | Minititlan, Tehuantepec----.-.---- _ 17 59 94 07 16
CENTRAL AMERICA.

i | |
Camedas, Antonio -...| Guatemala, Guatemala......--.--- 14 15 90 34 |
Dorat, Charles, M. D. --| La Union, San Salvador...-.------ 13 00 | 88 00
SOUTH AMERICA.
— = i : pees
Fendler, Aug ....-- Oe ae ne eer | 10 26] 6720] 6,500
2 Caracas, Venezuela. ...2-....-2.4
Hering, C. J-.......-| Plantation Catharina Sophia, Colo-
ny of Surinam, Dutch Guiana.--.- 5 48 | 56 47
BERMUDA.
Royal Gazette........ Centre Signal Station, St. Georges x | |
|

Stations from whieh telegraphic reports of the weather were received at
the Smithsonian Institution by the Morse line, during the year 1858.

New York, N.Y. Grafton, Va. Charleston, 8. C.
Philadelphia, Pa. Wheeling, Va. Augusta, Ga.
Pittsburg, Pa. Parkersburg, Va. Savannah, Ga.
Baltimore, Md. Marietta, Ohio, Macon, Ga.
Frederick, Md. Chilicothe, Ohio. Columbus, Ga.

Hagerstown, Md.

Cumberland, Md,

Richmond, Va.
Petersburg, Va.
Norfolk, Va.
Lynchburg, Va.

Cincinnati, Ohio.
Bristol, Tenn
Knoxville, Tenn.
Chatanooga, Tenn.
Wilmington, N.C,
Columbia, §. C.

Montgomery, Ala.
Lower Peach Tree, Ala.
Mobile, Ala.
Gainesville, Miss.

New Orleans, La.
4 REPORTS OF COMMITTEES.

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

The Executive Committee respectfully submit to the Board of Re-
gents the following report of the receipts and expenditures of the
Smithsonian Institution during the year 1858, with estimates for the
year 1859.

Receipts.

The whole amount of Smithson’s bequest deposited in
the treasury of the United States is $515,169, from
which an annual income, at 6 percent., isderived, of $30,910 14

Extra fund from unexpended income invested as

follows :
In $75,000 Indiana 5 per cent. bonds,
VICIGAE , 4, cece acura doers steateemoneuen ees $3,750 00
In $53,600 Virginia 6 per cent. bonds,
VICLA IM WHat sola tako cp ar on ssess sens aeeueveaees 3,210 00
In $7,000 Tennessee 6 per cent. bonds,
ACLS << acts sai cdcbreletoeeseilamnasieeisseie deeb 420 00
In $500 Georgia 6 per cent. bonds,
WC AHS: See tec deen anssc.cmsaninasalmsisieceadione 30 00
In $100 Washington 6 per cent. bonds,
UCM RAL ORIRE sac dat T Ten cales weleeMee 6 00
— 7,416 00
38,326 14
Balance in hands of treasurer Janu-
any 1) ASSO Re. Micccecnscsnssewemae 10,341 30
48,667 44
Expenditures.
For building, furniture, and fixtures............. Si 10t 87
For items common to the different objects of
the Unstone. «aki innincittingaeeneeeeeeanetaces 9.619035
For publications, researches, and lectures....... 11,956 83
For library, museum, and gallery of art......... 9,814 29

32,498 02

Balance in the hands of the treasurer January 1, 1859, of
which $5,000 belongs to the extra fund..........cessesseees 16,169 42
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES. 5

Statement in detail of the expenditures in 1858.
BUILDING, FURNITURE, AND FIXTURES, ETC.

Repairs And. Incidentally. ..cs-acvececosreee sodaeg ue $566 62
Burn ibwve-and HAXCUIES ss eee scene beaded 497 99
WEASTICUIC CDSE VACOTY is vc cescceccvsdecscccesecetevsecs 43 26
a $1,107 87

GENERAL EXPENSES.

Meetings of Board and Committees...........0. so) "$301°38
Mrohermio and hea tine cls. Rs, oe 712 23
PESO eater Oe sat. Adaek seusletel dtasaateecsueeddvaaess 442 35
Transportation and exchanges ...........esecseses 1,134 65
MUAHIONETY sscecceosns see J chedaiasininandtee aeeuete eek oeltor 413 00
GSM RaN PW NAT 03 b SATA da vcssvececavecencesseeeen 192 25
PTA: edeteco se siiece shawls oedewiercysnsassencveuasies 266 57
HOPE OUEG OEY gars flee. cae rassescidesvaes Qsiny scace estes ecea'es 243 60
Htgerdentals OTT Al et last tasiessosces pesteecesess 376 17
PAlanres, SECRERAT Ye Tae Ae ah 3,500 03

CRN CIO a eee west divacuddes otacaes 1,400 00

book-keeper, janitor, watchmen, &c. 509 68
Baba (clerkt lire Wi. Vat Rts: ca (eacvssesecsedestic cee 127 12

pou k, #9619108

PUBLICATIONS, RESEARCHES, AND LECTURES.

Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge....... $6,834 02
Reports:.On \PLrowressuis<cwsabiccdaaPbaew eed vaeheledtse 1053579
Other publications’. .te..i. coo teal soneeasbacnsdes 654 24
MGtCOrOlO OY cc scvssacansawewcaancadevaiestasoe iets tae. 2,345 62
Investigations, computations, and researches 130 00
PN iota diet hse ee TOMTOM ai ak daisianiigewnsiese vediane 939 16
a 11,956 83
LIBRARY, MUSEUM, AND GALLERY OF ART. :
NGS PP OOK Girne del ivenssonecenvneeaeaseneaveeress $3,258 51
Pay orassistants im LbDrary......icecscdeceseeseve 1,000 00
Wransportation for Library........cccsesccoecacoess 439 70
Pieter eats Ton LD TATY vis. sss0sesececessvensescecess 357 70
TRISTE ERE SAUL ATY, store's csi sais sn aia ania d idla weldN PLU OR nae « 2,000 00
Ia LOTR OTS oe cite ranienacids nes tenssdenceweeiontons 114 13
Collections... cceveng ares ancsauanssceset Meee temetbicasic 675 25
Incidentals for museum, jars, alcohol, &c...... 1,074 90
Transportation forMMUSeUM.......0.00.c0rsedeasiece 368 26
Assistants and labor, Museum ........ccesceceeseee 404 64
Galleny Of AiG. AAAS. «ccmntenismntids daawlhceabbtids tres 121 20

cet sn uQUREMTG

Motel expendi turepedesd seit. Sis siatesdvide os 32,498 02

716 REPORTS OF COMMITTEES,

The estimated income for the year 1858, inclusive of the balance in
the hands of the treasurer, was $38,326 14, and the actual income
was the same, no change having taken place in the amount received
from the interest on the extra fund.

The estimated expenditure was $37,000. The actual expenditure
was $32,498. This difference, which is nearly $4,500, has been
saved principally on the building, transportation, and the payment of
assistants.

The last mentioned item has been somewhat diminished by the pay-
ment from the appropriation of Congress for the keeping of the
museum of the exploring expeditions which has been transferred from
the Patent Office to the Smithsonian Institution. The amount re-
ceived for the last six months on this account has been about $2,000.
This sum is not credited to the Institution, because the money is dis-
bursed by the Secretary of the Interior.

The amount of income above that of the expenditure was $5,828 12.
This sum has been saved with the view of carrying out the design
mentioned in the last report, namely, that of accumulating a suffi-
cient sum in the treasury to enable the payment of cash for all pur-
poses, and thus to save the extra charge which, in almost all cases, is
made when payment is deferred.

The amount in the treasury at the beginning of the present year for
carrying on the operations until the time of receiving the next income
was $16,169 42. Of this, however, $5,000 belong to the extra fund,
which has not yet been invested. According to the statement of the
secretary, the Institution, at the beginning of 1859, had no outstand-
ing debts, and hence it appears that the funds are in a good condition.

The committee respectfully submit the following estimate of the re-
ceipts and expenditures for the year 1859:

ESTIMATE OF THE RECEIPTS AND EXPENDITURES FOR THE YEAR 1859.

Fieceipts.
Balance in the hands of the treasurer January 1, 1859... $16,169 42
Interest.on thejoriginal find... severe, pronesenmeriepsmnans 30,910 14
Interest on thayemtiral fund. ............5.<«assaupenaauteeecteetaas 7,416 00
$54,495 56
Hependitures.
BUILDING, FURNITURE AND FIXTURES.
Repairs:and. dmcidgn tals... ss.«0isspauderanaees senor $1,500 00
Binrmifure ang Ghures. ..,....c.escoceweinss desldewe 500 00
Magnetic observatory......cc..sesseee ciateisinisldn capa 100 00

—— $2,100 00
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES. vif |

GENERAL EXPENSES,

Meetings of Board and committees............... $150 00
Lighting and heating........ccssscsescserecseres 1,000 00
POSGAZE .. aserecreneesenssesiosseepersodesaesacse cane sesten 500 00
Transportation and exchange...........secscesesers 1,500 00
UID oe ange cae as OT ce oe aden ata sos cdnnay seaieltee ses 400 60
SUVARI OMNUIUS.« .iecccdaisen edt sss severe snesesea0es 500 00
UD PATALUS oi cs saces.cinestd see sgnsecvesiqees a aiciginial sgikin 500 00
MAM OOLALOTY, sn ncerces canes sas eninsesnbadbsadersanccivetes 500 00
tree Otel sg | PONOTAL vg. sacs «one danennssinasieiee+ceesse 700 00
PEEICS, —“PCCLOUAL Yo own sccinncoenoanseeess newssecsncees 3,500 00
MIMIGE CLOT. ccaccsvenste voihdeeusnasceupess 1,400 00
BOOK RCE POT deca iecerosesatensodevasevere 200 00
SPAUAL LOL “coe ceaicive oeiees +s 1c etuanana dese vba. 400 00
WUC OMANI 2 Bs «divs pence asus das asdiaes 500 00
WE OON OM 2 tera Mucsccsanices aes iveuatana teas ° 500 00
We ClCE Ke, ITC... ws sow ncesasssacce aces 250 00
— $12,500 00
PUBLICATIONS, RESEARCHES AND LECTURES.
Smithsonian Contributions.............. cesecsscees $6,000 00
TRO BWEUS cre ctvt ete ds Md les ching Ataahs tn vetoses so cede 2,000 00
ater PUDLICRGLOUS. «..cessadinclitue ous hsaeipehs slatdesbe 600 00
PROUOLOLY, oor ict raconsanbaveasiseresaeiveshs uoaeseSe 3,000 00
BES MENON: pices s0i4 de ienitcitin tan atesjesninnatasegsopieresa 300 00
PRE POS: 7 wcusctcngide ke sat cit seewcse’ ifexcishacece see 1,000 00

12,900 00
LIBRARY, MUSEUM AND GALLERY OF ART,

Livbrary.—Cost of booksl... sss ssccisediscdcccsseses $3,000 00
Pay of library assistants.............- 1,200 90
Transportation for library............. 500 00
Incidentals for library..........0+.0009 100 00

Museum.--Salary of assistant secretary.......... 2,000 00
EU PLOTALIG OS 4.0.0.0 <aseinc ones somemeecesld 100 00
CGT COURON Sie o'anans steethemiueeest saeees 150 00
Incidentals to museum,.........sse0ee 700 00
ransportation b.20:5.. cash yesedsvdens 600 00
Assistants and labor............scseeee. 2,000 00

RCE TOE BU ex cada e\scincenisctiss-scccacdeteneenearees 150 00

10,500 00

—

38,000 00

The committee have examined all the books and accounts of the
Institution for the past year, and find them to be correct.
Respectfully submitted.
J. A, PEARCE,
A. D. BACHE,

Executive Committee.*

General J. G, Totten, the other member of the executive committee, is now in Europe
78 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS.

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
BOARD OF REGENTS

OF

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

Wasuineton, January 19, 1859.

In accordance with a resolution of the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution, fixing the time of the beginning of their
annual meeting on the third Wednesday of January of each year,
the Board met this day in the Regents’ room.

Present: Hon. S. A. Douglas, Hon. Wiliam H. English, Hon.
James G. Berret, Professor A. D. Bache, Hon. W. W. Seaton,
Treasurer, and the Secretary.

The Secretary stated that letters had been received from Hon.
Richard Rush, Hon. Gideon Hawley, and Professor OC. C. Felton,
stating their inability to attend the present annual session of the
Board of Regents.

The Treasurer presented a statement of the receipts and expendi-
tures during the year 1858, and also a general statement of the funds ;
which were referred to the executive committee.

A quorum not being present, the Board adjourned to meet at the
call of the Secretary.

Turspay, february 15, 1859.

A meeting of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution,
was held this day at 11 a. m., in the Vice President’s Room, United
States Capitol.

Present: Hon. John C. Breckinridge, Hon. James M. Mason,
Hon. James A. Pearce, Hon. 8. A. Douglas, Hon. William H.
English, Hon. L. J. Gartrell, Hon. J. G. Berret, Professor A. D.
Bache, and the Secretary.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 19

?

Mr. Pearce was called to the chair.

The report of the Executive Committee was presented, read and
accepted.

The Secretary announced the re-election by joint resolution of the
Senate and House of Representatives of the United States, of Profes-
sor Alexander Dallas Bache and Hon. George EH. Badger, as Regents
of the Smithsonian Institution, for the term of six years.

The Secretary then presented the annual report of the operations of
the Institution for 1858, which was accepted.

The report of the Executive Committee, presented by Mr. Pearce,
was read and accepted.

The following letter was read to the Board.

BREMEN LEGATION,
Washington, January 25, 1859.

Str: Agreeably to your verbal request, I have proposed to the
president and directors of the North German Lloyd of Bremen, to
manifest their interest in the cause of science, by facilitating literary
intercourse between the United States and Germany, by means of
their steamers plying between Bremen and New York.

It affords me great pleasure now to inform you that, according to
a letter of the president of the Lloyd, dated the 5th instant, and just
received, the said Bremen steamship company have resolved, hence-
forth, and until further notice, to forward by their steamers all the
packages of books and specimens of natural history which the
Smithsonian Institution may be pleased to send to Germany, or which
may be sent from Germany to the Smithsonian Institution, free of
charges between New York and Bremenhaven.

I beg leave to add that Messrs. Gelpcke, Keutgen and Reichelt, 84
Broadway, New York, are the agents of the North German Lloyd at
that place, and that the next Bremen steamer sailing for Europe will
leave New York on the 19th of February next.

I avail myself of this occasion to offer you renewed assurances of
my high consideration.

R. SCHLEIDEN,
Minister Resident of Bremen,
Professor Josepu Henry,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

On motion of Mr. Mason, the following resolution was adopted by
the Board.

ftesolved, That the thanks of this board be returned to his excel-
lency, R. Schleiden, minister resident of Bremen, for his interven-
tion with the ‘‘ North German Lloyd of Bremen’’ to facilitate and
advance the cause of science by transporting, free of charge &c.,
packages of books, and specimens of natural history, from Germany
30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS.

to the Smithsonian Institution, and from the Institution to Germany,
and the like thanks to the president and directors of the North Ger-
man Lloyd of Bremen, for their generous liberality in the instance
above referred to.

The Secretary stated that thanks were due to several companies for
their liberality to Lieutenant Gilliss, who had visited South America
in September last, to make observations of the eclipse, under the
auspices of the Smithsonian Institution.

On motion of Mr. Mason, the following resolution was adopted:

Resolved, That the thanks of the Board of Regents are hereby
given to the British Pacific Steamship Navigation Company ; the
United States Mail Steamship Company; the Pacific Mail Steamship
Company; and the Panama Railroad Company, for their generous
aid in the cause of science, by transporting free of charge, with other
facilites, extended to Lieutenant Gilliss, U. 8S. N., in his late ex-
pedition to Peru, under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution,
to observe in that country the total solar eclipse of September 7, 1858.

Communications were read from Rev. F. Vinton, of Brooklyn,
relative to the Wynn estate, of which he is one of the two executors ;
from Hon. J. H. Hammond, and J. R. Lambdin, esq., relative to
procuring copies of celebrated works of art in Europe.

On motion of Mr. Douglas, the following resolution was adopted:

Resolved, That thesum of two thousand dollars be appropriated, to
be expended at the discretion of the executive committee, for procur-
ing castings, or moulds for castings, of the chef d’oeuvres, of art in
Europe.

A communication from Professor 8. F. Baird, asking an increase
of salary, was read, and referred to the executive committee.

A communication from Professor S. F. Morse, dated Paris, October
16, 1858, anda letter from Hon. Amos Kendall, were presented to the
Board, and both were referred to the special committee, which had
made a report in relation to the telegraph at the meeting of May 19,
1858.

The following communication was presented.

13 AsHLEyY PLACE,
London, January 8, 1859.

My Dear Sir: I sent you from Leeds, in September, a printed copy
of the report of the joint committee of the Royal Society and the
British Association, on the subject of the continuance of magnetic ob-
servations drawn up by Sir John Herschel. You will have been ap-
‘ PRUCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. SL

prised by it of the serious purpose entertained in this country to
prosecute the magnetic researches which have already, though quite
in their infancy, established so many important laws. The minutes
of the last meeting of the council of the British Association, will make
you acquainted with our subsequent proceedings.

Our government has postponed the decision of the precise measures
to be taken until next year ; and indeed our preparations, both of in-
struments and observers, could scarcely have been ready earlier, but
I think that we may entertain very sanguine hopes of establishing
some observatories at least; and I have the more confident expecta-
tion of this from the letter of the Prince Consort of December 11,
(which you will see in the enclosed minutes,) who is to be our presi-
dent next year, (at the B. A.,) and who will then be the medium of
our communications with government. But still we may derive
great support from any evidence which we may be able to adduce that
other countries besides our own participate in the scientific interest of
these researches, and it is specially in this view that I now write to
you.

Our government appears not indisposed to have an observatory at
Pekin, and we shall no doubt press strongly to have a second at Van-
couver’s Island. Toronto is already a third observatory in action in
nearly the same latitude, and London a fourth. It is obvious that a
chain of stations at moderate distances from each other in the middle
latitudes of the one hemisphere would give us a very reasonable
prospect of establishing with confidence laws the existence of which
we can now only infer. The greatest interval is between London
and Pekin, but this I have some reason to hope may be supplied by
an observatory at Kazan, under the able direction of Professor Bol-
zani, and it is impossible under these circumstances not to desire that
the observatory which you have so long meditated at Washington,
should be brought into corresponding activity.

It is purposed that the instruments for the new British observa-
tories should serve either for eye observations or for a continuous
record of the three elements. They will be in great measure on the
modei of the self-recording instruments at Kew, which have now been
at work for a twelvemonth, and which seem indeed to leave little to
be desired. But those for the colonial observatories will be somewhat
differently arranged, so as to occupy a space not exceeding perhaps
twelve feet by six, and to have all their parts so attached to a solid
floor that nothing is capable of misplacement. We find at Kew
that two persons are sufficient for the manipulations of such an obser-
vatory, the preparation of the paper, &c., and the tabulation from the
traces by instrumental measurement at hourly intervals.

The instruments for the first either colonial or extra English ob-
servatory are in hand, and will be at work we expect in a temporary
building in the grounds of the observatory at Kew in July or August
next, where, should you incline to come once more to our British As-
sociation meeting, which is to be held this year at Aberdeen, under
the Prince Consort, or should any friend do so in whose judgment you
can confide, there will be a full opportunity for examining them.

6
82 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS.

I cannot conclude this letter without again adverting to the sup-
port which we should derive in our communications with our govern -
ment in the event of the Smithsonian Institution concurring with us
in the importance of prosecuting these inquiries, and being disposed
to adopt corresponding proceedings with, of course, such modifications
as may suit either their convenience or their views of the subject.

Believe me, my dear sir, sincerely yours,

EDWARD SABINE.

Professor Hunry.

The above communication was referred to the secretary and execu-
tive committee,

The Secretary presented a communication from G. J. Durand, of
Bordeaux, accompanied by a report on the history, operations, and
publications of the Smithsonian Institution, which that gentleman
had presented to the Imperial Academy of Bordeaux.

The board then adjourned sine die.
GENERAL APPENDIX

TO THE

REPORT FOR 1858.

The object of this Appendix is to illustrate the operations of the
Institution by the reports of lectures and extracts from correspond-
ence, as well as to furnish information of a character suited especially
to the meteorological observers and other persons interested in the
promotion of knowledge.
LECTURES

ON ASTRONOMY.

BY PROFESSOR A. CASWELL, OF BROWN UNIVERSITY.

1, The figure and magnitude of the earth.

Every person who ventures to address a public assembly is supposed
to have something to present to them which is worthy of their atten-
tion, and which they can understand. In the treatment of scientific
subjects he must occupy himself mainly in giving information respect-
ing the facts and methods and laws of science.

In appearing before you this evening I may be permitted, I trust,
without arrogance on my part or disparagement to you, to say that
my object is instruction. Any object lower than this would ill become
this place and the character of this noble Institution, which is doing
so much to stimulate investigation and develop the scientific resources
of our country. I wish to unfold to you the elementary methods by
which the astronomer advances step by step in investigation, until he
spans the heavens with his measuring rod and weighs the far off
planetary bodies as in a balance, and marks the point in the starry
concave where the flaming comet will disappear in the depths of ether,
and that other point with almost equal precision where it will reap-
pear after the flight of centuries. There are in astronomy refinements
of method, both practical and theoretical, which can be appreciated only
by rare gifts and profound study. But the elementary methods are
quite within the reach of ordinary minds. The law, which it was dif-
ficult to discover, may be very easily understood and its results readily
traced. It might require a Newton or a La Place to unveil the me-
chanism of the heavens, but when that is once done every beholder
may watch the wonderful evolutions.

To accomplish the purposes I have in view, I must first of all secure
your attention. For this I rely more upon the inherent interest and
grandeur of the subject than upon any adventitious attractions which
I may be able to throw around it.

Astronomy has long claimed the pre-eminence of being the most
ancient and the most perfect of the sciences. And yet astronomy, in
some of its aspects, is a rapidly progressive and cumulative science.
86 LECTURES

The number of primary planets known to astronomers has been
quadrupled within the last few years. Instead of the five planets
known to Ptolemy and Copernicus, and even to Newton, we now have
upwards of sixty. Scarcely a month passes that does not add some-
thing to the aggregate of our knowledge of the heavens—that does
not reveal some new wonder to the telescope, or disclose some new
treasure to the far-reaching analysis of the mathematician. Never
could it be said with a profounder meaning than now that ‘‘ the hea-
vens declare the glory of God.’’

The mechanism of the heavens, in proportion as wé comprehend
more and more of its vastness and seeming complexity, bears witness
to the enduring order and harmony of the universe, and points with
unerring certainty to the superintending agency of an intelligent and
infinite -creator.

In the course of our discussions we shall have occasion not only to
state the results of investigation, but to witness the struggles and
triumphs of the human mind in working its way to the solution of.
some of the great problems of science.

We spontaneously pay the tribute of our homage to all great
achievements. But in no case is homage wore just or more enduring
than that which all cultivated minds pay to him who stands as the
minister and interpreter of Nature, and makes known to us her laws
and her mysteries. Many such adorn the annals of astronomy.

But I must not, in these preliminary remarks, encroach upon the
time which belongs to the special subject of the evening, which is —

The figure and magnitude of the earth.

This may be called the great problem of astronomy. Its import-
ance is apparent from this, that the radius of the earth is. the unit of
measure—I may say the measuring rod—which we are compelled to
use in determining the dimensions of the solar system. Whatever
error obtains in our knowledge of this will be repeated and multiplied
in all our estimates of planetary distances. Hence the importance
which attaches to this problem, and the great pains which has been
taken to solve it with the utmost accuracy.

That the general figure of the earth is spherical was an opinion held
by many of the ancient astronomers. This was obvious from the
manner in which vessels disappear at sea. It was also indicated by the
circular shadow of the earth upon the moon in the case of eclipses.
In contemplating the extent of.countries, and the distance of one
country from another, the question of the earth’s magnitude would nat-
urally—almost necessarily, be suggested. It would be useless to
attempt to trace the successive steps in the progress of this inquiry
among the ancients. Aristotle relates that the mathematicians prior
to his time had found the circumference of the earth to be 400,000
stadia. But the length of the Greek stadium is unknown, so also is
the method by which this result was obtained. The fact mentioned
by Aristotle is only of interest as showing that the question had en-
ON ASTRONOMY. 87

gaged the attention of astronomers at a very early period. Eratos-
thenes, of Alexandria, appears to have been the first to form a true
conception of the method by which the problem could be solved; that
is, by the measurement of an arc of the terrestrial meridian. Nearly
three centuries (276 years) before the Christian era, by such rude
methods as were then in use, he determined the distance from Alex-
andria to Syene in upper Egypt to be 34 of the whole circumference
of the earth. From the measured distance between the two cities he
computed the circumference of the earth to be 250,000 stadia. Some-
what later Posidonius, also of the Alexandrine school, resumed the
inquiry and gave as the result of his measurements 240,000 stadia.
But the uncertainty in the length of the stadium renders these results
of little value.

Nearly a thousand years later, (A. D. 814,) when the schools of sci-
ence had been transferred from Egypt and Greece to the banks of the
Kuphrates, the caliph Almamoun, of Bagdad, directed his astrono-
mers to measure a degree of the meridian on the plains of Mesopota-
mia, with a view to determine the problem of the earth’s magnitude.
Their result was so nearly coincident with that given by Ptolemy that
suspicion was cast upon the genuineness and fidelity of the measure-
ments.

After this period the inquiry seems hardly to have awakened any
attention for seven or eight centuries, when it was taken up by modern
European astronomers.

Before adverting to the more recent geodetic operations, as they are
termed, which have given us the exact figure and magnitude of the
earth, I may, perhaps, with advantage point out the general method
of executing those operations and the manner in which we deduce
from them the exact dimensions of the earth.

The geodetic operations to which I refer have for their object the
measurement ot arcs on the earth’s surface and chiefly arcs of the
meridian. There are other observations and experiments subsidiary
to the solution of this problem, to which I shall merely advert in
passing. Thus, for instance, the law of attraction for a spheroid
having been established, the vibrations of the pendulum in different
latitudes will furnish data from which the figure, not the magnitude,
of the earth can be determined. Many thousands of pendulum ex-
periments have been made in different parts of the earth with this
object in view. There are also certain inequalities in the moon’s
motion, which are produced by the oblate or flattened figure of the
earth. These observed inequalities become in the hands of the mathe-
matical astronomer an accurate measure of that oblateness. The
results obtained by La Place and others by this method are received
with great confidence by the most eminent astronomers. We shall refer
to the results obtained by both these methods, which assign the jigure
only, when we have explained the method of finding both the figure
and also the magnitude by the measurements of arcs of the meridian.

The measurement of a meridian line consists of three distinct pro-
CeSsses :

1. The line must be run in true north and south direction.
88 LECTURES

2. The difference of latitude at its extremities, or what is the same
thing, the angle made between the plumb-lines, must be determined.

3. The length of the arc in miles, or parts of miles, must be deter-
mined,

By the aid of a few simple diagrams I can readily indicate to you
how these results are obtained.

1. To run a true north and south line we have only to direct the
telescope of a transit instrument on a theodolite to the north star when
it is directly above or below the pole, and then, the axis being hori-
zontal, sight to some well defined object situated to the north and to
another at thesouth. The line passing through these points and con-
tinued by sighting to new objects will be the line required. The
time, which occurs twice in every twenty-four hours, when the north
star is so situated, is easily known from the Nautical Almanac. This
is the readiest method of fixing the line. Butif the Nautical Almanac
is not on hand, the same result is obtained by so placing the instru-
ment that the time between the upper and lower transits of a cireum-
polar star passing through the western portion of its revolution shall
be the same as that in passing from the lower transit through the
eastern portion of its revolution to the upper.

P 2. To find the angle made be-

Z Z s tween the plumb-line, let a and
sb, fig. 1, represent the arc of the
meridian; C the centre of the
earth; Z and Z’ the zeniths of

the two extremities of the line.

Et It is required to find the angle
\ aC b, This will be the differ-

ence in latitude between the two

stations. But it is most easily

Fig I obtained by observing the zenith

4 distance of any star in the vicinity
of the zenith as it passes the me-
ridian. Thus Z a s/ would be the
zenith distance of the star ata,

and Z' b s' the zenith distance at 6. The difference between these
two is the required angle at C. In practice this element is obtained
very readily and with great precision.

3. By far the most difficult part of the work is to measure the exact
distance between the two points a and b. This is best done by a
system of triangles. Thus, in fig. 2, suppose A and B to be the
extremities of the meridian line, and D E F G and H to be prominent
points of the country at such elevations as to be visible the one from
the other. Commencing the operation at A, a line A D, of several
miles in extent, lying along a level plain, if such can be found, is
selected and accurately measured. This is called a base or base line,
and the utmost refinement of methods is required for its measurement.
The base line having been measured, we place an instrument, adapted
to the measurement of horizontal and vertical angles, (usually a
large theodolite,) at A, and measure the horizontal angle D A EH,
ON ASTRONOMY. 89

and D A M, and also the elevation, if any, of D and E above A. The
instrument is then transported to D, and A D E and E D F are
measured, and also the elevations of F and EK above D; and thus in
succession the instrument is taken to each of the stations and all the

VY

E

horizontal and vertical angles are measured. The sides of all the
triangles, varying in length from 10 to 40 or 50 miles, may now be
very easily computed. Beginning with A D E, and taking them in
succession, we have in each case all the angles and one side given to
find the other sides. To test the accuracy of the work a second line,
as H B, at or near the extremity of the line is measured. This is
called the base of verification. If any considerable error is found to
exist between the measured and computed length of this line the
whole work must be gone over again. But before we can expect any
close agreement between the computed and measured length of the
base of verification the several stations, D E F and G, must be reduced
to the level surface, that is, to the surface of the water, if we should
suppose the ocean to flow freely over
the land. We must reduce each of
the stations to the continued ocean
surface. Thus, in fig. 3, A mey be
situated on the beach, E on the
summit of a mountain, A G the
curve or line of the ocean surface ~
continued. We must, in fact, re-
duce the point E to G and compute
the length of the curved line A G
from knowing the length of the
straight line A E and the elevation
of the point. My object here is not
to give any abstract or synopsis of
the method of making this reduc-
tion, but only to indicate what is required to be done. The process,
though somewhat laborious, presents no peculiar difficulty.

It now remains to find the distance from A to B along the meridian
line reduced to the ocean surface. This we do by resolving in succes-

sion the triangles, fig. 2, ADM, MEN, NFO, OGP, and PHB,

90 LECTURES

in which we shall have known two angles and the included side.
Adding the distances A M, M N, N O, O P, and P B, we shall have
the entire distance from A to B measured along the continued ocean
level. It is thus that science, by her magic touch, levels down the
mountains and fills up the valleys, and makes for herself a path
which, we may truly say, the vulture’s eye hath not seen.

To solve the problem we have in hand, and determine definitely
the figure and magnitude of the earth, we must have the results of
measurements in different latitudes.

We shall briefly refer to some of the principal measurements which
have been executed before we deduce from them the exact dimensions
of the earth.

From the early part of the ninth century, when the Arabian astrono-
mers, as before stated, measured an arc of the meridian on the plain
of Mesopotamia, this question seems to have been lost sight of for
more than six hundred years.

1. In 1528, Fernel, an eminent physician of Paris, revived the
problem by measuring the distance from Paris to Amiens, in Picardy,
by counting the revolutions of his coach wheels.

2. Nearly a hundred years later, (1617,) Snellens, of Leyden,
measured an arc of the meridian, in Holland, between Alkmaer and
Bergen-op-Zoom. He was the first to adopt the principle of trian-
gulation.

3. Some few years after the measurement of Snellens, the English
astronomer, Norwood, (1635,) measured an arc between London and
York. He measured parts of the distance with a chain, other parts
by pacing, and where the ground was rough he estimated the distance
_as well as he could.

The results of these measurements, on account of the imperfection
of methods and instruments, are of little or no value. They only
indicate the growing interest in the problem.

4, Picard’s measurement.

It was not until 1669 that an arc of the meridian was measured
with such care and precision as to inspire confidence in the result.
This was done by Picard, of the French Academy. He was the jirst
to apply the telescope to instruments for the measure of angles. He
commenced his operations at Malvoisin, near Paris, and terminated
them at Sourdon, near Amiens. For the measurement of terrestrial
angles he used a quadrant of 38 inches radius, and for zenith distances
a sextant of 10 feet radius.

He found for a degree 60.812 fathoms, a result very near the truth,
but it was owing to a fortunate balancing of errors which were sub-
sequently discovered in his work.

5. Up to 1672 no doubt was entertained of the perfect sphericity of
the earth During this year a circumstance occurred which had a
most important bearing upon this problem. Richer was sent out by
the French Academy to Cayenne, in South America, to make obser-
vations on the parallax of Mars. He took with him a pendulum,
carefully adjusted to beat seconds in Paris. On suspending it at
Cayenne, three or four degrees north of the equator, he found that it
lost two minutes and twenty-eight seconds per day. He shortened it
ON ASTRONOMY. 91

to make it beat seconds, and on returning to Paris it was necessary
to restore the original length in order again to beat seconds.

Picard had anticipated that a change of temperature would affect
the rate, but by no means to so great an extent as two minutes and
twenty-eight seconds per day.

The cause of so remarkable a fact of course engaged the attention
of astronomers.

Newton and Huygens both assigned the true cause, viz: the dimin-
ished force of gravity as a consequence of the centrifugal force and
the flattened figure of the earth.

The effect of the centrifugal
force may be illustrated by fig. 4. P Hig 4.
Let E P QS be a section of the
earth made by a meridian circle,

PS the axis, E Q the equator,
and P C Q an imaginary tube
extending from the pole to the
centre, and thence to the equa- g
tor. Let this tube be filled with
water and the earth at rest.
The two branches would then be
of equal length. Now let the
earth begin to rotate on the line
PS. The water would imme-
diately settle down in P C and s

rise in C Q.

Newton found the ratio of the two axes to be as 229 : 230. There
could be no doubt that the figure was flattened et the pole, the only
question was how much?

6. To settle a question of so much interest and of so much importance,
the French Academy determined on extending the arc of Picard.

In 1683, under the direction of the eminent astronomer royal, Do-
minic Cassini, the measurement was extended to some distance south
of Paris, when the death of the minister, Colbert, suddenly inter-
rupted their labors. They were not resumed till 1701, when the line
was extended to Perpignan, on the Mediterranean, 6° south of Paris.

In 1718 James Cassini, son of the former, continued the measure-
ment on the north of Paris to Dunkirk. Thus was this great work
completed after thirty years of labor.

The unlooked for result was that a degree at the northern extremity
of the arc was 145 fathoms shorter than at the southern.

The necessary consequence was that the earth was elongated, not
flattened, at the poles, and that the conclusion of the mathematicians
was contradicted by the facts.

This opinion, in opposition to those of Newton and Huygens, was
maintained by Cassini de Thury and his able coadjutors in the
Academy. ‘To confirm so important a result, Cassini measured an
are on a parallel of latitude extending from Strasburg to Brest, and
found it 300 toises shorter than it would have been if the earth had
been a perfect sphere. In an elaborate work published by him in
1735 he says, as quoted by Delambre, (Hist. Ast. 18th Century, p.

92 LECTURES

275 :) ‘Thus all our operations in longitude as well as latitude concur
in giving to the earth a figure elongated towards the pole.’’ Headds:
‘« This discovery, so useful to the sciences and to navigation, and so
glorious to France, will be due to the Academy.”’

7. The conflicting results thus obtained, taken in connexion with
the importance of the problem, determined the French Academy to
send out commissions, one to measure an arc of the meridian near the
equator, another in the most northern latitude accessible.

This was in 1735. The commission to the north was committed
chiefly to Maupertuis and Clairault, while that to the equator was
under the direction of Bouguer and Condamine.

The place selected by Maupertuis and Clairault for the northern
line was at the northern extremity of the Gulf of Bothnia, com-
mencing at Tornea, on the gulf, and terminating at a place called
Kittis, in latitude 66° 48’ 44”. The work was accomplished amid
great difficulties, arising from the severities of the climate. The
commission returned after an absence of more than two years. An
account of it was published by Clairault in 1743. he length of a
degree was found. to be 61.195 toises. This result, by subsequent
measurement of Swanburg, was found to be slightly erroneous.

The southern commission commenced their operations at Targui in
Peru, near the equator, and continued the line to Cotshequi, about 3°
south of it. This commission was absent nine years.* A detailed
account of the work was given by Bouguer in one volume, 8vo., pub-
lished 1749. The length of a degree was found to be 60.468 toises.

The results of these measurements dissipated all doubts as to the
earth’s figure. They showed an unquestionable lengthening of the
degrees as we go from the equator to the pole, and a consequent flat-
tening at the pole.

8. In the mean time, while these important measurements were in
progress in Peru and Lapland, Cassini de Thury, third of the name
and grandson of Dominic, in connexion with Lacaille, in 1739, re-
measured the entire French are from Perpignan to Dunkirk, with
every possible care which could insure the utmost accuracy in the
result. Several errors of former measurements were corrected. The
comparison of a degree at the northern and southern extremities of
the arc, of some 400 miles in extent left, no room for doubt as to the
lengthening of the degrees as we proceed to the north. These three
measurements removed all doubts which might have existed as to the
figure of the earth. Thus the mathematicians, who dednced the ob-
lateness from principles purely dynamical, had the satisfaction of
finding their conclusions confirmed by the most elaborate measure-
ments.

The next object of interest was to determine the exact amount ;
that is, to determine the exact length of the two axes of the figure ;
in other words, the equatorial and polar diameters.

9. To determine the exact amount of oblateness, additional mea-
surements in different latitudes and different portions of the earth were
necessary.

* Left France in May, 1735, returned in 1744.
ON ASTRONOMY. 93

In 1750 Boscovich and Le Maire measured an arc from Rome to
Rimini, a distance of nearly 140 miles.

In 1752 Liesganig measured an arc passing through the observatory
of Vienna, and about the same time Beccaria measured another in the
plains of Lombardy.

In 1764 Charles Mason and Jeremiah Dixon measured a line of
about 100 miles in length along the valley of the Delaware. They were
engaged at the time in running the boundary line between the States of
Pennsylvania and Maryland, and finding a fine locality for measuring
an are of the meridian, they informed the Royal Society of London
of the fact and offered to execute the work if the Society would furnish
the requisite instruments. The Society, under the advice of Dr. Mas-
kelyne, the astronomer royal, gladly accepted the offer of Messrs.
Mason and Dixon. This line is re-
markable as having been actually Hig 6
measured through its whole extent VA B
with wooden rods, or rather a wooden
frame, sent out for the purpose by
the Royal Society. It was made of
fir, 20 feet long and 4 feet wide, with
adjustments for being leveled by 7
plumb line. This measurement has
always been regarded as a very ac-
curate one. The latitude of the
middle point of the line is 39° 12’
nearly. This arc is one of the 13 Ss
used by Airy in determining the
figure of the earth.

10. After the peace 1783 Cassini de Thury addressed a memoir to the
Royal Society of London upon the importance to astronomy of deter-
mining more accurately than had before been done the difference in
longitude between the observatories of Paris and Greenwich. ‘The
suggestion was favorably received and commissions were appointed by
both governments to carry the project into effect by a trigonometrical
survey. General Roy was at the head of the English commission.
The French operations were committed to Count Cassini, (the 4th of
the name,) Mechain and Legendre.

The English had hitherto taken little part in the prosecution of
these important geodetic labors, but the splendid array of instru-
ments and the practical skill which they brought to the work placed
them second to no others. The great theodolite, constructed for the
purpose by Ramsden, 30 inches in diameter, may almost be said to be
the wonder of the age. It certainly marks an important epoch in the
history of astronomical instruments. The three angles of every spheri-
cal triangle are well known to be greater than two right angles. But
this theodolite, in the hands of General Roy, was the first instrument,
in the history of science, to show the fact by actual measurement. It
is recorded, as a singularly gratifying fact, that in all the primary tri-
angles this spherical excess was apparent, and seldom did it exceed
3” or 4” of arc.

The work on both sides of the channel was executed with eminent

94 LECTURES

ability. The computation of the French astronomers, based upon this
triangulation, placed the observatory of Paris 9’ 21” to the east of
Greenwich. The computations of Colonel Mudge gave 9’ 19”.4. In
the mean time, the difference obtained by Dr. Maskelyne from astron-
omical observation was 9’ 20’. And nearer than this, it was sug-
gested, the difference probably would never be known; but the
electric telegraph was not then invented. With this new aid the dif-
ference is fixed at 9/ 20.63. This last is adopted by the English
Nautical Almanac.

The triangulation of Great Britain and Ireland now extends from
the Scilly islands, in latitude 49° 53’, to the Shetland isles, latitude
60° 50’—a distance of about 750 miles. During the progress of the
work, commenced in 1791 and continued to the present time, seven
base lines have been measured. The one on Hounslow Heath has
beeu measured three times—once with deal rods, once with glass rods,
and once with a steel chain of exquisite workmanship, made by Rams-
den. ‘The results were as follows:

Length! by deal rods... 02. cis. .csass00s 27,405.76 feet.
Length) by. class rods... ois a.9 cme 27,403.38 ‘
Length by steel chain.............04 27,402.38 §

The base on Salisbury plains, of between six and seven miles in
length, has been measured twice, first with Ramsden’s steel chain
and subsequently with General Colby’s compensation bars, the latter
measure exceeded the former by about one foot. Sir J. Herschel says
that the greatest possible error in the Irish line, near Londonderry,
of between seven and eight miles in length, is supposed not to exceed
two inches,

11. Many other arcs of the meridian have been measured. Three
of them deserve to be mentioned, on account of their great extent and
the extreme accuracy of the work.

The first is the great French arc, commenced in 1791, under order
of the National Assembly. The object was to determine a new unit
of measure of length, the metre, which should be based on an invari-
able standard in nature. It was determined to make it the =,)° 09
part of the meridian of the earth from the equator to the pole. This
magnificent enterprise was assigned to Delambre and Mechain. De-

took the southern, from Paris to Perpignan, and extended the same
to Barcelona, in Spain. This arc was subsequently extended, (1806,)
by Biot and Arago, to the island of Fomentera, in the Mediterranean.
The whole are from Dunkirk to Fomentera covers about 123° of lati-
tude, or about 850 miles. Delambre’s base of verification, of about
7.3 miles, differed from its computed lengths by only about 11 inches.

12. The second is the great Indian arc, commenced by Colonel
Lancton in 1802 at a place called Punne, near Cape Comorin, the
extreme southern point of Hindostan, and extended northward
through about 10° of latitude (680 miles.) After the death of Lanc-
ton, in 1823, the work was continued by Captain Everest, who had
been his principal assistant, through an arc of nearly 114° (797 miles. )
ON ASTRONOMY. 95

This whole distance, measured with singular ability, extending from
Cape Comorin to the foot of the Himalay mountains, is 1,477 miles.

Two of Everest’s bases of verification, of about 7} miles in extent,
differed by computation, the one 4 and the other 7 inches from the
measured length.

13. The third is the Russian are, extending from Ismail on the Danube
to the Arctic sea near the North Cape, being more than 25 degrees
(25° 20/.) The work was under the direction of the able astronomer
Strové. It was begun in 1816, and-has but recently been completed.
The complete discussion of the observations has not yet been given to
the public. This arc is about 1,750 miles in extent, and is believed
to have been measured with eminent ability.

14. Any sketch of the geodetic operations which serve to determine
the figure of the earth would be incomplete without a notice of the
United States Coast Survey.

The great interest with which this question was regarded in early
times arose from its importance as an astronomical problem; but in
the attempts to devise more accurate methods for the measurement, of
arcs upon the earth’s surface, it was found that, for the construction
of accurate maps of any extended portions of the earth, a knowledge
of its precise figure was not only essential, but that the method of
triangulation which was adopted to connect the extreme points of
the arc to be measured, together with the astronomical positions of
those points, formed the best possible basis of a map of the region
traversed by the system of triangles.

This was the origin of the science called geodesy or geodetic sur-
veying. The interest which was felt in the solution of an impor-
tant scientific question was, therefore, soon merged in that which
attended its practical benefits to the human race, in the construction
of accurate maps, showing the boundaries of States and provinces,
and the configuration of sea coasts.

The French arc was first made the basis of a complete map of
France, and most of the measurements of arcs in modern times have
been incidental to the prosecution of extended surveys of the territo-
ries through which they pass.

The figure of the earth having been approximately determined, the
more accurate measurement of its dimensions, from having been the
primary object of the great geodetic operations of the globe, has,
therefore, become secondary or incidental to geodetic surveys. Thus
the Indian arc, the Russian arc, and numerous measurements in Ku-
rope, would, perhaps, not have been undertaken, except as the result
of extended trignometrical surveys for national purposes.

Every improvement in the construction of instruments for geodetic
and astronomical purposes, and in the methods of observation em-
ployed, gives additional value and weight to subsequent measure-
ments, and hence it is that the data derived from the geodetic opera-
tions of the United States Coast Survey for the more accurate solution
of the question of the figure of the earth may be looked for with great
interest.

The important objects of this survey, united with the great extent
of the coast, requires the highest attainable accuracy in the great
96 LECTURES

chain of triangles which stretches along the coast, forming the basis
of the survey, and in the astronomical determinations connected with
it. It has been demonstrated that, in works of this character, ulti-
mate economy is promoted in proportion to the precision with which
the work is first executed. There is every demand, therefore, for the
most perfect instruments, the most approved methods of observation,
and the best practical skill in establishing the true positions of the
primary points of the survey.

The American Coast Survey now represents, according to the best
authorities, the most perfect forms of practical science applicable to
works of this character; and a general sketch of the methods em-
ployed in the geodetic operations, in order to illustrate the value of
the new measurements of arcs of the earth’s surface which will follow
the completion of the primary chain of triangles along the coast, will
not be out of place in connexion with this subject.

The triangulation of the Atlantic and Gulf coasts when completed
will extend diagonally through 19 degrees of latitude and 30 degrees
of longitude. The extreme points of this triangulation will be dis-
tant from each other, by the general line of the coast, nearly 3,000
miles; the chain of triangles extending from the eastern boundary of
Maine to the western boundary of Texas. It will probably be many
years, perhaps centuries, before this triangulation will be extended
across the continent to the Pacific ocean ; but, ultimately, this will
undoubtedly come to pass; in the mean while the survey of the
western coast of our territory is progressing according to the plan
followed on the eastern coast.

The triangulation of the eastern coast is now continuous from
Mount Desert, in Maine, to Shalotte inlet, south of Cape Fear, in
North Carolina; stretching over more than ten degrees of latitude
and as many degrees of longitude, including the coast of ten States,
and the greater part of the coast of two others ; then, with an interval
of about seventy miles, it extends along the coast of South Carolina
and Georgia.

Large detached portions of the triangulation of the coast of Florida,
Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana, and Texas have been completed, and
a few years only will be necessary to fill the intervals so as to makea
continuous chain from the eastern boundary of Maine to the western
boundary of Texas.

This triangulation will rest upon ten or twelve principal base lines,
measured on different parts of the coast, which afford the double pur-
pose of starting the work at nearly the same time at different points,
and for ultimate verification of its accuracy.

The accuracy of the work has been tested by the connexion of several
of these bases in the progress of the survey, and the degree of precision
attained is so remarkable as to justify a somewhat detailed description
of the various processes by which aérial distances of many miles length,
and hundreds of miles from the starting point, or base, may be deter-
mined by the wonderful applications of geodesy, with but a few inches
of probable or possible error.

When it is said that a certain part of this triangulation is completed,
it is meant that all the mechanical work in the field for measuring the
base lines and the angles, and for determining the latitudes and longi-
ON ASTRONOMY. 97

tudes by astronomical observation, has been executed, and the com-
putations performed by which the results of the mechanical work are
made available. The calculations of the elements of a survey from
given data are founded on mathematical formule, and are susceptible
of rigid accuracy ; but the mechanical work in the field depends for
its precision upon the means employed, and on the skill and care of
the operator. In some of the early attempts, as we have before stated,
to measure great distances on the earth’s surface, the only means em-
ployed was counting the revolutions of a carriage wheel, of known
periphery, in travelling over the distance.

When the method of triangulation was invented the line to be
determined mechanically was shortened so that, without too much
labor, the whole length could be measured by rods or chains; and,
finally, an apparatus was constructed especially for the measurement
of base lines.

Any simple material of whatever form is liable to change its dimen-
sions with a change of temperature, so that a line measured on the
ground by a steel or glass rod, or a chain, would appear to have a
different length if measured in summer, from that which it would have
if measured in winter with the same apparatus. This was found to be
the chief source of error, and although the changes in length of a rod
caused by a given change of temperature may be calculated and a cor-
rection applied to the measurements, yet for primary base lines a more
accurate measuring apparatus was devised, by combining two metallic
bars upon the compensating principle, illustrated in the compensation
pendulum.

This method was first applied by Colonel Colby, in the ordnance
survey of Great Britain. It has been brought to great perfection in
this country by Professor Bache in the base apparatus of the Coast
Survey.

The great object to be attained in a measuring apparatus of this
kind is such a combination or arrangement that the extreme points of
the compound bar used as measuring limits shall remain at an invari-
able distance apart under all degrees of temperature, and even while
the temperature is changing.

This is effected in the Coast Survey base apparatus by two bars, one of
brass and the other of iron, each a little less than twenty feet in length,
placed side by side so as to be capable of independent parallel motion
on rollers. At one end, the two bars are firmly attached to each other
by means of a block to which they are fastened by screws, the
medium of connexion at the other or free ends of the bars is a lever of
compensation. ‘he brass bar is attached to the lever by a hinge pin,
and the iron bar abuts agaiiist the lever, the free end of which is
the point that remains fixed during any change in the length of the
bars ; the points of attachment of the bars to the lever being adjusted
at such a distance from the end of the lever that the motion will be
about this end as a centre. ‘These points are determined by the rela-
tive expansions of the brass and iron, and the cross sections of the
bars are so calculated that they will undergo the same changes of
temperature from the same source of heat in the same time. The end
of the lever of compensation abuts against a small secondary rod or

7
98 LECTURES

bar, which is supported parallel to the iron and brass bars, and which
is used for making the contact of the two compound bars during the
operation of measuring. On the opposite end of each pair of compound
bars a corresponding small auxiliary rod is placed, and also a sector
for measuring the slope at which the whole bar is placed.

Two measuring bars being made exactly alike as above described,
are placed in line upon the ground and adjusted so that the small
rods at the end shall be at the same height, the lever end of one
opposite to the sector end of the other; the rod at the sector end of
the foremost bar is so attached to a small spirit level that by a slight
pressure the bubble will be brought to the centre of the level. The
rod on the end of the other bar, which we have described as abutting
against the lever of compensation, has a sliding motion, which is
resisted by a delicate spiral spring ; the end of this little rod is termi-
nated by a smooth agate plane surface, and the end of the opposite
rod by an agate knife edge. The contact is made by bringing these
ends together, the spirit level insuring the same degree of pressure in
every case.

This is the general description of the apparatus ; the sector is used
for measuring the slope of the ground along which the line extends,
the resulting angle giving the means of reducing the measurements
to horizontal lengths. Hach of the compound bars are enclosed in
large tin tubes, to protect them from the air and weather and sudden
change of temperature, and in use these tubes are supported on trestles
made for the purpose.

There are many interesting details of construction which can only
be explained by reference to drawings or to the apparatus itself, a full
description of which may be found in the Coast Survey Report of 1854.

With the apparatus we have described a distance of a mile may be
measured in one day, and a distance of ten miles may be measured
with no greater error than a fraction of an inch. The length of each
of the compound bars is kept constantly compared during the meas-
urement of a base line with a standard metallic bar, the length of which
at a given temperature is known.

The necessity for the greatest attainable accuracy in such opera-
tions is apparent, when we remember that any error in the base line
will be greatly multiplied in the triangulation depending upon it.
The true cause of the erroneous results of the measurement of the
first French arc was an error in the base line of Picard, which was
subsequently discovered and corrected as before stated.

A base was measured on Kent island, in Chesapeake bay, to verify
the triangulation between a base on Fire Island (on the south side of
Liong Island) and the Chesapeake. The shortest distance between
these base lines is two hundred and eight miles, but the distance
through the triangulation is three hundred and twenty miles. The
Kent Island base, five miles and four-tenths long, was first calculated
from the triangulation, which embraces thirty-two triangles. The
computed length differed from the length found by measurement only
four inches.

On some parts of the coast, where it is desirable to commence the
work of the survey in advance of the main triangulation, preliminary
ON ASTRONOMY. 99

or secondary base lines are measured by means of wooden or iron bars
of simple construction; but all such measurements are, in time, super-
seded by the progress of the primary triangulation.

In measuring the angles of the primary triangulation theodolites
of various sizes and construction are employed. The largest instru-
ment of this class belonging to the Coast Survey has a circle of thirty
inches diameter. It was designed by Mr. Hassler, the first superin-
tendent of the Survey, and constructed by Troughton and Simms of
London. The circle is graduated to five minutes, and may be read
to single seconds by means of micrometers. It is provided with a tele-
scope of great power, by which signals many miles distant may be
seen distinctly. This instrument is employed principally on the north-
east part of the coast, where the lines range from twenty to eighty
miles in length. ‘The accuracy of this instrument is such that the
probable error of a single measure of an angle is about one second and
a quarter ; a mean of about thirty measures is taken for each angle.

Another theodolite of nearly similar construction and of twenty-
four inches diameter is also employed in the survey. Besides these,
smaller repeating theodolites of various sizes are used on different
parts of the work.

Various instruments have been employed for the determination of
the latitude of the most prominent points of the triangulation, among
which may be mentioned vertical circles, repeating theodolites, and
especially the zenith sector, designed by Mr. Airy, the astronomer-
royal of England; but all, except the last named, have been found
liable to considerable errors. The zenith sector is accurate and gives
good results, but its great weight and the labor attendant on its use
make it less available for such surveys than an instrument called
the zenith telescope, designed by Captain A. Talcott, late of the United
States engineers. This instrument is designed to measure by means
of a micrometer the difference of zenith distances of stars which cul-
minate within a short time of each other and near the zenith, on oppo-
site sides of it. It is portab-e, accurate, and simple, and is perhaps
destined to supersede all others for geodetic purposes.

In the progress of the latitude observations of the survey discrep-
ancies have occurred which can only be accounted for by local irregu-
larities in the figure and density of the earth. These irregularities
are still the subject of investigation. For the determination of the
longitudes of the various points of the survey every means which sci-
ence can afford has been resorted to. All the observations obtainable
by eclipses, occultations, and moon culminations, made in this coun-
try previously to 1844, together with the simultaneous observations
abroad, so far as they could be found, have been collected and redu-
ced, and similar observations have since been continued at Cambridge,
Philadelphia, Washington, Charleston, and Cincinnati. All these
stations being connected by the electric-telegraph, their differences
of longitude have been determined with great accuracy, and all the
results are referred to Cambridge, as a common station of reference.

The difference of longitude between Cambridge and Liverpool has
also been determined by means of large numbers of chronometers
100 LECTURES

carried repeatedly between the two stations on the Cunard steam-
ships.*

“The differences of longitude between Cambridge and the prin-
cipal stations of the survey in other sections are determined by the aid
of the electric telegraph, wherever this has been established. In this
method, which is by far the most accurate for determining difference
of longitude, the Coast Survey has taken the lead, and has brought it
to a state of perfection which subsequent operations of a similar nature ©
executed in Europe have not yet reached.

‘«The idea of comparing the local time of different places by means
of the electric telegraph is sufficiently obvious, and dates from the
conception of the telegraph itself; but the refined methods by which
the intervention of human senses and operations, and the consequent
liabilities to error, are, in the greatest possible degree, avoided, and
by which the time of transmission is measured and eliminated from
the longitude, have been the result of careful study and long expe-
rience. The method of recording observations of time on a chrono-
graphic register, by means of a galvanic circuit, known in Europe as
the American method, originated in the Coast Survey with the first
attempts to determine longitude by means of the electro-magnetic
telegraph. The chronographic record is made on a cylinder, revolving
with nearly uniform velocity, covered with a sheet of paper, upon
which a pen traces a line, interrupted or deflected for an instant
through the agency of an electro-magnet, every time the pendulum
of the clock passes the vertical, and in doing so interrupts a galvanic
circuit. Hither cylinder or pen are at the same time slowly moving
lengthwise, so that the line formed is a long spiral, which is thus
graduated into spaces corresponding to seconds of time, and described
with uniform velocity. When any instant of time is to be recorded,
the observer strikes a finger-key, which also breaks the galvanic
circit and causes a similar mark to be made on the record, the position
of which, in reference to the adjacent seconds marks, can be read off
with great precision. In the chronographs employed in the Coast
Survey a second is generally represented by from one-half to three-
quarters of an inch, the cylinder being regulated so as to make one
revolution in half a minute.

‘« By an ingenious arrangement in the clock the break for every sixty
seconds or minute is omitted, and every five minutes two breaks are
omitted. By this means a whole sheet may be read off without any
other note than the time of beginning and ending.

““The method of determining longitudes by means of the electric
telegraph is substantially and in brief as follows: A transit instru-
ment, astronomical clock, and chronograph are mounted at each
station. Atter suitable observations for instrumental corrections at
each station, which are recorded.only at the place of observation, the
clock at the eastern station is first put in connexion with the circul
so as to write on the chronographs at both stations.

* The preceding account of the details of the operations of the Coast Survey has been
furnished by Professor Trowbridge, and what follows is copied from the report of a com-
mittee of the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
ON ASTRONOMY. 101

<¢ A number of stars, culminating near the zenith of the two stations,
are selected by the observers. As they appear first upon the eastern
meridian their transit is recorded by the observer striking the finger-
key upon the chronographic registers at both stations. After an
interval of time equivalent to the difference of longitude between the
two places, which is measured by the clock, the same stars appear on
the western meridian, and the observer at that station records this
transit precisely as the other had done, and the difference of the two
records of time is the measure of the difference of longitude.

‘<Tt will be observed that these records have been obtained at both
stations, and a little reflection will show that if there be any sensible
interval of time consumed in the transmission of signals, the differ-
ence of longitude obtained from the record at the eastern station will
be too great by that interval, and that at the western station will be
too small by the same amount. The mean result will give the longi-
tude free from this error, and the difference of measure the time of
transmission of the signals through the whole circuit.

‘‘Ten stars are generally exchanged with the eastern clock in the
circuit, and, after the first five, the transit instrument is reversed so
as to eliminate any residual error in the correction for collimation.
The western clock is next put on and the same operation repeated
with ten other zenith stars. Not only is the result improved by the
accumulation of individual results, but the advantage is gained that
the interval is measured by another clock, and the time of transmis-
sion eliminated in the inverse order of effects. The transits of the
stars are generally recorded over fifteen wires. After the exchange
of signals by the second clock is completed, local observations for
instrumental corrections are again made, which conclude the night's
work. ‘These operations are repeated on, at least, three different
nights, after which the observers and instruments exchange places, so
as to eliminate the possible errors arising from causes connected with
their individual peculiarities.

*« By the perfect and admirable method just sketched we are able to
measure arcs of longitude with the same degree of accuracy with which
arcs of latitude have heretofore been ascertained, and a new element
has thus been introduced into geodesy. Since the general introduc-
tion of the electric telegraph and the development of the American
method of longitudes it has been applied to many of the older Euro-
pean geodetic surveys ; and, in general, a very full acknowledgment
has been made of their indebtedness to American science by the emi-
nent geometers having charge of such works.

“<Tt was one of the earliest discoveries resulting from the telegraphic
determinations of longitude that the time transmission of signals
between stations several hundred miles apart is quite sensible, and
that it appears, in a great degree, to depend on the distance. On the
telegraph lines used in this country, where large iron wire is employed,
and the circuit is completed through. the earth, the rate of transmis-
sion has been found to be from 11,000 to 20,000 miles per second.
Whether this actually was the velocity of the galvanic current, or
whether it rather measures the time during which the current must
102 | LECIURES

be established in order to produce the effects that we observe, is for the
present an unsolved question.

‘“The telegraphic determinations of longitude have been extended
from Washington northward to Philadelphia, New York, Cambridge,
Bangor, and Halifax, and southward to Petersburg, Wilmington,
Charleston, Savannah, Mobile, and New Orleans. \

“¢ Great credit is due to the public spirit of the telegraph companies,
who have extended every facility to the operations of the Coast Survey,
and have given the use of the line after working hours free of charge.

‘In sections of the coast to which the telegraph has not yet pene-
trated, such as Florida, Texas, and the Pacific coast, the longitudes of
cardinal points are determined by observations of moon culminations
and by chronometer.

“¢ Corresponding observations of moon culminationsare made at several
American observatories, at the expense of the Coast Survey ; and most
valuable aid is derived from the series of meridian observations of the
moon made at Greenwich, which are always most promptly obtained
through the kindness of the astronomer-royal. The manner in which
the reductions are made to keep pace with the observations at the
latter observatory is admirable, and worthy of general imitation.

‘<The chronometric determination of longitude between Savannah
and Fernandina, in Florida, the details of which have been communi-
cated tothe American Association at the Montreal meeting, may serve,
in plan of execution and mode of discussion, as a model for operations
of a similar character.

“<The triangulation of the eastern States will furnish a measurement
of one arc of meridian of over three degrees in length between the
island of Nantucket and Mount Blue, in Maine; another of equal ex-
tent along the Chesapeake Bay and southward ; and, by the admirable
method of determining differences of longitude by the electric tele-
graph an arc of aan of latitude embracing over ten degrees of lon-
gitude, may be measured along the Gulf of Mexico.’’

These measurements cannot fail to be of great importance in estab-
lishing correct values for the elements of the earth’s dimensions, and
the result will be one of those valuable contributions to science which
attend the thorough prosecution of works of this character.

The results of all the measurements in different parts of the earth
indicate a lengthening of the degrees as we go towards the pole ;
but there are many discrepancies, some, no doubt, the result of
the imperfection of instruments and the unavoidable error of observa-
tion. But there are still others which are not probably traceable to
these sources. They clearly show that the earth is flattened at the
poles, but they also show it has irregularities of figure which are not
yet fully explained. If we take the mean results of all the best mea-
surements, we have for the length of a degree at the equator 68.7
miles, nearly 362,626 feet; at the arctic circle, 66° 20’, 69.4 miles,
nearly 365,744 feet; difference 3,118 feet.

15. With the measured length of the degrees it is easy to obtain
the exact figure of the earth.

Thus, fig. 5, if A B is a measured arc of one degree near the pole,
ON ASTRONOMY. 103

the plumb-line at the two extremities will not meet at O, the centre
of the earth, but at C, some distance below. We may now suppose
A B to be an arc of one degree upon the circle whose radius is A OC,
That being supposed, we shall readily know the whole circumference,
which is 360 times A B; and knowing the circumference we can
readily find the radius, A C, which is known as the radii of curvature.
And by this is meant that the arc A B will coincide with a circle
drawn round C as acentre, and A C as a radius, more nearly than
with any other circle which can be drawn.

Assuming the meridian curve to be an eclipse with two radii of
curvature, we can compute the two semi-axes of the figure N O and
OE. The ratio of these two, the polar and equatorial radii, gives the
oblateness or ellipticity.

Professor Airy, some years ago, selected thirteen of the most reliable
arcs, and from the combinations, two and two, deduced the probable
value of the polar and equatorial diameters, as follows:

Polar diameter in miles...... eee 7899.17  Radii 3949.58
Equatorial diameter in miles.............06. . 7925.65 ‘6 3962.82

Difference...... Mobs Bat Ree RRA Lae

More recently, Bessel, selecting eleven arcs, some of them the saine
and others different from those of Airy, by widely different methods
computed the values, as follows:

Polar diameter in miles.........ccesscccesscces 7899.11 Radii 3949.55
Equatorial diameter in miles........... siaieaisnd he 20:00 «¢ 3962.80
Difference......... Ss wats aide wdinta tases nicks 13.25

It is not a little remarkable that results based upon different mea-
surements and computed by different methods, and in both cases, as
Sir John Hershel remarks, ‘‘ the mass of figures to be gone through
with being enormous,’’—I say it is most remarkable that the differ-
ence in the length of the earth’s radius, as determined in the two
cases, should be less than the ;25 part of a mile. Any residual
error which may affect these results must be extremely small.

We then have for the figure of the earth a spheroid flattened at the
poles to such an extent that the polar radius is 13} miles shorter than
the equatorial. This difference divided by the equatorial radius gives
the oblateness or ellipticity. It comes very near to 345, more exactly
zoy.r- This variation from perfect sphericity in a 20-inch globe could
scarcely be detected by the most accurate eye, and yet this oblateness
of the earth enters as an essential element into many of the most
important and curious problems in astronomy. The equatorial cir-
cumference of the earth is 24,886 miles. It is proper to remark, in
104 LECTURES

conclusion, that there are so many discrepancies in the results of these
computations as to force upon astronomers the conviction that the
figure of the earth is not that of a spheroid of revolution. There
must be in different portions of the surface local depressions and eleva-
tions which are most probably due to unequal densities in the interior.
The surface, strictly speaking, is warped and irregular. But these
irregularities, though capable of being detected, are very small.

Such are the results of two centuries of arduous scientific labor
upon the figure and magnitude of the earth; labor in the field and
in the study, which has put in requisition the utmost skill of mechanic
arts, and exhausted the resources of mathematical analysis.

LAW OF GRAVITATION.

In my previous lecture I endeavored to explain the method of find-
ing the exact figure and magnitude of the earth.

1. I shall this evening call your attention to the law of gravitation.
This may be termed the great law of the material universe. There
is no single law of nature which reveals so much, none which controls
and determines so many physical conditions and events, none which
carries us so far into,the distant future, or conducts us back so far to
contemplate the past. This law determines alike the fall of a pebble,
the mighty swell of the ocean, and the vast sweep of the comet,
coursing its fiery track of a thousand years. It guides every planet
in its orbit round the central sun, and, in the midst of inevitable and
endless perturbations, ¢ cuarantees the final stability and harmony of
the system. In its immense range of applications it invites to the
sublimest contemplations of which the human mind is capable.

Fig. 6.
N
6 q 3
aq be g g
3 Sunita e 3
ges Wy iat)
en an
BoA, ashy wl
ery
: OE is nls
Mis)
hs AIR sig
2

2. The law of gravity may be stated as follows, viz: every particle
of matter altracts every other particle by a force proportional to the
mass, and inversely as the square of the distance.
ON ASTRONOMY. 105

Each separate body in the system attracts every other body by the
same law. ‘The earth, for instance, has a fixed mass; it attracts the
moon and the sun, and each of the planets, by a force proportional to
its mass, and inversely as the squares of their respective distances.
To illustrate this law, as it applies to the solar system, let S in
fig. 6 represent the sun.

Suppose the planets placed at their relative distances, the earth’s
distance being unity, then the figures in the upper part of the dia-
gram wil] represent the relative distances of the other planets, viz:
Mars 1.5, Ceres, as the mean of the asteroids, 2.8, Jupiter 5.2,
Saturn 9.5, Uranus 19.1, and Neptune 30. The force of the solar at-
traction upon them will then be represented by the figures on the
lower part of the diagram, which are inversely as the squares of the
distances. The attraction on the earth being 1, on Mars it will be 55,
on Ceres ==, on Jupiter ,1;, on Saturn ';, on Uranus 3}+5, and on
Neptune ,},. If their orbitual motions were stopped, the earth would
move toward the sun 900 times as fast as Neptune.

This enables us to form a true conception of what this law is. Of
the nature of gravity itself we know nothing. We give the name of
law to the effects which it produces. Everything connected with the
history and progress of so grand a principle in nature must awaken a
special interest. Any law or principle which enables the astronomer
to determine, not with uncertainty and vague conjecture, but with the
utmost precision, the relative position of the heavenly bodies for ages
past and for ages to come, challenges our admiration. The astrono-
mer turns his telescope to the heavens and watches the progress of the
stars as they enter and cross his field of view, and marks the hour,
minute, and second when one of them disappears for an instant behind a
spider’s web which is stretched across his field of view. Suppose the_
telescope to stand unmolested, it is not difficult to predict the hour,
minute, and second when the same star will disappear behind the
same spider line after the lapse of a hundred years. The earth will,
in the mean time, have made a hundred revolutions around her orbit
of nearly 600,000,000 of miles, but the force of gravity will have kept
her in her appointed track. She pursues her elliptic course without
weariness or change.

3. But let us glance at the history of the discovery of this great law.
Speculations upon the causes of the heavenly motions were probably
coeval with the observations which served to make them known.
Many of these speculations which have come down to us are charac-
terized by great crudeness, but they all show the perpetual tendency
of the human mind to ascend from phenomena to their causes.

The earlier Greek astronomers introduced a system of crystalline
transparent spheres, revolving one within another, and carrying the
planets with them round the earth as acentre. Far beyond these
crystalline planetary spheres was the ‘“‘ primum mobile,” the starry
sphere, revolving trom east to west in twenty-four hours. This system
was incorporated into the philosophy of Aristotle, and seems to have
commanded the assent of mankind for many ages. Its truth was
hardly drawn into doubt till the revival or commencement of true
106 LECTURES

astronomical science in the seventeenth century. And even then the
clearest and strongest intellects were slow in extricating themselves
from the trammels of the Aristotelian philosophy.

It was not until the time of Kepler that any real progress was
made in discovering the true laws of planetary motion. He discarded
all dependence upon authority. His views were independent and
bold, but in many respects extremely defective and often whimsical.
Yet his labors will ever be regarded as forming a brilliant epoch in
the history of astronomy.

It is true that Copernicus had established the true system of the
world, which fixes the sun in the centre; Galileo had demonstrated
the laws of motion, in falling bodies, and laid the foundation of
dynamical science; Tycho Brahé had, for a quarter of a century, most
diligently watched and recorded the motions of the heavenly bodies.
But neither of these illustrious astronomers had ventured any hypo-
thesis for explaining the cause of those motions.

By the laborious comparison of the observations of Tycho, Kepler
discovered the three laws of planetary motion which bear his name,
and which constitute the ground work of physical astronomy. They
are familiar to every student. The first is, that the planets revolve in
elliptical orbits ; the second, that the radius-vector, or the line drawn
Jrom the sun to the planet, describes equal areas in equal times, in what-
ever part of the orbit it is located ; the third, that the squares of the
periodic times are proportional to the cubes of the mean distances. This
third law may justly be regarded as one of the grandest inductions in
the whole range of physical science. But Kepler was still far from
having any just conception of the true physical cause of these motions.

He rejected the crystalline spheres of the Greeks and located in the
sun a kind of central virtue, by which the planetary motions were
maintained. But this force or virtue, for he uses both terms, must
have the effect, as he perceived, not of drawing bodies directly toward
the sun, but of moving them across or athwart this line of direction.
It must, in some way, carry bodies round the sun.

In order to render this idea plausible he was obliged to introduce a
whirling fluid which bore the planets round in the same manner that
a running stream carries a boat. This was substantially the same
hypothesis which, nearly half a century later, was propounded by
Des Cartes, and was known as his celebrated system of vortices.

But, in addition to his other agencies, Kepler gravely believed and
taught that each planet was animated by a spirit which held to the
matter of the planet a relation analogous to that which the mind of
man holds to his body. This great animal spirit acted an important
part in giving to the planet the right direction.

Nor can we be much surprised at this fancy when we find even the
great Newton gravely recording his suspicion, as he does in his Prin-
cipia, that ‘‘ the spirit which constitutes the most subtile and best
portion of our atmosphere, and which is necessary to all life, is derived
from comets.”’ .

But, unsuccessful as Kepler was in discovering the true physical
cause of the planetary motions—the law which was underlying his

ON ASTRONOMY. LO

laws—he gave a great impulse to the spirit of inquiry. The energies
of all the ablest mathematicians and astronomers of the age were con-
centrated upon this problem.

In the mean time other branches of science were throwing light
upon this. Gilbert, of England, had investigated the laws of mag-
netism, and in 1600 had published a work, remarkable for that period,
on the magnet. This work was known to Galileo and Kepler, and
was much esteemed by them. The attraction between two magnets
suggested the idea that some analogous force might exist between
other bodies. Gilbert explained the influence of the earth upon the
moon by regarding the earth as a great loadstone. In like manner,
he supposed the moon to have a reciprocal action upon the earth,
not only upon the matter of the earth but upon ‘‘certain subterra-
nean humors and spirits’? which are drawn out and modified by the
moon’s action. Galileo and Kepler, as Grant says, both professed
themselves to be much indebted to the views contained in Gilbert’s
work upon the magnet.

Kepler fully adopted the principle of some sort of attraction, but
how that force acted in maintaining the orbits he did not comprehend.
His great work on astronomy, the ‘‘Astronomia Nova,’’ was published
in 1609. In this work he maintains that some sort of attraction
exists between all the planets of the system, and that the planetary
motions are maintained by some sort of influence emanating from the
sun. He seemed to be constantly impressed with the idea that a cen-
tripetal force alone would not keep a planet in motion. It must have
some force either pulling it or pushing along in its course. And hence
he was obliged, on this hypothesis, to make the sun-force propel a
planet in a direction perpendicular to the radius-vector. '

We may judge how slow was the progress of true ideas upon this
subject from the fact that the law of gravitation was not discovered
till considerably more than half a century after the publication of
Kepler’s work, before mentioned.

In the mean while the law of planetary attraction engaged the
attention of Galileo, of Borelli, of Boulliau, of Des Cartes, Cassini,
Huyghens, Hooke, Halley, Sir Christopher Wren, and finally of
Newton. Among these Christian Huyghens, by common consent, is
second only to the illustrious Newton. Huyghens, who preceded
Newton bya few years published a very remarkable work in 1671 on
the pendulum. In this work, entitled ‘‘ De Horologio Oscillatorio,’’
he inserts several important theorems respecting the motion of a
heavenly body, which is constantly drawn to a fixed centre. Borelli,
of Pisa, had, a few years before, (1666,) published a work in which
he quite accurately describes the action of centrifugal and centripetal
forces, and shows that they would together cause a body to revolve in
a circular orbit.

At this time, 1665, when Newton’s attention was first drawn to the
subject, it had become a common opinion, though by no means a uni-
versal one, that the planets were retained in their orbits by a force
residing in the sun. And the great point at issue now was to deter-
miine what kind of an orbit it would produce, and how it varied with
the distance ; whether it was inversely as the distance, or inversely as
108 LECTURES

the square of the distance, or whether it varied in some more compli-
cated ratio of the distance.

Bouilliau,* a French astronomer, cotemporary with Newton, though
older, is said to have been the first to suggest the inverse ratio
of the square of the distance as the law of variation, which he did in
1645. Kepler maintained the opinion that the variation was inversely
as the distance simply. Hooke made the announcement that he had
demonstrated the law to be as the square inversely, but declined show-
ing his demonstration, and it finally appeared that he never had one.
It, indeed, seemed to be the prevailing opinion that the force must vary
inversely as the square of the distance. Wren concurred in this
opinion, but he could give no proof. Halley was in the same predica-
ment. They had both made the question a subject of special study.
Huyghens had once adopted this view of the question, but failing to
find any satisfactory proof had rejected it. Such was the state of the
problem when Newton entered upon its investigation. The progress
and result of his inquiries will always possess a singular interest in
tue history of astronomy.

It was in the summer of 1665, when the breaking out of the plague
in Cambridge had forced Newton to leave the place, that he retired
to his native village of Woolsthorpe. Witnessing the fall of an
apple, as the story is usually told and sanctioned by Brewster,
he conceived the idea that this same terrestrial gravity which caused
the apple to fall, and which certainly extended to the highest attain-
able elevations, might extend even to the moon, and be the force
which retained her in her orbit. To produce this effect there must
be a certain determinate force directed towards the earth, acting
constantly upon the moon, and deflecting her from a right line into
the curve which forms the orbit. With the distance of the moon and
the velocity of revolution this force could easily be computed. It only
remained to see whether the terrestrial gravity at that distance was
sufficient to produce precisely that effect.

The principle upon which this conclusion rests will be readily
understood by reference to figure 7.
Let E be the earth, M B a portion
of the moon’s orbit, and suppose
that M B is so small a portion as to
be passed over by the moon in one
minute of time. It was a well es-
tablished principlein mechanics that
any body moving in a curved line
tends to recede from the centre, and
if not constantly restrained by some
force, to move in a straight line tan-
gent to the curve. Thus if the at-
traction of the earth should be sus-

E pended at the instant the moon
reached the point, she would move
in the straight line M O and not in the curved line M B. Now, if we

* Written also Bouilland and Boulliand, born 1605, died 1694.
ON ASTRONOMY. 109

suppose the velocity of the moon to be such as to carry it from M to
O in-one minute, how large a force directed towards the earth would
be necessary to make it move in the arc M B? If we construct a par-
allelogram having M O for oneside, M A for another, and M B (con-
sidered as a straight line) for its diagonal, then M A must be the
measure of the force necessary to keep the moon in her orbit. But
this line M A is the versed sine of the are M B. Hence we know, and
this was Newton’s mode of investigation, that the force, whatever it
is, which retains the moon in her orbit must he directed to the earth,
and must be such as to cause a body to fall through the versed sine
of any small arc in the same time that the body is actually occupied
in describing that arc. Now, the distance of the moon being known,
as it was proximately, and the time of revolution being also known,
it was easy to compute the length of the arc passed over in any small
portion of time and also its versed sine. Hence the distance M A
becomes a known distance. A body at the earth’s surface falls through
a known distance inone minute, Call this distance / and let R be the
radius of the earth, and D the distance of the moon, and x the distance
through which the earth’s attraction would cause a body to fall if
placed at the moon, then we should have D?: R?::h: x. ‘To answer
the required purpose, x must equal M A. This was Newton’s course
of reasoning.

Taking the measure of a degree on the meridian to be 60 miles,
as determined by Fernel, and then generally adopted, he deduced the
earth’s radius, and then found, by making the calculation, that the
attraction of the earth at the distance of the moon was insufficient
to produce the required effect. It equally failed whether it was supposed
to vary inversely as the distance simply, or as the square of the
distance. And the difference was too great to be attributed to any
error in the calculation, or in the moon’s motion.

In the spirit of true philosophy he rejected the hypothesis which
was insufficient to account for the facts. And, singular as if may
appear, he seems, from anything now known of his labors, to have
dropped the investigation for nearly twenty years.

The measurement of arc of the meridian, in France, by Picard, which
gave a more correct measure of the earth’s radius, recalled his atten-
tion to the subject. And repeating his calculation with this corrected
measure, he had the satisfaction of finding that with the inverse ratio,
the square, the intensity of the terrestrial gravity was almost pre-
cisely that which was required in order to keep the moon in her orbit.
This was the ‘‘experimentum crucis.’’ The great law of nature was
established.

We now know that the mean distance of the moon is very nearly
60 times the earth’sradius. The terrestrial gravity varying according
to this law, it will at that distance be 35,5 part of waat it is at the
earth’s surface. Hence a body at the moon will fall through the same
distance (16.1 feet) in one minute, that it will fall at the earth’s surface
in one second. And this is almost precisely the versed sine of the
arc for one minute described by the moon’s mean motion.

A like test was applied to the planets as influenced by the attraction
of the sun, and the same law was found to obtain.
110 LECTURES

The final verification of the law of gravity is, that it predicts the
disturbing effects which one body must have upon another.

With this law in his hand the astronomer in his study has pre-
dicted inequalities in the planetary motions which no observer had
detected, and many which, though real, were too small to be detected
till they were pointed out and made the subject of special observation.

The attention of Newton was particularly called to the law of gravi-
tation in 1665. The Principia, in which his discoveries were given
to the world, was not published till 1687. The doctrines which he
announced were slow in winning their way to scientific favor. Out of
England, for a period of nearly forty years, they were either not known
or were known only to be rejected. The theory of vortices, as promul-
gated by Des Cartes, had obtained great popularity on the continent,
and was adopted by most of the eminent continental astronomers of
the age. ;

Huyghens adopted the Newtonian doctrines only in part. Leibnitz
and John Bernouilli were conspicuous in opposition to them. Cassini
and Miraldi, to the end of their lives, were borne along by the vortices
of Des Cartes. ‘‘On the continent,’’ says Grant, ‘‘all the great
mathematicians were unanimous in their hostility to the Newtonian
theory.’’ At length, in 1732, forty-five years after the publication of
the Principia, and five after the death of Newton, Maupertuis, of
the French Academy, was the first to adopt and defend the doctrines
of the Principia. But the writer who did most to commend the New-
tonian theory to favor in France was, probably, Voltaire, who, in
1738, published a brief, popular exposition of Newton’s work, which
was widely circulated and did much to conciliate the favor of the
learned to the views of the great English philosopher. But if the
French astronomers in the first instance sinned against true science
in rejecting the doctrine of Newton, the labors of Clairault and La
Place have made ample atonement for it since. The theory of Newton
is universally received ; the vortices of Des Cartes survive only as a
memorable example of scientific error.

Having given a sketch of the history of the law of gravitation, I
must content myself with adverting to two or three illustrations.

1. What kind of a curve may a heavenly body describe, under the
action of this law?

Newton showed that the curve might be a circle, an ellipse, a par-
abola, or a hyperbola, being the four curves made by the section of a
cone, and it could not revolve in any other. Thus, in figure 8 let S
represent the place of the sun, and let A represent any body placed
at any given distance, as at A. Now suppose it receives an impulse in
a direction perpendicular to the radius-vector 8 A, the form of the
orbit which it will describe will depend upon the intensity of this
impulse. Any impulse in that direction will produce a centrifugal
force. If this centrifugal force is exactly equal to the centripetal force
of the sun, the body will describe a circle, A C, about S as a centre;
if it receives a less impulse it will describe an ellipse, as A E, of which
A is the aphelion and S the remoter focus; if it receives a greater
impulse it will still describe an ellipse, as A H, of which A is the peri-
ON ASTRONOMY. 111

helion and S the nearer focus. If we now suppose the impulse to
grow stronger and stronger, the ellipse will become more and more
elongated, the aphelion E receding farther and farther, until the curve
changes into a parabola, aud the two branches never meet. The par-
ticular impulsive velocity necessary to produce a parabola is that
which a body would acquire under the action of the sun in falling
from an infinite distance. This velocity would not be infinite. The

i

velocity due to an infinite distance is finite, and hence might be in-
creased. Any increase of that velocity would cause the body to move
in a hyperbola, as A H. One impulsive velocity only will produce a
circle, one only a parabola; an infinite number an ellipse, an infinite
number a hyperbola. Hence the antecedent probability of a truly
circular or parabolic orbit is only as one to millions, while the proba-
bility of an elliptical or hyperbolic orbit is as millions to one. And
this accords with the facts of astronomy, so far as they are known.

2. The secular acceleration of the moon’s mean motion in longitude.

By the comparison of some ancient eclipses with their computed
times, Halley, as early as 1693, suspected an acceleration in the
moon’s mean motion, but the question was not fully investigated till
half a century later, when more accurate calculation placed the fact
beyond all doubt. In 1749 Dunthorne presented to the Royal Society
of London an elaborate paper upon the subject, in which he deter-
mined the acceleration to be ten seconds in a hundred years, reckoned
from 1700; that is, the mean motion being taken, the moon arrives at
the meridian of any fixed star ten seconds sooner, at the close of a
century, than she would if her mean motion had continued the same
as it was at the beginning of it. And, as a consequence of this, she |
would come to the meridian of any particular place ten seconds later
than she otherwise would. The recent profound researches of Hansen,
of Seeberg, upon the lunar irregularities have led him to adopt 13
seconds as the secular acceleration. ‘‘The moon,” says Grant in his
excellent History of Physical Astronomy, ‘‘is about two hours later
HZ LECTURES

in coming to the meridian than she would have been if she had re-
tained the same mean motion as she had in the time of the earliest
Chaldean observations.’’ If we adopt the new coefficient of Hansen,
13”, it will increase the difference by about half an hour. Hence, in
assigning the moon’s place in any remote period in the past by the
use of the modern tables, the assigned place will be less advanced in
longitude than the actual place. The accurate determination of this
coefficient of acceleration is of the utmost importance in verifying the
ancient eclipses.

The cause of this acceleration for a long time bafiled the severest
scrutiny. The French Academy offered its astronomical prize of 1770,
1772, and 1774, for an investigation which should have for its object
to show whether it could be produced by the law of gravitation. The
first prize was taken by Euler, the second was shared by Euler and
Legrange, the third was awarded to Legrange alone. Both of these
eminent mathematicians concurred in the conclusion that it could not
be produced by the action of gravity. The language of Euler in the
memoir which bore off the prize is very explicit, as follows: ‘‘There
is not one of the equations about which any uncertainty prevails, and
now it appears to be established by indisputable evidence that the
secular inequality in the moon’s mean motion cannot be produced by
the forces of gravitation.’’ The failure of Euler and Legrange in at-
tempting to trace this inequality to the effect of gravity, and the
great weight of their authority, may have deterred others from re-
peating the investigation, and turned their attention to some other
quarter for a solution.

Newton was inclined to refer it to the resistance of the medium in
which the moon moved, and his conclusion—the only one, indeed,
which his premises permitted—was, that the moon was winding in
toward the earth, and must ultimately fall upon it.

But the profound analysis of Laplace, in 1787, revealed what had
escaped the sagacity of Newton and Legrange. He traced it to a very
slow and almost imperceptible change in the form of the earth’s orbit,
technically called the secular diminution of the eccentricity of the
earth’s orbit.

The general manner in which this inequality is produced is not
difficult to be understood. One of the consequences of gravity deduced
by Newton was, that the disturbing force of the sun’s attraction upon
the moon had the effect to diminish the gravity of the moon to the
earth by about 1, part of it. If the earth and moon were removed
to a greater distance from the sun the consequence would be that the
moon would be drawn down nearer to the earth, and would make her
revolution in a shorter time, because, with an unchanged actual
velocity, she would revolve in a smaller orbit. Now, this is precisely
the effect of the diminution of the eccentricity of the earth’s orbit.
Thus, in fig. 9, let A C B D represent the earth’s orbit, S the
place of the sun, A B the major axis, and C D the minor. The form
of the orbit has been for many ages undergoing a gradual change,
almost imperceptible, but still continuous. ‘This change is due to the
disturbing action of the planets upon the earth, and is one of those
ON ASTRONOMY. 113

periodic inequalities which stretches
over an immense cycle of ages. The
nature of this change will be readily
seen by a reference to fig. 9. AB,
the major axis, remains always the
same, while C D, the minor axis,
increases in length, and the sun
comes nearer to the centre. If we
suppose the full line, A C B D, to
represent the orbit as it was some
ages back, the broken line, AG BF,
will represent it now. The earth
and moon, by being carried into
a wider curve, are less affected by
the disturbing force of the sun. The earth’s power upon the moon
becomes relatively increased, and hence, as before stated, the gradual
acceleration.

The eccentricity of the earth’s orbit is now about 0.0168; that is,
the distance from the centre to one of the foci is +468, part of the mean
radius. lLeverrier, in a remarkable memoir upon the secular varia-
tions of the orbits of the seven principal planets, has shown that the
eccentricity of the earth’s orbit will continue to diminish for about
24,000 years, when it will be reduced to 0.0033, or about + of its
present value. It will then begin to increase, and will go on in-
creasing for many thousands of years. The moon will then begin to
wind oud instead of winding in, and will enter upon her appointed but
immense cycle of secular retardation. The anticipated catastrophy of
a collision between the earth and moon will be happily prevented.

3. I select as a third illustration the discovery of the planet Nep-
tune. This will ever be regarded as one of the grandest achievements
of science.

The planet Uranus was discovered by the elder Hersch 1 in 1781.
On searching the records of previous observers it was found that the
planet had been observed and its place recorded nineteen times before
it was suspected to be a planet. By this means it was possible to
determine the orbit and construct tables much sooner than could other-
wise have been done. The French Academy made its orbit the subject
of a prize in 1790. Delambre was the successful competitor. He
subsequently computed tables of this planet. It was pretty soon
found that Delambre’s tables did not well represent the observed
places of the planet. These inequalities were so great that new tables
were computed by Bourvard in 1821. But these, again, in a few
years, were found to be nearly as defective as Delambre’s, and required
correcting. from 1795 to 1822 the observed longitude was in advance
of the computed. The planet then fell back till 1830 and 1831, when
the observed and computed longitudes agreed. The observed place
then rapidly fell behind the computed place. The error of the tables
in giving the geocentric place, in 1835, was 30”; in 1838, 50”; in
1841, 70’. The attempt further to correct the elements as given by

8

114 LECTURES

the tables soon revealed the fact that no orbit could be assigned which
would harmonize the observations. Bourvard himself was the first to
suggest that the motion of Uranus might be disturbed by an unknown
planet outside of it. This soon became the prevailing impression
among astronomers. So confident had astronomers become of its
existence that just two weeks before its discovery Sir John Herschel,
in addressing the British Association at Southampton, (September
10, 1846,) says, ‘‘its movements have been felt trembling along the
far-reaching line of our analysis with a certainty hardly inferior to
occular demonstration.”’

Supposing such a planet to exist, the problem of determining its po-
sition was one of extreme difficulty, yielding only to the very highest
powers of mathematical analysis. It would seem that but few astrono-
mers in Europe had the hardihood to engage in the enterprise. The
illustrious Bessel had it in contemplation, but death removed him too
soon from the scene of his labors and left the task to other hands.

The problem, as is well known, was oslved, separately and almost
simultaneously, by two youthful astronomers, Adams and Leverrier,
“nar nobile fratrum.’’ Leverrier was the first to announce his result.
He wrote to his friend Dr. Gallé, of Berlin, assigning the place of
the new planet. ‘‘Turn your telescope,’’ said he, ‘‘to that point,
and there you will see it.’” The letter was received in Berlin on the
23d of September, 1846. On the same evening Dr. Gallé turned his
telescope to the point designated by Leverrier, and both he and the
veteran Enké saw a star of the eighth magnitude in a position where
no star was laid down in Dr. Brenicker’s chart, then recently pub-
lished by the Berlin Academy. It was the veritable planet which
had so long had a finger in disturbing the good order of Uranus,
The heliocentric longitude of the new planet, as fixed by Leverrier,
was 326° 0’. That assigned by Adams, without any knowledge of
Leverrier’s work, was 329° 19’. The same, deduced from Dr. Gallé’s
observation, was 326° 52’, being within a single degree of the place
assigned it by the computation of Leverrier. Never had science a
prouder triumph than was achieved on that memorable night.

On examining the record of Lalande, it was found that he had
twice observed this planet as a star, viz: on the 8th and 10th of May,
1795. Imay remark, in closing, that the first computation of the orbit
of Neptune was by an eminent American astronomer, the late Sears C.
Walker, and that Professor Pierce, of Harvard University, solved the
inverse problem, namely, that of deducing from the data the pertur-
bations which Neptune ought to produce on the planet Uranus.*

SOLAR PARALLAX AND PLANETARY DISTANCES.

In the two preceding lectures I have considered the jigure and mag-
nitude of the earth and the law of gravitation. I shall this evening
call your attention to the method of determining the solar parallax
and planetary distances.

One of the first wants of astronomy was, to ascertain the distances
of the moon, sun, and planets from the earth. It was long, however,
before any considerable progress was made in the solution of this
important problem. The first and indispensable requisite for solving

* Smithonian Report for 1853,epage 161.
ON ASTRONOMY. 115

it, viz: the size of the earth, was wanting. The instrumental means
known to the ancients were insufficient to furnish the elements of the
calculation. .

Aristarchus, of Samos, in the third century before the Christian era,
instituted observations for the purpose of determining the relative
distances of the sun and moon from the earth. He wrote a treatise
upon the subject which has come down to modern times. His method
was to observe the angular distance of the moon from the sun at the
time when the moon appeared just half illuminated. This method, as
a preliminary one, is ingenious, and worthy of a passing notice.
Thus, in figure 10,

iT
= It 910

—_!

when the one-half of the moon is illuminated, the angle E M8 will
be a right angle. If the angle M E §S is accurately measured, the
angle at S will be known, and we shall have this proportion:

EM: ES:: sin. ESM: sin. EMS — 1.

This was the substance of Aristarchus’ method. The lines of the
angles are known, and this makes known the relative distances of the
sun and moon.

The measurements of Aristarchus must have been very inaccurate.
He concluded that the sun was nineteen times more distant than the
moon. We now know the sun to be about four hundred times more
distant than the moon, which shows how extremely wide of the truth
this ancient determination was; and yet Ptolemy, four centuries later,
adopted the determination of Aristarchus, and, combining it with
observations of his own, or more probably those of Hipparchus, com-
puted the sun’s parallax to be three minutes, which is more than
twenty times its true value. The parallax of three minutes would place
the sun at only one-twentieth of its real distance. This conclusion of
the great Alexandrian astronomer appears to have been adopted down
to the time of Kepler, including Copernicus and Tycho Brahé. Kep-
ler’s researches on the orbit of Mars led him to conclude that the
sun was at least ¢hree times more remote than Ptolemy had supposed.

But it is time to explain the method by which modern astronomers
have determined the distances of the planetary bodies within narrow
limits of error. And here it may be remarked that the relative dis-
tances of the planets from the sun were quite accurately known long
116 LECTURES

before any absolute distance was determined. The periodic time of the
several planets was very easily and very early known. And Kepler’s
Third Law at once determined all the relative distances. Taking the
earth’s distance from the sun as the unit of measure, we readily obtain
all the others in terms of this by the following proportion :

P?: p?2:: 1: d*; in which P represents the periodic time of the
earth, p that of the planet, and d the distance of the planet, which
is the only unknown term.

The radius of the earth being known, the absolute distance of a
body is determined by its parallax. This depends upon the solution
of a plain triangle, and, in point of principle, the problem is precisely
the same as that of determining the distance across a river by means
of measurements made on one of its banks. Thus, in fig. 11,

*\
Z oe
eB

if we suppose E to be the earth, M’ the moon in the horizon as seen
from the station O, then O M’ E will be the horizontal parallax.
Now, if this parallax is known, which is simply the semi-diameter of
the earth seen from the moon, then knowing E O the radius of the
earth, and the right. angle E O M’, we have in the triangle EH O Mall
the angles and one side to find E M’ the distance of the moon, which
is done by the proportion :

Sin. E MO: radius:: EO: E M’, in which the first three terms
are known.

Again: Suppose the moon to be at M, let O and O’ be two stations
in the same meridian, whose latitudes are known, which makes known
the angle at the centre O EO’. The object is to find the distance
EM. To do this, we want the observed zenith distances ZO M and
Z! O'M, which will make known their supplements EH O M and E O!
M ; then in the quadrilateral figure H O M O’, having already three
of the angles, we can easily obtain the fourth O M O’, by subtracting
the sum of the three, which are known, from four right angles. With
all the angles and the two sides EK O and E O’ it isa simple trigno-
metrical problem to compute the distance E M. The radii of the
earth being known, the only error in the result will depend upon the
determination of the latitudes and the zenith distances. But, with
the instrumental means now at command, these errors are extremely
small. The angle O M O! may also be determined by observed distances
ON ASTRONOMY. 117

of the moon from some star in the vicinity. This method is applicable
to the moon, to Venus in conjunction, and to Mars in opposition. We
shall again have occasion to refer to it. The strict mathematical
treatment of the subject is quite elementary, but, to avoid tedious-
ness, I shall omit further reference to it.

The moon’s mean distance from the earth is found, by measure-
ments of this kind, to be very nearly 240,000 miles. Herschel gives,
more exactly, 237,000.

But the great problem is, to determine the distance of the sun from
the earth. This, which gives the means of expressing the distance of
all the planets in miles, the British Astronomer Royal pronounces to
be the grandest problem in astronomy. It is solved by two different
methods. One is by observations on the planet Mars in opposition,
when it is, of course, nearest to the earth; or on the planet Venus
when in conjunction, and also nearest to the earth. The other is by
the transits of Venus across the sun’s disc,

I have already stated that the relative distances of all the planets
from the sun have been known, with considerable accuracy, since the
time of Kepler. It only remains to find the absolute distance of one,
and then, as the periodic times are known with great precision,
Kepler’s Third Law will furnish all the other distances.

The semi-diameter of the earth, seen from the sun, subtends an
angle of a little more than 83”, (8.6.) This is the sun’s horizontal
parallax. It reduces the earth, as seen from the sun, to less than
one-half of the apparent diameter of Jupiter, as seen from the earth.
To appreciate the delicacy of this problem, it must be borne in mind
that an error of one second of arc in the parallax involves an error
of about 12,000,000 of miles in the distance of the sun. Moreover,
one second of arc is an extremely small quantity. None but the most
perfect instruments can pretend to measure it directly. The ;j55
part of an inch, as any one will perceive, is an extremely small quan-
tity to deal with. But a circle must have nearly 18 feet radius in
order that 1’ may occupy the space of ,;';5 part of an inch. Kepler
found reason to reduce the solar parallax from 3’, as given by Ptolemy,
to 49”, which necessarily placed the sun at nearly four times the dis-
tance assigned by his great predecessor. And yet Kepler’s measure
was only one-sixth part of the true distance.

To settle this question, or at least with the hope of getting a nearer
approximation, the French Academy, in 1672, sent Richer to Cayenne,
in South America, to make observations on the parallax of Mars in
opposition, while Cassini made contemporaneous observations at Paris.
By computation based on these observations the sun’s parallax was
reduced to 9.5 as the probable value, which removed the sun to five
times the distance adopted by Kepler.

Flamsteed compared his own observations on Mars with those of
Richer, and deduced 10”. With the hope of obtaining still nearer
results, Halley visited the island of St. Helena to observe the transit
of the planet Mercury across the sun’s disc in 1677, October 28, but
the result was not satisfactory. He was inclined to adopt 15” as the
true value.

The celebrated astronomical expedition of La Caille to the Cape
of Good Hope, in 1750, had for one of its objects to observe the
118 LECTURES

planet Mars in opposition, contemporaneously with Cassini in Paris,
Wargentin in Stockholm, and others in the north of Europe. These
observations gave for the parallax of the sun 10”.4 nearly. The
parallax of Mars was about 25”.

The method by which the results were obtained will be understood

7A Ss
ig. 12 rs fs eee
Fig 4 scent
0 :
Baits aed sito ee
.
spot

!
Tu

by a reference to figure 12. S on the left is the position of the sun,
E the earth, M Mars in opposition. The stations of Wargentin at
Stockholm and La Caille at the Cape of Good Hope were nearly on
the same meridian. Let them be represented by O and O’, their
latitudes being known. Then in the quadrilateral figure O E O! M,
the angle at His known by the latitudes; the angles at O and O’ are
known by the observed zenith distances ZO M and Z O’ M. These
three angles would make known the angle at M. But to avoid the
possible errors in determining the first three it is better to obtain
M by direct observation. Its value will serve as a test of the cor-
rectness of the other angles. This angle at M is most accurately
found by measuring the apparent distance, at each station, be-
tween Mars and some star near it which passes the meridian at
nearly the same time. At O this distance would be S O M; at O!
it would be 8S’ O! M. The angle at M is the difference between these
two. For, on account of the great distance of the star, O S and O! 8’
are parallel ; and thereforeS O M= O X O’; but this latter being
exterior to the triangle O’ X M, wehave X M O/= O X O’—X O'M ;
hence the angle at M is equal to the difference between the observed
distances of the star from Mars. The radii of the earth E O and EK O’
being known, it is easy to compute the distance H M, the distance of
Mars from theearth. It will now be very easy to find E'S, the distance
of the sun from the earth. From Kepler’s Third Law we know that the
relative distances of the earth and Mars from the sun are as 100: 152
nearly ; that is, if the earth’s distance were divided into 100 equal
parts the distance from the sun to Mars would be 152 of those parts,
and the distance from the earth to Mars in opposition would be 52 of
the same parts. But the foregoing process gives us the absolute value of
those 52 parts, and hence we can by asimple proportion find the value
of the 100 parts between the earth and sun. Let m = the number of
miles in EK M; then to find the number in ES, we have 52: 100::m:
ES; orks = ==

The observations of La Caille and Wargentin were made on the 6th
of October, 1751. They gave for the parallax of Mars 24.7, for that
of the sun 10.4, and for the distance of the sun a little more than
ON ASTRONOMY. 119

76,000,000 of miles. These results agreed pretty nearly with those
derived from the observations of Richer, Cassini, and Flamsteed, three-
quarters of a century earlier.

In 1760 Mayer, from analytical equations involved in the lunar
theory, deduced a value for the sun’s par. = 7.8.

But the transit of Venus was now near at hand, which alone could
satistactorily solve this great problem. Dr. Halley was the first to
perceive and urge the importance of the passage of Venus over the sun
tor this purpose. As early as 1716 he called the attention of astronomers
to the two transits which were to occur in 1761 and 1769, and most
earnestly urged them not to neglect so precious and so rare an oppor-
tunity of determining the planetary distances of the solar system. If
these opportunities were neglected the like would not again occur for
more than a century.

The transits of Venus invariably occur in June or December—those
at the ascending node in June, at the descending, in December. The
intervals between them are 8 years and 1053, then 8 and 1214, then 8
and 1054, and so on successively in that order.

The transit of 1639, December 4, was observed by Horrox and
Crabtree, two young men engaged in astronomical studies, in seclu-
sion, as Grant says, in one of the northern counties of England.
They, by good fortune, (for the time of the transit was not accurately
kaown,) had ‘‘the privilege of witnessing a phenomenon which human
eyes had never before beheld, and which no one was destined again to
see till more than a hundred years had passed away.’’

In anticipation of the transit of June 6, 1761, encouraged by the
earnest appeal of Dr. Halley, several European governments and
learned academies sent scientific commissions to different parts of
the earth to observe it. The English sent Dr. Maskelyne to St.
Helena, Mason and Dixon to the Cape of Good Hope. The French
Academy sent Pingré to the island of Rodrigues, in the Indian Ocean.
The Russians sent Chappe to Tobolsk, in Siberia, and Rumouski to a
station near Lake Baikal, on the Mongolian frontier. All the observa-
tories in Europe were put in requisition.

I shall here explain the method by which the sun’s parallax is de-
termined by the transit of Venus. At different stations on the earth
the planet will be seen to traverse the sun’s disc in different lines, and
will occupy unequal times. As the relative motions of Venus and the
sun are accurately known, the duration of the transit will show the
particular’ chord along which it passed. The two chords, as seen by
two observers favorably situated, being known, will make known the
perpendicular distance between them. This perpendicular distance is
then compared with the diameter of the earth or some known part of
that diameter, and at once gives the sun’s parallax. The peculiar
advantage of this method is, that the distance between the two ap-
parent chords traversed by the planet is more accurately known by
the difference of times than by any direct micrometrical measurement.
This process will be easily understood by reference to fig. 13, where
A B represents the earth, V Venus, and § the sun. For the most
successful result, the stations A and B should be at the extremities of
a diameter perpendicular to the plane of the ecliptic. At A Venus
will be seen to traverse the chord E n L, at B the chord Dm H.
120 LECTURES

Now, by observing the instant of the several contacts of the limb of
Venus with that of the sun, the exact time in which the centre of the
planet traverses the chord will be known. The mean diameter of the
sun is 32’ 3” nearly, or 1,923”. By the known angular velocities of

Kigl3 Pp

the two bodies the time of traversing the diameter becomes known.
Calling ¢ the computed time of traversing the diameter, ¢’ the ob-
served time of traversing the chord, we shall find the number of
seconds in the chord by the proportion ¢: ¢ : : 1,923”: the number of
seconds in thechord. By drawing radii from 8 to E and D we readily
find S 2 and 8 m from the right-angled triangles Sn E and S m D,
and hence n m the perpendicular distance between the chords; that is,
we shall know the number of seconds subtended by the line mn, as
seen from the earth. We can also compare mn with A B, they be-
ing parallel lines in the same plane perpendicular to the plane of the
ecliptic. Seen from V, these lines subtend the same angle. Their
relative lengths must, therefore, be as their distances. Butitis known
that vn: uv A:: 72: 28 nearly; hence, we have 72: 28::mn:AB.
But we have determined the number of seconds subtended by mn as
seen from the earth; this proportion, then, gives the number of
seconds subtended by A B, seen at the same distance; that is, as seen
from the sun. We then have the angular diameter of the earth as
seen from the sun. One-half of this is the long-sought element in
astronomy, the sun’s horizontal parallax. On account of the great
importance of this process, and the great interest which always at-
taches to the transit of this planet, I have ventured to give the details
which are necessary to appreciate the grounds upon which the result
rests. It is proper to remark, before leaving this point, that the two
stations A and B cannot well be at the extremities of a diameter, nor
will it often happen that the right line joining them will be perpen-
dicular to the plane of the ecliptic. But, what comes substantially to
the same thing, the line joining the stations will always be known,
and can easily be reduced to an equivalent perpendicular one, so that
the accuracy of the final result will scarcely be impaired by this cir-
cumstance. ,

The only observation of that transit made on the American conti-
nent, so far as I am aware, was by Professor John Winthrop, of
Harvard University. The transit came on early on the morning of
June 6. For the purpose of a favorable station Mr. Winthrop re-
paired to St. John’s, in New Brunswick. His observations were com-
ON ASTRONOMY, 121

municated to Mr. James Short, of London, and, with others, were
published in the transactions of the Royal Society for 1764. From
the discussion of seventeen observations made at different places Mr.
Short found the parallax to be 8’.6.

The same observations were discussed by Mr. Thomas Hornsby,
professor of astronomy at Oxtord. His result is 9.”7, more than 1”
greater than Short’s. Pingré’s computations gave 10”.1. Rumouski,
8.3. On account of such large discrepancies these results were not
very satisfactory.

But another transit was to occur June 3, 1769; and renewed and
more extended preparations were made to secure the best possible
observations. Scientific societies and enlightened governments united
their efforts to establish stations in distant parts of the earth most
favorable for observation.

Besides the observations of Dr. Maskelyne at the Greenwich
observatory, and many others in England, the Royal Society, with the
aid of the government, sent out the famous expedition of Capt. Cook
to the South Seas, where the transit was observed by Mr. Green, the
astronomer, by Captain Cook, and Dr. Solander, the botanist of the
expedition.

Another commission, consisting of Messrs. Wales and Dymond, was
sent to Hudson’s Bay ; while Mason and Dixon, who had observed
the transit of 1761 at the Cape of Good Hope, observed this in
Ireland. And still another, under the direction of Mr. Call, was sent
to Madras.

The French Academy sent Pingré to St. Domingo, and the Abbe
Chappe to California, both of whom had observed the preceding
transit, the former in the Indian ocean, the latterin Siberia. Chappe
made his observation at the village of St. Joseph, in California, and,
lingering a short time to complete some observations for the longitude |
of the place, was seized with an epidemic and died on the Ist of
August following. His observations were preserved and sent to Paris
by one of his assistants.

The Academy of St. Petersburg took the most enlightened interest
in the event, and sent astronomers to three different stations in Lap-
land, to one on the banks of the Lena, to another on the shores of
the Caspian, and to several places in the interior of Asia.

The King of Denmark sent Father Hell, professor of astronomy in
Vienna, to Wardhus, at the northern extremity of Norway. Lanman
went to Cajanebourg, in Finland.

In this country the American Philosophical Society of Philadelphia,
under the lead of Dr. Rittenhouse, took the most active and conspicu-
ous part in this enterprise, which united the astronomical labors of
all countries. As the time for preparation drew near the society
appointed commissions to make observations in the three separate
places : one at Norriston, (now Norristown,) the residence of Ritten-
house, seventeen miles northwest of Philadelphia; one in Philadelphia,
and one near Cape Henlopen. Dr. Rittenhouse had the principal charge
of the first station, Dr. Ewing of the second, and Mr. Biddle of the
third. The liveliest interest was felt in the subject. The day was
remarkably fine, and the observers were able to get excellent observa-
tions.
122 LECTURES

This transit was also observed by Professor Winthrop, of Cambridge,
who had observed the previous transit in New Brunswick, and by Dr.
West of Providence. Observations were also made by the Earl of
Stirling, at Baskenridge, in New Jersey, and by Captain Holland near
(Quebec.

Several valuable papers, devoted to the record and discussion of
these observations, will be found in the transactions of the American
Philosophical Society for 1769, and many in the transactions of the
Royal Society of London for 1769 and 1770.

Professor Hornsby, of Oxford, who had computed the sun’s parallax
from the observations of 1761, computed the same from five or six of
the best observations of 1769. But the most complete discussion of
the subject was by Lalande, who, by the close of the year 1769, had
collected a great number of observations, and discussed them in the
most elaborate manner. His results were published in the Gazette of
France, in January, 1770.

In consequence of the unfavorable state of the weather only two of
the northern stations furnished full and complete observations, viz :
Wardhus and Cajanebourg. And, unfortunately, there was strong
reason to suspect that those at Wardhus, by I'ather Hell, were not
genuine. There was a delay and a reluctance in giving them to the
public, which much required explanation. And, after the fullest
investigation, there was reason to believe that some of them, at least,
were interpolations.

The close agreements of the computed results of observations, most
widely separated, taken two and two, gave assurance of a close
approximation to the truth. The following were obtained by Lalande:

California‘and Hudson Bayvtis. 20h. Shae rE Pn rp es ect 8.56
Thadson' Bay and! Otaheite, .2ie 520.2 Rea 855
California and Otaheite Osi. ALYCIA, a Pa 8.53
Wardhus, Cajanebourg, and Otaheite...................6.. 8” .62

The result of an immense amount of calculation by himself, Lexell,
Kuber, Pingré, and Duréjour, gave, 8’.5; 8”’.7; 8.8. In England,
Hornsby found 8’.8, Maskelyne 8”.7, Smith 8”.6. Asa mean of all the
results, 8’.6 was adopted, which is the same as Short obtains from the
observations of 1761. The importance of arriving at the nearest tenth
of a second will be seen by considering that one-tenth of a second in
parallax corresponds to about 1,000,000 miles in the sun’s distance.

‘‘Such,’’ says Lalande, in closing his history of this astronomical
event, ‘‘such is the result of this celebrated transit of Venus, which
has occasioned so many voyages and so many volumes, and which has
taught us, much better than we knew before, the extent of our
universe, or at least of our solar system. ‘This transit may be re-
garded as one of the memorable epochs of the astronomy of the
eighteenth century.”’

But succeeding astronomers were far from being content to adopt,
without further inquiry, the foregoing conclusion.

Encke, the eminent veteran astronomer of Berlin, has re-examined
and most elaborately collated and discussed all the observations made
at both the transits of 1761 and 1769, and given to the public the
results in two volumes, published, the one in 1822, the other in 1824.
ON ASTRONOMY. 128

From the transit of 1761 he finds P = 8.53
From the transit of 1769 he finds P = 8”.60

Mean P = 8.57

The sun’s distance is therefore very nearly 95,300,000 miles. From
this all the other planetary distances are easily obtained by Kepler’s
Third Law. Airy, in,his Lectures on Astronomy, puts the distance
at 95,500,000, with a probable error of not more than 500,000 miles.

It is worthy of remark, as showing that all true methods are in
harmony with each other, that Professor Burg, in 1824, following the
footsteps of Mayer, deduced the solar parallax from analytical in-
vestigations of the Lunar Theory, and found for a result 8”.62, very
nearly coincident with that of Encke. Laplace had obtained, in the
same way, 8.61, a result almost identical with that of Burg.

These remarkable coincidences of analysis with observation in the
remote and untrodden fields of science furnish, as Laplace suggests,
one of the most striking proofs of universal gravitation. -

Before bringing these remarks to a close, I must call your attention
to one other effort to approximate still nearer to this fundamental
element in the solar system, an effort recommended by the ablest
astronomers, at home and abroad, and deemed worthy of the combined
labor of different countries. I refer to the United States naval astro-
nomical expedition to the southern hemisphere during the years 1849,
1850, 1851, and 1852, under Lieutenant J. M. Gilliss.

In 1847 Dr. Gerling, a distinguished astronomer and mathema-
tician of Marburg, in Germany, called the attention of astronomers
to the importance of repeating the observation on Mars in opposition,
and especially of making observations on Venus during the inferior
conjunction, for the more exact determination of the sun’s parallax.
He suggested reasons for believing that, with the increased power
and accuracy of instruments, together with the delicate and refined
methods of observation now in use, most valuable results, additional
to any hitherto realized, might be obtained. He particularly urged
the importance of observations on Venus, which had not heretofore
been rendered available for this purpose. The principle of this will
be understood by reference to figure 14.

fig, i

—--8

Two observers at O and O’, by observation obtain the angle at
Venus, viz: O V O’, in the same manner as before ‘given in the case
of Mars, from which the distance EK V can be computed. The planet
124 LECTURES

being within two or three degrees of the sun, this distance will differ
but little from HV’. The horizontal parallax of Venus will then be
readily found.

But the parallax of Venus and the sun will be inversely as their
distances. By Kepler’s Third Law we should have—

SH: 8V! : 3.614 :' 37 nearly.
Whence SE: VE :: 514: 143
or 514 : 144 :. Par. Venus : Par. Sun.

In this proportion the terms are all known except the last, and
hence we have the sun’s parallax.

The letter of Dr. Gerling to Lieutenant Gilliss was in anticipation
of the publication of his views in Germany. Lieutenant Gilliss
promptly brought the subject to the notice of our ablest astronomers,
and, with their hearty concurrence, enlisted Congress, the government
and the Smithsonian Institution in the enterprise.

The manner in which the expedition was undertaken and carried
out reflects the highest credit upon the ability and untiring energy
of Lieutenant Gilliss. The very moderate appropriation of $5,000
was authorized by Congress to enable the Secretary of the Navy to
defray the expenses of the expedition. Furnished with instruments
fitted expressly for the expedition, viz: two telescopes, a larger and
smaller, equatorially mounted ; a meridian circle, of large size and
exquisite finish; clock and chronometers; and two assistants, Messrs.
MacRae and Hunter, Lieutenant Gilliss, by order of the Secretary of
the Navy, repaired to Santiago de Chile, and erected his observatory
so as to commence observations in December of 1849, which were con-
tinued till September of 1852. By previous arrangement, simultaneous
observations on both Venus and Mars were to be made at the Wash-
ington observatory, under the direction of Lieutenant Maury. It was
expected also that other observers, both in this country and Europe,
would, as far as possible, co-operate in a work in which all astrono-
mers were alike interested.

On the return of the expedition the vast mass of observations were
placed in the hands of Dr. B. A. Gould, jr., for reduction and discus-
sion. The well known ability of Dr. Gould gave assurance that
nothing would be wanting to insure the most accurate results. The
laborious undertaking has been accomplished, and the result published
in the third volume of the Naval Astronomical Expedition. The
parallax thus obtained from purely American observations, and by a
method entirely new, at least so far as the observations on Venus are
concerned, agrees very nearly with those obtained by the transit of
Venus, viz: 8.5. If we cannot say that our own astronomers have
attained a closer approximation to the truth than had before been
reached, which could hardly be expected, we can say that by a new
and independent method they have added a most valuable confirma-
tion to results before obtained. It is not too much to say that this
enterprise, in its conception and consummation, reflects honor upon
‘the scientific character of our country, and will be highly appreciated
wherever astronomical science is cultivated.

The next two transits of Venus will be on December 8, 1874, and
ON ASTRONOMY. p25

December 6, 1882. It may be expected that American astronomers
will take an important part in the observation of these transits.

Of these two transits, that of 1882 will be the more favorable to an
exact determination. In a very interesting paper communicated to
the Royal Astronomical Society of London, in May, 1857, the astrono-
mer points out the special advantages which the United States will
possess for making accurate observations.

In the first place, the two regions of country most favorable for
observation are the United States and a portion of the Antarctic land
discovered by Captain Wilkes, of the United States navy. In the
second place, we have a large number of observatories situated at
such convenient distances that any local cloudiness which might pre-
vent observations at some stations would not affect others. In the
third place, we have the great and peculiar advantage of an extended
system of magnetic telegraphs by which the clocks and chronometers
of all the stations might easily be connected so that all the observations
might be made by one clock, say that of Washington.

Humanly speaking, therefore, he remarks, we may say that the
probabilities for the accurate and efficient observation of these phe-
nomena in the United States are vastly superior to any that could
have been reckoned on in any former time, or to any that could now
be anticipated in any other region.

SIDEREAL ASTRONOMY.

In my last lecture I discussed the methods of determining planetary
distances, first by finding the sun’s distance from the earth, and then,
by means of Kepler’s Third Law, computing the distances of the other
planets. The distance of the sun I stated to be 95,300,000 miles, with
a probable error of not more than half a million of miles. This pro-
portional error, and no more, will run through all the measures of
planetary distances. In this respect all has been done, or nearly all,
that can be done before the next transits of Venus in 1874, December
8, and 1882, December 6.

I shall, this evening, invite your attention to the subject of Sidereal
Astronomy. A glorious and an inspiring sight it is to look at the
starry heavens. So vast, so brilliant, so pure, they seem to raise the
soul to diviner contemplations than any scene which pertains to earth.
The first impression on looking at the heavens is, that the stars are
absolutely innumerable, but on a more careful consideration we be-
come satisfied that this first impression is erroneous. If the attempt
is actually made to number them, it will be found that not more than
about 3,000 can be seen at any one time by thenakedeye. The whole
number thus visible in the heavens does not probably exceed 6,000
or 7,000.

Very early in the history of astronomy the stars were distributed.

into groups called constellations, to which particular names were given,
depending upon some fancied resemblance between the configuration
of the stars and the form of the object or animal from which the name
was taken. Thus we have the constellation of the Great Bear, the
Little Bear, the Kagle, the Swan, the Lyre, &c. These constellations

126 LECTURES

are convenient in reference to a general description of the heavens.
The more conspicuous stars have individual names as Sirius, Procyon,
Regulus, &c.

The principal classification of stars, however, is in reference to their
magnitudes. But we must here bear in mind that the stars have no
assignable area or size. They have no measurable disc, like the plane-
tary bodies. The stars of the first magnitude, when viewed with a good
telescope under favorable atmospheric circumstances, sharpen down
to a mere brilliant point. The classification is really based on
brightness ; and stars of the first magnitude are simply the brightest
stars. Any one on looking at the heavens on a clear, moonless night,
will be able to distinguish many degrees of brightness between Sirius,
the brightest star in the heavens, and one that is barely visible to the
naked eye. It would not be difficult, perhaps, to select twenty stars
within these limits, which twenty different persons, without any con-
cert, would arrange in the same order. And this only shows how
quickly and how truly the eye discriminates slight shades of differ-
ence in brightness. Astronomers have, however, divided the stars
visible to the naked eye into six classes, and the telescopic stars into
ten additional ones, making sixteen in all. Stars of the 15th and
16th classes are test objects for the best telescopes which have been
made. It must not, however, be supposed that there is any very well
defined difference between the faintest star of the first magnitude and
the brightest of the second. These will not differ more from each
other than several of the stars of either class.

While it is very easy to arrange the stars in the order of their
brightness, it is not easy to determine how much they differ the one
from the other. Many attempts have been made to ascertain photo-
metrically, (that is, by measuring in some way the quantity or intensity
of light,) how much the light of Sirius, for instance, exceeds that of
Aldebaran, or any medium star of the first magnitude. These efforts
have extended to the comparison of a star of the 6th magnitude with
Sirius, and, again, Sirius with the moon and the sun. Researches
upon this subject are attended with many difficulties, and the results
cannot, of course, be considered very exact, and yet they afford toler-
able approximations to the truth. From comparisons which have
been made by different methods and by different persors, itis concluded
that the light of Sirius is fully equal to three times that of a star of
medium first class magnitude ; in other words, three first class stars
of the brightness of Aldebaran or Regulus, united, would only make
one of Sirius. The comparison being restricted to medium stars
of their respective classes, one of the first class is equal to four of the
second, eight of the third, and one hundred of the sixth.

Astronomers have agreed to place in the first class not more than
23 or 24 of the brightest stars ; in the second, 50 or 60; in the third,
about 300. Beyond the third class the numbers increase with great
rapidity. The whole number which have been accurately catalogued,
down to the seventh class inclusive, is about 15,000. Descending to
the telescopic classes, the numbers have become immensely great.
Struvé, whose researches have been specially directed to this branch of
astronomy, concludes that the number of stars situated in Bessel’s
ON ASTRONOMY. 127

zone, extending 15° on each side of the equator, which were visible
in Herschel’s 20-foot reflector, amounted to more than 5,800,000.
But this zone covers only about one-quarter of the heavens, and is by
no means that portion which is the richest in telescopic stars. The
great belt known as the Milky Way presents vast regions where the
minute stars are incomparably more dense than in Bessel’s zone. To
say, then, that the whole number of stars visible in the telescope
amounts to many millions, is but an imperfect and inadequate state-
ment of the fact. We might still say, the half is not told us. But,
then, turn away from the contemplation of single, scattered stars, and
look at the close clusters, of which there are so many in the heavens,
where many thousands of minute stars are so densely crowded together
that the very best powers of the telescope are required to separate
them. If they were thrown together, a million of visible stars would
scarcely occupy so large a space in the heavens as the sun’s disc.
Then, from these stars, which are separately and distinctly visible,
look again at the ‘star dust,’’ as Herschel calls it, which gives a
general illumination to the Milky Way, and is visible only in the
aggregate, and which yet dimly shadows forth the existence of indi-
vidual orbs more numerous than all that are seen. Who, then, shall
count the stars, or tell the number thereof? Down to this time more
than 100,000 have been accurately catalogued. Lalande’s Catalogue,
republished by the British Association, in 1837, alone contains 47,390,

Sidereal astronomy presents many points of interest. It may be
asked, what the stars are, and where they are, and whether they are
unchangeably the same? Are they subjected to any law of motion?
Is there any bond of union between them? Do they tell us anything
of time and space, of creative power and infinite intelligence, that we
should not have known without them? ‘To some of these questions
we shall advert this evening. Others of them belong to after ages in
the world’s history.

Following out the plan which I have proposed to myself in these
lectures, I shall first endeavor to show how we arrive at some esti-
mate of the distances of the stars. I have, in the previous lecture,
explained the method of finding the dimensions of the solar system,
ip miles. The distance of the nearest fixed star is so vast that we
shall best express it in terms of the velocity of light. Butif I tell
you that light moves at the rate of 192,000 miles in a single second
of time, you will very naturally ask me how this can be known.- So
extraordinary a statement certainly ought not to be credited but upon
good and sufficient grounds. This problem is one of so much interest
in itself, and so needful to our progress, that I shall venture to givea
few moments to its illustration before proceeding to discuss the
distances of the stars.

The velocity of light is known by three separate means: 1. By
the eclipses of Jupiter’s satellites, 2. By the aberration of light. 3.
By direct experiment.

Immediately on the discovery of the telescope by Galileo, in 1610,
his attention was drawn to the satellites of Jupiter, then for the first
time seen, They revolve round the primary in periods of from less
than two to more than sixteen days. Their periodic times were soon

ie
128 LECTURES

determined with considerable precision. Butit was also found that
they presented remarkable inequalities. When the earth in her orbit
was receding from Jupiter, the periodic times were too long. On the
contrary, when she was approaching him they were too short. These
discrepancies were the occasion of much perplexity.

Arago, in his popular astronomy, gives to Lord Bacon the credit of
having first suggested that the inequalities might be due to the fact
that time was occupied in the transmission of light; that the effect of
light was not, as had been supposed, simultaneous at all distances,

Roemer, an eminent Danish astronomer, was the first to urge this
fact as necessary in order to account for the apparent irregularities.
Researches upon these satellites occupied the attention of eminent
astronomers for more than half a century. And it was not until after
the lapse of more than a hundred years from the time of their
discovery that their motions were fully explained ; and no explana-
tion was sufficient which did not involve the ‘‘ equation of light.’
The subject will be easily understood by reference to fig. 15.

Ae pT?
= ~@

tia

Let S be the sun, E E! the orbit of the earth, I I’ a portion of the
orbit of Jupiter, s and s’ the orbit of one of the satellites. The pri-
mary casts a shadow behind it in a direciion opposite to the sun, by
which the satellites are often eclipsed. In some portions of the earth
the immersion and the emersion ot the satellites can both be seen ; in
other positions only one of them. When the earth is at EK and Jupi-
ter at I, the emersion of the satellite is seen ats. When the earth
has advanced in her orbit to E/ and Jupiter to I’, the emersion will be
seen ats’, While the earth is passing along the side of her orbit
approaching the planet the immersions are seen. While she is mo-
ving from the point of her orbit nearest to the planet the intervals
between the eclipse are too long ; and while returning from the most
remote to the nearest they are too short. And this difference, in the
course of a complete synodic revolution, amounted to more than 163
minutes. It was at length found, by accurate calculation, that ight |
occupied 16 m, 36 sec. in traversing the diameter of the earth’s orbit,
or eight minutes and eighteen seconds in coming trom the sun to us.
With this allowance, the discrepancies between the computed and
observed times of the eclipse entirely disappeared. This result fixed
the velocity of light at about 192,000 miles per second.

:
ON ASTRONOMY. 129

But the foregoing result was not, perhaps, fully concurred in by
astronomers till Dr. Bradley, in 1725, discovered the aberration of
light, one of the most beautiful discoveries in the whole history of
science. Dr. Bradley, while prosecuting researches for the purpose of
detecting, if possible, the annual parallax of the stars, found that all
the stars were subject to an annual change of position, and that they
described orbits about their mean places having 40” of arc for their
major axis. Those situated in the ecliptic moved backward and forward
in a straight line. In proportion as they are removed from the ecliptic
the minor axes of the orbits increased, while the major axes of all
remain the same. And, what is quite singular, they are all displaced
or projected forward in the direction of that point in the heavens
towards which the earth is at the moment moving. The true expla-
nation of this fact was far from being obvious. It was at length sug-
gested to Dr. Bradley, on an occasion of being rowed across the
Thames. He observed that the streamer, at the top of the mast, indi-
cated a change in the direction of the wind while the boat was getting
under way. He inquired of the boatmen what made the wind change
when the boat began to move? They could give no explanation, but
said they had often observedit. But, on reflecting upon the subject, Dr.
Bradley explained it on the principle of the parallelogram of forces
The streamer would necessarily take the direction of the diagonal of a
parallelogram which should have for one side the velocity of the
wind, and for the other the velocity of the boat. This at once
explained, also, the displacement of the star. It must appear in the
direction of the diagonal of a parallelogram which should have for
one side the velocity of the earth, and for the other the velocity of
light.

In figure 16, if E B represents that portion of the earth’s orbit
which is described in one second of time, and E § the distance traversed
by light in one second of time, then the star which is really at 8S will
appear to be at S’, determined by the parallelogram formed on E B
and i Sas sides. The angle S B 9’, which measures the displace-
ment, is called the aberration, and when largest is always equal to
20” of arc. With every star this maximum occurs twice in the
year, e the time when the line of direction of the earth makes a right
130 LECTURES

angle with the visual ray from the star. In the triangle EH BY the
angle 8’ EB, very nearly equal to S E B, is always known from the
position of the star, the angle ES’ B=S8 ES is known by obser-
vation, E B = velocity of the earth, B 8’ = ES = velocity of light;
we then have sin. ES’ B: sin. SV EB:: EB: BS’. But twice
in the year ES’ B= 20” and 8’ E B = 90°, we then have—

sin, 20" : R:: vel. of earth : vel. of light ;

or, converting the R = sin. 90° in seconds and leaving off the sines,
we have—
20” : 206265” :: vel. of earth : vel. of light.

206265 >< vel. of earth.

Whence the velocity of light = 3

If we introduce into this equation the velocity of the earth, which
is nearly nineteen miles per second, we shall obtain a result very
nearly equal to 192,000, as given by the eclipses of Jupiter’s satellites.

The effect of aberration for the entire year will be seen by figure
17, where E HE! HE’, &c., is the earth’s orbit, 8 the mean place of a
star, and S’ 8’ 8’, &c., the apparent orbit described by the star, or
the ellipse of aberration.

There is a third determination derived from direct experiment,
which is too important to be omitted in this connexion. In 1849, M.
Fizeau, of Paris, constructed a most ingenious apparatus, which had
the requisite delicacy for so difficult an experiment. The outline of
it is given in figure 18.

sis a lamp, ua lens placed ina tube which serves to converge @
beam of light on m, a plane unsilvered glass, placed in a tube; thei
glass m reflects the convergent beam of light toa focus ato. « is ai
lens which receives the light and refracts it into a parrallel beam & y;
at y is another lens, which converges it to a focus on the plane mirror 7,
from which it is reflected directly back, passes again through the lens
y, thence through the lens w, thence through the unsilvered glass m,
and reaches the eye ate. At the point 0, where the light is brought
to a focus, an opening is made in the tube in which the toothed
wheel ¢ is made to revolve with great velocity by mechanism not
here represented. There is also a diaphragm placed across the tube,
ON ASTRONOMY. 131

directly behind the wheel, with a rectangular opening in it. The
form of the opening in the diaphragm and in the teeth of the wheel are
seen enlarged in a part of the wheel c’, figure 18. As the wheel c
revolves, the opening in the diaphragm is successively opened and
closed with great rapidity. If it were to be permanently open, then
the light from the lamp would fall upon the plane glass m, a portion
would be transmitted and a portion reflected, which latter portion
would pass through the lenses # and y, be reflected at n, return
again, fall a second time upon m, and be transmitted to the eye at e.
In this state of the apparatus the eye sees a bright point at the focus o.
The bright point continues visible until the velocity of the wheel c is
such that one of its teeth passes over the notch in the diaphragm and
thus prevents the reflected light from coming to theeye. The bright
point is then eclipsed. This will necessarily take place whenever the
time occupied by the tooth in passing the space of the notch is the
same as that required by light in going from o to n and returning.

When the velocity of the wheel becomes so great as to close and
open the notch again while the light is going and coming, the bright
point will reappear. As the rotary speed of the wheel increases, the
point will be successively eclipsed. The rotary velocity of the wheel
is registered by appropriate mechanism so as to mark with precision
the number of turns to a second, while the number of teeth in the
wheel will serve to determine the time in which one tooth passes the
notch. The distance between the stations was 8,633 metres, equal
to five and one-eighth miles nearly. The apparatus indicated the
time of traversing the double distance, or ten and two-third miles, to
be about 5+155 or pehoo of a second, which makes the velocity of light
very nearly the same as that given by the preceding methods. Physi-
cal science presents few more striking results than this of M. Fizeau.

From the near agreement of these three independent methods of
determining the velocity of light we may safely conclude that the
probable error is small. Light moves with the amazing velocity of
192,000 miles per second.

We shall now proceed to inquire into the distance of the fixed stars.
And we may state, in the outset, that the only means of arriving at
an indication of this is an annual change in the position of the star.
But there are certain changes which are dependent upon known causes
which must first be allowed for. These are refraction, aberration,
and nutation. The refraction varies with the altitude of the star ;
aberration for any particular star depends on the season of the year ;
nutation, (another fine discovery of Dr. Bradley, in consequence of
which the star describes a little ellipse about its mean place once in
about nineteen years,) depends upon the position of the nodes of the
moon’s orbit. This inequality is due to the action of the moon upon
the spheroidal figure of the earth. The amount of these corrections
is well known. Now, if there is any change in the position of a star
over and above what is due to the above causes it must be referred
either to its own proper motion or to the change of position of the
earth in its orbit. But these two are not lable to be confounded the
one with each other. ‘The proper motion will be progressive from year
to year in the same direction. Any change due to the motion of the

132 LECTURES

earth will necessarily be periodic and the star must return to the
same place at the expiration of a year. A proper motion has been
detected in many of the stars, amounting in some to 4” or 5” ina
year.

Any change due to the motion of the earth is called the annual
parallax. The only means within the reach of astronomy of finding
the distance is by means of this parallax. ;

An obvious proof that the stars are immensely distant is that, except
under the severest possible scrutiny, they appear to hold the same
relative places at all seasons of the year. Our change of position,
involving a distance of nearly 200,000,000 of miles, dwindles down to
nothing in comparison with the line which extends from the earth to
the star.

In figure 19, let S be the sun, A E B the earth’s orbit, ands a

star; then the angle A s§, or the angle subtended by the radius of!
the earth’s orbit, as seen from the star, would be the annual parallax:
of the star. If this angle were so much as 1”, it would follow that:
the distance of the star must be 206,265 times the distance of the:
sun. In that case light would require more than 3} years in coming:
from the star to us. But in no case is the parallax of a star so large
as 1’. As Biot has remarked, ‘‘an angle so large as 1” could not
have escaped universal recognition.’’ What we are now entitled to:
say then is, that light from the nearest fixed star would require at least
more than 34 years to reach our earth.

There is no presumption that the stars are all equally distant. On
the contrary there is every probability that their distances are very,
unequal, and hence that some stars of the first order of intrinsic splen-
dor appear faint from their vast distance. Huyghens, assuming that
Sirius was equal in intrinsic brightness to our sun, concluded from a
computation based upon the well known law that the intensity of light
diminishes inversely as the square of the distance, that Sirius must be
28,000 times more distant than the sun; in other words that our sun
at that distance would appear no brighter than Sirius does now. But
this estimate of the distance, as we now know, is far too small. At
only that distance the parallax would be four times as great as that
of the nearest known star. Dr. Wollaston, by very ingenious photo-

ON ASTRONOMY. 133.

metric measurements, concluded that Sirius must be 140,000 times more
distant than the sun. But even this is much within the true distance.

But let us glance at the actual measurements which have enabled
the astronomer, in some few cases at least, to sound the amazing depths
of the heavens.

The star 7 Draconis, of Flamsteed’s catalogue, has a very large
proper motion, amounting to nearly 5” annually. Under the suppo-
sition that those stars which have the greatest proper motion are
nearest to us, and therefore most favorable to researches on the par-
allax, this star was selected by Dr. Bradley for special observations,
with a view to detect this element. It had also the great advantage
of passing near the zenith of the Wansted observatory, by which the
troublesome irregularities of refraction would be avoided. He failed
to detect any parallax, but his labor was rewarded by the beautiful
discovery of the aberration of light. Bradley depended upon finding
a variation in the elements of right ascension and declination. But
this is by no means the most delicate test which can be applied for the
determination of a minute annual change in the position of the star.

Galileo was the first to suggest that where a large and a small star
are very close together the smaller star might appear faint from being
placed at a vastly greater distance than the larger. If this were not
always the case, of which there is no probability, it would be likely to
occur in some instances. Wherever this holds good the stars will
undergo an annual change in their relative positions, either approach-
ing and receding from each other, or the one revolving about the other.
Thus, in figure 19, if we suppose s and s’ to be two stars situated in a
right line from the sun and in the direction of the pole of the ecliptic,
as the earth goes round in her orbit A E B the star s may appear to
revolve round s’, and it must do so if the radius of the earth’s orbit
holds any assignable ratio to the distance of the nearer star. Thus,
when the earth is at A, s will appear at @ in the distant heavens;
when the earth is at E the star will appear at e; the earth at B will
carry the star to b; and hence while the earth goes round in the orbit
A E B the star 8 will appear to go round s’ in the curveaeb. No
instance bas been discovered where this idea has been fully realized.
Nor indeed could any available results be obtained from it until a
very late period, for the want of instruments fitted to measure so small
an angle as the largest annual parallax. The micrometer in its dif-
ferent forms supplies this want. The manner in which very minute
angles are measured by this appendage to the telescope will be under-
stood by a reference to figure 22,
which is a rectangular frame
with a fine screw at each end
passing through the frame and
attached to sliding pieces within
it. These sliding pieces carry
the spider lines a and b, which
by turning the screws are made
to approach or separate from each other. Graduated circles are
fixed to the heads of the screws. Suppose one complete revo-
lution of the screw changes the position of the spider lines by 2’ or

134 LECTURES

120”, and let the circles be divided into 360 parts, then one division
on the circle will correspond to one-third of a second between the
spider lines. This apparatus, called the micrometer, is placed in or
across the tube of the telescope near the eye piece. It is sometimes
furnished with a slip of metal just below the spider lines, which marks
the interval in seconds between them. The distance between two stars
or the diameter of a planet is measured by adjusting the instrument
so that the stars shall be bisected by the lines, or the disk of the planet
will lie exactly between them. The turns and divisions of the screw
which bring the lines together will give the angular distance sought
in this case to the one-third of a second. Large telescopes fitted with
micrometers are indispensable to researches upon the distances of the
fixed stars. The value of one turn of the screw is fixed by directing
the telescope to two well defined objects of a known angular distance
apart.

Special researches upon this branch of astronomy have been made
by Struvé, Bessel, Peters, Henderson, Maclean and Groombridge.

In 1835 Struvé, then of Dorpat, now of the Great Russian Obser-
vatory at Pulkowa, near St. Petersburg, commenced a series of obser-
vations on the bright star in the Lyre. This star has a very minute
companion at the distance of 43”. Struvé was able to detect an annual
variation in this distance, from which he deduced the annual parallax
of a Lyre to be 0”.261, from which it follows that light would be
about fourteen years coming from that brilliant star to us. The light
which it sheds upon us to-night started on its career fourteen years ago.

But the researches of Bessel in connexion with the star 61 Cygni,
form an important epoch in the history of stellar astronomy. He
was furnished with a magnificent heliometer, made by Frauenhofer,
with a micrometer of the greatest delicacy. He brought to the re-
search an array of instrumental means which no previous astron-
omer had been able to command. His consummate skill as an observer,
in connexion with the exquisite instruments in his hand, enabled him
to furnish results which have commanded universal confidence. His
observations were commenced at Konigsberg in 1835, and continued
to 1840. His field of view is presented in figure 20, where S is the
double star 61, @ and 6 are two
minute stars, situated nearly at
right angles from 8, the former at
the distance of 7’, the latter at 11’;
the middle of the two stars S was
the point from which the distances
of a and b weremeasured, From
the configuration of the stars, if
S approached a, it would, three
months later, approach b; at the
expiration of another three months
it would have receded from a, and
then after the same interval, from
b. This, in fact, was the order
of change which was observed.
In other words, S revolved in a little orbit about its mean place. In

Fig 20

ON ASTRONOMY. 135

the discussion of his observations, on which, as Herschel remarks,
‘‘every imaginable cause of disturbance was taken into careful con-
sideration and its effects rigorously calculated,’’ he reached the con-
clusion that the parallax of 61 Cygni was 0”.348.

From this we infer that light would reach us from this star in 94
years. This result of Bessel has received the most ample confirmation
by Peters of Pulkowa, who, in a series of observations, made in 1842
and 1843, with consummate address in the use of every refinement
which could insure accuracy, found the parallax of this same star to
be 0.349, differing from the result of Bessel by only the =, of a
second. Such a coincidence between the results of different observers,
with different instruments and in different places, cannot but inspire
great confidence in the conclusion to which they have come.

The star a Centauri, the brightest star in the southern constellation,
has been much observed with a view to its parallax; first by Hen-
derson in 1832 and 1833, then by Maclean in 1839 and 1840, and
again in 1848, both at the Cape of Good Hope. The mean of the
results gives for the parallax of this star 0.915, which places it nearer
to our system than any star whose parallax has been determined.
And yet light would be nearly four years in coming from this our
nearest stellar neighbor.

The parallaxes of the following stars have been proximately de-
termined. I give them in a tabular form, with their parallax, the
name of the observer, and the number of years required for light to
come from the star to us:

Stars, Parallax. Observers, Years.
VW

AW CHUMUT oan oso See ee eet 0490154 brendersongs.23o2o3e2e+e+ Se. 3.6
10/0) {a ee ee ere OFS; leiMacleans =e) <2) ce oe eaet el aes ee
Ma@ yeni sees. S25 s0o05 hacen ln ONS4 8h Bessel. ke se ee sete anes 9.4
G) a ee ee 0. 26 | SUUVe: sceeen cater ene case ee 12.6
SINS ee sce as cock re. 0.2303 | “Hlendersom- 2. 42322 c2e05-25- 2A. 9

1830 of Groombridge’s Catalogue-.- Os2Z6.ebeterss aasee ana se cesses 22
MU tsa /MoOIOnIBI.§.. 2 30 3s s sae} OFS Selaes- Osos pase hee oe 24.8
IARCUURIS oe aon sc acim Soe eee e ce (ORS PA id Se se A nce ee a es a SR 25.9
OMNISE. eee ee ee Se REL OR OG 72 800 ise Bo oe Le See S141
Wapella wy: Sse re eee Soak ok. ON0468 Sen cdOn cha ecm e sen Jes ceee Pars

The parallax bears no definite ratio to the magnitude of the star.
The severest scrutiny of the bright star a Cygni, by the powerful in-
struments of Peters, shows absolutely no indication of any measurable
parallax.

We can now give at least a partial answer to the question, how far
off are the stars? An infant is born, and at the same time a beam of
light starts from the bright star in the Swan on its way to our distant
world. The child passes through the slow-recurring stages of life,
reaches manhood and old age, and lingers his full century and dies ;
and the light has not yet reached us! Such is the distance which we
vainly try to contemplate.

136 LECTURES

We may also give a partial answer to the question, how far off maya
star be seen? Photometric measurements, deemed reliable, show that
Sirius would be as bright as an ordinary star of the sixth magnitude
at ten times its present distance ; the light would then be 220 years
in coming to us. But Sir John Herschel’s twenty-foot reflector, and
still more the great telescope of Lord Rosse, would bring out a star of
the sixth magnitude at seventy-five times its present distance. Hence
Sirius might be seen at 750 times the distance which now intervenes
between it and us. To traverse so vast a space light would require
the long period of 16,500 years! But why should we stop here? No
law of the universe bars our progress. And yet, again, what were
the use of attempting to advance farther ? The steps become so vast
that we hesitate to take them. We labor under the oppressive convic-
tion that, if millions of them were taken, we reach no end. ‘There is
every presumption in favor of the hypothesis — nay, there is positive
inductive reason for believing, that, from groups of stars and nebule,
light reaches the human eye which has been 100,000 years in its tire-
less flight from the distant verge of the universe.

From what we now know, can we then doubt that the stars which
beam effulgently upon us, or merely twinkle from the serene depths
of ether, are great central suns? Nay, that many of them are great
central suns, far surpassing our own in their intrinsic splendor?
Wollaston has shown, by photomdiscal measurements, in Herschel’s
opinion, ‘‘ apparently unobjectionable,’’ that the intrinsic splendor of
a. Centauri is equalto nearly 23 suns, and that Sirius is probably equal
to 63 suns. Such is the vastness and the grandeur of the starry heavens.
We look upon the millions of those brilliant orbs, which, scattered
through illimitable space, light up the universe of God, and these
are but parts of His works! What, then, do they tell us of time and
space, of infinite intelligence, and omnipotent power! Well might
we ask with the patriarch, ‘‘canst thou by searching find out God unto
perfection ?”’

There is one other topic to which I shall briefly allude, it is that of
double stars. We here speak of stars connected together so as to form
a system, not of those which are only optically double, in consequence
of the two being nearly in the same direction. Of the double stars,
which evidently form systems of their own, some are binary, consist-
ing of two stars; some triple, and others, perhaps, quadruple.

Sir William Herschel was the first to recognize the importance of
this particular branch of stellar astronomy, and the first to enter upon
it. He made a catalogue of 500 double stars, which were suspected
to have motions of revolution about each other. Since his time the
catalogue, by the labors of Struvé, Peters, and others, has been
extended to 3,000. Two observed elements indicate a motion of revo-
lution of two stars, the one about the other, or both about their com-
mon centre of gravity. The first is a variation of the angular distance
between them, and the second is a progressive rotary movement in the
line joining them. Both these elements of position can be observed
with great precision. The first will tend to develop the form of the
orbit, the second the time of revolution. If the plane of the stellar
orbit should chance to be perpendicular to the visual ray, we shall see
ON ASTRONOMY. 1S

it developed in its true form If that plane should coincide with the
visual ray, then, whatever the real form of the orbit, it would appear
tous to be a straight line. The companion would make a transit
across the principal star, or be occulted by it every semi-revolution.
It is now well known that, in the binary systems, the stars revolve in
elliptical orbits. Of this class Sir John Herschel gives a catalogue of
15, in which the periodic times and the forms of the orbits have been
proximately determined. The periodic times vary from 31 to 736
years. 7 Leonis, not included in his catalogue, indicates a period of
1,200 years. Of these stars, some have completed more than a revo-
lution since their orbits were computed. One of the most interesting
of the double stars is 7 Virginis. The companion passed the peri-
helion of its orbit in 1836, when no telescope in Europe could sepa-
rate the two. The periodic time is 182 years, the major axis 3.5, the
orbit very elliptical.

Fig. 21 gives a view of the re-
spective positions of the companion
from 1830 to 1844.

These orbits of the double stars
furnish the most conclusive evi-
dence that the law of gravitation
controls the movement of the most
distant stars no less than the orbits
of the component members of our
own system. It is truly and em-
phatically the law of universal
gravitation, and binds together, in
the strictest sense, the material |
universe of God.

Such are the methods by which
we ascend to the vast heights of sidereal astronomy, and such are the
lofty conceptions which it gives us of the works and attributes of the
Great Creator.

1844

MEMOIR OF PRIESTLEY.

READ BEFORE THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF FRANCE BY M. OUVIER, JUNE 27,
1805.

[Translated by C. A. Alexander. |

[The discourses by which the French Academy of Sciences is accus-
tomed to commemorate its deceased members, whether native or for-
eign, constitute, it is known, a body of highly interesting biographical
and scientific literature. Far from being limited to encomium, as the
title of ‘‘ Eloges,’’ by which they are usually called, might suggest,
they maintain a tone of candid criticism, and in dispensing Justice to
scientific discoverers deal in enlarged and original views of science
itself, The names of their authors—of Delambre, Fourier, Cuvier,
Arago and others—would teach us to expect no less.

Those delivered by Arago, late perpetual secretary of the academy,
have been recently translated and published in England among the
works of that distinguished and lamented individual. A few others
may be found dispersed through the volumes of scientific periodicals
of Great Britain, but as these are little accessible to the general
reader, and as many have not been translated which well deserved
to be so, it has been thought that a more extended collection than has
yet appeared would not be unacceptable to the literary public.

In this view, a translation, not indeed of the whole series, but of
such as, having not been already published in this country, may
serve to give a connected and popular exposition of the progress of
science, has been undertaken at the suggestion of the Secretary of
the Smithsonian Institution; and the proposed work will appear under
the auspices of the Institution, in so far, at least, as to guarantee the
correctness of its views and the fidelity of its execution.

As a specimen of the work, as well as for its own intrinsic interest,
the following memoir of one of the most original and ingenious pro-
moters of modern science, who closed his eventful life in our own
country, is appended to the present report. |

JosePH PriustiEy, the subject of the present discourse, was an
English clergyman, whose important discoveries in physics occasioned
his being chosen a foreign associate of the Academy of Sciences of
Paris, and the National Institute lost no time in associating him with
itself by the same title.* As he belonged besides to most scientific
academies of his time, it may be that the homage which we this day
render him has been already offered to his memory in all the great
capitals of the civilized world.

This unanimity of commendation will appear the more encouraging

* The Academy of Sciences, with its kindred bodies, having been suppressed by a decree
of the convention in 1793, was replaced in 1795 by the National Institute, divided at first
into classes, which, on the restoration of the monarchy, again received the name of acade-
mies.—TR.
MEMOIR OF PRIESTLEY. 139

to the friends of enlightenment, and attest more strikingly the irre-
pressible influence of true merit, when it is considered that he who
was its object used no address or management in securing it; that,
on the contrary, his life was one of almost ceaseless controversy ; that
he seemed on all occasions to take pleasure in contesting the most ac-
credited opinions, and attacked without scruple the most cherished
interests of certain classes of men.

It is true that this excessive ardor in the assertion of his own ideas
drew upon him the bitterest resentments, exposed him to all sorts of
calumny, and more than once rendered him the victim of cruel perse-
cution. A mob, excited by the false reports of his enemies, snatched
from him in a single day the fruits of all his labors, and only by
withdrawing from his country did he succeed in baffling the fury of
his persecutors. But when his own countrymen seemed to forsake
him, there were others eager to offer him an honorable asylum. And
now, when the principal literary institution of a nation at war with
his own, tenders him through my voice the last sad tribute which it
owes to all its members, I see among the audience many to whom
Priestley has been heretofore opposed, who yet seem to join their suf-
frages with mine and crown by their generous concurrence the measure
of his triumph.

Science and philosophy will have nothing to fear from their bigoted
adversaries so long as such a recompense shall await the man who has
enlarged the noble edifice of our knowledge; so long as genius shall
be regarded apart from its merely local relations, and the development
of new truths shall procure indulgence for any incidental way wardness,
singularity or even rashness of opinion ; for it must not be dissembled
that in matters of opinion Priestley has made himself liable to ex-
ceptions of this nature.

In effect, his history will exhibit him in the light, as it were, of two
different—I had almost said, two contrasted—individuals.

One, the circumspect observer of nature, confines himself to the
examination of objects which lie within the domain of experience,
subjects every procedure to a strict and cautious logic, indulges neither
in speculation nor prejudice, but seeking only truth, whatever it may
be, seldom fails to discover and to establish it in the most satisfactory
manner: the other shows us the adventurous theologian, who grap-
ples boldly with the most mysterious questions, rejects authority
however consecrated by the respect and belief of ages, and, abandon-
ing himself to the heat of controversy, with opinions formed in ad-
vance, evinces as much solicitude for the success as concern for the
validity or even consistency of his hypotheses. The former calmly
resigns his discoveries to the examination of the learned, and finds
them received without hesitation and his own merit acknowledged
without contradiction: the latter invests himself in the warlike
panoply of erudition and metaphysics, attacks with little discrimina-
tion whatever sect or dogma presents itself, and too often revolts
the conscience by the aggressive zeal with which he seems bent on
subduing it.

It is against the divine, the minister of peace, that all are in arms ;
140 MEMOIR OF PRIESTLEY.

he is accused of exciting animosity, arousing vengeance, and troubling
society. The physical inquirer, on the other hand, meets with in-
variable respect; every one acknowledges that, in the defence of truth,
he relies only upon reason, that his discoveries are directed solely to
the welfare of his fellow-men, and that his writings breathe nothing
but a spirit of candor and of modesty.*

Thoroughly to know Priestly, then, it is necessary that he should
be sketched under both these characters ; that the theologian, meta-
physician, and politician should be reproduced, no less than the inge-
nious physicist and associate of the National Institute. At the same
time there can be no mistake as to the comparative prominence which
should be given, on the present occasion, to one or the other, and as
little probably as to the interest which posterity is likely to attach to
them. He has himself somewhere remarked that, asa means of last-
ing renown, the labors of science are as far superior to all others as
the laws of nature to the organization of societies ; and that no states-
man who ever rose to power in Great Britain has approached in
celebrity its Bacons, Newtons, and Boyles ; a maxim somewhat exag-
gerated, perhaps, but which it would have been fortunate if he had
always kept before his own eyes. Priestley, however, is not the first
celebrated man, whose judgment has shown itself incapable of mas-
tering his character.

Mean while it is to be carefully noted that in no respect did his
divergent opinions influence his conduct, but that, with the exception
of the unmerited misfortunes which overwhelmed him in old age, the
whole course of his life was alike uniform and simple. The mere list
of his works would indicate as much; for, when it is known that he
produced more than a hundred treatises, no one can suppose that
society engrossed much of his time, or that his history can consist of
much more than an analysis of his writings.

He was born at Birstal-Fieldhead, near Leeds, in 1733. His father
was a cloth-dresser; his first master a dissenting minister. After
several years study he obtained the situation of [tutor in the Belles
Lettres{] at the provincial academy of Warrington, and afterwards
became pastor of a congregation of dissenters at Leeds. Lord Shel-
burn, secretary of state and afterwards first marquis of Lansdowne,
under a sense of Priestley’s merit [which had then been established
by his first discoveries] induced him to accept the position of [his
lordship’s librarian and philosophic companion, with a salary of £250,
reducible to £150 for life should he quit the employment.] This con-
nexion was terminated, without loss of confidence or friendship on.
either part, at the end of seven years, and Priestley resumed his pas-
toral functions among the dissenters at Birmingham. Here he

* Whether the contrast here presented be not pushed, in the spirit of antithesis, to too
great a length, will probably be differently decided, according to the previous views of the
reader. But that, in some of his metaphysical speculations and interpretations of prophecy,
Dr. Priestley has laid himself open to the charge of temerity, will be denied by few ; nor is
it surprising that Cuvier should regret that such astonishing activity of intellect had not been
restrained to the paths of induction, where he himself had found so secure a footing.—Tr.

} The words within brackets are from Lord Brougham’s ‘ Lives of Philosophers of the
time of George III.”’
MEMOIR OF PRIESTLEY. 141

remained eleven years, up to the time of the disturbances which com-
pelled him to quit that city and determined him to seek a refuge in
the United States. Such is the brief yet complete outline of his pri-
vate life; the history of his works, as it is more important, must be
more extended.

The first of them were intended for the service of education, and an
English grammar, his earliest production, is still used in the schools
of Great Britain. His historic and geographic charts deserve to be
used everywhere for the ingenious manner in which they represent the
origin and fall of each State and the career of every celebrated man.
His lessons on history evince both the comprehension and knowledge
requisite for a profitable study of the revolutions of nations. Those
on oratory and criticism are recognized as useful guides to the exer-
cises of the young.*

This didactic form was that which he still employed in his first
works on physics ; his histories, namely, of electricity and optics, and
his elements of perspective. The history of electricity was judiciously
timed, for it appeared just when Franklin, by the boldness and suc-
cess of his investigations, had thrown the brightest lustre around this
interesting branch of physics, and as all that had been done up to
that date was here presented in a clear and concise form, it was trans-
lated into several languages and first drew some notice in foreign
countries to the name of its author.

The ungrateful task, however, of recounting what had been done
by others was not long to limit the activity of Priestley. He proceeded
without loss of time to place himself in the line of physical discoverers,
and it was chiefly by his researches into the different kinds of air that
he merited that title and established the most durable monument of his
own renown.

It had long been known that many bodies give out air and that
others absorb it under certain circumstances. It had been observed
that the air of neglected privies and of the bottoms of wells, with that
evolved by fermentation, extinguishes light and destroys animal life.
A light air, also, had been observed in the interior of mines, floating
mostly about the vaults of the passages, and kindling sometimes with
fearful explosions. The former had received the name of fied and
the latter that of inflammable air. They are the same which we now
call carbonic acid gas and carburetted-hydrogen. Cavendish had
determined their specific gravity; Black had ascertained that it is
the fixed air which renders the alkalies and lime effervescent ; and
Bergman had not been backward in detecting its acid properties.
Such was the state of knowledge in these particulars when Priestley
laid hold of the matter and treated it with a felicity altogether peculiar
to himself.

Happening to be lodged, at Leeds, next door to a brewery, he had
the curiosity to examine the fixed air which is exhaled from beer in

* Referring to these productions, Lord Brougham remarks: ‘ It is difficult to imagine any-
thing more adventurous than the tutor of an academy afflicted with an incurable stutter,
and who devoted his time to teaching and theology, promulgating rules of eloquence to the
senators and lawyers of his country.”

142 MEMOIR OF PRIESTLEY.

fermentation, with reference to its deleterious influence on animal
life and its property of extinguishing the flame of candles.

His experiments having given him some remarkable results, he was
induced to extend them to inflammable air.

In aiming to determine all the circumstances in which these two
kinds of air manifest themselves, he soon remarked that in many
instances of combustion, especially during the calcination of metals,
the air in which such operations are conducted is altered in its nature,
without there being either fixed or inflammable air in the product.
Hence his discovery of a third species of deleterious air, which he
named phlogistic air, and which has been since called azotic (or nitro-
gen) gas.

He had availed himself of small animals to test the pernicious
action of these different products, and was thus obliged to give pain
to sentient beings. His character is displayed in the joy which he
felt when the discovery of a fourth species of gas enabled him to
dispense with this cruel expedient. This was nitrous air, which has
the property of suddenly diminishing the volume of any other with
which it mixes, very nearly, in the proportion in which that other
air is respirable, and which consequently affords the means of mea-
suring to a certain point the degree of salubrity possessed by different
kinds of air.

This discovery, which was the origin of that branch of physics
known as eudiometry, was of great importance; all the natural
sciences were interested in possessing such a measure, and medicine,
above all, might have turned it to account but for the difficulty of
introducing scientific processes into the practice of even the most
scientific arts.

Combustion, fermentation, respiration, and putrefaction are found to
produce sometimes fixed air, sometimes inflammable, and sometimes
phlogistic air. There is thus no end to the causes which may vitiate
the atmosphere, and yet its purity has undergone no sensible altera-
tion during all the time those causes have been acting. Hence it
follows that in nature there must exist some constant means of restoring
that purity.

Priestley detected these means in discovering that vegetables possess
the property of decomposing fixed air during the day, and that they
thus purify the atmosphere. This property, besides being the first
key to the whole vegetable economy, when taken in connexion with
that exerted by animals of vitiating the air by respiration, disclosed
then, what has since been better developed, that the restorative ener-
gies of life consist chiefly in a perpetual transformation of elastic
fluids.

Thus these discoveries respecting air opened an altogether new
field to the researches upon living bodies, and shed a light on physi-
ology and medicine till then unknown. But still more unexpected
and brighter rays were soon to issue from the same focus.

Having applied the heat of a burning-glass to the calx of mercury,
Priestley had the good fortune to obtain, in a pure and isolated state,
that respirable constituent of atmospheric air which animals consume
MEMOIR OF PRIESTLEY. 143

vegetables restore, and combustion alters. He named it dephlogisti-
cated air.

The other aeriform fluids which differed from the atmospheric air
had been found to extinguish lights: this caused them to burn with
a brighter flame and with wonderful rapidity. The others deprived
animals of life: in this they lived longer than in even the common
air, without need of renewing it, while their faculties seemed to acquire
from it a greater energy. For the instant it was imagined a new
means of existing, and perhaps of prolonging life, had been discov-
ered, or at least an assured remedy against the greater part of the
maladies of respiration.

This hope has proved deceptive, but dephlogisticated air has not the
less remained one of the most brilliant discoveries of the eighteenth
century; itis this which, under the name of oxygen, modern chemistry
regards as one of the most universal agents of nature. By its means
all combustion and calcination are effected ; it enters into the compo-
sition of all acids; it is one of the elements of water, and the great
reservoir of fire; to it we owe almost all the artificial heat which we
procure in common life and in the arts; this it is which, in respira-
tion, gives to all animated bodies their natural warmth and furnishes
the material principle of their movements. The energy of different
kinds of animals is in proportion to the force of its action upon them,
and in the growth of vegetables there is no period when they do not
combine with or disengage it in different manners. In a word,
physics, chemistry, and physiology, both animal and vegetable, have
scarcely a phenomenon which they can entirely explain without the
element in question.

What has been said is but a slight sketch of the most remarkable
discoveries of Priestley ; time forces us to neglect a multitude of others
which would of themselves furnish ample materials for the eulogy of
another man. Lach of his experiments has proved fertile in conse-
quences, and it can scarcely be doubted that there are some of them
which only await a closer attention to become the germ of new and
important deductions.

His labors, as might be expected, were received with general interest ;
his works translated into all languages, and his experiments repeated,
varied, and commented upon by the ablest inquirers. Tor his earlier
researches on phlogistic air the Royal Society had awarded him Cop-
ley’s medal, which is bestowed for the most important physical labor
made public within the year, and which England regards as the
noblest prize of scientific merit. The Academy of Paris accorded him
a prize not less noble, and, because rarer, of more difficult attainment,
the place of one of its eight foreign associates ; an object of compe-
tition to all the scientists of Hurope, and whose list of names, com-
mencing with those of Newton, Leibnitz and Peter the Great, has
never degenerated from that original splendor.

Priestley saw with surprise this accumulation of honors and mod-
estly wondered at the multitude of precious truths which nature
seemed to have reserved for his sole discovery. He forgot that her
favors are never gratuitous, and thatif she had so freely disclosed her-
self, it was because he had known how to extort her answers by the

a I i
144 MEMOIR OF PRIESTLEY

indefatigable perseverance of his inquiries and the number and variety
of his expedients. While others sedulously conceal how much they
owe to hazard, Priestley seemed inclined to credit it with everything.
He tells us, with unexampled candor, how often he was indebted to it
unconsc.ously, how often new substances presented themselves to him
without being recognized ; nor does he ever dissemble the erroneous
views which sometimes governed him and from which he was only
detached by further experience.

These avowals did honor to his modesty without disarming jealousy.
Those, whose own views and methods had proved abortive in discovery,
called him a mere experimenter without method or design ; no wonder,
they observed, if, among so many trials and combinations, some should
be lucky.

But the true physicist is not to be duped by such interested criti-
cisms. He is well aware how many efforts it costs to arrive at those
happy ideas which are the source and regulating principle of all others ;
while the very men who have thought fit to augment our admiration
of their own great achievements in science by the luminous order in
which they propound them, will be far from taking it amiss, that
others, like Priestley, have chosen to give us their discoveries just as
they made them, and have ingenuously retraced all the windings of
the path over which they have travelled.

This peculiarity results from his manner of composition. We have
here no finished construction, no digest of theorems rigidly deduced
the one from the other, as they may be supposed to present them-
selves in the conceptions of pure reason. What he has given us is
the journal of his thoughts in all the disorder of their succession,
wherein we see him at first feeling his way in profound obscurity,
spying out the faintest rays of light that he may collect and reflect
them, sometimes misled by a treacherous and transient glimmer, but
sure to arrive in the end at some region of vast extent and fertility.

Should we be displeased if the great masters of the human race,
an Archimedes or a Newton, for instance, had thus admitted us to the
confidence of their genius? Newton, when asked how he arrived at
his great discoveries, replied, ‘‘ By long thinking about them.’’ With
what pleasure should we not have learned that long series of thoughts
by which Newton was conducted to that master thought which has
inspired the meditations of all his successors. If his works at present
teach us to appreciate the forces of nature, we should, by thus knowing
the actual processes of his mind, have been enabled thoroughly to
comprehend that noblest of nature’s works—the genius of a great
man.

We must not suppose, however, that the discoveries of Priestley were
all perceived by himself, or that they were set forth in his writings as
clearly or in the same manner as we should now state them. At
the time of making them he knew no chemical theory but that of
Stahl, and this, being founded on experiments in which air was taken
no account of, was of course incapable of providing for its phenomena.
Hence there results a degree of hesitation as to priaciples, and of em-
barrassment and uncertainty as to results. Seeking everywhere for
phlogiston, Priestley is obliged to suppose it differently constituted
MEMOIR OF PRIESTLEY. 145

He finds it now in fixed air, which is heavy and acid ; now in inflam-
mable air, which is light; and again in phlogisticated air, which has
no property of the other two. Sometimes there are cases where an
accumulation of phlogiston diminishes the weight of the combination
and communicates an absolute levity to the mixture; in other cases
it produces a directly contrary effect. Thus there is no uniformity,
nor is it possible to arrive at any general and precise conclusion.

That conclusion it was left for modern chemistry to draw, and for
this purpose it has needed but one or two formulas. T'here is no such
thing as phlogiston; pure air (or oxygen) is a simple substance, as are
also phlogisticated air and inflammable air; combustion is only the com-
bination of pure air with combustible substances. 'These few words
have served to disembroil the chaos; every fact has fallen into its
proper place, and chemistry has emerged in the fair and consistent
form in which we possess it.

But chemistry, like the gods of the pagans, could create nothing
out of nothing ; elementary material was still needed for its dispo-
sal, and this material, Priestley, beyond all others, has furnished.
Under this point of view, therefore, he may justly be considered one
of the fathers of modern chemistry and be worthily associated with
the authors of that celebrated revolution in science. He was a father,
however, who never consented to recognize his offspring.

His perseverance in combatting on behalf of his original ideas has
probably no parallel. Without being shaken in his convictions he
saw the most skilful defenders of those ideas pass into the opposite
camp; and when Kirwan, the last nearly of all of them, abjured the
phlogistic doctrine, Priestley, unsupported and alone, still occupied
the field and addressed a new defiance to his opponents, the principal
French chemists of his time.

This challenge was at once taken up and replied to by Adet, who
was then ambassador of France to the United States, and thus proved
himself a worthy representative of French chemistry. The new argu-
ments of Priestley against that theory originated, in fact, from his own
want of familiarity with the operations of more recent chemistry,
however ingenious and dexterous he might be in those processes which
he had himself created. When he drew fixed air from substances
into which he did not suspect it of having entered, he would deny
that it invariably owes its origin to the carbon. And in forming water
from oxygen and hydrogen, though a small quantity of nitric acid
was always present, he would take no account of the portion of azote
which produced it.

His later writings failed, accordingly, to bring back to his opinion
any of those who had abandoned it. Like so many others who have
endeavored to arrest movements first communicated by themselves, he
experienced that ideas once dispersed abroad are as the seed whose
product depends upon the laws of nature, and not the will of those
who have scattered them. To which we may add that, when they
have once taken root, no human power is any longer capable of eradi-
cating them.

It remains now to trace, with painful interest, the career of Priest-
ley in that other branch of his labors to which reference has already

10

146 MEMOIR OF PRIESTLEY.

been made. We have just seen him marching from one success to
another in the cultivation of the merely human sciences, which he
looked upon only as the employment of his leisure moments. We
must now observe him engaged in the struggle to unveil those first
principles which the nature of things hides from our reason beneath
the folds of impenetrable mystery, striving to force the world into an
acceptance of his conjectures, consuming almost his whole life in these
fruitless efforts, and sinking at last into an abyss of misfortune.

Every indulgence will be here needed as well for the recital as its
subject. It may even appear to some that such details are out of
place before this audience ; but where else ought the admonition they
affurd to be listened to with more interest ?

It has been already said that Priestley was an ecclesiastic ; it must
now be added that he passed successively through three creeds or
forms of belief in arriving at one which he could conscientiously adopt
as the basis of his teachings.

Reared in all the severity of the Presbyterian communion, which is
called Calvinistic in France, he passed at the age of twenty years into
the ranks of Arianism. * * *  * Arianism, while holding
Christ to be a creature, regards him as a Being of superior nature, pro-
duced before the world, and himself the organ of the Creator in the
production of other beings. It is the doctrine which the ‘‘ Paradise
Lost’’ has invested with so magnificent a garb of poetry. Priestley
professed it for a length of time, and then abandoned it to become
what we should call in France, a Socinian. Few, perhaps, of those
who hear me know in what these two sects differ; but the Socin-
ians deny the pre-existence of Christ, and regard him only as a
man, though they revere in him the Saviour of the world. This subtle
distinction between two creeds occupied for thirty years a head
which the most important questions of science might rightfully have
claimed, and was to Priestley the occasion of incomparably more
pages than he has written on the different kinds of air. * « ie
7 "i 4) Nor was he less peculiar in the metaphysical part of
his creed. It seems to have been demonstrated by the sounder meta-
physics of modern times that it is impossible for the thinking sub-
stance to take direct cognizance of its own proper nature, just as it is
impossible for the eye to see itself. For any such purpose, to contem-
plate itself or compare itself with other existences, it should be able to
do so from without, while it is only within and through its own pecu-
liar modifications that it perceives, or receives the impression of those
existences. Priestley either overlooked or disregarded these conclu-
sions. In his view, Scripture and experience agree in making the soul
material; the fibres of the brain are the depositary of the images
produced by the senses, while the power which these fibres possess of
communicating their vibrations to one another is the source of the
association of ideas. Sensation perishes with the body, but will revive
with it at the day of resurrection, in virtue of the will and power of
God. ‘Till then we shall sleep in absolute insensibility ; the distribu-
tion of punishments and rewards awaits us only thereafter.*

eS Ee ee eee

*]t should be remarked that the above is far from being an accurate representation of the,
materialism of Priestley, which should not be confounded with the grosser forms of that doc-
MEMOIR OF PRIESTLEY. 147

A material soul must necessarily be submissive to exterior impulses,
and thus absolute necessity, not free will, becomes the law of our deter-
minations. Ifrewards and punishments are attached to our conduct
it is only to give one more determining cause in favor of virtue.

These doctrins are, many of them, those of the earlier Socinians, to
which Priestley only brought the support of new arguments. Without
stopping to discuss questions so foreign to the ordinary studies of the
Academy, and which it is enough to have briefly recalled, it is proper
to say that he sustained his opinions with but too much skill. Even
his adversaries give him credit for great erudition and singular dex-
terity in combining and disposing of his resources, and look upon him,
therefore, as one of the strongest controversialists and enemies of
orthodoxy in these latter times. = 5 * “

It might be thought that in rejecting so many opinions Priestley had
but one more step to take to fall into the most absolute incredulity.
But.this he never did; on the contrary, it seemed to please him to
occupy, in theology as in physics, a post by himself, which, however
perilous, he distrusted not his own courage or ability to defend.
Those who went farther than himself or not so far, the orthodox and
the skeptical, were alike the objects of his attack, and wherever, in
all Europe, anything appeared which seemed to menace, in the least
degree, either revelation in general or his own manner of interpreting
it, that he felt himself called upon to refute. His activity in this
species of warfare was without bounds ; atheists, deists, Jews, arians,
quakers, methodists, calvinists, church of England men, and catho-
lics, were all taught to recognize him as an opponent. There are
publications of his against each of these forms of belief, the very
titles of which it would be almost endless to recite.

A proof that all this was done in good faith is the fact that he
thought himself authorized to predict trom Scripture events that were
near at hand. Prophets who have not his confidence take care to
postpone the accomplishment of their predictions, so as not to have
them falsified during their own lifetime. But Priestley felt more
secure of his facts; he published, in 1799, an address to the Jews, in
which he announced to them, from the revelations of Daniel and St.
John, their speedy re-establishment in Palestine, with a reunion of
all creeds and the foundation of a reign of glory. Besides the calcu-
lation according to years, which referred this great event to the com-
mencement of the nineteenth century, it was to be heralded by such
tokens as the destruction of the papal power, of the Turkish empire,
and of the kingdoms of Europe. ‘The French monarchy, firm as it
seemed, had already fallen; the rest would soon follow; the Pope
was dethroned and in exile; the Turk only subsisted through the
compassion of his neighbors. Priestley lived long enough to see the
failure of at least a part of these supposed tokens.

Details like these, however extraordinary, could not be passed in

trine. He had adopted the theory of Boscovich, as presented in the Theoria Philosophie
Naturalis, &c., 1758, according to which, matter consists inemanations of force from definite
portions of space, and is in reality devoid of any other substratum.—Tr.
148 MEMOIR OF PRIESTLEY,

silence, for the eloges of the Academy are historic, and, as was ex-
pressly prescribed by the first and most illustrious of our predeces-
sors, are bound on every occasion to a fair exposition of the pro and
con. Nor can it be otherwise than useful to observe, as in the present
example, to what lengths the finest genius may be misled when it
attempts to overleap the limits which Providence has prescribed to
our understanding. There is even more instruction in the errors of
such a man as Priestley than in his actual misfortunes ; for where is
the generous mind that would not suffer even greater misfortunes
than his if it were only sure of having announced truth and vindi-
cated right?

Yet it was not precisely the theology of Priestley which occasioned
his misfortunes ; in England every one dogmatises as he pleases. It
was his politics, too closely allied to that theology; the politics of
dissenters being in almost every case the politics of opposition.

We have been accustomed, in France, to consider protestants as
republicans from religion; they are only so from oppression. In
Treland it is the catholics who pass for republicans, while the protest-
ants, who rule, are royalists, because the king is of their party.
This natural opposition is more vehement in England than else-
where, precisely because there dissenters are tolerated by halves, and
only by halves. Excluded from honors and employment, they are
constrained to the rigid payment of tithes for a form of worship
which is not their own. Their children are not even admitted into
the national universities, and yet, influential both from their numbers
and wealth, they are left at full liberty to assemble, to debate, to
print—to exercise, in fact, every means of inflaming their resentments.

For thirty years Priestley was the most eloquent, bold, and perse-
vering organ of their grievances. He put forth twenty volumes in
this service. In this service solely did he write against the celebrated
treatise in which Burke predicted in so true and startling a manner
the evils which must flow from the French revolution. Apparently
the object of Priestley’s reply was not well understood in France, for
he owed to this his nomination as French citizen and member of the
convention, two titles which, at that time, seemed to sit but ill on so
warm a defender of revelation and universal toleration. The first he
did not decline, but the exercise of the second was evaded on the plea
that he did not sufficiently understand the French language.

Without pronouncing as to the substance, it must be conceded that
the political writings of Priestley unite a rare moderation in terms to
a consistency of principle not less rare. He asks nothing for dissenters
which he does not equally ask for catholics, and with more urgency
for the latter as the greater sufferers. No catholic has more vividly
painted the oppression under which nine-tenths of the Irish people
labor. :

I know not what gratitude the catholics may have evinced for
these efforts of a unitarian in their behalf, but this extension of his
good will had no tendency, we may well conceive, to reconcile him
with the Anglican party. To the high churchmen he had become by
these means the obiect of a concentrated hostility ; those who wrote
MEMOIR OF PRIESTLEY. 149

against him were held in peculiar favor, and in some cases were, on
this very account, rewarded with prelacies ; which led Priestley pleas-
antly to observe “‘ that he might be considered as holding the portfolio
of such benefices in his own hands.’’ But the aversion he inspired
did not stop within these venial limits; there is too much reason to
think that the popular turbulence of which he was the victim was
greatly fomented by the intemperate writings and discourses of min-
isters of the establishment.

The first movements of the French revolution had at that time
wrought division, not only in France, but in all the States, cities, and
even families of Europe. As yet there was no outbreak but in France,
but men disputed everywhere, and, strange to say, it was precisely in
the freest countries that the greatest ardor for revolution manifested
itself. Under these circumstances the partisans of the British gov-
ernment had recourse to means of which the enemies of government
in France were setting a successful example, and prompted the popular
riots by which the revolutionists, or those suspected of being such,
were assailed,

Not the least formidable of these riots was that which occurred at
Birmingham, July 14, 1791. A banquet was given on that day by
persons of different sects, including some episcopalians, to celebrate
the anniversary of the attack upon the Bastile, and it was reported
that Priestley was the chief promoter of the festival. As his enemies
had spared no means of inflaming the popular mind, resorting even
to the fabrication of tickets of invitation replete with sedition, and
of toasts steeped in criminality or absurdity, a heated crowd is soon
collected ; the calumny circulates and is aggravated by the most
odious imputations ; and the tavern finally, where the guests are assem-
bled, is assaulted and sacked. The furious multitude exclaim aloud
against Priestley ; he is the organ of dissent, the file leader of revo-
lution, the man against whom has long been levelled the hatred of
every true friend of his country. The moment has arrived when they
can avenge themselves.

The unfortunate philosopher, so far from participating in the dinner,
was ignorant of what was imputed to him and of all that was passing
in the city. But an excited rabble listens to nothing ; they conclude
that he has taken flight, and proceed with torches and other instru-
ments of destruction to his mansion.

This was a modest retreat, half a mile in the country, where he
lived with his wife and two sons in the simplicity of ancient manners.
Here it was that he had received the homage of men illustrious by
birth or merit, none of whom would have been content to leave Eng-
land without seeing him; and here for eleven years he had divided
his time between the pursuit of science, the instruction of youth, and
the exercise of that charity which he considered the first duty of his
ministry.

Here there was only one ornament to beseen, only an incomparable
one ; the rich collection of instruments, in great part devised and con-
structed by himself; the focus from which had radiated so many new
truths, and which had diffused inestimable benefits among those who
now rushed to its destruction; for these were almost all artisans of

——
150 MEMOIR OF PRIESTLEY.

Birmingham, and among the numerous manufactures of that city,
there is scarcely one which does not owe some improvement in its pro-
cesses to the discoveries of Priestley.

But what avails gratitude against the spirit of party, or does the
people know ought of services of this kind? A1l was laid in ashes ;
apparatus, in which experiments designed for the solution of import-
ant questions had been for months in process of development, records
of the observations of many years, works in course of preparation, a
large library, enriched with notes, additions and commentaries, were,
in a few moments, with the house itself, utterly destroyed.

It was truly afilictive that such a man should thus see the fruits of
forty years of honorable assiduity and wise economy suddenly snatched
away—a loss not merely of his moderate fortune, which he might
have disregarded, but of the works of his hand, the conceptions of his
genius, the fund which he had reserved for the meditations and em-
ployment of his remaining life. Fortunately his family had been
apprised of the approach of the mob, and had withdrawn him in time
from the dreadful spectacle.

The riot continued three days, and the houses of his friends under-
went the same fate with his own. As usual, it was the victims who
were accused, and the public journals failed not to announce that there
had been discovered among the papers of Priestley the proofs of a
wide-spread conspiracy.

This calumny is sufficiently refuted by the fact that he openly resided
two years more near London, in the college of the dissenters at
Hackney, where he succeeded the celebrated Dr. Price in the professor-
ship of chemistry. There was time enough to bring him to justice,
and no want of zeal on the part of his accusers, if there had existed
the slightest proof.

They confined themselves to painting him in the most odious colors
in political pamphlets and periodicals. Few instances can be found
of such overflowing rancor, nor would it be easy to credit this rage
of defamation against a man who conferred so much honor on his
country, had we not before our eyes the examples which the last fifteen
years have furnished of the power of party spirit to envenom men’s
opinions, and those which the last fifteen centuries exhibit of the fury
with which personal crimination may be urged when the pretext is
religion.

Nothing in the character of Priestley seemed calculated to produce
such hostility ; his sentiments were never influenced by his contro-
versies, as might be shown by his friendly intimacy with Dr. Price,
though they had often written against each other. So far from any
turbulence or haughtiness of manner, his conversation was always
noted for the same modesty which pervades his writings, and nothing
was easier with him than to say, J do not know—words which the
generality of professedly learned men find it so difficult to pronounce.
His countenance bore rather the impression of melancholy than of
animation, though he was by no means indifferent to the company of
his friends, and enlivened their intercourse with a natural and becom-
ing gaiety. This man, so profound in many parts of science, passed
several hours of each day in teaching the young. This was with him
MEMOIR OF PRIESTLEY. 151

a favorite occupation, and his pupils still revere his memory with
filial tenderness, many of them with genuine enthusiasm.

But no consideration could induce him to pause when he thought
there was some truth to be defended, and this trait of character, so
admirable in itself, destroyed the effect of more amiable qualities and
constituted the torment of his life; because he carried it to exaggera-
tion, and because he forgot that reasoning is the least of the means
which must be used to make men adopt opinions which conflict with
their habits of thought or temporary interests.

The insults heaped upon him, and the fear of again compromising
the lives and fortunes of his friends, at last made a sojourn in his own
country intolerable. In his new engagements at Hackney, industry
and patience might repair, as they had already in part repaired, the
disasters of Birmingham; but this consideration was not sufficient to
detain him; and as coming to France during the war would have
given countenance to the charges of his enemies, he could see no
chance of repose except in the United States of America. Yet was it
some time before he found it even there; English prejudices followed
him beyond the seas, and not until the accession of Jefferson to the
Presidency was he free from the apprehension of being obliged to quit
that asylum.

The dedication of his Ecclesiastical History to that great magistrate,
in acknowledgment of the tranquillity restored to him, and the reply
of Jefferson, afford a noble specimen of the relations which may sub-
sist between men of letters and men in place without humiliation to
either.

Priestley proposed to consecrate the rest of his life to the work just
mentioned, in which he intended to comprise the development and
proofs of all his theological opinions; but he was arrested at the fourth
volume by a fatal accident. His food, by some unknown means,
proved one day to have been poisoned ;* his whole family was placed
in jeopardy, and his own health languished from that time forward.
A gradual decay terminated his life after three years of suffering. He
died at Northumberland, in Pennsylvania, February 6, 1804.

His last moments were marked by the effusions of the same piety
which had animated him through life, and which, from not being well
regulated, had occasioned all its errors. He caused the Gospels to be
read to him, and thanked God for having granted him a useful life
and peaceful death. Among his chief blessings he ranked that of
having personally known all his celebrated cotemporaries. ‘‘I am
going to sleep lke you,” he said to his grandchildren, who were
brought to his bedside; ‘‘ but we shall all awake together,’’ he added,
looking towards the attendants, ‘‘and I trust to everlasting happi-
ness.’’ ‘These were his latest words, and they bear witness to the
belief in which he died.

Such was the end of a man whom his enemies accused of wishing to
subvert all religion and morals; but whose chief fault was to have
misconceived his vocation, and to have attached too much importance

The statement made here, as well as in some other works, of the poisoning which
occasioned the decline and death of Dy. Priestley rests on little or no authority.—TZranslator.

—_—_——oe
152 MEMUIR OF PRIESTLEY.

to his private sentiments in matters where the most important of all
sentiments must be the love of peace.

[Nore.— We are informed by Lord Brougham that, on settling at
Warrington, ‘‘ Priestley married the daughter of Mr. Wilkinson, a
respectable iron master in Wales. She was an amiable woman and
endowed with great strength of mind, which was destined afterwards
to be severely tried.’’ By her he had three sons and one daughter,
of whom the youngest son, Henry, the peculiar companion of his
father’s agricultural labors at his new home, in Pennsylvania, died at
the age of eighteen, in 1795. The mother died ten months later.
‘«' These blows,’’ says Lord B., ‘‘ though he felt their weight, did not
at all crush him; his resignation was exemplary, and his steady,
enthusiastic faith in revelation gave him a certain hope of meeting,
before many years should elapse, with those whom he had lost. It
was, indeed, quite evident that religion was as much an active princi-
ple in him as in any one who ever lived. Not only is it always upper-
most in his thoughts, but he even regards temporal concerns of a
public nature always in connexion with the Divine superintendence,
and even with the prophecies of Scripture. His letters are full of
references to those prophecies as bearing on passing events, and he
plainly says that, since his removal to America, he should care little
for European events but for their connexion with the Old Testament.
He also looked for an actual and material second coming of Christ
upon earth.”’

The descendants of Dr. Priestley appear, from an account received
through the courtesy of a grandson, Joseph R. Priestley, to be widely
dispersed. Not only do several of them remain in his native country,
at London and Birmingham, but others are to be found at Northum-
berland, Pennsylvania, where he settled in this country ; at New
Orleans ; at Atlanta, in Georgia; and even at Melbourne, in Austra-
lia. He was buried at Northumberland, and the following is the
inscription on his tomb :

To
The memory of the Reverend
Dr. JosePH PRIESTLEY,
Who departed this life on the 6 Feb., 1804,
Anno etatis LXXI.

‘Return unto my rest, oh my soul, for the Lord hath dealt bounti-
fully with thee: I will lay me down in peace and sleep till I awake
in the morning of the resurrection.’’ |
O?

NESTS AND EGGS OF NORTH AMERICAN BIRDS. 15

INSTRUCTIONS IN REFERENCE TO COLLECTING NESTS AND EGGS OF NORTH
AMERICAN BIRDS.

INTRODUCTORY REMARKS.

The Smithsonian Institution is desirous of collecting as full a series
as possible of the nests and eggs of birds of North America, with the
view not merely of exhibition in its museum, but to furnish ma-
terials for a work on North American Oology, in preparation by
Dr. Brewer, of Boston, and to be published in successive parts by
the Institution.

This memoir is intended to give an account of the geographical
distribution of North American birds, as well as of their habits and
peculiarities during the breeding season, and to be accompanied as far
as possible by accurate figures of the principal varieties of the egg of
each species, based upon photographic drawings. Of this work, the
first part, embracing the aptores (vultures, hawks, and owls,) and
Fissirostres, (swallows, swifts, and goatsuckers,) is nearly ready for
publication, and will be issued during the year 1859.

The object contemplated by the institution is not merely to procure
specimens of eggs not previously in its possession, but also to obtain
positive evidence as to the limits within which each species rears its
young. Jor this reason it respectfully invites donations from all parts
of the country of as many kinds of nests and eggs as can be procured,
with the exception of a few of the very commonest species hereafter
to be mentioned; and requests that special effort be made to procure
a full series for each locality. As duplicate eggs of all kinds, and
in any number, can be readily used in the exchanges of the Institu-
tion, and in supplying other cabinets, no fear need be entertained of
sending more than enough for the purposes in view.

The eggs, of which a single set only need be collected for the present,
are chiefly those of the eastern blue bird, (Sialia sialis,) the robin,
(Lurdus migratorius,) the cat-bird, (Iimus carolinensis,) the red-winged
black bird, (Agelaius phoeniceus,) and the crow black bird, (Quiscalus
versicolor.) Those to which particular attention should be paid as
groups, are the hawks, owls, woodpeckers, small waders, ducks, &c.,
of all portions of the country ; but, as stated, all kinds of eggs, and
particularly those from the regions west of the Mississippi, and {rom the
northern parts of America, are desired. A subjoined list embraces the
specimens more particularly wanting to the collection of the Institution ;
those having an asterisk prefixed being, with rare exceptions, entirely
unknown to science. The numbers in the list refer to a printed cata-
logue of North American birds, published by the Institution, which
will be sent to any one who proposes to collect eggs for its museum.
154 NESTS AND EGGS OF NORTH AMERICAN BIRDS.

In this catalogue about 720 species are enumerated as now known,
while of these the eges of more than five hundred are marked as
desiderata, more than three hundred, or nearly one-half, being
unknown in American collections. Among easily identified species
most wanted are the California vulture (Cathartes californianus ;)
the swallow-tailed hawk, (Nauclerus furcatus,) and the black-should-
ered hawk, (Zlanus leucurus) of the south; the burrowing owl of the
plains, (Athene hypugaea,) the ivory-billed woodpecker, (Picus princi-
palis,) the western hairy woodpecker, (Picus harrisit,) the red cock-
aded woodpecker of the south, (Picus borealis,) the red-bellied
woodpecker, (Centurus carolinus,) the red-shafted woodpecker or
flicker of the west, (Colaptes mexicanus,) the Oregon robin or varied
thrush, (Zurdus naevius,) the California blue bird, (Sialia mexicana,)
the Rocky mountain blue bird, (S. arcéica,) the western nuthatch,
(Sitia,) the fish-crow of Puget Sound, (Corvus caurinus,) all the jays
of the Rocky mountain region; the Canada jay, (Pertsoreus cana-
densis,) the band-tailed pigeon, (Columba fasciata,) the wild turkey
of New Mexico, (Meleagris mexicana,) all the quails or partridges of
western Texas, New Mexico, and Arizona; the whooping or white
prairie crane, (Grus americana,) the glossy ibis, (Ibis ordii ;) most of
the snipes, sandpipers, curlews, and other small waders; the two
species of swans, (Cygnus,) most of the geese and ducks; the booby
gannet of Florida, (Sula jiber,) the wild pigeon, and many other
species,

The following details will be found to contain all the instructions
necessary to the preparation and preservation of oological collections:

INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLLECTING AND PRESERVING.

The nests of birds are to be sought for in all localities and in diffprent
months of the year, according to the latitude, May and June being
generally the most productive. Many of the rapacious birds, how-
ever, begin to lay much earlier in the middle States, even in February
and March.

When a nest containing eggs, or one newly constructed, is dis-
covered, it should not be disturbed, if possible, before the parents have
been observed hovering around or near, and thus identified. If the
species cannot be otherwise positively determined, a parent bird should
be secured, and either the whole skin be prepared, or a portion—as
the head or wing, and preserved for identification. The whole bird
may be thrown into alcohol, and thus easily kept.

The services of boys and other persons on farms, plantations, &c.,
may be called to great advantage into requisition in collecting eggs.
Whenever they have found a nest, however, it should not be disturbed
before information is communicated to and the spot visited by some
one competent to determine the species, unless the parents can be taken
with the nest. No pains should be considered too great to secure the
certain identification of each set of eggs. If, however, this identifi-
cation should be impossible, the eggs should still be preserved, as the
species can usually be approximated to, if not absolutely determined,
by an expert oologist.
NESTS AND EGGS OF NORTH AMERICAN BIRDS. 155

Sometimes by removing all the eggs in a nest, except one or two,
without handling those left, quite a Jarge number can be obtained
from one pair of birds; generally, however, the nest will be found
abandoned on a second visit.

The nests may not always be removable, and in such cases, full men-
tion of their position, character, &c., should be carefully made. Nests
constructed in bushes er on trees usually need but slight precautions
for their preservation intact. Those on the ground often require to
be secured against falling to pieces by a little judicious tying
together, or even by a few coarse stitches with a thread and needle.
A little cotton packed in the nest above the eggs will generally keep
the latter whole until reaching home, unless subjected to a violent
shock. It will be safer, however, to enclose each one in an envelope
of cotton.

It is absolutely necessary, in all cases, to empty every egg of its
contents, in order to preserve the shell for cabinet purposes ; and this
should be done at the earliest moment possible. It is accomplished in
various ways: the simplest, when the egg does not contain a young
bird, being to prick a small aperture at each end (or better, perhaps,
on opposite sides) with a sharp needle, (a three-cornered one answers
best,) one rather the larger, through which the contents are blown
by the application of the mouth at the other. Delicate eggs, how-
ever, when fresh, can be best emptied by suction, a small quantity at
a time of the contents being drawn into the mouth, and then dis-
charged.

Should there be an embryo in the egg, or should the contents have
become thickened by long standing, it will be necessary to make a
larger aperture in the side by pricking out a circular piece of shell
carefully with the needle. A smaller hole may then be made opposite
to this, at which to apply the mouth in blowing, or the embryo may
be picked out through a single large hole. It will be of much interest
to preserve all embryos in alcohol for further investigation.

European collectors usually make two small apertures close to each
other on one side, instead of on opposite sides. The discharge of the
contents of the egg is facilitated by the use of a small conical blow-pipe
or tube, the smaller end so fine as to enter the smaller aperture. A
stream of water injected by the mouth through the tube into the
aperture will be found an expeditious method of emptying the egg,
but it must be conducted very carefully. When a large hole is made,
the tube may be directed through it to the opposite side of the egg,
and a current of water forced in this will soon discharge the contents.
When practicable, the white membrane, the edge of which usually
protrudes from the opening after the liquids are forced out, should be
seized with a pair of forceps and pulled out, as, if left, it may discolor
the egg, and will always attract insects. If not too small, the egg
should then be partly filled with water through the tube, or by laying
one hole against a saucer of water and sucking through the other,
and carefully rinsed out. After the water is again blown out, the
egg may be allowed to dry by placing the larger hole downwards on
blotting or absorbent paper or cloth. When dry, the eggs should be
replaced in the nest, or laid carefully away, care being taken to add
156 NESTS AND EGGS OF NORTH AMERICAN BIRDS.

a number or other mark showing the locality, date, collector, and
supposed species, as well as relationship to an embryo removed, or to
any portion of the parent preserved. It will in most cases be best
to attach the same number to nest, eggs, embryo, and parent
belonging together. This mark may be made neatly on the eggs,
itself with ink and a quill pen, or on a label carefully packed with
them. <A record book showing what has been taken and preserved,
with dates and explanatory remarks, should always be kept.

In making the apertures in eggs that have peculiar markings, care
should be taken to select some inconspicuous spot that will leave the
pattern of coloration undisturbed. Hggs that are cracked may be
greatly strengthened by pasting tissue or other thin paper along the
line of injury, or what is easier, and in most cases even better, by brush-
ing collodion along and over the cracks. It is often well to cover the
punctures or holes cut out, especially if large, with thin paper or gold-
beaters’ skin. Ifa piece be removed, it can usually be easily replaced
and kept in by pasting thin paper over it and the line of separation,
or around the latter.

Notwithstanding the apparent fragility of eggs, a very little expe-
rience will enable any one to empty them of their contents with great
ease and safety. The principal accident to be guarded against is that
of crushing the egg by too great pressure between the fingers ; these
should be applied so as to barely hold the egg, and no more. If the
operation of emptying be performed over a full basin of water, the
occasional dropping of the egg from the finger into the water will be
attended with no harm.

To pack eggs for transportation, each one should be wrapped ina
light envelope of cotton and laid down in layers separated by strata
of cotton. They should be kept in rather small boxes of wood, or if
pasteboard be used, these should always be transmitted in wooden
boxes, as the eggs are thereby less likely to be broken by a sudden jar
or shock. If the nest is sent along, it may contain the eggs belong-
ing to it, each one wrapped in cotton, and the vacancy of the nest filled
with the same or other light elastic material. It will be well to pin
or tie up each nest in paper to keep it secure, and to prevent entangling
of the materials when several are laid together. A temporary box
may often be readily constructed of pasteboard, to contain the more
delicate or valuable ones.

Whenever practicable, the embryos or young found in the egg
should be carefully preserved in alcohol, great care being of course
taken to mark the specimens properly. The better plan will be to
keep each set in asmall bottle or vial, and a slip of stiff paper or
parchment placed inside with the number or name. Whenever the
abundance of the eggs will warrant it, a large number with the
young in different degrees of development, even as many as fifty of a
kind, should be secured. The embryos in this case need not be re-
moved from the egg, which should, however, be cracked at the blunt
end to facilitate the entrance of the spirit. _ Researches at present in
progress relating to the embryology of birds promise results of the
highest interest in reference to ornithological classification.
NESTS AND EGGS OF NORTH AMERICAN BIRDS.

SPECIAL DESIDERATA AMONG NORTH AMERICAN EGGS.

157

N. B. The asterisk (*) prefixed indicates that the egg of the species is either entirely un-

known to science or scarcely to be found in any American collection.

The numbers are

those of the species in the catalogue of North American Birds published by the Smith-

sonian Institution, reprinted from the ninth volume of the Pacific Railroad Reports.

*100 *163
*103 4164
*104 165
*107 166
*108 168
*110 *169
113 na ical
¥*15 #172
118 *173
ALI9 *174
*120 175
*121 178
#122 179
125 180
#127 18l
*128 *182
*129 183
*132 184
#133 *185
134 187
*136 *188
137 189
138 *190
*141 *191
*142 *192
144 193
145 194
“146 *195
*147 196
149 "197
*150 198
151 *199
*152 200
153 *201
*154 202
*156 204
*159 *205
160 *206
*161 *207
*162 208

sa | +379 |

*322 380
*323 381
324 382
4327 | *383
+329 385
*330 388
+331 389
*333 | *392
*334 | +*393
335 | .*394
336 | *395
339 397
*340 398
341 402
*343 403
#345 404
346 405
*347 408
+348 409
*350 | 410
#351 4 |
#352 412
+353 413
#355 | *417
+356 422
*360 | 423
*361 | *424
*362 | 425
364 | *427
*365 428 |
*366 | *430
367 | *431
#370 432
*371 | *433
4372 | 495 |
*373 | *436
| *374 437
|} 375 | #438 |
376 | 439

*440
*44)
*442
*443
*444
*445
446
447
448
449
450
#452
*454
455
*458
459
460
*461
462
463
*465
467
468
*469
470
473
*475
*476
*477
*478
479
*480
*481
*482
*488
489
*494
A97
498
*500

666
*668
*669
*670
*671
*673
*674
*675
*676
*677
*678
*679

680
*684
*686
*687
*691
*693
*700
*702
*704
*705
*707
*710
*714
*716
RTT
*718
#720
*721
*722
*723
*724
#725
*728

732

| *733
| *734
|} *735

*736
4737

738

158 INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLLECTING INSECTS.

INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLLECTING INSECTS.

INTRODUCTORY REMARKS.

The Smithsonian Institution has undertaken the preparation of a
series of reports cn the insects of North America, with the view of
attracting attention to and facilitating the study of a department of
natural history, which, though so much neglected, is yet of great
practical importance to the agriculturist and rural economist. These
works will consist—first, of catalogues of all the known genera and
species of each order, with reference to the places of publication ; and
secondly, of monographs and detailed descriptions of both old and new
species, so as to enable any one interested in the subject to identify the
insects met with, and to prosecute investigations respecting them.

Towards the accomplishment of this object the Institution has
already published a catalogue of the North American Coleoptera, by
Dr. F. E. Melsheimer, andalso one of the Diptera, by Baron Ostensacken,
while similar catalogues of Neuroptera, Hymenoptera, Hemiptera,
and Diurnal Lepidoptera are in an advanced state of preparation. It
is now proposed to take up a very interesting and extensive group,
that of the Moths or Night Butterflies, and contributions of materials
towards a work on this subject are, therefore, respectfully solicited.
There is no locality in the country where new species may not be
readily obtained, and from which complete collections are not desira-
ble, although novelties are most to be looked for from the regions of
the west. From every region the most common and familiar species are
equally desirable, with the rarest and most striking ; the object being
not merely to collect all the species, but also te determine accurately
their geographical distribution.

In the following pages will be found special instructions for collect-
ing insects, furnished for this article by different entomologists, with
some general remarks on the subject taken from Samouelle’s Entome=
logist’s Companion.
INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLLECTING INSECTS. 159

GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS.

<¢ Insects are so various in their habits that they may be found in
every part of the world, at all seasons of the year, and in every situa-
tion.

As some localities are more congenial to their nature than others, I
shall mention such as will be likely to furnish the best result to the
Entomologist :

Woods, Hedges, and Lanes.—These situations furnish by far the
greatest number of insects. In woods the Entomologist must beat the
branches of trees into his umbrella, or folding net, and must select
for this purpose open paths, the edges, &c. The trunks of trees,
gates, and felled timber, should be carefully examined, as many of
the Lepidoptera and Coleoptera are found in no other situations.
Many rare and very beautiful insects are found in the hedges, in
lanes, as also in the nettles, &c., which grow under them; these should
be well beaten, especially when the white thorn is in blossom, in the
months of May and June. Hedges in dusty roads are seldom pro-
ductive.

Heaths and Commons.—Many insects are confined to these situa-
tions, not only on account of plants, which grow in such situations,
but by the cattle and their dung, in the latter of which many thou-
sands of insects may be found—mostly in the months of May, June,
and July; these are principally Coleoptera.

Sand-Pits.—In such places will be found many minute Coleop-
terous insects, as well as wasps, &c.; the roots of grass, at which the
former are found, should be closely examined.

Meadows, Marshes, and Ponds.—In meadows when the Butter-
cups (Ranunculi) are in blossom, many Dipterous and Hymenopterous
insects are found. The drills in marshes should be examined, as many
species of insects are found on the long grass, as also the larve of
many Lepidoptera. Neuroptera are abundant in such situations, espe-
cially if any hedges or trees are near the spot.

The mud which is brought up from the bottom of ponds should
be thoroughly examined, and such small insects as are found may be
put in a small bottle filled with water, which will not only clean them
but keep them alive. ‘To the Entomologist this mode of collecting
will be very advantageous, as he will thereby obtain many species of
Dysticide, Notonectidee, &e.

Moss, Decayed Trees, Roots of Grass, dc.—Many insects will be
found in moss and under it ; the roots of decayed trees afford nourish-
ment and a habitation to a number of insects; many of the larve of
Lepidoptera penetrate the trunks of trees ; most of the Cerambycids
feed on wood, as well as some species of Elaters, &c. In seeking for
these a sharp digging instrument is generally used, as it is sometimes
necessary to dig six or seven inches into the wood betore they are found.

460 INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLLECTING INSECTS.

Banks of Rivers and Sandy Sea-shores.—These situations are pro-
ductive of a great variety of Coleoptera, and other insects.

The dead animals that are thrown upon the shores should be care-
fully examined, as they are the food of Silphide, Histeride, Staphy-
linide, &c. May and June are the best times for collecting in these
localities.

Dead animals and dry bones should be constantly examined, as
these are the natural habitations of many insects.

Fungi, boleti, and flowers, should be carefully, when met with,
examined, as many exceedingly rare insects inhabit them.’’

[The preceding general remarks have been taken from Samouelle’s
Entomologists’ Guide. |

INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLLECTING COLEOPTERA.

BY JOHN L. LE CONTE, M. D.

General Remarks.

The insects of this order are mandibulate, or furnished with jaws,
and may be distinguished by the upper wings being converted into
hard corneous shields, which protect wholly or part of the upper sur-
face of the abdomen. They are very numerous, more than 8,000
species having already been collected in the United States, while
several thousand species probably remain to be discovered, especially
in our Territories west of the Mississippi.

On account of the ease with which the specimens are obtained and
preserved, this is the favorite order of insects with collectors, and
although not equalling in beauty the Lepidoptera, the gem-like lustre
of many is not without merit, and above all the very distinct generic
and specific differences leading to more accurate classification have
induced many scientific men of high ability to devote their time assidu-
ously to this order, and with the happiest results in philosophic
generalizations.

The species are to be found in almost every variety of situation,
among which may be here specified, under stones, especially where
the soil is not very dry ; under bark of dead trees in ants’ nests; in
fungi, on leaves of plants, especially on the low trees and shrubbery
on the edges of forests and streams; in dead carcases of animals; in
excrement. Many are seen flying and alighting again in roads
during the hotter part of the day ; some live in water, and can only.
be procured by small nets, while a great number of minute species
may be taken on the wing just before sunset. Many are found only
on the shores of the ocean, under material cast up by the waves; @
large number will be attracted by a light near an open window at
night. For the purpose of more easily securing these, the table on
which the light is placed should be covered with a white cloth. Fi-
INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLLECTING INSECTS. 161

nally, many minute species will appear on throwing with the hand
water on the damp mud of the banks of streams and lakes.

The most suitable times for collecting Coleoptera are the spring and
autumn ; during the great heats of July and August they diminish
greatly in numbers; the search for them should begin as soon as the
frost is out of the ground; at such times water beetles and those
found in ants’ nests, under bark, and under stones, are numerous.

COLLECTING INSTRUMENTS.

The collector of Coleoptera will require three nets: a large one,
fourteen inches in diameter, made of thick white muslin, of strong
construction, suitable for beating the bushes or for taking specimens
on the wing, provided with a handle not more than fourteen or
eighteen inches long; a smaller one, ten or twelve inches in diameter,
also of strong construction, with a bag of millinet, suitable for raking
up material from the bottom of ponds, streams, &c.; and a third, with
along handle, provided with a bag of gauze for catching cicindele,
(the actively flying species seen in roads.) These nets are suitable
for the collection of all insects, and their form and construction have
been described under the directions given regarding other orders.

A very convenient bag may be made for beating bushes, &c., out
of a bar hinged at two places, so as to form an isosceles triangle ;
the long legs serve as handles, and the bag of muslin may be fastened
to the short leg and the bases of the long ones. An umbrella frame
covered with white muslin also answers an excellent purpose.

Much may be done in the collection of minute Coleoptera by passing
the material washed up by the waves of a lake or stream, or the earth
of an ant’s nest, through a sieve having not very fine meshes; the
material passing through is received on a sheet of paper or a hand-
kerchief, gently pressed, and then watched carefully for a few moments;
the insects may be detected by the moving of particles,.and can then
be easily secured.

METHOD OF PRESERVING SPECIMENS.

A. For Transportation.

Coleoptera obtained on journeys, where economy of time and space
is of importance, should be always placed in strong alcohol. The
bottles to receive them should be small, not more than eight ounce
bottles for large species, and one ounce or smaller for the minute
ones. When the bottles are filled with specimens, the liquid should
be poured off and replaced by strong alcohol; thus the specimens will
be rendered firm and can be preserved indefinitely. Z’he colors do not
change.

If bottles are in danger of being broken, the specimens, after re-
maining for a day or two in alcohol, may be taken out, partially
dried by exposure to the air, but not so as to be brittle, and then
packed in layers in small boxes between soft paper ; the boxes should
then be carfully closed with gum paper or paste, so as to exclude all
enemies.

11
162 INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLLECTING INSECTS,

B. For Collections.

Where the specimens are intended to be placed immediately in a
cabinet, the smaller species should not be put in spirits, but rather
in homeopathic vials, in each of which is a small piece of bibulous
paper moistened with ether. Thus the specimens do not become wet,
and can be gummed on cards without delay.

Pinning.—Coleopterous insects, more than one-tenth of an inch
long, unless of very narrow form, should be pinned through the right
elytron, in such manner that the pin passes out beneath, between the
middle and posterior coxa of the right side ; the pin must be graduated
to the size of the specimen. German pins alone should be used ; they
are not so long and of harder and more elastic metal than the French,
and much better pointed. Short English pins should always be
avoided ; they bring the specimen too close to the bottom of the box.

Insects less than a tenth of an inch long, or very narrow species of
larger size, must be gummed on cards, which are placed on pins of
No. 1 or No. 2. For economy in travelling, several cards may be
placed on one pin, in which case the cards should be larger and put
on No. 3 pins; they can afterwards be cut down to the proper size.

I have found the most convenient method of preparing cabinet
specimens to be the following: Cut thin Bristol board into strips
about one-fifth of an inch wide; from these, with sharp-pointed
dissecting scissors, cut small isosceles triangles, in number equal to
the specimens to be prepared; place each one on a pin about three-
fourths of its height; then selecting the specimen to be prepared,
arrange the feet and antenne with two camel’s hair pencils, or with
one pencil and a pin; clip the end of the triangle so as to give a base
about one-third or one-fourth of the length of the insect, holding the
pin with the card in the left hand; touch the tip of the card with a
pin dipped in the cement, then lifting the insect with a moistened
pencil, place it at right angles to the altitude of the triangle and on
the left hand of the pin; this position, if neatly given, and without
any superfluity of cement, enables the under surface of the specimen
to be very thoroughly examined.

The best cement is a mixture of inspissated ox gall, gum arabic,
and water, and should be so thick that the specimen will remain in
the position in which it is placed. Gum arabic alone is too brittle; the
specimens prepared with it are apt to come off. Gum mixed with a
little brown sugar answers very well; so does the common mucilage
of the shops.

Setting.—The antenne and feet of small specimens should be drawn
out so as to enable them to be examined when necessary; of large
specimens, they should be moved with brushes or fine forceps, with
the same object in view. Any system of regular setting such as is
adopted by English collectors of bringing the feet and antenne as
nearly as possible on a plane with the body is reprehensible ; nothing
can be more awkward than the appearance of a box of specimens thus
prepared, and the specimens themselves are much more liable to injury.
The posture should be as nearly as practicable that assumed by the
INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLLECTING INSECTS. 163

animal when moving, and the legs should therefore be in a somewhat
depending position.

Cabinets.—The specime.s should be preserved, either in drawers with
tight covers in which are fitted panes of glass, or in boxes with very
carefully fitting covers which lift off; boxes in the form of books are
also used, but the cover being affixed to the box is in the way of the
student. I have found that the best size for boxes required for con-
stant study is 12 inches by 81 or 9 inches, (inside measurement ;) the
depth is to be proportioned to pins used, but one inch and a half clear
of the cork, with which the bottom is lined, will be found ample. The
boxes should be made of thin, well seasoned board, so that they will
not become warped, lined with sheets of cork, such as used for boot
soles, then neatly papered, and kept horizontally in a piece of furni-
ture made for the purpose, the doors of which fit very closely by means
of a tongue and groove running all around. Camphor should be kept
always in abundance in the boxes or in the cabinet alongside of the
boxes, and during the warm season every box should be looked at at
least once in each month. The presence of infection is seen by the
dust at the bottom of the pin bearing the infected specimen ; this
should at once be removed and dipped in alcohol or boiling water,
Where it can be procured, benzine is the best material to use; it is to
be applied with a pencil over the whole surface, and then the speci-
men is to be brushed with a clean pencil. Such preparation is con-
sidered in Paris to protect the specimen ever afterwards from infection.

I have tried various poisonous solutions, such as tinctures of strych-
nine, picrotoxine, piperine, &c., without avail. Arseniate of potassa.
will protect the specimens but injure the appearance very much.

When a specimen is badly gummed or pinned, it is to be thrown in
boiling water for a short time, varying from half a minute to five
minutes, depending on the size of the specimen, and the pin or card
can then be removed, and the specimen repinned or reset on a clean
card,

For the purpose of distinguishing specimens from different regions,,
little disks of variously colored paper may be used ; they are easily
made by a small punch, and should be kept in wooden pill boxes ready
for use; at the same time a key to the colors, showing the regions
embraced by each, should be made on the fly leaf of the catalogue of
the collection, or in the Melsheimer catalogue, so as to be ever at hand
for persons consulting the collection.

The specimens should all be pinned at the same height; the ease
of recognizing species allied in characters is greatly increased by hav-
ing them on the same level, and a general appearance of neatness is
given which cannot otherwise be obtained.

It is better, even where numbers with reference to a catalogue are
employed, that the name of each species should be written on a label
attached to the first specimen. Thus the eye is familiarized with the
association of the species and its name, memory is aided, and a greater
power given of identifying species when the cabinet is not at hand,

No manual applicable to the Coleoptera of the United States has
yet been prepared ; such a work is much needed, as the student is now
obliged either to seek in a large number of works the information he
164 INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLLECTING INSECTS,

desires, or to rely on his specimens being named by some person who
has already mastered the difficulties of this bibliographical maze.

HYMENOPTERA.*

The Hymenoptera are insects furnished with four membranous wings,
and which, in general, are capable of wounding by means of a sting,
such as the wasps, hornets, bees, ichneumons, &c. They should be
taken in a net or in pill boxes, but never more than a single insect
should be put in one box.

They are found on flowers, bushes, and on walls, exposed to the sun
or warmed declivities, in sandy places and in the earth. Their
presence is often at once recognized by the existence of numerous
holes in sandy places or in walls forming their habitations or the
places where their young are deposited; all the ants belong to this
order of insects. When an ant’s nest has been found it is necessary
to open it in order to secure a large number of individuals; in the
interior, individuals with wings are found; these are the males and
females, which it is very important to obtain.

The collector should secure the nests of Hymenoptera; they will be
found fixed to the roofs of houses, in the holes of trees, pendent from
branches, &c. The nests are often closed and have but one orifice ; this
may be frequently stopped up and the branch containing it cut off and
secured with all its contents. When they are more fragile they should

vbe carried in boxes, with which the collector should provide himself,
for this purpose, and protected by means of cotton or soft moss. It
is very important to know what are the species which construct these
nests, and it 1s therefore indispensable either to pin the insect and in-
clude the nest on the same pin, or fix the two on pins designated by
the same number.

The collector should make a record of his observations, designating
the individuals by numbers in case he is unacquainted with their
names, and note the peculiarities of their habitations, their prey, their
utility or their injurious qualities or habits, &c.

Hymenoptera should be set in the same manner as the Diptera, and
should be killed by means of the fumes of sulphur or with chloroform.

‘The legs should be placed in a natural position, and the tongue
pushed forward so that this important organ, when present, as in bees,
xmay be easily examined.

ORTHOPTERA.+ (Linn.)

Earwigs, cockroaches, spectres or walking-sticks, praying-mantes,
grasshoppers, katydids, crickets, We., belong to this order; their
habits are generally to feed upon vegetable matter of all kinds, and
some of them, as the cockroaches, prey upon various materials of food

in houses, &c. : :
Ear-wigs are mostly to be found, during the day time, concealed in

* Furnished by Dr. B. Clemens. d
The paragraphs on Orthoptera, Hemiptera, and Neuroptera, have been furnished by P.

R. Uhler, Esq., of Baltimore.
INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLLECTING INSECTS. 165

the corollas of flowers and between the leaf and stock of certain plants
having no foot-stalks to their leaves; in the evening they are active,
and may frequently be taken with a net, whilst flying, just before
sunset. |

Cockroaches of various kinds may be found beneath sticks, stones,
rubbish, &c., and under the bark of decayed trees, mostly in damp
situations.

Spectres or walking-sticks are to be found upon trees and shrubbery,
and require very close searching to discover them, their color being
generally so much like that of the bark or twigs of the trees they
inhabit.

Praying-montes are usually most abundant in gardens upon all
sorts of vegetable matter, and, being large and conspicuous objects,
may be readily seen and captured with the hands or net. Their time
of appearing is from the middle of July to the end of summer.

Grasshoppers are abundant everywhere ; some of the species fly very
swiftly, and can only be obtained by following them with the net. The
species are usually most numerous upon heaths, commons, and fields
of grass. There are also a few kinds found jumping about near the
margins of streams upon bare sandy places not covered by the water
at high tide. These insects may be found during the whole year, but
their numbers greatly increase as the warm weather comes on.

Katydids live wpon trees and high shrubbery, and may be best
collected by beating into an umbrella; this must be done quickly,
howeyer, as they very soon recover from the effects of their fall, and
their long legs enable them to jump to great distances ; their time of
appearing is late in the summer or early part of autumn.

Crickets are found the whole year round under logs, sticks, and
stones ; their numbers are considerably increased by the early part of
autumn, when they may be collected by sweeping from the grass, d&ec.

All the kinds of insects before enumerated may be placed in alcohol
and suffered to remain in it for a considerable time without much
change in their colors; it is very necessary, however, to have the
bottles filled quite full in order to transport them; shaking about
separates the parts, Wc.

This order of insects may be collected during the entire year, but
the best times are in the warm parts of spring and autumn ; at these
seasons their eggs are generally laid and the creatures arrive at their
full state of perfection.

HEMIPTERA.,

This order includes what are properly so called bugs, harvest flies,
or cicadas, (improperly called locusts,) tree-hoppers, vine-hoppers,
plant-lice, &c. The bugs are divided into terrestrial and aquatic.
The terrestrial kinds are all found during the warm weather upon
vegetable matter, and may be collected in all the ordinary ways, sha-
king into an umbrella, sweeping from the grass and low plants with
a net, picking up with the hands, &c. The aquatic species can be
obtained by fishing with a net amongst the mud at the bottom of
ponds and streams and amongst water plants, and some are found
166 INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLLECTING INSECTS,

skimming over the surface of the water. There are also a few kinds
to be obtained from the banks of streams in the sand and among the
stones, under the bark of decayed trees, &c.

All the remaining insects of this order may be found on trees and
plants, some living upon the leaves and others upon the trunk and
stems; they may be captured by beating into an umbrella or sweep-
ing with a net. Grape-vines will be found specially productive.
Their time of appearance is during the warm weather, from the begin-
ning of summer to the end of autumn.

NEUROPTERA.

Dragon Flies, Ephemere or Mcy Flies, Lace-winged Flies, Ant
Lions, White Ants, Caddis-worm Flies, (Phryganide,) Scorpion Flies,
dc.—Dragon Flies inhabit the water in their first stages, and the
perfect insect will be found most numerous in the vicinity of pools,
marshes, and watery places. They are found only during the warm
weather of spring and summer. The best method of collecting them ~
is to station yourself close to the bushes, sticks, &c., upon which
they settle, and wait till they alight, when the net may be thrown over
them. A little practice, however, will enable you to capture them
upon the wing, and by this means you will secure many rare species
which could not be otherwise obtained. These insects had better not
be placed in alcohol, as it will soon destroy their colors, and render
them valueless; the best method yet discovered is to have little paper
bags adapted to the size of the insects, into which they may be slipped
after closing their wings against each other, and having wetted their
bodies all over with alcohol by means of a camel’s hair pencil, which,
together with a small vial containing the alcohol, may be carried in
the pocket.

The Agrionide, sometimes called Darning-needles, must be treated
differently ; it will not do tu place them in papers; they must be
pierced through with a pin and then stuck into the hat, a box, or
something the collector must carry for the purpose. They are usually
very abundant in meadows, near small brooks, ditches, &c., settling
upon bushes and projecting objects.

Ephemercee are generally best collected during the evening. The
young of these and the Caddis-worm flies inhabit the water, and near
it the imago will be found, sometimes in immense flocks, each one
making a gyratory motion and flying with prodigious swiftness,
usually around some adjacent tree. They must be collected with the
net and pinned at once.

Lace-winged Flies are to be found upon trees, plants, &c., and, with
the Scorpion Flies, may be beaten into the umbrella or swept into the
net. All the remaining insects of this order, together with these two
kinds of flies, must be pinned at once, and not placed in bags or
alcohol.

Ant Lions will be found flying about near the margins of woods and
in sandy places, near fences, &c. They are distinguished from the
Dragon flies by the greater length of their antenne, which always
INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLLECTING INSECTS. 167

have a knob at the end. They must be killed, like the Dragon flies,
by applying alcohol with a brush.

White Ants will be found swarming in decayed logs, beneath stones,
&c. They are very tender, and must be pinned at once. The insects
of this order live during the warm weather only, and can be collected
in the greatest numbers when the sun shines warmest and the days
are fine. Many of them may be obtained by spreading a sheet in the
woods or near some stream, among the bushes, during the night, and
placing over it a bulls-eye lantern; the insects will be attracted by
the light, and by means of the white sheet they can be more readily
seen and taken with the net. This is also a most excellent method of
mothing during the hot summer evenings.

INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLLECTING DIPTERA.
BY H. LOEW, WITH ADDITIONS BY R. OSTENSACKEN.

The first instrument I use in a locality, the fauna of which I am not
well acquainted with, is a linen bag, fourteen inches in diameter and
two and a half feet long, a little rounded at the top or apex, and
attached to a strong iron ring, with a hollow metallic handle, in which,
if necessary, a cane or other piece of wood may be inserted. With
this bag I begin to sweep, and in a short time ascertain what insects
abound in the grass, on the flowers, or in moist or dry places, &c.
After the last sweep, by a dexterons twist of the handle I throw the
apex of the sack over the ring, so as to prevent the escape of the
insects, and give them time to compose themselves at the bottom. It
is then opened, and I insert my head into it to see what I have cap-
tured. They immediately begin to move upwards. The common
specimens I allow to pass; but if there is one which I desire to take,
I let it advance to the middle of the bag, and then gently grasp it,
from the outside of the bag, with the right hand. The other captives
I drive down to the bottom by blowing moderately on them, and con-
fine them there by letting the ring fall over the right hand, which
holds the insect, which is now easily seized with the left hand. This
operation is repeated until everything desirable is taken out, when the
bag is emptied of its contents by inversion, and the sweeping recom-
menced.

This is the most important of all the implements used by the Dip-
terologist. Its employment prevents him from wasting his time in
barren localities, promptly indicates the presence of rare species, and,
by furnishing this information, enables him afterwards to have an
abundance of specimens.

When I have, by the use of the bag, discovered the locality of rari-
ties, I use another instrument, which is nothing more than an ordi-
nary insect-forceps, of the form shown in fig. 1. Here, 6 is the place
for the thumb, c is the joint placed near the handle in order that the
168 INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLLECTING INSECTS.

forceps may be closed rapidly ; the remaining portion of the arms
should be made so stout that they will not spring when closing the
blades ; d is a pin to prevent lateral motion when the blades are closed;
Fig. 1. jy ~\ @ the oval ring
1a : ipsam must be covered
= ee with a double cot-
: > ton tape tightly
\ ? J sewed. If the for-
ve \ ceps are not more
(C 7 than nine or ten in-
® C2 1—— ches long the ring
\ } need scarcely be
MS ye Nite bound with tape. Its
\ eS angle and straight
S side are useful in
capturing insects in particular situations. Then the space between the
rings, on their internal side, must be covered with the best bobbinet,
tightly drawn and securely sewed, so that a perfectly level surface be
formed, in order to prevent the captured insect from struggling. The
insect is pinned through the openings of the bobbinet, and is then
easily transferred to the collecting box, or stuck into the sides or top of
your hat, at pleasure. Two views of the instrument are given to
illustrate its form more fully.

This instrument is not adapted for very small insects. For such, a
forceps with finer bobbinet is used, but even this is superfluous, if you
have become expert in employing the bag in sweeping, as well as in
holding it under plants, bushes, and flowers, and, by gently striking
or shaking them, allowing the insects to fall into it. Neither does it
answer for the capture of very active species. It is, for the most part,
useless to pursue such, and only betrays the intemperate zeal of the
beginner. It is better to ascertain where such species pass the night,
and thus you can easily capture that with your fingers which at other
times would cost much labor. An excursion early in the morning,
before the dew is off, is often very productive.

To carry more instruments with you than those just mentioned is
an unnecessary burden.

Besides the capture, the breeding of Diptera, is of the greatest im-
portance, and, for the most part, easy. The principal rule I follow,
in order to secure the perfect insect, is, to be in no hurry about
taking the imperfect one. If there is reason to presume that the
larvee will change into the pupa state at the place where it is found,
I wait until then and gather the pupas. On a contrary presump-
tion, I take the larvee only when I observe that they are preparing for
the pupa state. Decaying wood, mould in hollow trees, manure, and
ground-earth under manure, stems of plants, grass, stalks of hollow
weeds, dried flowers and their seed vessels, particularly of the Com-
posite, furnish me the richest booty.

A bag full of the dried flowers of the Composite, or a bundle of dry
burdocks and thistles, which I have had gathered for a few pennies, has
always furnished me with something good. ‘The pupe of Diptera do

a

INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLLECTING INSECTS, 169

not require much care; only do not let the place in which they are
kept be too warm. Those I wish to separate are put in large glass
jars, the tops of which are covered with paper. The others I place in
a wooden box, which I keep in an unheated room, on the window-sill.
When they are developed from the pupa towards spring, they natu-
rally fly to the window, from which I take them with a glass vial, or,
what is better, with a small chip-box furnished with a glass bottom.

The third point of great importance is the preparation and pinning
of the specimens for the cabinet. Sulphuric ether and chloroform are
but inferior means of killing them. Specimens too long exposed to
these agents are apt to spoil, and, if too little exposed to them, they
revive. They answer only for certain tender minute species, of which
I shall speak below. The best means of killing them are kreosote and
the smoke of a strong cigar. The general rule is, to pin the flies
whilst living, and thus to put them into the collecting box, which
should have the bottom well moistened with kreosote, and be made
tight. The captives will soon die, and thus, time afier time, fresh
subjects may be put in as they are caught. I have had boxes in which
the largest Diptera were almost immediately killed, although the kreo-
sote had not been renewed for six days, and which were still fatal to
smaller species for six months afterwards. If you have no boxes thus
prepared with kreosote, or, if you wish to avoid the odor of it, then
prepare a box, so that, when it is full of pinned specimens, you may
blow a few strong puffs of cigar-smoke into it, and all life will soon
cease.

In the pinning of specimens, the long pins are greatly to be "s- *
preferred to the short ones. Five-sixths of all the entomolo- @
gists now use the long pins. mn, fig. 2, is the normal length ta
of pins which are used for Diptera; the finer kinds may be of +4
the length md. The insects must be pushed high enough up
the pin to enable the surface of its back to be examined with an
ordinary lens without being incommoded by the pin’s head.
The back of the insect must, of course, be a little nearer the
pin’s head than the length of the focus of the glass. As smaller
insects must be examined by glasses of higher power, they must
be brought nearer the pin’s head than larger ones.

Large flies may be pushed up so that their backs come to 8, ‘
which smaller ones should reach a, Since the beautiful magni-  !
fiers of Oberhauser, which allow the application of a lower power,
have come into use, insects may be pinned at a greater distance from
the head, but not much greater.

The minute and tender species, such as the smallest Cecidomyic,
Campylonyze, and others, must be treated differently. They cannot
be pinned in the ordinary way with safety. Van Heyden has pro-
posed the most rational and elegant method. The smaller species are
caught by the linen bag, and are then put into very porous chip pill
boxes, and are killed with cigar smoke, if boxes moistened with
kreosote are not preferred. When twenty or thirty are captured the
box is turned up so that specimens fall into the cover. They are then
transfixed from below on fine silver wire, but not so as to allow the
wire to project beyond the thorax, The silver wire must previously

To
Iv
170 INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLLECTING INSECTS.

be cut with ordinary scissors into pieces of proper length and taken
with you. The wire must be inserted into the insect by means of a
very delicate pincers, and with the same instrument the other end of
the wire must be stuck into a box, the bottom of which is covered
smoothly with the pith of plants. Over the pith thin paper may be
fastened in order to render the surface still more smooth. The top or
cover of the pill box, in which the insects are placed while transfix-
ing them, must not be too shallow, so that they may not be blown
away by the wind, if the operation is performed in the field. The use
of a glass vial for the capture of small insects is not to be recommend,
as the moisture separates their parts and thus spoils them. The vial
may be used on excursions, when you desire to take home a single
living insect for the purpose of examining the organs of its mouth or
its internal structure.

Those specimens which have been transfixed on the silver wire, as
above indicated, are prepared for the coliection in the following way:
In the fall, stalks of weeds with pith not too porous, and before it is quite
dry, must be collected. The best adapted for this purpose is the pith of
Artemisia, and, still better, of Verbascum, (mullein.) It is cut into small
Fig. 3, <==» pieces, which, seen from above, have the form and size of
aie gear fig. 3, and seen from the side the thickness of fig. 4. Then
ig. 4. : ° > : : is

insect pins of moderate size are inserted through these
small pieces at the place indicated by the dot, (fig. 5,) and the
pieces are pushed up nearly to the pin’s head. As the pith
is still moist it will adhere to the pin in drying, and by the
slight coat of verdigris which will soon be developed, the
insects, which have been previously attached to the silver wire
are now inserted on the free end of the pith with the delicate
pincers, where they will stick fast enough if the proper kind
of pith has been used. Pith of Sambucus, or elder, Helianthus,
or sunflower, and similar plants, do not answer the purpose,
because it is too porous. The insect should stand a little
higher than the head of the pin, so that it may be conve-
niently examined from all sides. The silver wire used for this purpose
should be of the very best quality so as to prevent the development
of verdigris.

In regard to the Tipularia, and some others, whose legs easily break
off, my method is the following: I capture them with the forceps and
pin them as other large specimens. Before pinning, I press the thorax,
so as to prevent all struggling ; I then stick the pin through a piece

Fig. 6. of paper of this form, (fig. 6,) and push it up far
enough to receive the legs of the insect neatly spread
out or turned under it. When the insect is dead I
remove the paper, which, however, might as well
| be suffered to remain.

The boxes in which Diptera are kept should be
about a foot square, the top should be glass, and
made to fit tight to the other part by a double rab-

Fig.

Qe

=() on

INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLLECTING INSECTS. Barge

bet. Some persons, in addition, fasten the cover down by means of
brass hooks, to prevent warping, (fig. 7.) Fig. 7.

The boxes may be made of any well seasoned
wood. The bottom of the boxes should be |
made of wood cut horizontally from the trunk
in plates one-fourth to one-third of an inch |
thick, and in this case we may use the harder
kinds of wood from deciduous leaved trees,
except when the rings making the last growth ————_______
of the year are very hard, or else a very soft wood may be used, such
as the partially decayed wood of dead linden or poplar trees ; but the
pieces are cut out lengthwise in the ordinary way. In both cases the
finest pins can be easily inserted into the wood without risk of injuring
their points and hold very well. But in the latter mentioned kind of
bottom a fine pin readily takes a wrong direction, and after having
been taken out it is difficult to insert it again in a perpendicular posi-
tion. The use of soft material for lining the bottom of the boxes has
been generally abandoned in the best collections. It is only when
perfectly tight boxes cannot be procured that the lining is used, and
then not so much with reference to the insertion of the pin as to facili-
tate the poisoning of the box and to exclude the acart, psoci, and other
insects. The best material for this purpose is blotting paper spread
over with mercurial ointment, and over this is laid a fine oiled silk of
light color. The oiled silk may be faintly ruled with cross lines to
facilitate the symmetrical arrangements of the specimens. If the oiled
silk is fine enough it offers no perceptible resistance to the finest pin.
But a more serious inconvenience is, that it prevents us from seeing
the texture of the wood at the place where the pin is to be inserted,
and hence the points of the very fine pins are lable to injury. On
this account it is much better to use wooden boxes without any lining,
and these when neatly made look well enough. But if it is deemed
desirable to still further improve the appearance of the boxes, a sheet
of thin paper may be spread over the bottom, provided the texture of
the wood is very uniform or very fine pins are not to be used. This
paper may be renewed from time to time, and should be fastened by
glue and not by paste, which only furnishes a bait for destructive
insects.

If it is deemed advisable to poison the boxes, it is most conveniently
dore by means of bits of felt smeared with mercurial ointment, which
are fastened in the covers. During the examination of the insects the
covers may be set aside, if any injury to the health is apprehended ;
but of this there is not the slightest danger.

In securing the insects in the collection there is one indispensable
rule: nothing should touch the bottom. The labels of genera and
species, as well as those on the pin, with each specimen, should be as
high as possible; the first being nearly.on a level in the specimen.

The labels are best made of stout paper, as they are then better
kept in position on pins of moderate thickness.

172 INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLLECTING INSECTS.

Hig), ssNigne. The specimens should be placed at such a
distance from each other that they may con-
hs veniently, and without risk, be removed and
replaced—an operation which is performed with

a steel pincers, having the shape indicated in
| the figure, (fig. 8.) The handle should be
| | large enough to allow a firm grasp of the hand,
rl and the branches should be kept constantly a

little separated by means of a spring, as repre-
ie sented. The jaws of the pincers should be

Ps \ roughened like a file on the inside at the ends,

i. J and they may be either straight, or, still better, |
| {2 \ slightly curved, (fig. 9,) as in the figure, to
( \, admit of being passed more readily beneath the

A insect.
The cases used on excursions, or entomologi-
'} cal trips, are differently constructed from
| those of the cabinet. The bottom must be lined
\ / with a material soft enough to allow every pin,
S) Y even the finest, to be inserted easily without

the aid of pincers. The best material for this end is pasteboard,
which is cut in narrow strips glued against each other, so as to be in
a position perpendicular to the bottom of the box.
Fig. 10. The bottom of the box is lined with
ee these strips, so that the pins move between
the layers of the pasteboard. To prevent
the pins so loosely inserted from dropping
out, the lining should be sufficiently thick,
and, at the same time, the box low enough
to allow the head of the loosening pin to
lean against the cover before dropping.
(See fig. 10.)

Note by R. Ostensacken.—Collectors of
Diptera should always endeavor to obtain
both sexes of every species. The sexes in
the families of the Tipulidae and of the
Asilidae (for the greater part) are easily
distinguished by the form of the abdomen,
which is generally club-shaped or obtuse
in the male, and more or less pointed in the female. In other fami-
lies (Z'abani, Syrphi, Strationydae, Bombylii, and in most of the true
Muscidae) the eyes are close together in the male, and separated by
the “front’’ in the female. Sometimes they are separated in both
sexes, but then the front of the male is generally narrower than that
of the female. If these characters fail to help in distinguishing the
sexes, the size, and especially the shape, of the abdomen will be sufli-
cient. The males are, for the most part, smaller than the females,
and have the abdomen more slender.

It often happens that one of the sexes appears in great abundance,
while not a single specimen of the other can be seen. In such cases

INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLLECTING INSECTS. 173

the following observations of Dr. Schiener (Wiener Entomol. Monat-
schrift, 1858, p. 175) may prove useful :

‘‘Hrom manifold and repeated experience I have arrived at the con-
clusion that whenever one sex of a Dipterous insect appears in great
numbers, the other is always to be found somewhere in the immediate
neighborhood.

“Tf the males soar in the air we can generally predict with certainty
that the females are not far off quietly reposing on trunks of trees, as
is the case with the Anthomyzide, or on the under side of leaves, as
with the Syrphide.

“Tf every indication of the resting place fails, I then commence
catching everything living and flying in the immediate vicinity,
sweeping in the air and shaking or beating the leaves and grass, and
in this way I have generally succeeded in obtaining, among one hun-
dred specimens of the one sex, at least one of the other.

“The males soaring on the tops of mountains are generally isolated,
but on descending several hundred feet we will seldom look in vain for
the other sex resting on leaves or the heads of umbelliferous plants.

‘‘T have even succeeded, by patient perseverance, in discovering
single males among the numerous female horse-flies (Zabant) which
attack cattle.’’

Those who wish more detailed information about the localities where
rare species of Diptera have to be looked for will find them in Bremi’s
excellent paper on this subject, (Isis, 1846, p. 163,) as well as in an
article of Mr. Hoffmeister, in the ‘‘Entomologische Zeitung” of
Stettin, 1844, p. 350.

INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLLECTING LEPIDOPTERA.
BY BRACKINRIDGE CLEMENS, M. D.

This order of insects includes the butterflies, sphinges, and moths,
and is divided by systematists into two very distinct and easily recog-
nised sections.

The members of the first are known as diurnal Lepidoptera, or
Rhopalocera, and are characterized by possessing antenne that are
always club-shaped at the extremity, by their diurnal flight, and the
wings being held elevaied during repose. They are commonly desig-
nated butterflies, and their diurnal habits and beauty render them
familiar objects to the most casual observer. Their natural history,
also, is much better known than that of the members of the second
great group under this order, the great majority of those belonging to
the United States having been described in Boisduval and Leconte’s
Iconographie des Lepidoptéres de |’Amerique Septentrionale, and in
the works of the older entomologists, Cramer, Drury, &c. There
are, however, doubtless, many species still undescribed, but the writer
wishes to direct special attention to the individuals of the following
group, which, being far more unfrequently the objects of attention,
174 INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLLECTING INSECTS.

are but little known, and it is particularly to them that the following
instructions must be understood to apply, while at the same time they
are applicable to the diurnal species.

The second section, to which the attention of students and observers
is specially called, is composed of the sphinges, or hawk-moths, and
millers or moths, and known as Heterocera. Their antenne are of vari-
ous forms, and never club-shaped at the extremity; their flight is usually
nocturnal, and their wings, in repose, with a few exceptions, are flat.
The merest novice in entomology, by keeping in mind these marks of
distinction, can have no difficulty in recognizing the members of these
two great groups. The nocturnal lepidoptera or heterocera differ
greatly in size, some being very large and beautiful; others, again,
are small, even minute, and their colors frequently sombre and dull;
but it is hoped that none will be neglected on account of this diminutive
size or unattractive appearance. When, however, the specimens are
minute a certain degree of manipulative delicacy, acquired by prac-
tice, is requisite either to pin them successfully or to set the wings
subsequently. For this purpose small pins, manufactured especially
for this use, may be procured. Those made in London are preferable
either to the German or French.

HOW TO COLLECT LEPIDOPTERA.

The body and wings of lepidoptera are covered by minute scales,
which are attached by a slender stalk to the external surface. They
are easily detached from their connections, and it is very important
that the collector should avoid, as much as possible, denuding the
surface whilst taking specimens, or manipulating them after their
capture. Badly denuded specimens are quite worthless, because,
when the peculiar markings or ornamentation of the wings are effaced
or injured, they are not attractive objects for the cabinet, and if new,
a good specific description cannot be made from them, This caution
should attract, therefore, the particular attention of every one who
undertakes to collect. Moths should never be taken by the wings with
the fingers. If no other means of securing them is at hand, it is far
better to permit them to enjoy their life and liberty than to endeavor
to make specimens of what would be only an incumbrance to any col-
lection. When it is necessary to seize them, either for the purpose of
pinning or to cripple them after capture, it must be done according to
a prescribed mode, in the application of which the specimen is sub-
jected to the least possible injury. In order to accomplish this the
insect is seized firmly with the thumb and forefinger by the sides of
the thorax, beneath the wings, or, rather, in such a manner as to elevate
them and hold them immovable. The pressure is applied at the base
of the wings, and must be firm and steady, for the insect is able to
make strong resistance with the muscles of the thorax, and is liable
to escape.

It would, perhaps, be proper to mention here that two divisions of
lepidoptera are frequently mentioned by name in entomological works,
the one as macro-lepidoptera, including the rhopalocera, sphinges,
bombyces, geometrides, and noctuides; the other as micro-lepidoptera
INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLLECTING INSECTS. 175

which is composed of the pyrolides, tortrices, tineides, oterophorides,
and alucitides. Some of the macro-lepidoptera, however, are of small
size, whilst, on the other hand, many ot the ‘‘micros’’ are comparatively
large; but there is a certain convenience in the use of the terms, as
standards of comparative size, which renders their occurrence quite
frequent.

The implement most used in capturing lepidoptera is the ring-net,
made as will be hereafter described. By means of this they are taken
on the wing, and as they hover over or after having alighted on flow-
ers, leaves, &c. The requisite dexterity in using it efficiently is soon
acquired by practice, and a little experience respecting the habits and
mode of the flight of the objects sought. When the insect is once with-
in the net it can be kept quiet and at the bottom, by keeping it in
motion from side to side, so as to permit the air to rush through its open
end, But how can the specimen be secured with the least amount of
injury? There are several ways by which this can be accomplished.
When the specimen is of large size the net should be seized with the
left hand in such a manner as to prevent fluttering as much as pos-
sible, and to guard against its pushing itself into the folds ; and it is
then seized by the thorax with the thumb and forefinger of the right
hand in the manner heretofore described, and smartly squeezed so as
to crush it and thus deprive it of life; or it may be touched on the
head through the net with the glass stopper of a bottle containing
chloroform ; the bottle having been shaken previously to removing the
stopper it will carry enough to benumb completely the largest moth
after two or three successive applications. I much prefer this to com-
pression of the thorax, although the insect usually revives, but this
can be prevented after pinning by using some one of the poisons to be
hereafter mentioned. The effect of chloroform applied thus is almost
instantaneously to quiet the most violent flutterer, nor is it necessary
that any other portion of the insect than the head should be wetted by it,

When the captive is a “ micro,’’ it may be prevented from escap-
ing by blowing a vigorous stream of breath on it through the open end
of the net; but if it proves to be too strong to be kept down thus, the
net must be immediately put in motion again to prevent its escape,
turning the open end alternately trom one side to the other. After
throwing the specimen well in the apex by this means, my own mode
of operation is to grasp it with the left hand, taking care to have the
thumb and first finger upward, just above the specimen, and thus close
the net. Then by elevating the hand through the ring or on a level
with it, a common cupping glass of about two inches diameter, or a wine
glass, carried in the pocket, is placed on the top of the left hand over
the constricted portion, the grasp relaxed, and the insect permitted to
escape through the opening into its interior. The glass is then closed
below by the left hand on the outside of the net, and may be trans-
ferred to the top of the collecting box, where it can be quieted with
chloroform and pinned. All lepidoptera, except those of large size,
can be easily secured thus, and without in the least stripping any por-
tion of the body of its scales. The smaller tortrices and tineae, which
can be kept within the net by blowing, may be likewise secured by the
glass, which is placed over them as they sit on or ascend the sides of
176 INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLLECTING INSECTS.

the net, andI much prefer it to the ordinary mode of securing them in
pill boxes. The English entomologists all use the pill box, I believe,
to secure a micro after it is within the net, but it involves the neces-
sity of carrying a great many of them in the pockets, and the trouble
of killing one’s captures after returning from the field wearied with
exercise. Therefore I much prefer to kill and pin on the field, although
to accomplish the latter satisfactorily often requires, in consequence of
the minuteness of the objects, a steady hand.

When walking over grassy meadows or amongst low herbage I am
in the habit of using the net by sweeping, and to very great advantage.
This operation is performed by giving the net an alternate right and
left motion as the collector walks forward, keeping the open end in-
clined at about an angle of 45° to the plane of the surface, touching
with the lower part of the ring the tops of the grass and herbage, and
as the net distends itself with air, being careful that the apex does not
drag or strike when it is turned at the extreme right and left points
of the sweep. The motion should be gentle and continuous, and the
mouth of the net merely reversed in the alternation, so that the apex
is kept constantly flying in the air and free from contact with any sur-
rounding bodies. By this means he secures everything that rises as
he advances, and after every half dozen sweeps the net is brought to
the face, and a stream of breath blown into it whilst the collector in-
spects the interior. Should it contain anything he desires, it may be
selected, or even a half a dozen ‘‘ micros’ secured one after the other
by means of his glass, and all brought at the same time to the top
of his collecting box in the most perfect condition. In this manner I
have often collected 150 specimens during a few hours’ walk in the
afternoon and evening. The operation may not be made very com-
prehensible by description, but a few endeavors to practice it, will
soon put tbe collector in possession of the art. Of course, sweeping is
inapplicable when the grass and herbage are wet with dew.

In addition to these means of collecting, the ‘‘ micros’’ may be taken
in pill boxes wherever they may be seen, should the net not be at hand,
and the collector will find it advantageous always to carry a few in his
pocket during the entire collecting season.

The wide-mouthed bottle, presently to be referred to, forms an excel-
lent collecting agent in the field, or to capture those which are attracted
to our rooms by light during the nights of summer. Or the cupping-
glass or wine-glass will enable one to secure many exquisite specimens
in the field during the hot, sultry days of June and July, when they
will be found on the leaves of the herbage of the cool, shady wood,
gamboling over their surfaces like veritable elves, or so immovable
that they seem to be enjoying an afternoon siesta, or feasting on odor-
ous wild flowers. In using the glass for this purpose, the object must
be gently approached so as not to alarm it, and the glass cautiously
advanced until it is just over the spot occupied by the specimen, whilst
the left hand is advanced beneath ; the glass is then brought down
rapidly over the object upon the left hand which closes it, and if you
have struck skilfully, secures you perhaps a rare species in all its

original beauty.
The collector will soon ascertain what are the most productive
INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLLECTING INSECTS. b hy a

localities in his neighborhood, and where particular species are to be
had in greatest abundance. When these are once ascertained, let him
learn to hunt quietly, and endeavor to bring into exercise his powers
of observation ; never moving until he has scanned every leaf and
object around him, noting the habits of the little people of the great
unknown world by which he is surrounded, their peculiar mode of
flight and concealing themselves, and the situations which appear
most agreeable to them. His net should always be in readiness to se-
cure everything which his motions and footsteps may startle, but should
he fail, let him not, to the infinite alarm of the minute inhabitants of
the forest, rush headlong after it through brambles, herbage, and
grass, and over the decayed trunks of trees, striking frantically this way
and that, until he glows with a heat above the summer point, and is
bathed in perspiration and fairly disgusted with Entomology, which
involves so many discomforts. Let him rather be self-possessed and
cool, mark where the coveted object alights, and he can easily secure
it without affecting the steadiness of his nerves, and perhaps rendering
the specimen worthless subsequently, during the operation of pinning.
This, of course, is advice to the incipient collector.

The nocturnal Lepidoptera may be taken by stratagem as well as by
coup de main. Prominent among the expedients used for this purpose
are what is called sugaARING, and the use of LIGHT.

To obtain moths by means of the former, a mixture of coarse vrown
sugar and ale, with the addition of a little rwm, should be made. The
mixture should have the consistence of treacle. The collector, with an
assistant, should take his mixture to the wood about sunset, or a little
before or after, and daub it on the trunks of the trees by means of a
brush, or saturate strips of cotton cloth with it and tack them to the
trunks. Assoon as it gets dusk the sugared places should be revisited,
and the light from a bull’s-eye lantern thrown on the sugared spots.
For several hours the moths will continue to arrive, sometimes in con-
siderable numbers, and may be taken with the net, which should. be
held beneath the sugared spot previously to turning on the light, as
many have the trick of falling; or captured, as they sit feeding on the
dainty bait, by means of a wide-mouthed bottle having ammonia or
chloroform on cotton or a sponge on the bottom. The noctuae are
principally obtained by this means, and one or two expeditions should
be made every week during the collecting season, viz: from early
spring until the latter part of autumn, avoiding localities where odor-
ous flowers are plentiful. The collector should not be discouraged if
troops of moths do not come at his first invitation, or even if he should
be compelled to return home rich in patience but very poor in specimens.

The fascination of the ‘‘ foolish moth’’ by light has a time-honored
use, having served to adorn many a tale and point many a moral; and
yet there is beneath the fact a hidden meaning or moral, perhaps,
unsuspected by either poet or moralist. Itis sufficient for the collector
to know they are fire-worshippers, and to avail himself of this tendency
to secure their fleeting forms in their season. This may be done by
taking a lantern into the open country near a wood, and suspending
it over a white sheet spread on the ground, thus showing their forms

12
178 INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLLECTING INSECTS.

more distinctly, when they may be captured with the net. But this
expedient is very far inferior to sugaring.

Many specimens can be taken with but little trouble by placing a
light within a room on the ground floor before a closed window, par-
ticularly one facing a garden or the open country. The moths will
flutter on the outside before the light, or alight on the panes of glass,
when they can be easily secured in pill boxes, killed and pinned as
they arecaught. Moonlight nights are unfavorable to the use of light.

Those who live in towns lighted by gas will be able to secure many
specimens around the lamps; or by making friends with the lamplighter
and supplying him with pill boxes, he may furnish you every morning
with many specimens and sometimes rarities. In using the light for
making captures, care should be taken to guard against the moth
singeing its antennae or wings in the flame.

The males of the Bombyces chiefly may be taken by exposing the
virgin females with crumpled wings on trees, or enclosed in cages,
exposed in the open country.

I would earnestly recommend every collector to note the date of
capture of all his Lepidoptera on a little square of paper, and pass the
pin transfixing the insect through it. It is simply necessary to indi-
cate the month by its initial letter and to give the day in figures. By
following this plan, which will indicate approximately the earliest and
latest periods of their appearance, and the numbers of broods during the
season, he will be able to tell at any time when to look for the species
he may desire, and to form a calendar showing the periods of appear-
ance of species, and will enable one to make accurate comparisons in
this respect between widely separated geographical areas. Many
species of our lepidopterous insects are spread over immense areas,
and some of them appear to be common to the entire continent, and a
calendar of this kind, when once formed, would show the successive pul-
sations of lepidopterous life, (as it advances along the broad sun-track
from the genial regions of the Gulf to our northern boundaries, and
throbs over the great western plains to the Rocky mountains. )

HOW TO KILL LEPIDOPTERA.

Insects should be killed with at least some manifestation of humanity,
so as not to engender a spirit of cruelty in the minds of the young who
may witness the operation, and it should be accomplished, at the same
time, with poisons or agents that can be trusted in the hands of the
young and those inexperienced in their effects. A great variety of
agents have been recommended for this purpose, and it would be quite
unnecessary to allude to all of them.

CHLOROFORM is exceedingly useful to the collector, in consequence of
the rapidity of its effects. It is objectionable, however, inasmuch
if its influence is carried too far it causes rigid contraction of the
thoracic muscles, which throws the wings into. positions that renders
setting them subsequently almost impossible. Moths should there-
fore merely be benumbed by it. A few seconds is sufficient generally
to produce this effect, and the influence of the agent intermitted for
the purpose of pinning the insect. When this has been done, if it is
INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLLECTING INSECTS. ° 179

of large size, its revival may be prevented by using oxalic acid, as
will be presently explained ; or if a ‘‘ micro,”’ the pin containing the
specimen should be fixed in a piece of cork and introduced into the
ammonia bottle. When using chloroform for benumbing the very
small moths, care must be taken that they do not fall or introduce
themselves into the drop used for this purpose; for it ruins them
irretrievably ; therefore it should be spread by passing the glass which
contains the specimen over it; or, what is perhaps better, the top of the
collecting-box, (since it is in the field that this accident most frequently
occurs, (should be covered with dark colored cloth glued to the surface,
and this will absorb the liquid sufficiently to prevent its occurrence.
The collector should not, then, kill the smaller moths in the field with
this agent, but permit them to revive, and kill and set them after
returning home. It should never be applied to a varnished surface,
for it is a solvent of all varnishes. ;

I would recommend this agent, then, to be used as the means of
abolishing the power of voluntary motion in moths, thus giving the
collector plenty of time during which he may pin them without
struggles or efforts to escape on their part.

OxaLic AciD is employed to kill large moths after they have been
pinned, and should be in the form of a strong water or alcoholic solu-
tion. In using it asteel pen, or a quill pointed like a pen, but without
the slit, should be dipped in the solution and passed into the side of
the thorax under the wings. The pen should be held there for a short
time and moved from side to side so that the whole of the solution
may enter the body. In killing large females it is best to make more
than one application. The objection to the acid is, that it leaves
a white spot, which is apt to spread and disfigure the specimen, but
this can generally with care be obviated. It is possibly scarcely
necessary to state that it is a violent poison when taken internally,
and that the bottle containing it should be the object of some care.

Ammonia is an excellent agent for killing Lepidoptera; the strong
spirits of ammonia should be used. In order to make use of it a wide-
mouthed, moderately deep glass jar should be obtained, and the edges
of the mouth ground down accurately on a piece of sheet lead with
emery and water, so as to allow a piece of heavy plate glass to close
it air-tight. If the jar rises in the centre, the bottom may be filled
with cotton so as to obtain a level surface. When the jar is to be
used, a piece of sponge is wet with a few drops of the ammonia, (the
operator should have some care for his fingers and nose at the same
time,) and the insect introduced, either pinned to a piece of cork or
free as the operator pleases. They soon become motionless, whatever
be their size, but will revive if taken out at once; a half an hour is
sufficient to prevent the revival of the largest moths, but they may
remain without injury 24 or even 48 hours, perfectly relaxed and fit
for setting any time during that period, in consequence of the moisture
within the jar. The small Lepidoptera, tortrices and tineae, taken
in pill boxes, may he killed by placing the lid aslant previously to
introducing the box into the jar. The smallest kinds, the leaf miners,
nepticula and lithocalletis, should be pinned and set out immediately
they are dead. Green moths have their color affected by ammonia,
180 - INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLLECTING INSECTS.

The carbonate of ammonia is recommended as a substitute for the
spirits, in consequence of no vapor collecting in the bottles, and being
cheaper and safer in the hands of the young. The best way to use it
is first to reduce it to small pieces, (not powder,) and to enclose it in
a small bag made of any porous material, and place it with its con-
tents at the bottom of the bottle, covering it with a perforated card.

HOW TO PIN LEPIDOPTERA.

In the first place, the pin should be adapted as far as possible to the
size of the specimen. The pins in use amongst the German and French
entomologists are too long and slender, and are lable to bend in
thrusting them into the cork unless carefully used. In these respects
the English pin is much to be preferred ; that used for the ‘‘ micros’’
being only three quarters of an inch long. The common pin, about
14 inch long, answers very well for the large moths, and the size
somewhat short of an inch will do for those of moderate size ; but for
the micros it is indispensable to have a supply of Nos. 10, 19, and 20
of the English make. They are manufactured by Messrs. Edleston &
Williams, Crown Court, Cheapside, London.

The pin should be thrust vertically through the body in the centre
of the thorax, or the part to which the wings are attached. After it
has fairly entered the thorax a piece of soft cork is used, by pushing
the point of the pin into it, to raise the specimen the requisite distance
up the pin. At least one half of the pin should be exposed below, and
uniformity in this respect can be obtained by always using the same
thickness of cork for this purpose. When about to pin a specimen
it should be placed on a cloth-covered surface to prevent it slipping
about, and if, under the effect of chloroform, it has turned on its back,
be reversed with a pin; or those of moderate or large size may be
taken by the thorax and feet with the thumb and finger of the left
hand and pinned whilst being thus held, and the position of the
specimen atterwards regulated by the cork. Specimens can be easily
transfixed on the top of the collecting box, if it is covered with cloth,
without the necessity of touching them with the fingers. Many of the
micro Lepidoptera, however, turn upon their backs and project their
posterior legs; if they cannot be easily reversed again with a pin,
they must be taken between the thumb and forefinger of the left
hand, by their projecting legs, and permitted to fall in the space formed
by the contact of these members, with the head to the left or front
according to the position of the hand. Then, by taking a small pin
between the thumb and forefinger of the right hand, and resting the
unoccupied fingers on those of the left, in order to insure steadiness,
the pin is easily pushed through the thorax of even the smallest
species. The success attending this operation depends on taking up
the specimen so that it will rest closely in the sulcus of the thumb
and forefinger, with the head well forward. Of course, previously to
taking it up, the head should be turned to the right. A few failures
in the first instance should not discourage the beginner.
INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLLECTING INSECTS. 18]

HOW TO SET LEPIDOPTERA.

The wings of lepidoptera are usually set, that is, expanded as
though in the act of flying; but it is well to have one or two speci-
mens showing the wings in their natural position during repose. The
collector should prepare, in the first place, a number of braces of
stiff card, varying in length from half an inch to two inches, cut so
as to taper towards one end, square at the other, and about the fourth
of an inch broad. Through the broad end of each, a large strong
pin should be introduced. A piece of board should then be covered
with sheet cork glued to the surface; this forms what is called the
setting board. When a specimen is to be set, two of the braces are
fixed on the board at a sufficient distance.apart to receive the body
between them, and to support the wings well after expansion. Then,
with a setting needle, a common needle thrust into a piece of wood so
that it can be used more conveniently, the wings are expanded on
the lower braces and fixed there by placing over them additional ones.
Another form of setting board is made by having grooves in it to
receive the body and then by applying braces to the expanded wings
they are easily retained perfectly flat. Some use pieces of plate glass
of different widths to press down the expanded wings, but it is not
the best plan, strips of paper pinned over the wings being preferable.

The wings should be expanded by introducing the setting needle
on their inner margin, or where they meet over the top of the body.
Insects should be left on the board from a day or two to four or five,
according to size and the condition of the weather. Care must be
taken to exclude mites from the board; this can be done by using a
mixture of equal parts of oil of thyme, oil of anise, and spirits of wine.
It should be spread over the setting board, and especially laid on the
grooves, and for this purpose spirits of turpentine is also very effectual
and much cheaper than the mixture of essential oils.

REARING THE CATERPILLAR.—THE VIVARIUM.

The study of Lepidoptera does not consist in the collection of
perfect insects and the investigation of their peculiarities of structure.
They have all lived an active, voracious, and interesting life pre-
viously to transformation from the embryonic state to that of maturity,
and it is the aim of the naturalist, as well as of natural history, to
look kindly into their individual existences, and seizing the particu-
lars of each little life by observation, to write their biographies.
The student must free his mind from the worship of the idols of size
and physical beauty, which incline him to regard with respect him
who devotes his powers to the study of mammals, whilst he smiles
pityingly on one who falls into ecstacies over a new found beetle.
Wherein is the superiority of the former pursuit? The same evidences
of thought are discernible here as there, adaptations more wonder-
ful, habits more interesting and more injurious to our interests, an
anatomy more complicated, physiological questions more difficult of
solution, and even life itself seems to laugh at regularity or harmony
182 INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLLECTING INSECTS.

among the insect world in its manifestations of strange, wonderful,
ridiculous forms, and their mode of ornamentation and clothing. But
here, as elsewhere in the animated world, we have expressed in vital
characters the thoughts and conceptions of a living God.

It is imperatively necessary to entomological science that the habits
and transformations of larvae should be studied and known, and their
forms and ornamentation well described. The study possesses these
advantages over most other departments of natural history, that it
can be pursued during leisure and unoccupied time, its inexpensive-
ness, and the abundance of the objects to be observed. In the trust that
many into whose hands these instructions will fall may become ob-
servers and students of Lepidoptera, and being conscious that to the
novice everything in this connexion is of value, the attempt will be
made to anticipate much that may embarrass him.

Those who delight to ramble in forests and green fields during
the genial days of spring and the cool mornings of summer for ‘‘ air
and exercise,’’ little know how much pleasure and profit result from
such rambles when undertaken with some definite object in view.
Things which were before unmeaning or unquestioned become the
subjects of inquiry and information when that object is connected
with natural history, and every field and hill side, every shrub and
plant becomes the theatre of startling scenes of life and death, of
artifices and devices more incredible and wonderful than the most
fanciful creations of fairy lore. With observation thus kept con-
stantly on the alert, the student will have but little difficulty in finding
the objects he seeks; but we will help him by pointing out such indi-
cations of the presence of larvae as may at first escape his attention.
The early morning is the most favorable time to seek for the cater-
pillar, which seems to prefer its food moistened with dew, although
they may be found during any other portion of the day. When they
cannot be at once seen, their presence is indicated by finding their
‘‘frass’’ or ejectamenta beneath the plants on which they feed ; by partly
eaten leaves, or leaves contorted and rolled into cylinders and cornets
and secured by bands of silk, or superimposed and bound together in
the same manner; by the existence of a hole surrounded with ‘‘frass’’
in the pithy stalks of various plants, or in subcortical mines near the
roots of various trees and shrubs; in the stems and leaves of various
grasses, or living in portable cases on the leaves of plants, or within
houses, feeding on various articles of food and apparel; or by the
existence of discolored patches on the surface of the leaves of various
plants and forest trees, the oaks, the linden, the beech, the iron wood,
the elms, the hickories, the sycamore, &c , caused by minute leaf
mining caterpillars freeing the epidermis in the process of feeding on
the parenchyma, or feeding on grains and the seed heads of composite
plants, on lichens and fungi. Besides the lepidopterous leaf miners
there are coleopterous and dipterous miners, which are rather difficult
to distinguish fromthe former; in general, however, the dipterous
larvae are more maggot-like in appearance, and the coleopterous leaf
miners, in many instances, stain the whole surface of their mines
with their ‘frass,’’ which appears to have been dissolved, whilst
that of the lepidopterous larvae is in little pellets. There is, how-
INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLLECTING INSECTS. 183

ever, no certain mode of distinguishing but by experience, for the
oldest collectors are sometimes deceived. Many caterpillars hyber-
nate during winter, and may be found concealed under stones, &c.
when the cold weather of autumn approaches, or are dug up at the
roots of trees during search for pupe. They should never be kept in
a warmed room, but exposed as soon as taken to the temperature of
the external atmosphere. And lastly, we must not forget to mention
that a number of species inhabit the water plants, growing in quiet
pools and on the margins of little lakes.

With regard to the means of collecting specimens, the student
should supply himself with a number of pill-boxes of various sizes, in
which to carry his captures when found, remembering that some of
them are carnivorous, and will make a meal of their companions
when forced into intimate association. He must note particularly the
plant on which the larva has been found, and put a portion of it in
the box, and remember that in general they will eat of nothing bué
the species of plant on which they were found. Hence it is almost im-
possible to rear a larva which has been met with under conditions
that give us no information respecting its natural food plant, unless
by trying it with a variety we at last accidentally find one it will eat.

He should carry an umbrella, and by beating bushes and the
branches of trees into it with a cane or rod, it will receive the dis-
lodged larvae, and save him the trouble of search. Or several yards
of white cotton sheeting may be spread beneath a tree, and the upper
branches above it beaten with a pole, when we have reason to suspect
the presence of larvae. An ardent collector, living in a little village
in this vicinity, carries with him during his excursions a stout rope
and hatchet. If, in examining the ground beneath forest trees, he
finds fresh ‘‘ frass’’ from the larger caterpillars, he scans the branches
until he detects the eaten leaves, and then, casting his rope over a
stout limb by means of a stone, he ascends the tree rapidly, severs
with his hatchet the branch on which he supposes the larvae to be,
and, descending, secures his well-earned prize. In this manner he
has frequently collected on the hickory during one day twenty larvae
of the rare and beautifuljDryocampa imperialis.

When leaves are unrolled to ascertain if a larva is present, it should
always be done over a spread handkerchief, as otherwise the disturbed
inhabitant may make its escape by falling to the ground. All falling
larvae, however, attach their thread previously to deserting their food
plant, and can usually be found, if they have reached the ground, by
- passing the hand beneath the place where it was, when it will come
in contact with the thread, and this will serve as a guide to find it
again. ‘The mines of leaf miners should not be opened to ascertain
whether they contain an inhabitant ; this information can be obtained
by holding the leaf between the light and the eye.

The collector will sometimes find the egg of some species of ichneu-
mon attached to the skin of the larvae. We do not mean the cocoon
of the larva of a small ichneumon, so frequently mistaken for eggs by
the uninitiated, but veritable eggs, which, if permitted to remain, pro-
duce larvae that will destroy the pupa. This is very easily prevented
by crushing the eggs with a pair of fine-pointed pincers, being careful
184 INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLLECTING INSECTS,

not to include the epidermis of the larva. He must learn early to
distinguish the larvae of saw-flies from the true caterpillar. These
Salse caterpillars have globular heads and cylindrical, naked bodies,
sometimes covered with a white flaky substance that easily rubs off,
or have a dark-colored, slimy skin, and are either entirely deprived of
abdominal legs, or have from eighteen to twenty-two, and are unarmed
with hooks. The true caterpillar never has more than ten abdominal
legs, which are always armed with minute hooks.

Every caterpillar undergoes periodical moultings, and they must on
no account be disturbed whilst undergoing this change. When one
of these periods arrive they cease to eat, and appear to be sick and
languisning, remaining steadfastly fixed on some portion of their
food plant, with the hooks of their false legs fastened in a little web
of silk, and, even though irritated, are unwilling to change their po-
sition. It is always a critical time in the life of the larva, during
which it not only changes its skin, but appears in one or two new
dresses before reaching that characteristic of its maturity. The stu-
dent should, therefore, learn early to recognize it, and to respect the
necessities of the little creature of which he has made a captive. When
larvae are dissatisfied with their food plant or about to change to pupae,
they never indicate it in this manner, but traverse their place of con-
finement incessantly and restlessly, travelling over the same track
until they wear it into a pathway.

The chief indications to be observed in rearing larvae is to place
them in as nearly a natural condition as possible, and to keep their
food plant fresh for the longest practicable period. In order to fulfil
these conditions in all cases, something must be left to individual in-
genuity and intelligence, but for the great majority of larvae I would
heartily recommend the following elegant and easily constructed
vivarium :

It consists of a circular wooden box, from six to twelve inches in
diameter or more, at the option of the observer, and from four to six
inches deep, lined with sheet zinc or lead, so as to be water-tight. A
stratum about an inch or two inches thick of washed, fine gravel-
stones is placed on the bottom, and the remaining space is filled with
moisiened but not wet loam, and the surface covered with moss. Into
this various small, humble plants may be set for the purpose of gen-
erating oxygen, and consuming the carbonic acid gas exhaled by the
larvae, and the whole is covered with a bell glass, that rests upon the
rim, proportioned in height to the diameter of the box. When it is
to be used, a portion of the food plant of the larva should be stuck
into the moistened loam, where it will remain fresh quite a long
time, in consequence of the atmosphere within the bell glass being
saturated with watery vapor, which condenses on the sides, and
trickles down to the soil again.

The arrangement of the earthy materials closely resembles that of
natural soil, and if the transformation of the larva is subterranean,
there is no necessity to remove it in order that it may undergo the
change toa pupa. If the larva is a large one, or if it contains more
than one, the bell glass should be elevated every few days, and their
ejectamenta removed from the surface.
INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLLECTING INSECTS. 185

The glass merely stands on the rim of the box, and should not be
perfectly air tight; and the vivarium should be exposed to the change
of temperature between night and day, so that the included atmo-
sphere, by its expansions and contractions, may be also renewed from
the external air. It should never, however, be exposed to the direct
rays of the sun, but always kept in the shade.

To those who may regard this apparatus too expensive, another
form is recommended, but it is neither as convenient nor successful,
except in the case of leaf miners and micro-lepidoptera. The top of
a glass jar, at least five or six inches in diameter, is ground down on
a piece of sheet lead with emery and water, so as to be perfectly level,
and to receive accurately a piece of plate glass as a covering, in order
to prevent the escape of moisture. The bottom of this is covered with
moistened sand, a little loam, and the surface with moss. Into this
the food, plant, and caterpillar may be introduced, with the expecta-
tion that the insect will do very well. It is, however, apt to become
foul from the accumulated ‘‘frass,’’? and is inconvenient to clean.

In order to rear leaf-mining larvae that never leave the leaf in
which they are found, or at least not until about to transform, a com-
mon large drinking glass, the top of which has been ground level
and covered with a piece of plate glass, answers a very good purpose.
The bottom should be covered with white sand, moistened, but no
water should be permitted to rest on the surface. It is not necessary,
of course, to place in this apparatus anything more than the leaf,
with a portion of its stem containing the leaf miner. The collector
should provide himself with a tin canister in which to carry the leaves
containing leaf miners during his entomological excursions.

A still cheaper and very effectual breeding cage consists of a frame
of any convenient size, say twelve inches square, covered with bob-
binet, and with a door in front. The bottom must be of wood, and
the plant may be kept fresh for several days by inserting it in a vial
half filled with water.

We have now to touch on what devolves upon the observer, in
making use of these contrivances, to enable him to record the habits
of larvae, and to make good and useful descriptions. In the history
of the life of any being one of the most valuable traits of the observer
is truthfulness, not that we mean to say any one would wilfully mis-
represent what he sees, but that he should be truthful in recording
what he sees and knows to be facts, not what he may imagine or con-
jecture; and however strange it may appear to those not familiar with
these studies, the temptation or inducement to depart from what is
evidently so proper is often strong and of frequent occurrence. Some-
times it is the consequence of hastiness or of inattention, or it is an
apparently plain and obvious deduction; but the ways of nature some-
times surpass in strangeness the ways of our reasoning. All this
involves the idea of accuracy in the description of natural objects, and
it is far from easy to give a clear and graphic conception of larvae by
attempting to represent its physical characteristics in words. The
observer should not be content merely to describe the ornamentation
of larvae, but should endeavor to give, in a clear and concise word
picture, a definite conception of its form, clothing, and external pecu-
186 INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLLECTING INSECTS.

liarities ; and if he can sketch and color natural objects with facility
and accuracy, a collection of drawings representing the larvae, food-
plant, and pupa would be very valuable and interesting.

There are certain terms employed by entomologists which will be of
use to the observer, and which we will endeavor to explain.

Any particular family will always be found to show a variety of
larval forms, which, whilst they conform to a certain type, indicate
by their modifications the relationships existing in every direction
between it and other families. Hence, whilst there is no standard or
invariable larval form for any family, it may be well, by the employ-
ment of general terms, to give the novice some conception of the
affinities, at least, of those which will most probably first attract his
attention.

1. Sphingiform would, therefore, characterize larvae having naked
bodies and a horn or shining lenticular tubercle on the eleventh ring,
and broad, strong anal prolegs.

2. Notodontiform larvae generally have the body furnished with
fleshy elevations, and usually hold the hind segments elevated.

3. Chelonidiform larvae have the body covered by long thick hair,
arranged in verticillate bunches or whorls, arising from verrucose
points or warty excrescences.

4. Geometriform larvae are characterized by the absence of some of
the abdominal prolegs, or the want of development in some of them.

5. Catocaliform larvae have the head rather small, flattened, and
carry it horizontally ; the body is semi-cylindrical, tapering anteriorly
and posteriorly from the middle; a small transverse, fleshy ridge or
prominence on the eleventh segment; the anal prolegs rather long
‘and thrown backwards, generally the first two pairs of abdominal
prolegs not well developed, and the rings of ventral surface marked
with round spots; they arch the body in motion, particularly when
young.

6. Phaleniform larvae consist of the geometers, properly so called,
or measuring worms ; they are characterized by the absence of the first
three pairs of abdominal prolegs quite constantly, leaving but one
pair of abdominal and one pair of anal prolegs, in all ten feet ; the
true or thoracic feet are placed on mammillons, which increase in size
to the third pair; the body is generally cylindrical, and the middle
segments longer than either those of the anterior or posterior portions ;
the eleventh segment is marked on the dorsum by a transverse ridge
or small excrescences, and frequently the fourth, fifth, and eighth
have fleshy excrescences or appendages.

7. Uranidiform larvae will be found possibly in southern Texas or
in Florida; their forms are not well known: They are described as
being either semi-geometrical—that is, having some of the prolegs
absent or atrophied, arching their bodies when in motion, swollen in
the middle, having two retractile tentacles on the head,(?) and living
on the terebinthaceae; or they have sixteen feet complete, are thick,
with deep incisions between the rings, a large head joined to the body
without any intermediate constriction, the first segment having a
corneous and shining shield, and the body furnished with quite long
isolated hairs ; they hide during day under a transparent web of silk
INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLLECTING INSECTS 187

spun amongst the leaves, Both forms are of large size, and are
tropical insects.

8. Liparidiform larvae are simply hairy, and generally with brushes
and long tufts of hair in addition.

9. Saturnidiform larvae have thick, heavy bodies, deeply incised,
and furnished usually with rows of blunt or slender acute rigid spines,
and large, strong anal prolegs.

10. Ceratocampiform larvae are also furnished with rows of rough-
ened acute tubercles, but have long rigid horns on the anterior rings.

11. Cochliopodiform or onisciform larvae are very short and small,
either semi-cylindrical or oval, having no visible head, being retrac-
tile, nor visible feet or prolegs. The whole surface of the abdomen is
applied to the object to which they adhere. We have many most re-
markable forms of this family.

12. Gastropachiform larvae are nearly naked, semi-cylindrical,
very much flattened beneath, with fleshy protuberances or tufts of hair
above the legs. They are generally found flatly applied to trees, the
bark of which they resemble. ‘

13. Psychidiform larvae, or basket-carriers, inhabit silken cases,
and attach pieces of leaves, sticks, &c., to the outside.

14. Zortriciform larvae and tineiform larvae, except among the leaf
miners, differ but little in form. They are generally of small size,
smooth, semi-cylindrical, tapering anteriorly and posteriorly, with a
semi-elliptical horizontal head. The former usually roll and bind
leaves together, and the latter live in cases made of portions of leaves,
&c., or in seeds, fungi, on rotten wood and decaying vegetable sub-
stances, or in the interior of leaves between their cuticles.

There are a few very convenient terms which should be used in
describing the ornamentation of larvae.

The dorsal line is a colored longitudinal line on the middle of the
back of the larvae, and follows the course of the dorsal vessel.

The sub-dorsai line is also longitudinal, and placed nearly or quite
at an equal distance from the dorsal and the following :

The stigmatal, which is placed on the sides a little above the feet,
and about the height of the stigmatal or breathing holes.

The papiliform points are dots on the body of larvae, nearly plain,
and scarcely elevated above the surface, each giving rise to a hair.
When they are rougher and more salient, and give rise to one or more
visible hairs, they are called—

The verrucose points, and, as well as the above, are usually disposed
on the dorsum in a more or less restricted trapezoid, or in squares.

: The dorsal region is that portion included between the sub-dorsal
ines, ,

The lateral region is that between the sub-dorsal and stigmatal lines,

The ventral region, all the portion below the stigmatal lines.

The cervical shield is a corneous plate on the dorsum of the first ring.

Shagreened or granulated, when the skin of larvae is roughened by
minute raised grains, but at the same time naked.

Naked or smooth, when the cuticle is without appendages or covering
of hairs.

Scabrous, when any portion is roughly and acutely shagreened,
188 INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLLECTING INSECTS.

Tubercles are hardened elevations, spined, scabrous, plain, cylin-
drical, or lenticular.

Spines are rigid, slender, and acute, and resemble small thorns.

Compound spines, a stalk furnished with numerous simple spines.

Hairs are fine dermal appendages like the ordinary hair; they are
arranged in tufts, pencils, or are verticillate.

Horns are projections from the surface either corneous or fleshy, and
are simple, spined, rigid, roughened, flexible, fleshy, or penniform.

Velvety, when the surface is clothed with soft short hair.

Hairy, when covered with hair either in tufts or verticillate bunches.

Mammillated, when short fleshy projections exist ; they are simple,
spined, or hairy; also called papillae.

Attenuated, when the body diminishes in breadth anteriorly or pos-
teriorly.

Moniliform, when the rings are separated by deep incisions and re-
semble a succession of globular bodies like beads.

Cylindrical and sub-cylindrical, when the body has these geometrical
forms.

Elongated, when the body is slender and appears to have been drawn
out.

Sristles resemble hairs, but are stiff and rather rigid.

The direction in which the longitudinal diameter of the head stands
to the axis of the body is—

Aforizontal, when they form one plane.

Nutant, when its long diameter forms an obtuse angle with the
body.

Perpendicular, when a right angle is formed with the axis of the
body.

Respecting its connexion with the body, it is—

Free, when distinctly visible and not covered by the first ring.

Inserted or retracted, when the occiput, or top, is partly concealed.

Concealed, when entirely withdrawn within the first ring, or is
covered by it.

Retractile, when a concealed head can be thrust out.

Elevated, when the top of the vertex is above the level of the dor-
sum or back.

Bifid, when the vertex is divided into two distinct lobes.

The object in following larvae through their embryonic develop-
ment is to obtain a full and complete history of the species. A good
description, therefore, should correspond to the particulars detailed
below, arranged, in the first place, at the option of the observer, but,
when completed for each species, should begin with a description of
the egg, and follow the history to the development of the perfect
insect,

1°. The date when the larvae was found, and under what conditions.

2°. Lhe name of its food plant, botanical and common.

3°. A description of its physical peculiarities ; commencing with the
head, its size as compared to the body, form, position, and relations
to the body ; then the general form of the body, whether. it varies
from the cylindrical, and how, whether attenuated anteriorly or pos-
teriorly, or swollen or prominent in any portion or deeply incised, and
INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLLECTING INSECTS. 189

the relation of the segments to each other; all protuberances should
be designated, and the nature of the dermal appendages, if any,
noticed ; the number of feet, abdominal and anal prolegs, and the
position of the latter with reference to the plane of the body, on what
rings they are absent or are weakly developed, or are modified.
To indicate the number and situation of the legs and prolegs, I use
the following formula, which is not intended to supplant description:
Every larvae having thirteen segments, including the head, the dots
indicate ssgments without feet thus: (-%--4--+). The formula rep-
resents the most common form, that having sixteen legs.

4°, Its peculiarities of coloring; giving first the general color of
both head and body, and then the ornamentation on each.

5°. The date at which it began to prepare for pupation, and the nature
of its preparations.

6°. A description of the pupa itself. It is not advisable, usually, to
make a description of this from the first or a single specimen.

7°. The date at which it became a perfect insect, and method of us
escape from the cocoon, if tt has one.

8°. The number of broods of the perfect insect during one season, and
whether the period of larval development is annual or bi-annual.

The observer should also endeavor to ascertain and describe—

9°, The egg of the perfect insect, its form, color, and peculiar mark-
ings under a lens. When the perfect insect of a larvae is once
known, this and the following can be ascertained by preserving the
egg layer.

10°. The appearance of the young larva on first emerging from the
egg; the successive changes in appearance it undergoes during its
moultings until it reaches the condition indicative of maturity.

11°. Lhe habits of the larva, including everything pertaining to
larval life, from the time of leaving the egg to maturity, whether
characteristic or not. :

12°. The habits of the perfect insect, as far as they can be ascertained.

The student should begin, in the first instance, with the endeavor
to refer his caterpillar to one of the larval forms characterized here-
tofore, in order to gather his descriptions under general heads. Prob-
ably he will not be successful in referring it to any there indicated,
for several groups have been omitted in consequence of the difficulty
of representing them by any graphic characters. These he may
arrange under any general heading that appears most appropriate to
himself. Each vessel containing a larva should be marked with a
special numeral, beginning with one for the first, and so on, and the
description should be indicated by the same number ; if the pupa is
removed from the vivarium in order to receive another larva, (for two
dissimilar larvae should never be placed in the same vessel at one
time,) that containing the pupa should be designated by the number
referring to the description of the larva, and the numeral should be
marked on a little square of paper and fixed on the pin containing
the perfect insect when it appears and has been killed and pinned.
A specimen of the mature larva described, whenever it can be ob-
tained, should be drowned in alcohol and enclosed in a piece of foil,
such as is now commonly used for wrapping fine-cut tobacco, with
190 INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLLECTING INSECTS.

the number referring to its description, én pencil, on a slip of paper.
Thus prepared, it should be dropped into a bottle of alcohol, together
with the cocoon and pupa, or pupa alone, if it has no cocoon, treated
in a similar manner, and marked with same number. When the
student desires to forward his collection to the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, the bottles containing the larvae and pupae should have the tops
filled with cotton, then completely filled with liquid to prevent the
agitation of its contents, and tightly corked. The name and locality
of the collector should be written on the top, as also on the box con-
taining perfect insects, and on the copy of his notes. When it is
possible to obtain them, at least from three to six specimens of the
same species of perfect insects are desirable.

I would recommend those who are desirous of becoming better
acquainted with the subject of entomology, and of acquiring some
insight into the classification of Lepidoptera, to obtain The Introduc-
tion to Entomology, by Kirby and Spence, republished by Lea & Blan-
chard, Philadelphia, in addition to ‘‘A Treatise on some of the
Insects of New England which are Injurious to Vegetation. By
Thaddeus William Harris, M. D. Boston: Printed by White &
Potter.’’ There is also another work published by the State of New
York in its natural history series, the chief merit of which, at least
with respect to Lepidoptera, consists in its rather indifferent plates.
It is much more expensive than Dr. Harris’ treatise, and by no means
as reliable, but may enable the student to ascertain the names of some
species by comparing the perfect insects with the plates. Besides
these works there is also a Catalogue of the North American Sphinges,
by Dr. Harris, in the 36th volume of Silliman’s Journal of Science
and Art, 1839; and the Academy of Natural Sciences in Philadelphia
will soon ‘publish a synopsis of the same family, representing the
present state of its classification, and describing all the new species
which have been discovered up to the present time. This can be
obtained by students and observers, upon application, for the cost of
paper and press-work, which will be comparatively nominal. This
paper will be followed by synopses of other families as rapidly as they
can be worked up, one of the most serious difficulties being that of
obtaining specimens of all the perfect insects described by foreign
naturalists. If, therefore, those who intend to collect for the Institu-
tion would commence during the present season, and forward to
Washington a box of perfect insects from their respective localities,
it will facilitate the labors of those engaged at present in the study
and hasten the development of this portion of entomological science
in the United States. Any observations the student may desire to
make public should be transmitted to the Academy of Natural
Sciences in Philadelphia for publication in their ‘‘ Proceedings.”’

THE PUPAE.

The larvae that issue from the egg of the perfect insect in early
spring reach their full development about its latter portion, and en-
tering the pupa state, appear as perfect insects usually in about two or
' three weeks. The representatives of these, generally speaking, do not
become pupae until the beginning of the fall and re.nain in this con-
INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLLECTING INSECTS. 191

dition throughout the winter, emerging as imago during the succeeding
spring. ‘The observer should: therefore begin his search for young
larvae and eggs with the first appearance of vegetation, and either
make them captives or mark the places where they may be found ; but
in general the former is preferable. Feeding and rearing larvae in
spring time has also this advantage: that the food-plant is kept fresh
longer and with less difficulty than in the latter part of summer and
the autumn, and specimens of the perfect insects are obtained the same
season.

After the insect has changed to the pupa it should not be unneces-
sarily disturbed, and never handled with the fingers, except when it
cannot be avoided, and then the utmost gentleness of pressure should
be used. This applies more particularly to pupa which have been
developed in the atmosphere of the vivarium, where its humidity pre-
vents the hardening of the pupa case as completely and rapidly as it
takes place in the external air. When it is removed from the viva-
rium it should be placed as nearly as possible in the same condition
that the larva chose for it, and the new vessel containing it should be
designated by the number of its caterpillar, so that the perfect insect
may be referred properly toits larva. The observer need not be soli-
citous about the apparent impossibility of the perfect insect making its
escape from very dense cocoons, and attempt to aid them by opening
them ; nature has provided a very efficient and powerful means to
effect what is at first view, and what naturalists themselves have re-
garded, a most curious puzzle. Without entering into particulars, I
may say here that the effective and only agent by which this is ac-
complished is the action of the powerful thoracic muscles. The larvae
of the fall months should not be disturbed after entering the ground,
for many of them hybernate until spring in their cells or cocoons made
on the surface when they change to pupae.

The pupae of cochliopodiform or onisciform larvae are always enclosed
in a small ovoid, brittle, silky cocoon, and are difficult to bring to
maturity. The larvae hybernate in them until the following spring,
when they change into pupae covered by a very thin and delicate pupae
case. Their cocoons should be permitted to remain amongst the moss
where they are usually woven, and the moss should be kept moist and
exposed to the external air beneath some convenient and protecting
shelter, and covered with a layer of fine, dried grass during winter.
I have found a great number of very remarkable forms belonging to
this family, but as it was during the period of my own inexperience
in rearing larve, and being unable to obtain hints from others or from
books, for there are none | believe in which the subject is treated, I
lost the greater portion of them and have since looked vainly for other
specimens,

The vessel containing pupae should always be provided with ob-
jects, such as portions of the branch of a tree, fixed in the ground, in
order that the imago when it appears may ascend one of them and
expand its wings. For when they first appear their wings are unde-
veloped, flaccid and moist; they immediately ascend the first encoun-
tered object that is perpendicular or nearly so, and seek to place them-
selves in such a position that their wings may be dependent or hang
downwards fromthe back. Then they begin to grow and develop
192 INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLLECTING INSECTS.

themselves in every direction, and spots which were previously very
small in consequence of the overlapping of the scales, when the pro-
cess is completed, have twice or thrice the original dimensions. The
process of wing expansion should not be permitted to take place in
the moist atmosphere of the vivarium, except in the ‘‘ micros,”’ nor
should the insect be disturbed or killed until after it begins to use its
wings voluntarily ; otherwise it will be difficult to make good prepa-
rations of the wings. These bred insects on first being handled or
when they first feel the effect of chloroform, void a quantity of excre-
mentitious matter, which the student must be careful does not soil the
wings.

The practice of the old trans-Atlantic collectors of obtaining pupae by
digging for them at the roots of trees has been recently revived in Eng-
land with the most successful results by the Rev. Joseph Greene. He
says that ‘‘ meadows and parks, with scattered timber trees, are gene-
rally the best localities; next to meadows and parks come woods ; but
searching in woods is a tedious and fatiguing affair, and requires some
experience ; it is in vain to examine the dense portions, it is equally
vain to dig at the roots of trees in such localities, and you will rarely
find anything unless upon trees of considerable growth ; the thick
moss which collects about the trunks and roots is the part to be
examined. Bombyces are generally found under the moss which
covers spreading roots and not on the trunks, which seem to be pre-
ferred by the Geometrae. The best localities in woods are the borders
or open places; such places when elevated or facing the north are
generally the most productive. The only instrument I use is a com-
mon garden trowel ; the form is immaterial, perhaps a rounded blade
is best, as passing with greater ease between the roots. The trees
which I have found the most productive are the following: elm,
oak, ash, poplar, beech, willow, and alder. [I would likewise add,
for the American collector, the walnut, the wild cherry, the apple
tree, the linden, and the hickory.] In digging, it must be borne in
mind that all pupae are close to the trunk of the tree, seldom more
than two inches distant ; frequently the trunk of the tree forms one
side of the cocoon, especially the cocoon of such insects as spin ; the
chrysalis also les almost invariably close to the surface of the earth.
Insert the trowel about three inches from the trunk, to the depth of
two inches or so; then push it to the tree and turn up; if the soil be
dry and friable, without grass, knock it gently with the trowel, which
will be sufficient. If, however, there be grass, you must proceed more
cautiously ; take up the sod on the left hand, knock it very gently
with the trowel, and those pup which merely enter the ground will
drop out; to find those which spin, you must carefully examine the
sod, tearing the roots of the grass asunder ; these are, of course, much
the most difficult to find, the cocoons being generally of the color of the
earth. Itis useless to try sticky or clayey grounds, the caterpillars being
unable to penetrate it; in searching under moss the best plan is to
loosen the edge, then to tear it gently off, observing whether any
pupae fall. Look at the trunk of the tree to see if anything adheres
to it, and then carefully examine the moss itself; experience alone
will enable you te detect a spun cocoon,
INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLLECTING INSECTS. 193

In another place Mr. Green remarks: ‘‘ With regard to localities,
the best are unquestionably parks and meadows with scattered timber
trees. Those trees from which the surrounding grass has been worn
away by the feet of cattle, and those situated on the borders or banks
of streams, dykes, &c., when the soil is dry and friable, will be found
the most remunerative. When the roots of trees, particularly large
ones standing alone, form angles, pups will nearly always be found
in the spaces ; the trowel should then be inserted at least eight inches
from the trunk and to the depth of about four. In digging round a
tree, whose roots form no angles, it is not necessary to go deeper than
three inches, nor farther from the trunk than four. Always replace
the sod when you have done with it, or at least the débris. When
first taken up, the sod may be so hard as to render it impossible for
the caterpillar to penetrate it; but if, after beiag loosened by the
pup-digger’s manipulation, it be restored to its place, the larva,
which, in the original instance, would have wandered away to some
more convenient spot, will now find one ready made, and will almost
certainly make use of it.”’

‘¢ He should havea small box, filled with damp moss, for the purpose
of carrying the pupe, which should be handled as seldom as possible,
and with the utmost tenderness. I may here remark, that some of
the pupe may dry up. This is caused by some unlucky, probably
unseen, injury, inflicted at the time of capture, and, however great his
caution, will not unfrequently occur.’’ The best months for digging
are July and August for the summer and autumn specimens, and
September, October, and November, for the following spring and sum-
mer insects. Mr. Green has found the months of September and
October the most remunerative to the pup hunter.

In order to rear the pupe thus collected, ‘‘ when brought home they
should be placed in a large box, with the inside surface rough, and
covered with gauze or wire frame; at the bottom of the box should be
some fine earth on which the pupe are to be placed and covered with
a thick layer of moss, which may or may not be occasionally damped.
Be sure to keep them from the sun.’ It is best also to keep them
exposed to the external air during winter. Theone obvious principle
to be observed, as far as possible, is always to place them under the
natural conditions in which they were first found. The student may
also derive from pup hunting valuable hints, at least respecting the
food plants of many larve, and the periods of the season during which
they may be found near maturity.

HOW TO PACK LEPIDOPTERA FOR EXCHANGE, ETC.

Tn order to send insects to a distance safely, a box well made, of
light, thin material, should be obtained. It should be double, the
two portions attached together by hinges, and the bottoms lined with
cork, glued down, and covered with unsized paper; it should be about
twelve inches square, and each portion an inch and one-half deep,
before the cork lining is added ; but if the collector uses pins longer
than an inch and a fourth it should be deeper. The pins containing
specimens should be introduced firmly in the cork, and enough of the

13
194 INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLLECTING INSECTS,

pin should always be exposed to permit it to take a good hold; and if
the abdomen be large and heavy it should be supported by cross pins:
that is, two or more fixed crosswise over this portion of the body, with
a pellet of cotton fixed on the pin beneath and drawn under the abdo-
men, so that it will rest on it. If the specimens are placed very high
on the pins, and raised considerably above the surface, the pin should
be first passed through a little cotton, and the specimen permitted to
rest on it, or the whole surface may be covered first with a layer of
cotton. A large number of specimens may be secured in the box by
pinning one over half the other, like shingles on a roof.

When the box is filled with specimens, the front should be secured
by a little hook and socket ; and it should be then wrapped in several
thicknesses of cotton wool, and the whole enclosed in a piece of cotton
sheeting made secure witha needle and thread. The object of wrapping
the box well in cotton is to prevent the specimens being broken or
injured by any jar or concussion the box may receive during transmis-
sion from one place to another. Bottles containing specimens of larvee,
&c., in alcohol, should be enveloped in cotton and enclosed in a
paper box.

It may happen, sometimes, that those who desire to collect may be
in such a position that none of the expedients heretofore mentioned
may be available. Expeditions to the new countries of the west, or
persons stationed at military outposts and forts in the Indian territo-
ries, may be unable to obtain pins, or the agents heretofore mentioned
as being used for destroying the life of Lepidoptera, and will be, of
course, unable to make preparations in the ordinary manner. As
specimens from the Territories would be exceedingly interesting, in
order to anticipate the condition of those at military outposts and sta-
tions who would be willing to advance the cause of natural history by
collecting, I will suggest how it can be accomplished without any of
the conveniences heretofore mentioned.

If the spirits of ammonia cannot be obtained, insects may be killed
by the fumes of one or two sulphur matches, after having been con-
fined under a glass, or by means of tobacco smoke, or by pinching the
thorax, as heretofore described. The wings should be then turned
upward, so as to be perpendicular to the back or erect, together with
the antennae or feelers situated on the head, and placed in this posi-
tion between a few folds of porous paper, and submitted to light pressure
until they have become partially dried, and the wings will retain their
position. They should then be placed on a square piece of puper,
which should be folded in a triangular form, and the open ends of the
sides turned over, so as to admit of as little motion to the included
specimen as possible. These papers, properly marked as to localities,
may afterwards be packed between layers of cotton in paper boxes, or
in any manner most convenient to the collector, provided they are not
submitted to pressure.

We can imagine no more pleasant and healthful employment during
levsure and unoccupied hours for the men who are stationed at the
military outposts of the Indian territories than collecting these objects
of natural history; and we would respectfully call the attention of
their officers, many of whom have shown so much intelligence and
INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLLECTING INSECTS. 195

manifested so much interest in the collection of specimens belonging
to other classes, to the advantages which may result from it both to
those under their care and to entomology itself. If we remember
aright, the British government authorized such collections to be made
some years since in the neighborhood of the military stations in
Canada, with the most gratifying results, both to those engaged in
collecting and to this branch of natural history.

CABINETS, IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

The ring net is made of bobbinet of fine mesh, or, what is much
better, book muslin, and should be cut in three pieces, the sides of
which are rounded from the base to the apex, so that when sewed
together the net will have the form of a sugar loaf. It should be
rounded at the apex, and the circumference of the base, previous to
being fixed on the ring, should be somewhat more than the ring itself.
This may be moderately thick iron or brass wire, and should be from
eight to twelve inches in diameter. The depth of the net should be
at least once and a half that of the diameter of the ring, so that the
bottom may be thrown over the top of the ring by a twist of the rod.
This is frequently necessary, when a large and active moth has been
taken. An iron socket, with a male screw on the end, may be made
to receive the bent ends of the ring; or these may be fixed in a piece of
tubing by means of melted lead, one end being left open to receive the
rod ; or the bent ends of the wire may be fixed directly to the end of
He rod itself. The rod should not be more than three or four feet

ong.

Any substitutes for cork will answer only for cabinet use ; there is:
nothing that will supply its place in the exchange box. The follow-
ing substitutes have been recommended on account of their cheapness:
‘* Inodorous felt’’ is cut to fit the bottom of the boxes and glued to
the surface, and then covered with paper, or thick ironing blanket is.
used for the same purpose. ‘‘Cut the blanket the size of the drawer
or box and glue it down with good fresh glue; when perfectly dry,
soak it well with fresh paste, and paste one side of the paper also,
place the paper on the blanket, and smooth it well down with a warm
linen cloth. In four days it will, in a favorable situation, be fit to
hold insects.’’ Thesheet cork may be cut into strips, if one wishes to
economize, and glued in drawers or boxes, at a sufficient distance from
each other to admit of the specimens being arranged in rows.

The preservation of specimens after a collection has been once made
is by no means simple or easy; they should not be exposed to the light
of day, because many species in the course of time are deprived by
the light of their brilliancy of color, and become faded ; and hence
being kept in darkness, and the objects generally of merely occasional
inspection, they are apt to be destroyed by various insects that live on
dried animal substances, such as mites, the larvae of a species of coleop-
terous insect, an Anthrenus, and the larva of a species of Tinea, which
makes its case of the scales and portions of the moths. When the
two latter have been permitted through neglect to accumulate in a col-
lection, the only certain mode of putting an end to their ravages, and
196 INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLLECTING INSECTS.

at the same time to destroy the unhatched eggs, is to submit them to
a degree of heat sufficient to coagulate albumen. This is accomplished
by placing the box in an oven, turning the open portion downward,
and elevating it a little above the surface by means of supports so
that they may not, be burned, and the insects themselves must be
watched lest they are scorched by the heat. The heat will soon dis-
lodge the larvae, which falling on the heated surface are killed, and
the albumen of the eggs is coagulated; thus preventing the develop-
ment of those in ova. Iam acquainted with no means of preventing
the invasions of the anthreni, except perfect seclusion of the objects
themselves ; it is usual to recommend the introduction of lumps of
camphor into drawers and boxes, but it has very little effect on them;
the English entomologists use a few drops of Borneate of Petroline,
(probably a mixture of oil of camphor and petroleum,) but as I have
never seen it nor used it, I can say nothing respecting its efficiency.
According to my experience, too, it is useless to paint the bodies witha
strong solution of corrosive sublimate ; it spoils the specimens and
does not protect them. I have also tried disembowelling the large
moths and stuffing them with cotton, subsequently saturating it with
corrosive sublimate; but this does not protect the thorax against their
ravages. The boxes and drawers of a collection should therefore be
inspected frequently, for the purpose of ascertaining if any destruc-
tive insects are present, this being immediately revealed to the eye by
a little heap of dust or excrement beneath the specimens attacked.
The collection may be kept either in drawers covered with glass, or
in wooden boxes; the latter should be three inches deep and twelve by
eighteen or twenty inches clear measurements, opening in the centre
of the depth on hinges, and defended from dust by a short rabbet
around the inside of the lower portion. The boxes should have one
of their measurements about twelve inches, because the cork is usually
cut in pieces about this length. A cabinet of drawers, each lined
with cork and covered with a glass, enables one to view the insects
without danger of accident by touch, but it would be more expensive
than simple boxes. Mr. Titian Peale, of Washington City, has an
extensive cabinet, which for beauty, security, and convenience, excels
anything I have ever seen. The cases consist of a light square frame
about twelve inches by nine inches, which are bound in an ordinary
cover like a folio volume, and arranged on the shelves of a case like
books; the frame is supplied with a glass on each side and made per-
fectly tight in grooves by means of thin foil. The space the insect
occupies having been previously ascertained, a section of a cork for
vials is fixed to the glass, together with the number of the specimen,
by means of black varnish. This arrangement enables one to examine
both sides of the expanded insect without any difficulty, and excludes
insects and dust completely. It will be a source of pleasure to Mr.
Peale, I am sure, to give those who are desirous of forming a cabinet
in imitation of his plan more specific directions than I can respecting
the construction of these entomological volumes. He assured me they
are not expensive, and that any one can soor learn to make and bind
them as they are wanted, as he himself has been in the practice of
doing for many years. His collection has been in his possession more
INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLLECTING INSECTS. 197

than twenty years, and he has never lost a specimen during that
period from the ravages of other insects; those, therefore, who wish
to accumulate a cabinet would do well to commence from the begin-
ning on a plan which will release them from all future care respecting
it, besides forming a most appropriate ornainent either for study or
arlor.
, We have now reached the conclusion of a pleasing task, undertaken
in the hope that it might subserve the purpose of leading many active,
intelligent, and inquiring minds to observe the little people of the
insect world, to share the delights, pleasures, and knowledge that
communication with Nature never fails to bestow, or to contend for
the honorable distinctions which always follow an earnest and per-
severing devotion to the study of natural history. As this paper is
intended chiefly for the use of the novice, we have sought simply to
show how that which is manipulative can be best performed, and to
record such experience as might benefit them on their entrance into
this new world. It is, I know, looked upon as insignificant, the
domain of plagues, pests, and human annoyances, by many, a great
many in our own country who should be better informed, but are,
perhaps, unobserving and unreflecting, and the attention and study
given to these beings considered a waste of the fleeting hours of life
which should be devoted to lofty and noble purposes. They forget,
or do not know, that the works of Nature are all alike intricately
planned, the result of thought and premeditation which binds the
most dissimilar departments into intimate and dependent relation-
ships, that no one can be studied without involving a knowledge of
the others, which meet us boldly and constantly face to face on every
pathway of knowledge. ‘They forget that all branches of natural
science are but little rays of light emanating from the great source
of it all, lighting up and beautifying the human soul, which is en-
dowed with capacities to absorb it and assimilate it to itself; and
thus the occupation of the students of God’s works, unlike that of the
patient alchemists of olden time, who sought to seize the occult mys-
teries, transmutation and immortality, becomes an effort to accumu-
late and illustrate those truths, which transmute disbelief into golden
thought an4 life-invigorating faith. Do not the lives of many votaries
of natural science verify the pretension? The tearful life of the great
Swammerdam, the patient and accurate historian, the acute and tender
investigator of the lives and structure of the insect, who, had he
enriched the world with that emanation of his genius the microscope
alone, and left unwritten his great and immortal work, would have
been entitled to the gratitude of every lover of knowledge—to an
immortality of praise. Poor, and almost friendless, he became, per-
haps, the originator of the science of entomology ; and I can see him,
even now, choosing rather to follow heaven’s own light than to
abandon it for the ease of an exacting parent’s hearthstone, wander-
ing houseless and needy through the ancient streets of Amsterdam,
spurned from the doors that should have been opened to receive him,
and disinherited of a patrimony that to him would have been princely,
contemplating painfully the necessity of separating himself for gold
from the cherished objects of careful accumulation and study, his frame
198 INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLLECTING INSECTS.

shattered and emaciated by an insidious fever, excessive application
and the wolf-like gnawings of gaunt want, but patient and gentle,
self devoted and undiscouraged, and in the midst of all the gloom and
disappointments of a laborious and short career, in the very last hours
of life finding a tender consolation in the friendship and religious
mysticism of Antonia Bourignon, until death gently and slowly led
the great, good soul down to his secluded valley, and bade him rest
and sleep. But still he does not sleep; his memory lives to animate
many desponding minds, to invigorate many faint hearts.

The pages of entomological history are adorned, too, by the names
of many of the gentler sex, and their accomplishments and graces have
served to beautify the study. The sympathy of woman with all that
is tender and beautiful in nature, the delicacy and facility with which
they manipulate minute objects, would seem to indicate this study as
one which should be with them a favorite and congenial pursuit; and
I could instance at least one example of its successful cultivation in
our own country, if I deemed it proper, without appealing to the mag-
nificent works of the heroic Maria Sibilla de Merian, or the minute
and pains-taking investigations of Mademoiselle Jurine. ‘‘I have
seen the young London beauty,’ says the eloquent Kingsley, in
Glaucus, ‘‘amid all the excitement and temptation of luxury and
flattery, with her heart pure and her mind occupied in a boudoir full
of shells and fossils, flowers and sea-weeds, and keeping herself
unspotted from the world by considering the lilies of the field, how
they grow.’’ The feelings of repulsiveness with which insects are so
frequently regarded, arising from antipathies produced by false educa-
tion and false ideas, soon vanish when once we become acquainted
with their lives. We recognize in each species a distinct and indi-
vidual biography. We perceive they are influenced by many of the
same passions and instincts that animate the higher animals; that
their existence presents a marked and striking contrast even to our
own. Ours is ushered by the beautiful, bright days of fresh youth,
during which we seem to flutter idly from pleasure to pleasure, only
to descend surely and slowly to the dark and languid days of decrepit
age; while theirs is entered upon in sombreness and toil, and weighed
down in unwieldy and unattractive forms, to rise at last from its long
obscurity to the sweet sunlight and the blue heavens, to a youthful-
ness in which they die glorified. Everything, indeed, in the little
lives we would endeavor to interpret and understand, appeals harmo-
niously to our sympathies, even the coincidences of nature established
for their well being, or which glide into their histories. Let us mark
a coincidence. The soft voice of springtime, and its warmest breath,
arouses vegetation from its long night of winter sleep, and we admire
the early flowers rising from the earth, and opening glad eyes in the
sunlight, till on the green hill-sides and the meadows is spread an invi-
ting banquet. And even whilst we ask ourselves for whom, or what,
all this decoration and renovation of prairie and hill-side is intended—
for whom the magnificent festive board is spread? the answer is brought
to our ears, when at the same time the influence which has awakened
vegetation calls forth from the waters, the earth, and places of cunning
concealment, the insects, whose structure and forms declare they were
INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLLECTING INSECTS. 199

designed to be the presiding revellers in a scene so full of poetry and
beauty.

The most active and ardent, as well as delicately constituted natures
and minds, will always find enough to interest and stimulate them in
this study ; leading them gradually onward in the simple path of ob-
servation to obscure questions and more intricate problems, which
become clear and light under the touch of rightly directed investi-
gation. It is quite impossible, however, that every one should be a
naturalist ; but there are few who may not with care and the cultiva-
tion of habits of accuracy become most excellent observers, improve
thereby their general health, and extend the range of their daily
pleasures and the congenial and invigorating friendships, which result
from the mutual predilections for the same branch of knowledge.
The beginner to whom the subject is novel will doubtless meet with
many sources of discouragement, but it should only serve to stimulate
him to increased application, and inculcate lessons of patience and
heedfulness. He will be compelled to acquire the simple technical
knowledge in ordinary use, and which can be met with in almost any
entomological work ; and this done, he can then confine himself to de-
tailing the histories of larvee development, or subsequently engage in
the more complicated study of classification, which the information
he has obtained by observation will the more readily enable him to un-
derstand, in the special expositions of the relations of these beings to
each other. The object of these remarks is to encourage observation
and the practice of recording its results, especially amongst those who
are conscious they can do so clearly and well, quite as much as the accu-
mulation of collections of perfect insects. The necessity which de-
mands the former may be conceived from the fact that the history of
scarcely any of our described Lepidoptera is known in all its essential
particulars, and therefore attention can scarcely be given to this sub-
ject and be unrewarded by some good results. The note book should
be the inseparable companion of the observer, and every fact detailed,
every observation recorded ; no matter how trivial it may appear at
the time, no one will be inclined to laugh at it, except those whose
wit lies on the surface of life ‘‘ as idle asa painted ship upon a painted
ocean.’’ And then, how worse than useless it is to devote time to an
object at once praiseworthy and beneficial, yet leave no marks of your
progress and labor, by which others may be spared the necessity of
traversing the same round of observation which you had long since
performed but neglected to render available to whomsoever might be
attracted to the same course of study. There never comes to my
knowledge an instance of this kind without vividly recalling the un-
worthy servant and his single talent, and I am tempted to exclaim,
he is justly deprived of the honors and distinctions he might have
shared, inasmuch as he has selfishly buried his ‘‘ talent’’ in the re-
cesses of his own mind.

‘Some, perhaps, of those who read the preceding remarks will ask,
What is the use of entomology? These I would ask to consider
what they mean by use; they will find, I think, though they may not
like to confess it, that their idea of a useful thing is, a thing which
can be turned into money. But money itself is only valuable in as
?

200 GRASSHOPPERS AND LOCUSTS

far as it contributes to happiness, whether bodily or mental ; and even
if the tendency to health, which is given by the regular habits, tem-
perance and industry, without which no one can be an entomologist,
are to be considered of no value, still the constant interest without
anxiety or disappointment, the gentle exertion without overstraining
the mind, and the contemplation of the universal beneficence of the
Creator even towards the smallest of his creatures, can hardly fail to
bring to the mind a peaceful happiness which none but a philosopher
can appreciate, and even he cannot describe. If, indeed, he could, in-
stead of the few who devote themselves to the study and observation
of animated nature, there would be scarcely any who would not be-
come naturalists.’’

Let it not, however, be supposed that the way to philosophic heights
is smooth and easy, and that the book of Nature can be read without
first acquiring the alphabet in which it is written. But whilst its
pages invite all to investigation, even those who run the course of a
busy life, its records can be fully deciphered only, perhaps, by those
few chosen spirits whom she has selected as her interpreters, who pass
through a long and laborious pupilage, who are content to labor with-
out other hope of reward than that which knowledge brings, and to
sit childlike at her feet, learning to lisp the accents of the language
in which she expresses her startling and profound conceptions. And
without aspiring to deep acquirements, without seeking to merit the
designation of naturalists, we can prepare the way for the advent of
this chosen spirit in the field of entomology in America, and feel our-
selves elevated in mind and benefitted in body by the devotion of
leisure time to intelligent and systematic observation of even those
beings which may have been heretofore considered unworthy of notice,
but which at least teach us that ‘‘there’s never a leaf or a blade too
mean to be some happy creatures palace.’’ It will be a most accept-
able labor to the intelligent everywhere, and in the end must convince
the most practical minded that ‘‘ Whatever it has been worth God’s
while to create, it must be worth man’s while to study.”’

AN ACCOUNT OF THE GRASSHOPPERS AND LOCUSTS OF AMERICA, CON-
DENSED FROM AN ARTICLE WRITTEN AND FURNISHED BY ALEXANDER
S. TAYLOR, ESQ, OF MONTEREY, CALIFORNIA.

From the periodical press we learn that, up to the 11th of Octo-
ber, 1855, and commencing about the middle of May, these insects
extended themselves over a space of the earth’s surface much greater
than has ever before been noted. They covered the entire Territories
of Washington and Oregon, and every valley of the State of Cali-
fornia, ranging from the Pacific ocean to the eastern base of the Sierra
Nevada; the entire Territories of Utah and New Mexico ; the immense
grassy prairies lying on the eastern slopes of the Rocky Mountains ;
the dry mountain valleys of the republic of Mexico, and the countries
&
OF AMERICA. 201

of Lower California and Central America, and also those portions of
the State of Texas which resemble, in physical characteristics, Utah
and California. The records prove that the locusts extended them-
selves, in one year, over a surface comprised within thirty-eight degrees
of latitude, and, in the broadest part, eighteen degrees of longitude.

On several days in June, July, and August, of 1855, the grass-
hoppers (or langostas of the Spaniards) were seen in such incredible
numbers in the valley of Sacramento, in California ; in the valley
of Colima, in Southwest Mexico; in the valley of the Great Salt Lake;
in Western Texas, and certain valleys of Central America, that they
filled the air, like flakes of snow on a winter’s day, and attacked
everything green or succulent with a voracity and despatch destructive
to the hopes of agriculturists.

To stimulate inquiries founded on original observation of the
locust, Col. Warren, editor of the California Farmer, forwarded a
short circular note to several periodicals, dated July 2, 1855, in which
he states that, ‘‘for the last three days, the very air has been so full
of them over this city (Sacramento) as to resemble a dense snow
storm. Large fields of oats and wheat have suffered in Ione and other
upper (Sierra Nevada) valleys.”’

The Sacramento Union, of the same date, states that the ‘‘ most
remarkable circumstance we have ever been called on to notice in this
locality was the flight of the grasshoppers on Saturday and yester-
day. For about three hours in the middle of the day the air, at an
elevation of about two hundred feet, was literally thick with them,
flying in the direction of Yolo. They could be the more readily per-
ceived by looking in the direction of the sun. Great numbers fell
upon the streets on Saturday—absolutely taking the city by storm—
and yesterday they commenced the wholesale destruction of every-
thing green in the gardens of the neighborhood. Their flight, en masse,
resembled a thick snow-storm, and their depredations the sweep of a
scythe. The prevalence of the scourge is explained by Dr. T. M.
Logan as being attributable to the great warmth and dryness of the
present season—circumstances favorable to an early development of
the eggs of the insect, which is deemed one of the most fruitful in the
animal kingdom.”’

The Shasta Courier, printed in the northern Sacramento moun-
tains, remarks that ‘‘on Wednesday last (September 19, 1855,) an
immense flight of grasshoppers passed over this place, flying west-
ward. The greater portion of them flew very high, and could only
be seen by shading the eyes from the sun. They were as thick in the
heavens as flakes of snow in a winter storm.”’

The Sacramento Valley papers mention that whole orchards,
gardens, and vineyards have been consumed by them. Entire fields
of young grain, of crops, and vegetables, have been eaten up within
the space of a single day, leaving the ground likea wilted, blackened
desert. In some parts of the valley they annoyed the passengers and
horses of the public stages to such an extent as to cause the greatest
inconvenience, and appear, in some cases, to have positively endangered
human life.

A gentleman who resided in Colusi county, in the Sacramento
«

202 GRASSHOPPERS AND LOCUSTS

valley, in the summer of 1855, informs us that these insects appeared
to rise out of the eastern boundaries of the valley, where it is hot, dry,
and sandy, and that, on some days, they filled the air so as to obscure
the sun. They consumed all garden vegetables, the leaves and bark
of the elder tree, and the young leaves and bark of the small branches
of the cotton-wood and willow, and even the soft, green parts of the
tules or bullrushes. In Stony Creek, in the same county, their dead
bodies were seen, at one time, completely covering the surface of the
water for miles in extent. In some parts of this valley they ate
through gauze and textile coverings of all kinds, which had been used
to shield animals and plants from their attacks.

The grasshoppers appeared in 1855 in much larger numbers in
the valley of the Sacramento and the mountains which bound it on the
eastern or Sierra Nevada side than in any other part of California,
and here and in Utah they committed the greatest ravages. In the
southern coast counties they were comparatively few in number and
did very little injury. They were more troublesome around Los
Angelos than anywhere else in the south.

The Oregon Times of September 29 says: ‘‘In the southern part
of Oregon, the present season, grasshoppers have been ravaging the
country, utterly destroying every green vegetable substance. In cer-
tain localities whole nurseries of fruit trees have been killed and
entire fields of grain have been destroyed. The grasshoppers infested
northern California last year, and seem to be making a pilgrimage
through Oregon. This year they have done but little damage on this
side of the Calapooia mountains, but are getting quite numerous in
Linn, Lane, and Benton counties. They have infested portions of
California the past season, sweeping all before them; and in Utah
they have destroyed at least one-half of the crops. Fences, ditches,
or streams seem to present no barriers to their ravages.’’

The Great Salt Lake News of 19th September states that ‘‘on
Thursday, 29th August, several millions of grasshoppers descended
on the settlements north of Utah county, destroying everything green
in their way. The county of Tooele was visited by a similar plague.’’

The following extract from a Texas paper (Dallas Gazette, No-
vember 20, 1855) will show their appearance in that State. ‘‘ Grass-
hoppers are beginning to be troublesome in this vicinity. We hear
some of our farmers complaining a great deal of their depredations.
Some of the wheat that has been lately sown is completely destroyed,
and the fields will have to be replanted. A heavy norther would rid
us of these insects.”’

From the various notices of the visits of the Locusta in 1855,
made by the periodicals of California, Utah, Washington, and Oregon,
it would appear that they are most abundant from the fifteenth of
July to the twentieth of September, or a period of sixty-seven days.
They would seem also to be at the maturity of their destructive power
from the first to the thirty-first of August, which is the hottest and
driest month of the year in all these regions.

It may be remarked, in this connexion, that the summer of 1855,
and up to the 3lst of October, was the driest which has been known
for ten years.
OF AMERICA. 203

The grasshoppers made their appearance again in 1856 in Oregon,
Utah, and California, and in Texas, near Austin, and westward,
but in such diminished numbers as not to do extensive harm, ex-
cept in particular localities. But it seems, from the periodical press,
that in the upper Mississippi (Minnesota, &c.) they committed great
injury in the fall of that year, as the following extract will show:
“At Little Falls (says the St. Anthony Express) they destroyed corn,
oats, wheat, and every kind of grain which came in their way. At
Elk river they appeared in a perfect cloud, and lighting upon a corn-
field of twenty acres destroyed the whole crop in a short space of
time. At Crow Wing, on the farm of Isaac Moulton, they destroyed
five hundred bushels of oats.”’

Their ravages extended along the first central mesas or steppes,
bordering eastward the Rocky mountains, covering the dry soils of
Texas, and down into the south of Mexico. In the vicinity of Cordova,
in the State of Vera Cruz, the people made ‘‘a regular campaign
against them, and succeeded in destroying one hundred and ninety-
two arrobas, computed as numbering four hundred millions of grass-
hoppers.’”’ In the State of Guerrero they also did great injury, par-
ticularly within the districts around Acapulco.

It would seem that the Locusta makes its destructive appearance
within the boundaries of the United States Territories, west of the
Mississippi, in some portion or other nearly every year. The follow-
ing extract from a correspondent of the New York Tribune, dated.
Fort Kearny, August 31, 1857, and who was in the expedition of
Colonel Sumner against the Cheyenne Indians of the upper branches
of the Missouri, shows the effect of the reappearance of this plague in
a strong light:

‘‘The grass along our route has been short and scanty, although
refreshed by the recent rains. It is injured by myriads of grass-
hoppers, some of which are monstrous in size. I have noticed several
between three and four inches, and many nearly three inches long.
Last Friday a swarm passed over the fort which darkened the sun so
as to render it possible to gaze at it with the naked eye. We saw
this swarm at a distance of ten or twelve miles, at which it resembled
a cloud of smoke.’’

Every western man remembers the visitation of grasshoppers
in 1855 and 1856 in Kansas, Nebraska, and Minnesota Territories,
which caused such injury to the crops of the Indians. In the travels
of Jonathan Carver, in the northwest parts of the Mississippi and
Lake countries, published in 1779, page 494, the following mention
is made of the locust or grasshopper: ‘‘I must not omit to mention
that the locust is a septennial insect, as they are only seen, a small
number of stragglers excepted, every seven years, when they infest
these parts and the interior colonies in large swarms and do a great
deal of mischief. The years when they thus arrive are denominated
the locust years.”’

Since 1823 the grasshoppers have several times ravaged the
fields and gardens of the Franciscan missions of Upper California.
About the year 1827 or 1828 they ate up nearly all the growing
crops, and occasioned a great scarcity of wholesome food. At the
204 GRASSHOPPERS AND LOCUSTS

mission of Santa Clara, Padre José Viadere fired the pastures, and
getting all his neophytes together made such an awful noise that those
which were not killed by the smoke and fires were frightened off so
thoroughly as to save the grain crops and the mission fruit gardens.
About 1834-35 occurred another visitation of the grasshopper, when
they destroyed a second time the crops of the rancheros and missions,
with the exception of the wheat.

An American settler, who resided for ten years near the bay
of San Francisco, informs us that in the summer of 1838 the crops
and gardens of the missions and ranchos thereabouts were nearly
destroyed by the ravages of the grasshopper. Another settler informs
us that they committed great ravages near San Rafael, and on the
north side of the bay. He saw them eat up, in a single afternoon, a
field of thirty acres of beans and peas, consuming it to the surface of
the ground. In these districts they stopped for three successive years.
A California sea captain informs me that he has sailed through the
Santa Barbara channel and neighboring waters when the surface of
the ocean was covered for miles with the dead bodies of grasshoppers,
the air being filled with them at the same time, and shoals of fish
feeding on them.

In July, 1846, a friend of ours living in Monterey was per-
sonally cognizant of a field of eight or nine acres on the Salinas plains
of corn, frijoles, &c., being completely consumed to the ground
ina single day. The appearance of the field afterwards was as if it
had been blackened and killed by a heavy frost. The late Mr. J. B.
Wall, collector of Monterey, informed me that in a journey from
Oregon to Missouri, in 1846, his party encountered in July, on the
plains near the north fork of the river Platte, myriads of the grass-
hoppers, which all appeared to be travelling northward, and proved
extremely annoying to the train for many days. Bryant, in his
‘* What I saw in California,’’ relates that on his passage to California,
under dates of July, 1846, their company of emigrants also encountered
immense swarms of grasshoppers on the prairies near the Platte.

In the ‘‘ Utah and the Mormons,’’ by B. G. Ferris, on page 149,
mention is thus made of the visitation of the Locusta in the Salt Lake
country: ‘* The year 1848 was one of privation and suffering, prior
to the maturing of the growing crops. Among other discouraging
incidents a curious kind of ‘cricket’ made its appearance in myriads,
manifesting all the destructive properties of eastern countries. All
vegetation was swept clean before its frightful progress as effectually
as the grass before the scorching fury of a prairie conflagration, and
the crops, put in with so much toil and on which so much depended,
were fast disappearing. Suddenly, however, flocks of white gulls
floated over the mountain tops with healing in their wings, and stayed
this withering destruction by feasting on the destroyer. ‘The crickets
and the gulls have been annual visitors since, as they were before ;
the bane and the antidote come together.’’ They are said to appear
invariably in great numbers in very dry and hot summers, succeeding
to very inclement winters.

Throughout California, with its ante-1849 boundaries, through-
out Lower California, New Mexico, and all the dry and the elevated
OF AMERICA. 205

mesas or plateaus of the republic of Mexico, their ravages have been
noted by the old Spanish chroniclers from the first conquest and set-
tlement of the countries; also by American trappers, hunters, and
travellers throughout the same regions for the last fifty-five years,
and by English, Russian, and French writers and navigators. Dr.
Dwight mentions that they have several times been extremely inju-
rious to the growing crops of New England prior to 1800.

It would seem that the most feasible means of destroying the
grasshopper, or diminishing its propagation and increase, is that which
nature and circumstances suggest. The extensive conflagration of the
grassy plains and hills of California has been noticed ever since the
years 1542-43, in the account of the voyage of Juan Rodrigues
Cabillo, and particularly near San Pedro, (the present embarcadero
for Los Angeles,) which he named the Bay of Smoke. The entire
range of California, Utah, and Hastern Oregon, and neighboring
countries being deserts, prairies, or lands of hills and mountains
sparsely covered with trees, and everywhere thickly or thinly with
grasses, we know they become excessively dry for three months of the
year, when they either take fire from accident or design, or, as is most
likely in some cases, from the attrition of the leaves and glazed stalks
in a dry and windy day. As soon as the parched vegetation is fired,
with a good breeze of wind it will burn an immense district of country
before it is stopped by a wide road, a dry river bed, running water, or
damp ground. In its progress it consumes all animated nature not
capable of speedy flight or escape, and destroys the undeveloped larvae
and millions of eggs of the grasshopper, as well as thousands of the
full grown insects, whose wings and legs get singed and burnt in
trying to make their escape from the devouring element. The wind
at times conspires to bring immense numbers of them within the in-
fluence of the fire, and so to stifle them as to bring them to the ground.
In a strong gale, when swarms of grasshoppers are on the wing high
in the air, they are swept along until, as the breeze slackens, they fall
into the waters of large bays, seas, and cover large extents of the
surface of the ocean, where they become a prey to greedy fishes.

The annual conflagration of our plains occurred this year (1855)
very early, which circumstance had considerable effect in destroying
the swarms of grasshoppers, as, to escape the heat, they endeavored
to keep out of the influence of the fires, and being driven before
the winds, were swept into Siuson bay in incredible numbers. The
passengers in the steamer from Sacramento to San Francisco, on
Saturday, the 14th of July, state that they fell in such numbers into
the waters of the bay as to. completely cover in places the surface.
When driven ashore afterwards with the tides they filled the air with
an intolerable stench,

The Indians take the grasshoppers in great numbers by sweep-
ing them into holes or piles, or by surrounding them with fire and
driving them into the centre, and afterwards roasting and pounding
them for food. But this is always found to sicken the Indians—
a fact which has been noted by the pioneer settlers and natives
of old, as also by many travellers and voyagers who have visited
206 GRASSHOPPERS AND LOCUSTS

California and the Rocky mountain country, and also by the Jesuits
of Lower California.

The species found near Monterey, and examined in October, were
of a burnt sienna color, one inch and three-eighths long by one-eighth
of an inch thick, with three black blotches on each outer wing; the
legs are also barred black; the lower body parts of ochreous yellow;
the inside wings, which are very thin, are yellowish, with a broad
black fringe. The head is of a lighter color than the body, and is ag
hard as the shell of a peanut. The mouth is armed with two hard,
black forceps, nearly one-eighth of an inch long, the inside edges of
which are bevelled inwards, finely serrated, and very keen. Four of
these October grasshoppers (males and full-grown) weighed thirty
grains.

We may note here that the grasshoppers in July around Mon-
terey, where but few came this year, are not more than half the size
that they are in October. The species of grasshopper described
in Captain Stansbury’s journey to the Salt Lake country, in 1850, and
figured and described by Professor 8. Haldeman, is a species of the
Locusta different in size, colors, and particular features from that
found near Monterey. Haldeman calls this Salt Lake grasshopper
the Oedipoda corallipes, and says that it is congeric with the Oedipoda
migratoria of the English naturalists, and which is found so destructive
in Asia Minor and the Crimea, The corallipes is nearly as large as
the migratoria, being two and a half inches long. The California
grasshopper, or rather the species found near Monterey, I have seldom
seen over one and a half inches long, and it is not in any manner
colored ‘‘ bright vermilion”’ in any part of its body, as is mentioned
by Haldeman of the Salt Lake species. There is only one species of
the Locusta described in the above work. It has either no antennae,
or it is faintly delineated. The date of preservation or capture of this
Oedipoda of Utah is not stated by Haldeman.

The following account from Gage’s West Indies, page 368, will
show the effects of a visitation of the Locusta in the parishes of
Mixco and Pinola, and other parts of the uplands of Guatemala in
the year 1632:

‘The first year of my abiding there it pleased God to send one of
the plagues of Egypt to that country, which was of locusts, which I
had never seen till then. They were after the manner of our grass-
hoppers, but somewhat bigger, which did fly about in number so
thick and infinite that they did truly cover the face of the sun, and
hinder the shining forth of the beams of that bright planet. Where
they lighted, either upon trees or standing corn, there nothing was
expected but ruin, destruction, and barrenness; for the corn they de-
voured, the fruits of trees they ate and consumed, and hung so thick
upon the branches that with their weight they tore them from the
body. The highways were so covered with them that they startled
the travelling mules with their fluttering about their heads and feet.
My eyes were often struck with their wings as I rede along; and much
ado | had to see my way, what with a montero, wherewith I was fain
to cover my face, what with the flight of them which were still before
my eyes. The farmers towards the South sea coast cried out, for that
OF AMERICA. 20%

their indigo, which was then in grass, was like to be eaten up; from
the Ingenios of sugar the like moan was made, that the young and
tender sugar-canes would be destroyed; but, above all, grievous was
the cry of the husbandmen of the valley where I lived, who feared
that their corn would in one night be swallowed up by that devouring
legion. The care of the magistrate was that the towns of Indians
should all go out into the fields with trumpets, and what other
instruments they had, to make a noise and to affright them from
those places which are most considerable and profitable to the com-
monwealth; and strange it was to see how the loud noise of the
Indians and sounding of the trumpets defended some fields from the
fear and danger of them. Where they lighted in the mountains and
highways, there they left behind them their young ones, which were
found creeping upon the ground, ready to threaten such a second
year’s plague if not prevented; wherefore all the towns were called,
with spades, mattocks, and shovels to dig long trenches, and therein
to bury all the young ones. Thus, with much trouble to the poor
Indians and their great pains, (yet after much hurt and loss in many
places,) was that flying pestilence chased away out of the country to
the South sea, where it was thought to be consumed by the ocean,
and to have found a grave in the waters, whilst the young ones found
it in the land. Yet they were not all so buried; but that shortly some
appeared, which, being not so many in number as before, were, with
the former diligence, soon overcome.’’

Clavigero, in his history of Mexico, says of the Locusta of
Mexico, that no animal or insect in that country ‘‘can compare in
numbers or ravages with the locusts which, sometimes darkening the
air like thick clouds, lay waste all the vegetation of the country, as I
have myself witnessed in the year 1738 or 1739 upon the coasts of
Xicayan, in Oaxuaca. From this cause a great famine was lately
occasioned in the province of Yucatan; but no country in America has
been visited by this dreadful scourge so often as the wretched Cali-
fornia, as related by Father Michael del Barco, who lived thirty years
in that country as one of the missionaries of our society.’’

The same author gives the following interesting account in his
History of California:

‘‘ For the reason that this plague does not affect the countries
where naturalists may carefully observe them with minuteness and
exactness, we herein relate the account of one of our missionaries,
kept for thirty years, during his residence in the missions of old Cali-
fornia.

‘‘There are three species of California grasshoppers, which are
similar in form, but distinct in size, color, and mode of living. The
first species, which is well known and the best observed, is small; it
flies short, but is constantly jumping. The second species is larger,
and of a gray color. These two kinds are not found in such numbers
as to make them of such note or anxiety as the third, which is the
largest, and causes the most destruction in its flights over the lands
of the peninsula.

‘‘The grasshoppers of this third species, famous for their ravages
among the lands of the missions, is of the size of a little finger ; the
208 GRASSHOPPERS AND LOCUSTS

wings double like the others, but larger and colored variably, according
to their age and sex, which we shall hereafter note.

‘¢ These largest grasshoppers are those we shall particularly account
for in what we relate. They assimilate in their habits and modes of
generation to those of the silk worm. The twosexes come together in
the hottest days of the summer season ; the female, at the latter part of
July or early in August, lays a number of fine, small eggs of a yellowish
color, in a string, united with a glutinous matter, which, on being
perceived, appears like a cord of fine silk. These are deposited together
and dropped into a small hole which they make in the ground with a
small apparatus attached to their tails. Hach female lays from seventy
to eighty eggs, and sometimes more. Shortly after fulfilling the great
law of nature, the grasshoppers quickly degenerate and die without
taking care of their lives or of each other, but leaving in their eggs:
the seeds of a numerous posterity.

‘¢ The birth of these new grasshoppers has no particular time, but
is dependent on the early or late appearance of the rains, but generally
hatch during the latter part of September or early in October, when,
from the scarce rains of California, the germs and buds of plants are
left in the fields. Shortly after birth, while they are without wings,
their lower legs are very large but shaped like those of a mosquito; the
color of the insect is then a dark gray. Their first exercise is to jump
on to the nearest green thing. If there is none near by they keep
jumping and moving to the nearest green plant, and generally in com-
pany with those of the same nest and mother. As soon as they have
consumed the leaves of one plantthey pass to another, by little assuming
a brighter color, and then the different families begin to unite. When
they arrive at half size their color is a perfect green. At this time their
legs have become strong and they jump higher and farther, and exer-
cise and contrive the best method for seeking their food while passing
along the fields. A few days after assuming their green coat, they
cast their skin or outer covering, and then display their four wings
which are close shut to their bodies. The color then becomes green,
mixed with dark gray. When they are three months old they are com-
plete in size, form, and features, and become of a reddish gray with
blackish spots. Its appearance as thus seen is the only beauty of this
pestilent plague of California. They maintain these features until the
hot, dry weather, when they become yellowish until their death.
Their life, from birth to death, lasts ten months, during which they
cast their coats twice and change their colors five times.

‘¢ When their wings have become of sufficient strength and the body
at its maturity, they then begin to ascend into the air and fly like
birds, and commence their ravages in every direction, desolating the
fields of every green thing. Their numbers become so extraordinary
that they soon form clouds in the atmosphere which the rays of the
sun cast a shadow as they fly. They unite in masses of ten and twelve
thousand, always following their conductors and flying in a direct line
without falling behind, for they consume every growing thing before
them. To whatever height their guides conduct them to obtain a sight
of their food they follow, and as soon as growing crops or any ver-
dure is sighted, instantly the swarm will alight and speedily devour
OF AMERICA, 209

and devastate the fields around to that extent and with that prompti-
tude that when they are seen by a new swarm of their fellows, there
is not anything more left to injure or consume. In the night they
neither eat nor sleep, but are all the time mounting and jumping on
each other in thick masses, and bending and cracking with their weight
the branches of the shrubs and trees they may cover or rest on.*

‘¢ This lamentable insect-plague is bad enough in old and cultivated
countries, but in the miserable peninsula of California, where they
eat up the crops, green trees, fruits, and pastures, they cause great
mortality in the domestic animals of the missions, and with the effects
of their ravages on the cereal and other garden productions, cause
great famines and sickness among the inhabitants and neophytes of
the establishments. At one time immense multitudes of these vora-
cious insects died, infecting the air dreadfully with the stench of their
corruption and decay.

‘The grasshoppers do not generally attack such plants as water-
melons and melons, for the reason that such plants have leaves covered
with fine pricking hairs. The pitahayos are naturally defended with
their spires and prickles, and with the other cactus family are not dis-
turbed, except in their flowers and ripe fruit. In the mescal plant
they only attack the extremities of the pencas without touching the
shoot or sprout, which is a species of aliment used by the Indians.

’ “From the year 1697, when the Jesuits commenced the labor of
christianizing the heathens of California, the grasshoppers had not
made their appearance in the lands formed by the missions until the
year 1722, when they made their appearance, and then ceased until
1746, and for three yearsimmediately following without intermission.
After this they did not return until 1753 and 1754, and, finally again,
before the expulsion of the fathers in 1765, 1766, and 1767. For many
reasons has this unhappy peninsula, for several consecutive years,
escaped the afiliction of the plague of locusts. Probably in certain
seasons their eggs could not be hatched for the exceptions of the fall
of ordinary rains, as sometimes here occurs, and also for the abundance
or their eggs consumed by the birds. Also, it is stated, that in the
spring of the year incredible numbers of the grasshoppers are killed
by a certain worm which is engendered in the stomach of the locusts,
and which commits great havoc amongst them; for this reason,
probably, and others mentioned, and some as yet unknown causes,
they have not made their appearance in large numbers in the seasons
elapsed between the years mentioned.

*¢ Anciently the Indians of the California missions used the grass-
hoppers as food, by first toasting them, and, after extracting the
entrails, pulverizing them before eating. But the good counsels of
the missionaries, after their appearance in 1722, when this species of
food occasioned among them a great sickness, caused them to leave off
using them, though some of the neophytes still would eat them in the
years when food became scarce from their ravages in the sowings.’’

The following account is taken from the New Notes on Central
America, by EH. G. Squier, from which it will be seen that the

* This last fact was noted by the nurserymen of Sacramento in 1855.—A. S. T.

14
210 GRASSHOPPERS AND LOCUSTS

Locusta of Central America is nearly if not quite identical with that
of California :

‘The insect, however, which is most dreaded in Honduras, as,
indeed, in all Central America, is the Langosta, or Chapulin, a spe-
cies of grasshopper or locust, which at intervals afflicts the entire
country, passing from one end to the other in vast columns of many
millions, literally darkening the air and destroying everything green
in their course. I once (in 1853) rode through one of these columns
which was fully ten miles in width. Not only did the insects cover
the ground, rising in clouds on each side of the mule path as I ad-
vanced, but the open pine forest was brown with their myriad bodies,
as if the trees had been seared with fire, while the air was filled with
them as it is with falling flakes in a snow storm. Their course is
always from south to north. They make their first appearance as
Saltones, of diminutive size, red bodies and wingless, when they swarm
over the ground like ants. At this time vast numbers of them are
killed by the natives, who dig long trenches, two or three feet deep, and
drive the Saltones into them. Unable to leap out, the trench soon be-
comes half filled with the young insects, when the earth is shoveled
back, and they are thus buried and destroyed. They are often driven
in this way into the rivers and drowned. Various expedients are
resorted to by the owners of plantations to prevent the passing columns
from alighting. Sulphur is burned in the fields, guns are fired, drums
beaten, and every mode of making a noise put in requisition for the pur-
pose. In this mode detached plantations are often saved. But when the
columns once alight, no device can avail to rescue them from speedy
desolation. Ina single hour the largest maize fields are stripped of
their leaves, and only the stems are left to indicate that they once
existed.

‘‘It is said that the Chapulin makes its appearance at the end of
periods of about fifty years, and that it then prevails for from five to
seven years, when it entirely disappears. But its habits have never
‘been studied with care, and I am unprepared to affirm anything in
these respects. Its ordinary size is from two and a half to four inches
in length, but it sometimes grows to the length of five inches.

‘The crops of maize are often destroyed by the locusts in the course
of a few hours. As the visitation is usually general, it sometimes
results in a great scarcity, bordering on famine, in which case maize
advances to as high as four and five and even ten dollars per bushel.
Fortunately the insect seldom attacks the fields which are planted
high up on the slopes of the mountains, where the people make their
milpahs during the periodical visitations of the Chapulin.”’

This statement is consonant with the accounts received from Hon-
duras and Guatemala of the famine and pestilence of fever in those
countries in 1855 and 1856, caused by clouds of locusts devastating
the country, and confirms Gage’s history of the same lands in 1632.

At the time of the visit of Darwin to Chile and the adjacent
countries of South America, he relates of the grasshoppers as follows,
at the date of March 25, 1835, where he is crossing the dry country
which lies between the city of Mendoza, in Buenos Ayres, and the
opposite side of Chile. This country assimilates in every essential
OF AMERICA. PA iy

physical characteristic to that of the territories within the boundaries
of Upper and Lower California prior to the American occupation :

‘‘Shortly before arriving at the village and river of Luxan, we
observed, to the south, a ragged cloud of a dark reddish brown color.
At first we thought it was caused by some great fire on the neighbor-
ing plains, but we soon found that it was a swarm of locusts. ° They
were flying northward, and with the aid of a light breeze they over-
took us at the rate of ten or fifteen miles an hour. The main body
filled the air from a height of twenty feet to that, as it appeared, of
two or three thousand feet above the ground. The sound of their
wings was as the sound of chariots of many horses running to battle;
or rather, as I should say, like a strong breeze passing through a
ship’s rigging. The sky, seen through the advanced guard , appeared
like a mezzotinto engraving; but the main body was impervious to
sight. They were not, however, so thick together but that they could
escape a stick waved backward and forward. When they alighted,
they were more numerous than the leaves in the field, and the surface
became reddish instead of green. The swarm having once alighted,
the individuals flew from side to side in all directions. Locusts are
not an uncommon pest in this country. Already, during this season,
several smaller swarms had come up from the south, where, apparently,
as in all other parts of the world, they are bred in the deserts. The
poor cottagers in vain attempted, by lighting fires, by shouts, and by
waving branches, to arrest the attack. This species of locust closely
resembles, and perhaps is identical, with the Gryllus migratorius of
Syria and Palestine.”’

It is a little singular that though the ravages of the grasshop-
pers have been noticed by all the presses of California, Utah, Oregon,
and Washington, and particularly by those of the Sacramento and
Utah valleys, not one of them has given any detailed description of the
different species of locusta infesting those districts of country ; nor
have any of our naturalists or observing writers made more than a
passing notice of the animal whose history hereafter will leave the
most melancholy marks of its devastation on the means of subsistence
of the people who may fill up these territories. If they have been
recorded in the annals of Africa, Asia, and Europe, for four thousand
years, and have been chronicled in the histories of the Californias for
one hundred years, we may be sure that there is nothing to prevent
their periodical devastating visits within the boundaries of the North
Pacific slope for four thousand years more.

The habits of this insect ought to be diligently observed by the
cultivators of the soil in our State. It requires from the State
authorities the employment of the best naturalists to study and com-
pile for public use the most searching investigation into the birth,
multiplication, and best methods of checking the increase of this ter-
ribly devouring and consuming pestilence.

The “California Farmer’’ of July 5, 1855, says: ‘The following
facts can be relied upon, having been received from such sources as
leave no question of their correctness: Wherever the floods covered
the soil, and remained a little time, no grasshoppers appear; they
rarely or never are found in shaded grounds or damp and wet locali-
212 GRASSHOPPERS AND LOCUSTS

ties; they are destroyed by winter ploughing—deep, subsoil plough-
ing. ’/

The same paper adds: ‘‘ We have made many inquiries, and from
those who have seen and examined their habits we gather the follow-
ing: The grasshopper’s shell, or his decayed body, is found about ten
or twelve inches below the surface, in the sandy soil in gardens and
orchards. Those who plough early and deep find them turned up in
large quantities, and also note that where the soil is ploughed deep
and early they do not make such ravages.

‘‘We learn that irrigation at night and showering the trees and vines
have, in many instances, driven them away. Heavy shadeand awnings
serve as means of protection. Grounds that are low and damp, and
such as by constant cultivation give forth a dew at night, this insect
avoids. Shade and moisture they shun; a hot and dry location
they select, and the hotter the day, the more terrible their ravages.
The hottest days they move with more rapidity.”’

There is a bird in India termed the grakle, which is a great consu-
mer of the locusta and its eggs. This grakle, we judge, is similar to
our California chenate, or blackbird, which all know is found in the
valleys of the Sacramento, San Joaquin, and the coast, as also the
‘Rocky mountain countries, in such immense flocks as often to obscure
the sun; they are incredibly abundant at some seasons in the lower
part of the Sacramento valley. The inhabitants of India have often
killed the grakle to almost extermination, from their injury to young
crops; but when this has been effected a great multiplication occurs
of destructive insects, and particularly of the locusta, as the following,
from Buffon, will show: ‘‘ Some of the eggs of the locusta being acci-
dentally introduced from Madagascar into the French island of Bour-
bon, they multipled so prodigiously as to threaten devastation to the
country. But the governor, a man of superior intelligence, learning
the great services of the grakle in India, had a number of pairs intro-
duced and distributed over the islands under his charge, which in-
cluded Mauritius, &c. They bred very fast, and in a few years the
locusts seemed exterminated. The grakles then began to dig and
examine the newly sown fields; on which the colonists, concluding
that they were devouring the seed, when they were in reality seeking
the locust’s eggs, took the alarm and got them exterminated by gov-
ernment. In a few years they perceived their error, for the locusts
soon commenced their ravages again. Upon this the government
procured a new supply of grakles, which were given in charge this
time to their officers ; the physicians being instructed to declare their
meat unwholesome food. This extraordinary care, however, proved
injurious, as after the birds had cleared the islands of the locusts and
their eggs, which infested the coffee plants, the birds began to injure
the grain crops and orchards, and even to kill young pigeons and
other domestic birds ; on which means were taken by the government
to keep down their numbers by a measured destruction.”’

It appears that a species of blackbird, similar to the one of Califor-
nia, is found in immense numbers in Southern Russia, in Poland, the
Holy Land, Arabia, Lower Egypt, and the shores of the Mediterranean
sea. It is called the rose colored blackbird, (Pastor roseus,) and feeds
OF AMERICA, 213

on grasshoppers, locusts, and their eggs and larva, of which it can
devour incredible numbers in a day. It was also observed in the
colony of the Cape of Good Hope, by that indefatigable naturalist, Le
Vaillant. In the works of the great Aldrovandi, of Bologne, in Italy,
(1599,) they are called sea starlings. No doubt they are intended in
California to act as a check on the increase of grasshoppers and locusts.
The description which Alexander Wilson has left of the red winged
starling of the southern Atlantic States, (1810,) agrees precisely with
the habits of our blackbird proper, and its companion the dun-colored
thrush, as they combine together in immense flocks in the summer
and autumn months.

Wilson estimates that two millions of the starling will consume, in
three weeks, the enormous amount of sixteen thousand two hundred
millions of the eggs and larva of grasshoppers and other kindred
insects. The combined ravages of such a hideous host of insect vermin,
as Wilson remarks, is enough to spread famine and desolation over a
wide extent of cultivated country.

It will thus be seen that in the order of Providence the enormous
number of these birds found in California and the Rocky mountain
country is intended as a positive blessing, for all time to come, to the
people who may make it their home. When these regions become
filled up, in the course of two centuries, with a numerous population
of herdsmen, miners, and cultivators of grains and fruits, the value of
this bird will be keenly appreciated, and no doubt suitable laws will
be made for its protection. An old settler informs us that this bird
sometimes becomes a great ravager of the grain crops. In the valley
of the Pajaro they have appeared in some years in flocks of millions,
and have done great injury to the wheat and barley, when the grain
was ripening. ‘ This also is an evil,’’ but a much smaller one than
the grasshoppers.

It is suggested that collections of locusts, grasshoppers, and their
congeners be made by intelligent observers and amateurs living in dif-
ferent parts of the country. The insects should be gathered from the
eges to the grub and the perfect animal. A number of specimens,
male and female, should be procured, and this at different seasons of
the year. The specimens may be dropped into vials containing
alcohol, brandy, rum, whiskey, or any other spirit, without further
trouble, and corked up. These should be packed in a small box.

The Smithsonian Institution is making a special study of entomo-
logy, and all contributions of the kind transmitted to it at Washing-
ton from any part of this country will meet with attention and ac-
knowledgment. It is not out of the way to assert that the generosity
of the donors will redound greatly to their credit, to the cause of liberal
science, and to a more perfect knowledge of this most celebrated of all
insects.

Such a collection being concentrated at one point will wonderfully
facilitate exact analysis, and cause to be distributed throughout the
world copies of faithful engravings of the different species of the
locusta, which can nowhere now be found in the annals of science.
214 MEANS OF DESTROYING THE GRASSHOPPER.

ON THE MEANS OF DESTROYING THE GRASSHOPPER.
BY V. MOTSCHULSKY.

Translated from the Russian by Professor Wm. W. Turner.

The tendency to an equilibrium in all things is a law of nature, and
accordingly this law holds good in regard to the locusts.* Whole gene-
rations of them succumb to the climatic influences of those countries to
which, impelled by hunger, they betake themselves. Winds and storms
not unfrequently cast vast swarms of them into lakes and seas, and other
millions perish in crossing rivers. Frogs, lizards, and various birds,
especially of the starling, blackbird, lark, crow, jackdaw, stork, and
other species, devour them with great avidity. Among these is the
so-called rose-colored starling, (Gracula rosea, L.,) of a shiny black
color, with a whitish red back and breast, resembling at a distance our
black starling with the coat of amagpie. It breeds in great flocks in
southeastern Russia, especially about Orenburg, and throughout Asia
Minor, where it is known by the appellation of samarmog or semermer.
As soon as it perceives at a distance a flight of locusts, it immediately
pursues them; and in the evening, when the latter alight on the
ground, the destroying and devouring begin without loss of time, and
continue as long as any remain. According to the popular tradition
of the Asiatics, these birds are said to abound about St. James’s
Well,+ on Mount Ararat, and always to follow its water. Accordingly
in Georgia and in Asia Minor, particularly in Damascus, Aleppo, and
Mosul, speculators sell water from the above mentioned well to be
used for alluring the samarmog when the locusts make their appear-
ance. But the inhabitants of those countries now place no great faith
in this sympathetic means, but rely in preference on other modes of
destruction. In the south ot France, according to the testimony of the
learned Solier, the common European blackbird (Zurdus merula, L.)
takes the place of our rose-colored starling, and produces great devas-
tation among the Italian locusts. In Africa, and especially in the Isle
of France, there is found still a third species of staring, (Gracula gryl-
livora, Daud.,) a cinnamon-colored bird with a blackish head and
white belly, which likewise pursues and destroys the locust. In all
the places where the birds show themselves thus useful to the inhabit-
ants, to shoot and catch them is regarded as a crime. In ancient
Egypt, the ibis was counted sacred, because it destroyed quantities of
reptiles and injurious insects, especially locusts. In the south of
France one of the birds that destroys the locust is known by the name

* The term ‘‘Jocust’’ used in this article is applied to what is called in this country, the
grasshopper. The ‘‘cicada,’’ or locust of America, is an entirely different insect.

7 The well and the monastery situated near it were buried in the year 1840 by ar
earthquake.
MEANS OF DESTROYING THE GRASSHOPPER. 215

of gabian. It appears to be ourstork. In the Neapolitan dominions,
the landholders on the appearance of the locust place their chief reli-
ance on the birds. In Asia Minor and other southern regions, the
locusts make their appearance so frequently and in such vast quanti-
ties, that the birds alone cannot meet the requirements of the inhabi-
tants. In North America, the young turkeys are trained to seek out
and feed upon the larve of grasshoppers and locusts, especially when
they begin to hatch from the eggs, whereby great numbers of them
are destroyed.

Domestic fowls, as geese, ducks, turkeys, and chickens, are exceed-
ingly fond of such food. About Temeshvar, in Hungary, the locusts
were once got rid of by driving into the place where they had alighted
15,000 head of swine, which in a single night and morning devoured
them all.

Of insects, the one called the tormenting ichneumon, (Pimpla insti-
gator,) of the order Hymenoptera, deposits its eggs in the egg-cases or
tubes of the locust ; and when the larva comes forth, it sucks out the
whole fifty eggs there congregated, so that the case remains empty.
This insect, which is also beneficial to forests, by destroying the cater-
pulars that injure the trees, has a body of a black color with reddish
yellow legs. It has four wings, all of which are transparent and
veined. Antenne long. The hinder part of the body is broad, but
grows narrower towards the thorax as in the wasp. The female has
at the end of her body a long tube and a fork. With the former she
lays her eggs, and on the latter she leans when it is necessary to pierce
a place in which to layanegg. ‘The larva of this insect 13 white, par-
tially transparent, without legs, and resembles in appearance a small
worm; when full grown it is about four lines long, and in its narrow
head are the scarcely observable parts of its mouth.

Another insect of the tribe of Braconide, called the short-winged
ichneumon, (Proctotrupes brevipennis, Latr.,) has often been found by
me near the Italian locusts, on which were traces of bites upon the
sides of the thorax and abdomen. Hence I suppose that this insect
also stands in some sort of connexion with the locusts, aiding, it may
be, in the diminution of the latter. But I have not succeeded in de-
tecting it operating in this manner.

In America a species of mud-wasp attacks the young brood of the
locust, and carries them to its nest to nourish its larve there. At
the same time this strange phenomenon is observed, that the wasp
previously seizes the insect which it requires, stings it, and thus pro-
duces a paralyzed condition ; so that, without dying, it remains in a
motionless state, and as it does not putrefy in the wasp’s nest, it can
serve for food during the whole growth of the larva.

Taking into consideration the means provided by nature for restrain-
ing the multiplication of the locust within the requisite limits, we may
assume that, of the eggs laid by it about one-tenth succeed in passing
through all the transformations of their existence, and with this tenth
part alone it comes in conflict with the husbandman. But even this
is sufficiently great to furnish matter for reflection to every one who
knows by experience what an attack of the locust is. The most
216 MEANS OF DESTROYING THE GRASSHOPPER.

illustrious nations in the world have not disdained to devote their time
and means to the destruction of this pernicious insect.

In the Acropolis at Athens there stood a brazen statue of Apollo
Parnopius, who had driven the locust out of Attica; but in what way,
the historian Pausanias could not learn. In other parts of Greece
Hercules was adored for the same reason. Pliny asserts that in Rome,
on account of the devastations of the locusts, recourse was had to the
Sybilline books. In Syria and Chaldea, the locust was dreaded only
about the end of the month of June; because, fearing as was supposed
the constellation of the Pleiades, it did not venture to appear until the
latter had set.

In some parts of Italy the inhabitants hid themselves in their houses
when the locusts appeared, under the notion that they do injury only
when attention is directed to them or when an attempt is made to
drive them away. In Palestine and Mesopotamia, on the contrary,
every one went out to meet a flight of locusts when it came in sight,
and endeavored to drive them away with smoke from burning piles of
wood, with beating of sticks and rods upon the ground and in metal
kettles, with a noise of great musical instruments, shouting jerdd /
jerad!* and such like expedients. In Arabia and Egypt, they also
endeavored to frighten the locusts with cries of samarmog ! samarmog!
the name of their terrible enemy the rose-colored starling, at the same
time throwing sand towards the locusts, cursing, spitting, and work-
ing themselves into a fury, believing the inse ect to be exceedingly
timorous, selfish, cunning, and possessed of Heaven knows what other
qualities,

That the locust is timid, is a fact known long ago. Stoikovitsh
informs us that some locusts once alighted in a field of ripe grain.
The reapers immediately rushed forth, and began to sharpen their
scythes, in order to reap the millet. The locusts, frightened at the
noise, ascended the stalks, looking about to see what was the matter,
and when the reaping began, they flew away.

In Austrian Galicia, in the year 1828, on the first receipt of the
news that the locusts were moving from the direction of Odessa towards
the frontier, the inhabitants hastened to harvest the grain wherever it
was possible. As soon as the insects appeared, the people met them
with shouting, noises, and the firing of guns and pistols ; and they
actually succeeded in driving them off towards the west. An hour
afterwards, another flight appeared more considerable than the first ;
and, disregarding all the noise of the assembled villagers, they began
to alight. Hverything fell into confusion, and each one hied him to his
own field or kitchen garden, so that the noise was diminished. Never-
theless, this flight also was driven into the woods. But an hour later,
the enemy's main army made its appearance, and unsparingly seized
upon the whole country for forty miles in circumference. The insects
were so ravenous, that in a quarter of an hour each one devoured
from eight to ten ears; and so numerous, that, in the neighboring

The Arabic name of the locust.
MEANS OF DESTROYING THE GRASSHOPPER. yA

small town of Konincha, about 29,000 bushels of them were buried
in the ground without any perceptible diminutiun.*

At the time of the flight of the locusts through the passes of the
Bukovina, in the year 1780, an attempt was made to destroy them by
discharges of cannon. The flight was indeed dispersed in places ;
but, dividing into several small portions, the whole flew across the
Dniester, and some of them alighted on fields in Podolia.

The driving away of locusts on the wing with noises and cries not
only does not always answer expectation,f but through the hope of
success it renders the people careless. It is also injurious in this
respect, that if it saves one cultivator it infallibly exposes his neigh-
bor to loss. Hence people living along the coast endeavor to drive the
locusts into a sea or lake ; but even this rarely succeeds. Sometimes
after they have been driven into a wood, it has been set on fire; whereby
greater loss has been occasioned than by the insects themselves. But
in these instances the people’s dread was so great, that they seemed
to imagine that, by extirpating the locust, they would annihilate some
sort of evil spirit, hobgoblin, or destructive monster.

Confounding almost everywhere the means of destroying the footed
locust with those of defence against the attacks of the winged insect,
cultivators commonly complain of the inefficacy of the measures
adopted. For this others have been to blame as well as themselves.

In Morocco, where people have been acquainted with locusts and
subjected to their ravages at some part of the year time out of mind,
it has long been known as a peculiarity of the footed insect to keep
advancing in a certain direction. Accordingly, they endeavor to stop
its progress by intersecting its line of march with wet or dry trenches,
filled with combustible materials, into which the insects are driven.
These ditches often serve as aqueducts for inundating their rice-fields.
This mode is also known in Algiers and throughout Europe. But as
the trenches are in general laid out irregularly, and there is neither
time nor means for making them so deep and wide that the locusts
cannot leap across them, or climb or swim out, the object is rarely
attained. Usually the locusts swim across the water by thousands ;
and where fire is spread about, in consequence of the great quantity of
locusts that are swept down and driven together, it is extinguished,
and the insects crawl away.

Others drive into places occupied by the locusts troops of horses,
flocks of sheep, and herds of cattle, that they may trample down their
uninvited guests. But the locust is nimble; and even were it not so,
horses and other beasts trample upon and crush them with reluctance.
Landowners, not taking into consideration that the locusts are hardly
ever destroyed by such means, and that the men and cattle tread down
scarcely less grain than the insects would consume, constantly have
recourse to this practice. They do not reflect that, by burning up the

* This labor was entirely superfluous ; because if the locusts are killed and put into a
bag, they cannot do any further injury ; and by burying them in the ground, like infected
garments, we only lose an excellent material for enriching the soil.

tIt is known that neither such noises nor the firing of cannon, nor any other power
whatever, is able either to stop or drive away large bodies of locusts.
218 MEANS OF DESTROYING THE GRASSHOPPER,

winged insects, for instance, the evil is by no means done away with,
but is renewed in a great measure the succeeding year. The locusts,
too, are consumed with a great waste of time, labor, and combusti-
ble material ; whereas they would necessarily die in a few days, and,
by copiously manuring the fields laid waste, would in a measure com-
pensate proprietors for the damage they had sustained.

In the province of New Russia the destruction of locusts, in the
year 1855, was effected, according to the testimony of Col. Tshern-
javski, in the following manner:

In the district of Leoff a commencement was made on the 20th of
May,* by digging around the young locusts small trenches connected
with the river Pruth. Having partitioned off a space of some 5,400
acres, all the grass was mowed off, and the locusts burnt up with it.
Besides this, both morning and evening, in other places where the
locusts had accumulated in the greatest numbers, they were trampled
down in different circles by troops of horses. This was done by a
draft on the five jurisdictions or townships, consisting of about 705
laboring men per day, who relieved each other for seven days. The
Bulgarian colonies also furnished 300 Bulgarians, who worked at ex-
cavating the ditches. This activity continued for just thirty days,
till the locusts were all destroyed. In destroying the locusts in the
Leoff district the inhabitants consequently expended 22,950 days’ labor.

In the Bulgarian colonies the same means were used, only with this
difference : that, for the more convenient passage of the locusts to the
excavated trenches, cross-paths were cleared in the grass with spades
and pick-axes. On account of the deficiency of combustible materials,
more locusts were crushed here than burnt. This cost the Bulgarian
colonies 23,000 days’ labor.

In the Tatarbunar jurisdiction of Akkerman district the footed
locusts were mostly crushed out with brooms, in which were expended
20,000 days’ labor.

In the Olonesh jurisdiction of the same district about 6,000 days’
labor was spent in the same way for this purpose.

In the Bender district, in the government of Izmail, and in the
German colonies, the same measures were adopted ; but the number of
laborers is not known. Col. Tshernjavskiassumes approximately that,
in all these places, more than 80,000 men were employed, to say nothing
of the droves of horses and the various vehicles. Al this, being done
in the height of the working season, had the effect of retarding and
diminishing the sowing of spring grains and the making of hay, be-
sides causing the neglect of other farm labors and the accumulation
of arrearages to government. Furthermore, although by means of
this costly labor a considerable part of the locusts were destroyed, and
the hope of saving the remaining grain was for a while indulged in,
yet the event turned out quite otherwise. The locusts left behind in
various places, having acquired wings, spread themselves over all the
fields in such multitudes, that their former diminution, which seemed

* Evidently too late, as the locusts were already sufficiently strong and lively to escape
from the danger.
7 An exceedingly inefficacious means.
MEANS OF DESTROYING THE GRASSHOPPER, 219

so enormous while their destruction was going on, became quite
imperceptible. Each day they alighted on new places, and everywhere
produced devastation. Consequently all the labors described were only
so much money thrown away, in addition to the losses suffered directly
from the locusts, which had then destroyed not less than half of all the
grain sown.

If we assume the same ratio for the number of laborers who turned
out to destroy the locusts through the whole province of Bessarabia,
in the Kherson, and other governments to which the insect migrated,
we may boldly assert that more than a hundred thousand working
days of the best farming season were spent in destroying them without
success.* An immense amount of money was thus completely wasted.

Meanwhile the dread of the locusts was not put an end to. From
information collected in the places themselves, it appears that they
left their eggs behind them over an extent of 14,426 desjatins, or
nearly 39,000 acres. Calculating a single egg-sac for every square
sazhen, (49 square feet,) we obtain 34,622,400 sacs; and at the rate of
50 eggs to a sac, the whole will amount to 1,731,000,000 of eggs.

If a locust during its life time, 7. ¢.,in the course of 100 days, will
require, on an average, for its support twelve drachms of common grass
per day, then the consumption of these insects for the whole of their
existence will not be less than 228,000,000 poods, or 3,675,787 tons.

Estimating the value of a pood of grass at one silver kopek, (three-
fourths of a cent,) the whole loss sustained by the ravages of locusts
in Bessarabia in the year 1835 will amount to at least 2,280,000 silver
rubles, or $1,710,000. It should likewise be observed that in making
these estimates the very smallest measures are taken, and that grain
is reckoned at the same value as grass. After this, it will certainly
not appear strange that the locust should be considered a destructive
insect.

Some have thought to free their fields from locusts by watering them
with lime-water or lye. But is it practicable to carry this out to any
great extent, and will the fluid fall on the locusts’ eggs, especially
when they are covered with a coating of earth? In Slavonia, at the
close of the last century, for the purpose of destroying the footed
locust, which was already crawling about, they made use of wooden
harrows loaded with weights, which were dragged about the fields as
in harrowing grain. Some of them went obliquely, one after the other,
beginning with a large circle; each succeeding time they described
smaller circles; and in this manner, advancing in a spiral, they grad-
ually approached the centre. But as the harrow went slowly and
could follow only the prescribed course, the locusts easily leaped aside,
and the entire proceeding was almost fruitless.

It has been proposed to surround the fields with cords and rods
smeared over with tar, to which the locust has a great repugnance,
Yet it is scarcely possible to carry this plan into execution, except for
very small enclosures.

Lastly, for the purpose of driving the insects away, long ropes have

* And this, too, because, from want of a knowledge of the habits of the insect, its destruc-
tion was commenced too late and without a previous examination of the iocality.
220 MEANS OF DESTROYING THE GRASSHOPPER.

been used. These were drawn along the ground, as low as possible,
by two men having hold one of each end, who at the same time made
a noise by bawling and beating, thus endeavoring to drive them into
trenches dug across, or to a linen cloth stretched out upon the ground
and drawn up to a ridge, where they were trampled upon or crushed
with rollers, or burnt up along with the grass.

Instead of these absurd, unreasonable, and inefficacious means of
attacking the locust, we find that, in remote antiquity, the wisest pre-
cautions were adopted.

On the island of Lemnos, in Greece, it was ordained that, on the
appearance of the locusts, each inhabitant should furnish a certain
measure of them to the rural police; and among the Cyrenians it was
considered obligatory upon every one to take part, three times a year,
in the general destruction of these insects, first, in trampling down
the eggs, next in destroying the young larvae, and lastly in killing the
adult locusts. A neglect to obey this ordinance subjected the indi-
ein to general contempt, and was punished as disobedience to the

aws.

In China it has been the rule from the earliest times to rublish
yearly, in the Pekin Gazette, the edict of Bogdy-Khan, that all
the rural authorities should attend betimes to the destruction of the
locusts in order to prevent their becoming a public scourge. The
governors of provinces are consequently obliged, in all places situated
near the coast,* to assemble the people early in the spring, and dis-
tribute them in parties about the known nests of the larve of the
locust, and see that the destruction of these larvee is effected in good
season, speedily, and in the regular manner. They also distribute to
the laborers the established compensation for their work.

In the time of the Eastern Roman Empire, the whole population
was wont to hasten forth to the destruction of the locusts. Kerchiefs
and sheets were spread out upon the ground under the bushes and
trees, and upon these the insects were driven and shaken down. These
cloths were then rolled up and twisted hard. In other places they
used sacks, into which the locusts were thrown and crushed under foot.
At the close of the hunt the whole gathering was weighed, and the
Greek patriarch distributed for it a fixed payment. Such a regulation
exists to the present day in many parts of Turkey, where, on the ap-
pearance of the locusts, the local authorities, for the purpose of
destroying them, drive forth the peasants armed with brooms and
shovels, especially the so-called rayas, or Christian population, who,
however, find it difficult to obtain the established reward of four parotsh-
kas the oka.f Some years ago, in a single morning, as many as 8,000,

“Tt is the common belief of the Chinese, that the locust is engendered in the littoral
provinces, by means of the sun’s rays, from putrefying fish-roes remaining along the shore
after a haul. This absurd theory probably originated in the fact that on the sea-
shore, and about brackish waters in general, great quantities of dead locusts are heaped up,
which perish there by reason that, in leaping about the brackish soil, the insects sink into it
and the salt sticks to their legs, leaving them unable to free themselves and escape; the
next advancing tide drowns them, and casts them up on the shore. The locust is also
especially fond of laying its eggs in sandy places overgrown with reeds, where consequently
they are hatched.

7 An oka is about 2% pounds.
MEANS OF DESTROYING THE GRASSHOPPER. yaa |

and in the course of the spring as many as 80,000 okas of the young
larve were collected in this manner.

In France, when the locusts make their appearance, every one turns
out that can—men women, and children, and with whatever is at
hand. From the earliest times, by a regulation of the government, a
common price has been paid for the locusts collected and also for their
eggs. Thecollected eggs are either buried in the ground or thrown into
the rivers.* About Arles, Ste. Marie, St. Jerome, and other parts of
Provence, women and children are mostly employed in collecting the
eggs; and as the locust breeds there perpetually, its destruction is a
task constantly devolving upon the inhabitants.

In Italy likewise a price is paid for collecting locusts, and once,
in the neighborhood of Milan, the rural police received not less than
12,000 sacks of them, which had been gathered in the course of a few
days.

In Hungary, not only all the people turn out to the locust hunt,
but even the domestic animals and fowls join eagerly in the pursuit;
and for what is collected a reward is paid by the government. The
same is the case in Spain, where, in the year 1780, about Zamora,
in addition to the peasantry, the troops were employed in destroying
the locusts. They were stationed around the young locusts just
hatched, and with long brooms swept them into common heaps, around
which fires were kindled. Three thousand men were employed by
turns in this work for three weeks, and they succeeded in collecting
about 18,000 bushels of locusts, so that each man in twenty-one days
caught about six bushels, or a little over nine quarts a day.t

With us in Russia, it was decreed by an imperial ukaz of the 17th
of July, 1802, that a sum equal to about a cent a pint should be paid
for locusts’ eggs collected in Little Russia; afterwards the price was
raised to ten cents. On the appearance of the locusts in the province
of New Russia in the year 1823, the chief local government appro-
priated the sum of $75,000; but the amount of private expenditure
on this account was not ascertained.

In France, at the present time, a reward of half a franc is paid for
a kilogram of the eggs, and a quarter of a franc for the same weight
of insects.{ It is known that in the year 1613 the city of Arles ex-
pended the sum of 25,000 francs for collecting 134,000 kilograms
(about 295,000 pounds) of eggs and insects. The city of Marseilles
spent 20,000 francs in this way in the same year, 5,542 francs in 1824,
and 6,200 francs in 1825. In the year 1832, in Ste. Marie alone, 61
laborers collected 1,979 kilograms of locusts’ eggs ; and in 1833 they
gathered 3,908 kilograms; so that one person collected not over 63
kilograms in the course of three months.§

* A very bad practice, inasmuch as the egg-sacs which are cast into the water may be
thrown up again on the bank, and, under favorable circumstances, may be hatched.

tA very small quantity, in consequence of undertaking the work too late, namely, when the
locusts had already begun to crawl about

t As the locust is comparatively light, the price for collecting them in France ’is hardly less
than with us.

§ Or scarcely two-thirds of a kilogram per day; which at least shows how defective were
the arrangements for the destruction of the insects, and how inefficient was the mode of col-
lecting.
wigan MEANS OF DESTROYING THE GRASSHOPPER.

In order to increase the amount collected and to facilitate the opera-
tion, various auxiliary devices have been contrived and put into
practice.

It is the custom with us in Southern Russia to gather both the footed
and the winged locusts at night with the aid of a sieve, and to throw
them into sacks, where they are crushed by trampling upon them or
by pounding them with beetles.

In the south of France they use for this purpose a breadth of cloth,

ar) which is held at the corners so as to
i form an inclined plane. By running
Sy the cloth rapidly along the grass or
“if grain, the locusts are made to jump

%

\ , ie “tl or fall upon the cloth, from which

RE Ee AK they are shaken off into sacks, and

| | then crushed. In this manner, ac-

2 aa Vt cording to Solier, from four to six

ass kilograms of locusts may be cap-
tured in a day.

In July, 1826, one Arnold Thompson, of New Hampshire, succeeded
in catching, in a single evening, between the hours of eight and
twelve, five bushels and three pecks of locusts. The. contrivance
used by him was the following: Having attached together two sheets,
he formed of them a sort of bag, which was fastened to a cross -pole,
to permit the locusts to enter into the bag, and so that two men could
take hold of the two ends of the pole and draw it rapidly along the

Fig. 2. grain. From these two ends also
| two braces extended to the back
knot of the sack, in order that the
hinder end of the apparatus might
be held as high as possible above
the ground, so as not to break
down the grain with the knot.
With this apparatus the fields
were swept over in the evening,
— whenthe locusts are perched quietly
y upon the grain, in such manner
that the striking of the ears
against the edge of the sheet
shook off the locusts into the bag.
Bulging out with the pressure of
the air, it would not suffer the
insects to escape, ie all passed on towards the knot. After moving
the drag rapidly a dozen rods, the braces were taken out, and the
sheets doubled over; the knot was then put into a common sack,
and untied, and the locusts poured out. The emptied bag was again
tied up, and the catching proceeded. The locusts in the sack were
destroyed by plunging it into boiling water.

In the year 1824 we employed in the Crimea a still more convenient

apparatus. To the mouth of a sack three feet and a half in length

MEANS OF DESTROYING THE GRASSHOPPER. 223

was attached a hoop of an elliptical shape. To the two opposite edges
of the hoop, at the place of the
greatest curve, cords were fast-
ened. Grown personsorchildren,
by taking hold of the cords, drag-
ged the sack along as rapidly
as possible, almost touching the
ground. The locusts that fell
in were trampled on with the
feet. The dead insects were then
thrown out and the catching
recommenced.

A still better apparatus, em-
ployed with great success in
the south of France, consists
of a sack growing narrower
towards the bottom and fas-
tened to a pole in the manner {
employed by entomologists. /
According to Solier, an ordi-§
nary boy with this contri-}
vance willcatch not less than \
50 kilograms, which is at
least ten times as much as by
any of the preceding meth-
ods.* This hunt for the wingless locusts is undertaken in May or June.

The American writer, Harris, recommends that all the grass and
grain should be mowed in those months in which the young locusts
make their appearance, thus destroying them by hunger; inasmuch
as at that time they are feeble and unable to migrate far in search of food.
Besides, they lose the power of sheltering themselves from the weather,
and soon perish from cold and storms.

All the methods described are of incontestable utility, and have
often proved so in practice. But unfortunately they are not always
carried out with the necessary exactness, at the proper time, and
under the circumstances indicated. By reason of the carelessness
which seems inherent in so many people, they undertake the destruc-
tion of the locusts when they are already, so to speak, at the husband-
man’s door. No one observes or wishes to observe the place where
the locusts lay their eggs in the spring, or the time of their hatching,
because then they do no injury. They do not know or care to know
how the insects are developed, when they begin their march, or when
their flight takes place. Having thus allowed the locusts quietly to
breed and develop, they employ too late and without discrimination
the above described means, which accordingly prove inefficacious.

In the Appendix to Vol. XIII of the Collection of the Civil Laws
of Russia, very useful rules and precepts are given for the destruction
of locusts; but few know how to apply them.

* All these methods are efficacious, if skillful arrangements are made for them; but the
places in which this mode of capture is practised are more or less trampled down by the
laborers,
224 MEANS OF DESTROYING THE GRASSHOPPER.

For the destruction of the locusts in Bessarabia, in the year 1836,
the following measures were adopted by Col. Tshernjavski, on the
principle that the less the locusts have advanced in their growth, the
aesier they can be destroyed:

In the first days when the rye began to shoot into ear, 150 persons,

Rie both grown people and children, were
despatched into the fields belonging
to the villages of Gantshur end Po-
7 soya, of the Bender district. ‘The
children were furnished with com-.
mon wooden beaters, shaped like those
used by washerwomen, having a blade
two feet long, five inches wide, and
seven-eighths of an inch thick, with a
curved handle ten inches long, and
so contrived as to strike with the flat side upon the ground or the
locusts. The adults had a sort of shovel with a much longer handle,
three feet in length, so as to be grasped with both hands.
Fig. 6. They found the locusts, as
yet of very small size, in
swarms in the places where
they were hatched. The la-
borers provided with beaters
and shovels were divided,
under the direction of their
superintendent, into parties
of twenty, thirty, or forty in-
dividuals; and having taken
= up their positions on the bor-
ders of the space occupied by the locusts, they proceeded from the
various sides to crush them out, approaching gradually towards the
centre, where they thickly accumulated. As the small locusts do not
quit their birth-place, the laborers went three times over the same
locality. Accordingly, after giving time for those which had escaped
Fig. 7. to collect into masses, ten
J or fifteen laborers destroyed
in the enclosed space the en-
tire brood without leaving
aremnant. In the course of
Jptwo weeks, with the above
‘a mentioned number of 150
laborers, the whole of the
locusts were everywhere de-
stroyed.

In the district of Olanesh,
in the year 1837, forty per-
sons were employed in the
same way; and in the course
Se of five days, viz: from the
Ist to the 5th of June, the whole brood of locusts were extirpated for
the space of nearly three-quarters of a mile, and over seven bushels

poeta 0
MEANS OF DESTROYING THE GRASSHOPPER, 225

of insects were collected. In a single hour six youths crushed more
than a troop of 200 horses could have done; which could not have
been accomplished by three hundred men with brooms after the
locusts had attained their growth. A bushel of these small locusts
contained so large a number of them, that three weeks later they
would have made over a hundred bushels. And for this there was
required neither carts and teams, nor troops of horses, nor bush-
beaters. Accordingly, for the destruction of the locusts in the Olanesh
district in the year 1837, there were expended 200 days of labor, that
is to say, twenty times less than in the year 1835; and the success was
complete, for the inhabitants of these localities affirm that of the
locusts of 1837 not one reached the winged state.

From what precedes we are led to the following general conclusions :

1. It is necessary to observe in the autumn,* especially after a hot
summer, where the locusts have deposited their eggs, and to accustom
persons appointed for the purpose so to do, especially youths and young
children, who else would idly run about the fields and meadows.

2. As soon as the labors of tillage will permit, people should be
sent out in the fall to collect the locusts’ eggs, provided with sharp
sticks or hoes for turning up the ground. If the eggs are deposited
in the fields or in sandy places where ploughs and harrows can pass,
these latter should be made use of. The egg-tubes of the locusts
should be poured into sacks, and then measured or weighed, and a
suitable reward paid for the amount collected, so as to stimulate the
work-people, and especially.the children, to busy themselves in this
useful labor.

3. All the places where locusts’ eggs are found should be ploughed
over, if possible, two or three times very late in the antumn, selecting
for this purpose rainy and dull days, because the eggs thus turned up
and exposed are destroyed by the wet or by the birds of passage which
then make their appearance. Special attention should also be given
to bare spots in the fields, where not unfrequently great quantities of
egg-tubes remain unobserved. |

4, If, after a hot summer, the fall and winter are equable, it will
be necessary to repeat in the spring the search for the brood hatched
from the eggs that have survived the winter; because this sort of
weather is uncommonly favorable to the complete and uninterrupted
development of the insect.

5. Since the Italian locust is hatched from the egg much earlier
than the Asiatic or migratory insect,f as soon as the rivers break up
intelligent persons should be sent every year without fail to examine
all the places where the locusts usually come forth, so as not to lose
the opportunity for destroying them which presents itself when they
sit together in swarms. For the discovery of every such swarm of
insects that have not yet begun to crawl about a suitable reward in
money should be offered.

6. If the locusts are hatched and their swarms discovered, the boys

* Beginning in the month of August.

{ All the methods of extirpatiun here described are applicable to the Asiatic as well as
to the Italian locust; with this difference only, that they must be applied at the time
when each species makes its appearance.
226 MEANS OF DESTROYING THE GRASSHOPPER.

and girls of the village shouid be immediately sent out under the
superintendence of some grown persons, the former provided with the
beaters represented in fig. 5, and the latter with the crushing shovels
in fig. 6, and with sacks or bags for holding the dead insects. The
crushing shovels may also have a straight handle made movable in a
vertical plane, it being fastened to the blade by means of a piece of
leather, which is nailed on to the blade and is bound to the lower end
of the handle by acord. The blade should be so fastened to the
handle, that when one takes hold of the latter with both hands, the
whole lower surface of the blade can readily be brought flat down
upon the ground.

These shovels may be made in the shape of fly-flaps, such as were
used in former times for killing flies on the walls of apartments, which
consisted of a handle, to the end of which was nailed a small piece of
pretty stout leather. In our shovels the leather of the fly-flaps is
replaced by a board or blade. Such an implement has this advantage,
that the handle, in consequence of its mobility, can be bent vertically,
and the man standing over the blade can crush the young locusts
with his whole weight. It will not be difficult for people sent out in
this way to crush out the whole brood of locusts without leaving any
behind, and that in a short time.

7. A few days afterwards people should be despatched again to the
places where the locusts were, in order to ascertain whether any of the
brood remain uncrushed; and if they have actually escaped destruction
and have begun to crawl about, or have set out on their march, it
will be necessary to drive out to such places the hogs and domestic
fowls, as turkeys, geese, ducks, chickens, &c. Children, also, with
bags attached to a hoop and fixed to the end of a staff, as represented
in fig. 4, can be sent to catch the locusts by sweeping the bags over
the grass and grain as a mower swings his scythe. This, however,
should not always be done in the same direction ; they should be in-
structed, wherever the locusts are found in the greatest numbers, to
sweep alternately to the right and left. Having made about ten
sweeps, let them turn the ring over, so as to close the bag and prevent

Fig. 8. the locusts that have fallen into
it from escaping. These are to
», be emptied into larger bags or
“ sacks, and then crushed by
= pounding with pestles, as shown
in fig. 8. The children should
be rewarded by a payment in
money for a successful catch.
By repeating this sort of hunt
after the footed locusts one, two,
or more days, according to their
growth, number, and greedi-
ness, the grass trodden down by
the children has time to recover,
and in a short time the insects
= are all caught, notwithstanding
their almost infinite numbers. It should also be observed that breed-

MEANS OF DESTROYING THE GRASSHOPPER. Zee

ing large quantities of domestic fowls, and especially training them
betimes to feed on young locusts in the places where the latter are
often found, is exceedingly advantageous to the husbandman. The
training of goslings, chickens, and young turkeys to feed on young
locusts is to be effected not at once, but gradually, by the poultry-
keeper, who should present at first one or two locusts in the crumbled
food of the young fowl, and increase the quantity by degrees by the
addition of living as well as dead insects. The breeding of large
numbers of Guinea-fowl, (Numida meleagris,) which multiply rapidly
in the steppe cantons of the Caucasus, would have the effect of di-
minishing the swarms of locusts; since this bird is all its life constantly
running to and fro, and would vigorously pursue the insects.

8. All the locusts which are thus collected and killed or crushed
can be profitably employed in manuring flower or kitchen gardens and
fields; for after they are crushed they cannot breed or do any further
injury, and they constitute an excellent fertilizer.

9. If the locusts have already nearly reached their full growth, and
the inhabitants and proprietors in their vicinity have not taken notice
of the fact, it will be necessary to watch them with double vigilance,
in order to surprise them in the act of assuming the winged form, at
which time they are uncommonly feeble and sluggish. It will then
be found very advantageous to drive out troops of horses, all the
horned cattle, and the swine, into the places where these tender and
pale-colored insects are to be found, for the purpose of trampling them
down.

10. If the insects should fly to a distance, and settle anywhere in &
thick mass, it would be well Fig. 9.
tosendout peopletothespot
in the evening with heavy 4
rollers, made of timber, fixed
on iron or wooden axles and
drawn by horses or oxen.
They should be made suf-_ |
ficiently heavy, of logs nine ,.A\_
or ten inches in diameter, ™
and about seven feet long. ——SSS— oe
The locusts, wearied with flying about, and having eaten their fill by
the evening, sit at night, and especially towards morning till sunrise,
quietly and closely; so that the roller when drawn among them
crushes multitudes, and thus one’s neighbors’ fields, if not one’s own,
are preserved, By not permitting the locusts to lay their eggs, the
proprietor can indulge the hope that in the following year his crops
will escape. I regard the providing of these rollers in districts in-
fested by the locusts as a public necessity, as in some cases they can
also be usefully employed against the so called earth-worm.

11. Besides the rollers, the use of bags fixed on hoops, as in fig. 4
or 3, will be found advantageous, according to whether the grass and
grains are to be preserved or whether they may be trodden down, which
again will depend upon their degree of ripeness. The hunt should
be commenced at sunrise and continued until the morning dew is dried
up, after which the locusts become too brisk in their movements.

228 MEANS OF DESTROYING THE GRASSHOPPER.

12. It is necessary to exercise caution in driving out these insects
from grass or tilled fields when the grain is already green but not
ripe; because such places, even after being visited by the locusts, are
sometimes able to recover and to furnish some sort of acrop. But
when they pass over fields of corn after the grain is more or less
ripened, there is no means of saving it.

13. No one can be prohibited from driving away the locusts from
his field; but it should no less be the duty of the elders of the villages
to see that the expulsion of the insects is performed by the united
efforts of the community, and not to the injury of any one proprietor.
But to observe this is very difficult, and the scaring away of the insects
is only permissible where there are large uncultivated wastes or forests,
lakes or seas, to which the swarms of locusts can be driven.

14. As we have useful institutions for securing against losses from
fire, from hail, from shipwreck, and the like, it might not be without
advantage to have a means of insurance against locusts, in the shape
of municipal moneyed corporations and banking institutions, established
in the principal cities of those portions of Russia which are subjected
to their ravages. Hach inhabitant of the region indicated might make
a very small annual payment, and in this manner a capital would be
accumulated sufficient to indemnify those who have suffered loss, and
to recompense such as have distinguished themselves in collecting and
destroying this pernicious insect. Supposing, for example, that the
region of southern Russia which is subjected to the visits of the locusts
has twenty millions of inhabitants, and that each paid into the trea-
sury of the insurance office only one cent a year; this, for the first year,
would give $200,000, and in ten years, together with the interest,
would amount to over three million dollars. The payment to sufferers
by way of indemnification should be in proportion to the frequency
with which the locusts made their appearance in a place, and to the
amount of damage occasioned by them.

15. It may therefore be said, in conclusion, that the most effective
and at the same time the easiest mode of opposing the development of
the locusts is the crushing out of the young broods when collected in
swarms in the place where they were hatched. Consequently the most
important thing is to know the nesting-place of these destructive
pests. In order to discover them and to point out the course to be
pursued by the inhabitants of the villages in their vicinity, it might
‘be well, in the first place, to send skillful persons to these localities to
make the necessary researches ; and these, with the assistance of the
local elders, might seek out the places where the insects abound, and
establish the necessary regulations for their destruction.
VEGETABLE COLONIZATION. 229

VEGETABLE COLONIZATION OF THE BRITISE ISLES, OF
SHETLAND, FAROE AND ICELAND.

BY CH. MARTINS.

[Translated for the Smithsonian Report from the ‘Archives des Sciences Physiques et Naturelless.’’
Geneva, June, 1848. |

Whether each plant be a native of the place where it is actually
reproduced, or whether_there have existed centres of creation from
which vegetables have been progressively distributed over the surface
of the earth, are questions which seem likely to divide, for some time
to come, the opinions of naturalists. But while those who suppose
the plant to have originated in the locality where we find it treat the
problem somewhat vaguely, those, on the contrary, who admit the
fact of vast vegetable migrations, similar to those of the races of man-
kind, and who apply to these questions the ideas furnished by geology
respecting the past, and by terrestrial physics and meteorology re-
specting the present condition of the globe, are not content to see in
the geographic distribution of species a fact without premises and
without consequences. They seek to discern therein the trace of the
later revolutions of our planet, and the action of those numerous and
varied forces which still continue to impede or promote the dissemina-
tion of plants. They strive to trace upon the map the march of those
vegetable hosts which have overrun certain countries, leaving others
to retain their primitive flora. Such studies date from yesterday;
but reflective minds will scarcely fail to presage their importance.
In effect, the creation of existing vegetables has followed close upon
the emergence of continents and islands, being in some sort the last
act of the geologic history of our globe. Still later, man makes his
appearance and tradition commences.

Botanists have long remarked that certain islands have a flora
peculiar to themselves, while others afford no plant which does not
equally appear on the nearest continent. The British islands are of
this class ; but we shall not limit our consideration to England, Scot-
land and Ireland, we shall attempt to follow the vegetable migration
through that archipelago of larger and smaller islands, which, under
the names of Orkneys, Shetland, Faroe, and Iceland, form the only
chain which connects middle Europe with northern America.

Turning our attention first to the botanical geography of the British
isles, we have for our guide the ingenious labors of Mr. Hewett Wat-
son* and Mr. Kdward Forbes.+ Both have carefully explored their

= Remarks on the geographical distribution of British plants in connexion with latitude, elevation,
and climate, 1 vol., 8vo., 1835 ; and Cybele Britannica, vol. 1, 1847.

+ On the connexion between the distribution of the existing fauna and flora of the
British isles and the geological changes which have affected their area, especially during
the epoch of the northern drift.—(JMemoirs of the geological survey of Great Britain, vol. 1,
p. 336,
230 VEGETABLE COLONIZATION.

country ; the former as a botanist, the latter as a zoologist and geolo-
gist. One important, indeed capital, fact gives the result at which
they have arrived, namely, that the British isles present not a single
plant exclusively their own, and which, with one sole exception, is
not found likewise in continental Europe. The exception is the
unique species Hriocaulon septangulare, a native of North America,
which has been cast on the shores of the Hebrides. The British isles,
then, cannot be considered a centre of vegetation, since the plants which
inhabit them exist more abundantly on the European continent. But
all have not come from the same regions, and we shall be able to dis-
tinguish with Messrs. Watson and Iorbes a series of vegetable migra-
tions which have colonized in succession the islands referred to.

Asturian type.—Thanks to the mildness of its winters, Ireland has
preserved for us, so to say, the remains of a peninsular flora. We
find growing wild in the southwest of this island a dozen plants,
natives of the Asturias, which have maintained themselves in Ireland
like the last representatives of a colony whose point of departure is to
be found in the north of Spain. Limited to the western coast, these
plants do not exist in the eastern provinces of the island. Farther
on we shall seek with Mr. Forbes to discriminate the probable causes
of that migration, the most ancient ef all, since it supposes a temper-
ature and a distribution of lands and seas very different from those
which exist at present.

Armorican type.—The southwest of England and southeast of Ire-
land present a vegetation whose analogy, with that of Brittany and
Normandy, has long attracted the notice of botanists. Many southern
species are to be met with along the western coasts of France, up to
the point where the steadily increasing rigor of the climate arrests
their migration towards the north. A certain number of these plants
find, in the peninsula of which Cherbourg occupies the extremity, so
mild a winter temperature that they maintain their ground in spite
of the heat of the summers. These have afterwards spread themselves
in the southwest of England, along the coasts of Devonshire and
Cornwall, whence they have gained the opposite shores of Ireland and
have become naturalized in the counties of Cork and Waterford. It
was thus that the Normans formerly passed from the same region,
under the conduct of William the Conqueror, to invade England.
But the vegetable occupation has never penetrated beyond the south of
the island, and the rigors of the climate which could not arrest the
progress of the men have opposed an insuperable barrier to the inva-
sion of the plants.

Boreal type.—The mountains of Scotland, Cumberland, and Wales
offer to the botanist a vegetation entirely special, and different in all
points from that of the plains of England. Analogous to the vegeta-
tion of the Swiss Alps, this flora presents a still more striking resem-
blance to that of the arctic countries, such as Lapland, Iceland, and
Greenland. The greater part of the plants which subsist on the sum-
mits of the high mountains of Scotland vegetate at the level of the
sea in the islands of the Frozen ocean; but there are many of them
which have never been recognized in the Alps of Switzerland. By
far the greatest number, however, of these vegetables exist at the
VEGETABLE COLONIZATION. 231

same time on the shores of the polar countries and on the snow-
crowned summits of the Alps of central Europe.

Germanic type.—It is this which predominates in England, and
constitutes, as we may say, the basis of its vegetation. Natives of
the north of France and of Germany, these plants have occupied the
greater part of England, Scotland, and Ireland, as heretofore the
Saxons invaded the territories of the Angles in order to supplant them.
If it be true that the aboriginal owners of the country disappeared
after the invasion, it is thus, perhaps, that the plants of Germany
have stifled those which formed the primitive vegetation of these
islands. In the course of ages the Germanic type has become so pre-
dominant that most English botanists designate it by the name of the
British type. Nevertheless, a certain number of plants pertaining to
this type have never traversed the strait which separates England
from Ireland, while the rest of the migration transcended this ob-
stacle. Species common on the English coasts of St. George’s channel
are unknown on the opposite shores of Ireland. The investigations
of the geologist have confirmed in every respect the inductions de-
rived from botany. Certain animals which occur indiscriminately in
Germany are in the British islands emparked, as it were, and restricted
to the region where the Germanic flora exclusively prevails. Thus
the hare, the squirrel, the dormouse, the marten, the mole, are lim-
ited to England, and do not appear in Ireland. In the latter island
five species alone represent the class of reptiles, while eleven occur
in England, and twenty-two in Belgium, the point of departure for
the Germanic migration. The living molluscs, such as the different
species of Helix and Clausilia, are distributed in like manner.

The maritime fauna and flora obey all the laws which control the
distribution of terrestrial vegetables and animals. Certain kinds of
marine alge proper to southern climates occur only on the western
coasts of England, where also certain species of fish are caught, which
never pass beyond the straits of Dover and St. George’s channel.
These are the neptunian representatives of the Asturian and Armorican
types. In like manner the herring, the cod, the pollack, abound only
in the North sea, along the eastern coast, where the Germanic type is
predominant. Finally, the great Cetacea, such as whales, narwals,
and dolphins of the Arctic seas, seem even in the depths of the ocean
to respect the ideal limit which separates the boreal vegetation of
Scotland and of England from the more southerly floras of Cornwall
and the south of Ireland.

Till the present time naturalists had seen in this distribution of
organized beings, with reference to certain definite regions, but a
natural consequence of the all-powerful influences of climate and of
soil. Ifsome plants of the Asturias maintain themselves in the south
of Ireland, it was thought a sufficient explanation that they find there
the temperate winters of the Iberian peninsula, while the moderate
heat of the Irish summer suffices for the ripening of their seed. For
a like reason the plants of Brittany and Normandy have established
themselves in Cornwall and Devonshire, where a climate prevails
analogous to that of their own country. The robust growths of Ger-
many had found in the middle region of England, in the south of
232 VEGETABLE COLONIZATION.

Scotland, and the north of Ireland conditions of existence analogous
to those of the north of Germany and of France, and hence their
multiplication and diffusion through the larger portion of the British
islands. Lastly, the crags, the heathy acclivities, the peat-mosses
and moors of Scotland, afforded to Arctic plants the diversified sta-
tions, the summers without excess of heat, the long winter slumbers,
and the protecting snows of polar regions.

Mr. Edward Forbes could not content himself with these explana-
tions; he discerned a deeper meaning in the existence of those foreign
types which constitute the fauna and flora of the British islands. To
him they seemed to present vestiges of an order of things which has
passed away; proofs of the existence of climates warmer or colder
than those now prevailing ; signs of a configuration of land and sea
whose traces lie hidden in the depths of ocean. We may be per-
mitted to follow him in his ingenious and learned researches. Pene-
trating first into this new path, he may, he must have often gone
astray. But with a powerful grasp he re-unites the past and present
of our globe, he summons every realm of nature to the support of his
ideas, and even though he may be mistaken, he will not the less
have contributed to the progress of the natural sciences by com-
mencing the overthrow of that imaginary barrier which scientific
inquirers as well as tradition have reared between the actual state
and the geologic epochs of our planet.

The dozen plants from the Asturias, which inhabit the southwest
of Ireland, are in the eyes of Mr. Forbes the remains of the most
ancient vegetable colony of the British isles. Of all the plants they
now sustain none are more completely strangers to the soil which
bears them. The remoteness of the continental point of departure,
the vast gulf which separates the little colony from its mother coun-
try, the difference of climates, the small number of surviving species,
all announce an ancient origin and an order of things entirely differ-
ent from that now existing. Mr. Forbes, ascending through the
series of geologic formations, transports us to an epoch when the last
tertiary deposits were formed at the bottom of a sea which covered a
great part of the south of Europe and the north of Africa. The ex-
istence of that sea is proved by the numerous fossil shells of identical
species which are found ata multitude of points from the isles of
Greece to the southern districts of France. When these newly formed
lands lifted themselves above the sea they formed a vast continent,
embracing Spain, Ireland, a part of the north of Africa, the Azores,
and the Canaries.

The upheaving of the bottom of that sea is not a gratuitous hypo-
thesis, since Mr. Forbes has found these same shells in the Taurus, at
the height of 6,000 feet above the level of the Mediterranean. Yet more:
the vast bank of floating alge which extends in a half circle beyond
the Azores from the fifteenth degree to the forty-fifth degree of lati-
tude, tetraces for us, perhaps, the outline of that lost continent. Its
shores have disappeared beneath the sea, but the cincture of marine
plants which girdled it still floats on the surface of the waters.*

** This bank is composed of a species of alge, the Sargassum bacciferum, which appears to
be only a floating variety of the Sargassum vulgare, which is found attached to submarine
rocks bordering the coasts of Europe.
VEGETABLE COLONIZATION. 233

According to Mr. Forbes, the appearance of Armorican plants in
Devonshire, Cornwall, and the southeast of Ireland, connects itself
with the existence of this vanished continent. The southern physi-
ognomy of these vegetables strikes him as indicating a milder climate
than now exists; yet nothing forbids our considering this migration
as cotemporaneous with the Germanic inroad, if we refer it to the
period when France and England were not yet separated.

The immersion of this great continent was followed by a very dis-
similar era, during which the temperature of the air was lower than
at present. It was during this period, according to Mr. Forbes, that
the migration of Arctic plants, which still cling to the mountains of
Scotland and England, took place, The proofs of a glacial era, imme-
diately preceding our own, abound throughout the north of Europe.
I shall not speak here of the numerous traces of ancient glaciers,
observable in the mountains of England and Ireland, but restrict
myself to arguments drawn from the animal kingdom.*

The larger part of the British Islands is covered with a moveable
deposit formed of transported materials, which the English geologists
have designated by the name of drift. In two-thirds of England and
Ireland lying towards the north, and throughout Scotland, this drift
contains the remains of animals which are no longer found alive
except in the depths of the Frozen ocean, on the coasts of Iceland and
Greenland. Their enumeration would detain us too long. I shall
content myself with instancing the right whale, the cachelot, (sperm
whale,t+) the baleenoptera, the narwal, a fish of the seas of Green-
land, and a large number of shells which are still seen existing in
those latitudes. During this period, then, England was in part
covered by waters whose temperature was similar to that of the frozen
ocean. Not only the plains, but also the lower parts of the moun-
tains, formed the bed or the borders of that ocean ; for in Wales beds
of gravel, sand, and shells, are found at an elevation of 1,476 feet
above the level of the sea. At that epoch England and Scotland,
instead of a continuous territory, presented but a group of large and
small islands. The mountains of Scotland, Cumberland, and Wales,
alone raised themselves above the waves. <A climate analogous to that
of Iceland prevailed in this archipelago ; the summits of the mountains
were covered with eternal snows like that of Hecla, and numerous
glaciers descended along the valleys to the borders of the sea. The
plants of Greenland, Iceland, and Norway, borne by the currents or
transported by the floating ice, drifted on these islands, where they
met with a climate but little different from that of their native home.
This transportation of plants by drifting ice is no gratuitous hypo-
thesis. Navigators of the polar seas have often encountered ice fields
loaded with an enormous mass of mingled sand and gravel, on which
plants were vegetating, as on the median moraines of the glaciers of
the Alps, and which being stranded on some distant coast would there
deposit the plants which afterwards spread themselves in the country.

These Arctic vegetables, Mr. Forbes tells us, have not disappeared

% See, on this subject, ‘‘ Researches on the glacier period and the ancient extension of the
glaciers of Mont Blanc from the Alps to the Jura.—(Revue des deux Mondes, tome XVI,
p- 919. March, 1847.)

+ This species is not confined to the northern seas.—T'ranslator.
234 VEGETABLE COLONIZATION.

from England. They still exist in the mountains of Cumberland,
Wales, and, above all, of Scotland, where they find a climate analo-
gous to that of their native regions.

At the end of the glacier period the British isles began to rise
slowly from the bosom of the waves. Hverywhere we observe on their
acclivities, terraces or lines of ancient coast indicative of intervals of
repose which have interrupted this gradual elevation. To comprehend
properly this phenomenon, it is necessary to figure to one’s self, nota
simple upheaval of the shores, the submarine tracts remaining im-
moveable, but a simultaneous movement of both, rising proportionally
above their ancient level. This upheaval it is which has modelled
the existing outline of the British isles and determined the configura-
tion and the depth of the surrounding seas. The depressions bave
become less profound and the higher grounds have emerged. Hence
a change in the maritime fauna. The sea being warmer, its shores
have been occupied by the species which now people them. But the
change of temperature being much less sensible at great depths, the
animals of the glacier period have been able to subsist in that situa-
tion. Thus, says Mr. Forbes, in depths where the sounding-line
announces from 525 to 656 feet, the dredge brings up the molluscs of
the Arctic seas, and even a large number of shells which exist in a
fossil state in the drift or deposit of the glacier period which covers
the northern portion of the British isles. From this assemblage of
facts Mr. Forbes concluded that the profounder seas of Britain conceal
populations which have existed there since the glacier era, in like
manner with the plants which crown the summits of the Scottish
Alps.

During the whole of those two geological eras which we have just
been considering England, was united with France. The British
channel and straits of Dover did not exist. It is an admitted fact in
science, concerning which all geologists are agreed, that the separation
of England from the continent is an event comparatively modern and
perhaps cotemporaneous with the human race. Messrs. Constant
Prevost and d’ Archiac have perfectly demonstrated it; the former by
pointing out the correspondence of the strata of chalk in both banks
of the channel, the second by demonstrating the identity of the con-
geries of rolled pebbles which overlies the chalk. ‘This latter mass,
similar to that of our present rivers and streams, forms the most
superficial of the deposits, which was consequently formed after all the
rest. And as itis the same on both sides of the channel this layer
must have been deposited by the same current when the two countries
were still united. The separation took place later, occasioned, it
would seem, by the removal of the beds of chalk, which on either side
dip landwards and have an elevation towards the sea.

At the dawn of the present era England, then, formed a peninsula
similar to that of Denmark. The climate and the surface of the
country were what they now are, and the plants of France and Ger-
many soon occupied the lately emerged lands. The hardy growths
of northern Europe possessed themselves of the greater part. Forests
as dense as those of Germany then covered the hills of England.
Stagnant waters collected in hollow places, and the mosses and fens
VEGETABLE COLONIZATION. 235

which have replaced them still present to our view the bones and
horns of gigantic deer and the buried remains of those primeval
forests. Lost species of the ox, the bear, the wolf, the fox, were the
sole inhabitants of these solitudes. The task of nature was finished ;
that of man was to commence. On his appearance the forests fall
beneath the axe, the stagnant waters are drained with extended
culture, the animals disappear and the human population increases ;
the features of nature are transformed under the incessant progress of
civilization. This transformation, the triumph of human energies, is
as complete and profound as that wrought during the geologic cycle
when the present era succeeded to the glacier period.

In summing up the ideas of Messrs. Watson and Forbes respecting
the origin of the flora and fauna of the British archipelago, we may
say with them, that these islands have been colonized by several suc-
cessive acquisitions from continental Europe from the period of the
mean tertiary deposits to our own era. When a vast continent
stretched from the Mediterranean regions to the British isles, the
plants of the Asturias and of Armorica peopled the south of England
and Ireland. To that period succeeded the glacier epoch, during
which the land was immerged to the height of about fifteen hundred
feet. This was the epoch of the migration of those Arctic plants which
still inhabit the summits of the Scottish mountains. When the land
emerged anew England was united to France, and the temperature
was what we now find it. At this time the great Germanic incursion
took place, displacing, to a great extent, all the others, and leaving
but scattered vestiges of their existence. Thus, while the Asturian
plants are reduced to a few species confined to the southwest of Ireland,
the robust progeny of the north finish their conquest, and possess
themselves of the soil which is destined at a still later date to become
the heritage of a race of human invaders issuing from the same
regions. The colonization completed, England is separated from the
continent, and this last geological incident, so insignificant in com-
parison with those that preceded it, has exercised an immense influ-
ence on the destinies of the world. Less isolated, England had been
less distinctively characterized; her stalwart races might, perhaps,
have been confounded with one of the great continental nations from
which they sprung.

While Messrs. Watson and Forbes were pointing out the continental
origin of the plants and animals of England, I was engaged in study-
ing the vegetable colonization of Shetland, Faroe, and Iceland. These
islands form, so to speak, a continuous chain, stretching from the
northern extremity of Scotland to the eastern coast of Greenland. I
had visited Faroe in 1839, and was struck with the character of its
vegetation. Though lost, as it were, in the midst of the Northern
ocean, its flora appeared composed of very familiar plants, most of
them indigenous to the plains of middle Kurope; others inhabitants
of the Swiss Alps; some of Scotland and of Greenland. Hxtending
my researches to Shetland and Iceland, I found that these islands
also have no vegetation peculiar to themselves, but that all their
plants are natives of the continent. The same result had been reached
by Mr. Watson in his researches into the Britannic flora. Here a
236 VEGETABLE COLONIZATION.

new problem presented itself: Did these vegetable colonies come from
Europe or America? A great number of plants being common to
both the Old and New World, the question presented some difficulties.
I found, however, more than a hundred species exclusively European;
all the others were common to Hurope and America. Europe, then,
must have had the greater share in the colonization of these archipe-
lagoes; a great vegetable migration had advanced across England and
Scotland, the Orkney, Shetland, and Faroe islands, as far as Iceland.
Some species had come directly from the coasts of Norway. But, in
the mean time, inan opposite direction, the Arctic plants (natives of
Greenland) had propagated themselves across Iceland, Faroe, and
Shetland, to the mountains of Scotland, where they found a second
home. This double migration is evident from the proportional number
of the different plants ; for if we calculate that of exclusively European
plants which enter into the flora of Shetland, we find it to be a fourth,
that of Faroe but a seventh, and, finally, that of Iceland but a tenth.
Thus, as we leave Europe behind us, the number of plants of its
peculiar growth proportionably diminishes; but, at the same time,
that of the plants of Greenland origin increases in very nearly an
inverse ratio.

Though entirely agreeing with Mr. Forbes as to the fact of the
colonization of the isles of the northern Atlantic, I hesitate before
adopting his bold and novel hypotheses. Without interrogating the
remote past, I find in the action of existing causes a plausible explana-
tion of the transportation of seeds from a continent to the nearest
islands, and from one island to another, from England as far as Ice-
land.

A great current (the gulf stream) takes its source in the Gulf of
Mexico, follows the coast of America as high as Newfoundland, and
then traversing the Atlantic bathes the western shores of Scotland.
It is this which conveys thither the seeds of Mexico, still retaining
their germinative faculty; it is this which has cast on the shores of
the Hebrides the Hriocaulon septangulare, a species belonging to North
America, and the only one of the British plants which is not also
European. In coasting the shores of Scotland the gulf stream collects,
doubtless, the innumerable seeds which the water courses bear into the
sea, carries them northward with it, and strews them along the friths
and shallows of Shetland, Faroe, and Iceland. This current appears
to me the principal agent in disseminating the plants of Europe
among these islands, and hence the predominance of the European
flora over that of North America.

The winds, those aerial streams, play their part also in the diffusion of
species, but, like that of the marine currents, it evades all direct ob-
servation. Whoever has once experienced those long and terrible
storms of wind which sweep the northern seas can hardly doubt their
efficiency in transporting from one island to another light seeds, often
furnished with down and membranes, which facilitate their suspension
in the air. A recent fact gives additional force to this conjecture.
The 2d September, 1845, at nine in the morning, there was an erup-
tion of Hecla in Iceland. On the 3d, cinders fell in the most southern
of the Faroes, and the same day were wafted to Shetland, the Ork-
VEGETABLE COLONIZATION. 237

neys,and were observed on the decks of vessels sailing between England
and Ireland.

There is another mode of transportation peculiarly incident to the
countries we are considering, and which I do not remember to have
seen noticed. I allude to birds of passage. Lvery spring millions of
maritime birds leave the coasts of Spain, France, and England, and
emigrate northward to lay and hatch their eggs on the solitary cliffs of
Shetland, Faroe, and Iceland. The autumn following they return to
Europe with their broods. These birds transport rapidly from isle
to isle the seeds of plants preserved in their crops or attached to
their feathers. They become in like manner a principal instru-
mentality in the American migration, for it is precisely at the close of
the summer of those regions, when the seeds are at maturity, that
they return towards the south. In these voyages the islands we speak
of serve for resting places, where they deposite the seeds which they
have transported through the air.

When we reflect that these united causes have been acting inces-
santly from the commencement of our era, that is, for thousands of
years, it is impossible to cast a doubt.on what must have been the
prominent effect of such prolonged agencies. Before ascending, then,
through the series of geologic ages to explain the distribution of or-
ganized beings over the surface of the earth, it would seem obvious that
the insufficiency of existing causes should be first demonstrated. And
this method is applicable to all the problems of geology. Heretofore,
during what might be called the theologic period of that science, it was
too much the custom to launch into the most extravagant supposi-
tions. According to the exigencies of the case, sudden revolutions,
overwhelming catastrophes, colossal forces, unknown agents, and fan-
tastic causes were pressed into the service. At present, inquiry, having
become more sedate, seeks first the reason of geologic facts in the
powers of nature acting within the limits which they observe according
to our own experience, and enters not the field of hypothesis without
having first exhausted that of reality.*

ON THE CAUSES WHICH LIMIT VEGETABLE SPECIES TO-
WARDS THE NORTH, IN EUROPE AND SIMILAR REGIONS.

BY MR. ADOLPHE DE CANDOLLE.

[Read before the Academy of Sciences of Paris, December 13, 1847, and translated for the
Smithsonian Institution. ]

It was said by Linneus a hundred years ago that ‘‘all real know-
ledge is founded on specific knowledge.’’ And, in effect, in all the
branches of natural history, a thorough knowledge of species is the

* The causes which M. Martins has assigned above have doubtless had their influence in re-
gard to the flora of the islands in question, but they are not sufficient to explain the peculiarities
of the fauna of those regions, and do not, therefore, essentially militate against the hypothesis
of Messrs. Forbes and Watson.— Translator.
238 CAUSES WHICH LIMIT

basis on which we must always rest. Nobody disputes this with re-
gard to the work of classification, and experience proves that the same
is the case as respects the study of the geographical distribution of
organized beings.

Having been occupied several years with the subject of botanical
geography, I have often had my attention recalled to a fundamental
problem, which will serve to explain many others in the same science.
This problem is to ascertain in what manner and after what laws spe-
cies are arrested in their geographical expansion, and this in the
simplest of conditions, on the surface, namely, of a continent apart
from the consideration of any mountains which may traverseit. Itis
easy to conceive that the determination of the boundaries of species must
draw after it that of their proportion according to families in each
country, and that it connects itself with important questions in physi-
ology and agriculture. It is clear, also, that geologists and physicists
require to know to what extent the presence of the same species at two
epochs or in two countries determines the analogy of climates, and with
what degree of precision the geographical limit of a species proves an
equality in the exterior conditions of temperature.

The questions which arise out of this subject have almost always
reference to the limit towards the north, or to speak more exactly, to
the polar limit or that lying towards one of the poles. I leave out of
consideration, therefore, all that relates to the southerly limit.

On the subject of the polar limits opinions have changed with the pro-
egress of physical geography. Originally nothing but the mean annual
temperature of climates was observed ; and on comparing the limits of
species with this standard singular anomalies presented themselves.
In 1815 and 1817 M. de Humboldt introduced into physical geography
an important principle, viz: the comparison of lines passing across the
points which offer the same mean degree of temperature during the
year, the three months of winter, and the three of summer, being the
lines we term isothermal, isochimenal, and isotheral. This illustrious
scientist taught us that the mean temperature of seasons is of more
importance than that of the year, and that, in general, two similar
climates may be distributed into fractions very dissimilar, and which
neutralize one another inthe estimate of the mean annual temperatures.
From this we might judge that the temperatures of seasons or monthly
temperatures would explain the habitat of species, or in other words,
that each species advances over a continent to a certain line which
marks an equal temperature during some period of the year, unless it
should be arrested by a climate too dry or too humid, or by a material
obstacle, such as thesea. I have believed and have heretofore said,*
that annual species ought to be limited very nearly according to iso-
theral lines, because their vegetation is confined in whole or in great part
to the three months of summer. It has seemed to me that the peren-
nial or ligneous species ought often to be limited to the lines of equal
temperature during some months of the mild season, or by the com-
parative shortness of the winters when the question regards plants

* Geographical distribu'ion f alimentary plants. Bibl. Univer:. de Geneve. April and May,
1836.
VEGETABLE SPECIES. 239

which are more than usually sensitive to cold. The assiduity with
which botanists have considered this subject of a thermometrical mean
shows that more or less they have regarded it in the same light. It
has been the custom to attribute the disagreement between the limits
of plants and the lines of equal temperature to errors of observation on
the locality of species, to uncertainty respecting the thermometric
mean, or to causes acting independently of temperature, such as dry-
ness and humidity. But certain facts and the ingenious calculations of
M. Boussingault* on the heat requisite for culture in different countries,
have awakened some doubts as to the truth of this, and I have been
induced to attempt the solution of the question by a direct method.
The following is the course which I have pursued :

I have so far investigated nearly forty species as to feel no doubt of
any importance with regard to their polar limits. These species have
been solely chosen with a view of avoiding causes of error, and of hav-
ing, at the same time, plants of different nature. Hence I have
selected species having their limit in Europe, inasmuch as Europe is
the only region where the local flora is numerous, and where the con-
ditions of temperature are well known. I have eliminated all the culti-
vated species, all species easy to confound with others, all which might
have escaped the observation of the authors of local floras, as well as
those in which synonyms might have occasioned embarrassment. I
have centred my researches on a dozen annual species, a dozen peren-
nial, and a dozen ligneous. I have established their polar limits by
means of a great number of floras and catalogues, by the inspection of
herbals, and also by questions addressed to botanists residing in
some of the less explored parts of Earope. I have succeeded in tracing
on the map the limit of these species. I have afterwards consulted.
the most complete tables of the monthly temperature and seasons of
European cities, such as those of Kimtz, Berghaus, Mahlmann, and
Dove, completing them by means of private researches.

The following is what results at first view from this comparison,
founded on well ascertained facts :

1. In no case does the limit of a species exactly coincide with a line
of equal temperature for any one period of the year.

2. The limits of annual species, in the plains of Hurope, cross one
another with considerable frequency. The limits of perennial and
ligneous species also cross each other in different directions, and both
are far from being parallel when they do not thus cross.

This single fact enables us to perceive how much the lines of vege-
tation differ from the lines of equal temperature ; for if we draw lines
founded on the equality of heat, at a certain season, they will be found
to vary little from parallel lines; if we take some other season such
lines will still appear nearly parallel with one another, though differ-
ent, without doubt, from the preceding. Thus, the isochimenal lines
will cross the isotheral ones, but they will never cross each other
at least in a level country.

A little reflection will teach us that it would be chimerical to pur-
sue the comparison of vegetable limits with the lines of equal tempera-

“ Boussingault, Heonomie Rurale, IT, p. 659.
240 CAUSES WHICH LIMIT

ture, at least in Europe and in all countries analogously situated.
According as the climate of any locality is more or less excessive, that
is, more or less different from one season to another, the vegetation of
a plant commences and finishes at different epochs of the year. The
lines of like temperature relate to fixed periods, and the vegetation of
any one species in Kurope lasts during periods which are variable.
There can then be no agreement between these two classes of fact,
unless by some special accident.

In arriving at the law which governs the limitation of species, I
have been led to dwell upon two principles, the truth of which is
admitted by all agriculturists and botanists, but whose combined
effect had until now received no adequate attention.

It is plain that a great heat during a short period must produce the
same effect on plants with a less degree of heat during a longer term.
The cultivators who would force or retard plants do nothing but com-
bine the duration and the degree of heat. They thus succeed in pro-
ducing the flower or the matured fruit at a given day. M. Boussin-
gault has given these facts in a precise form by showing that, for
the greater part of our cultivated annual plants, when we count the
number of days that the culture has continued, and multiply that
number of days by the mean temperature maintained, we arrive at the
same product for each culture in all countries and for all years. The
heat acts then proportionally as regards its duration and its force.
But M. Boussingault has not presented the result of his calculations
under so general a form, and in this he was right. There is, in effect,
a second principle, which modifies the one in question, and which is of
equal importance, at least in botanical geography.

This second principle is, that each species requires, for each one of
its physiological functions, a certain minimum of temperature. Not
only is any temperature below zero useless to plants, on account of the
congelation of its juices, but even those of 1°, 2°, and 3°,* are useless
to a great number of species, and ought not to be computed among
the temperatures available for the plant. Cultivate wheat, for in-
stance, under a temperature constantly below 4°, though the plant
will live long, and the product of the number of days by the tempera-
ture reach a high number, yet the stalk will not grow tall nor will the
flower be formed. M. Ch. Martins has said, with truth, that each
species of the vegetable kingdom is a kind of thermometer which has
its own zero.t Weshould be wrong, then, to infer that 10° during ten
days would have the same effect on all plants as 5° during twenty
days. In both cases the sum of atmospheric heat is expressed by
100°; but for species which do not vegetate below 6°, for example,
the amount of 100 must be diminished by all the values between 5°
and 6°, which occur in one of the supposed cases, while for those
species which do not vegetate below 10°, if any such exist, the avail-
able heat would be reduced to 0. If we would estimate the heat really
useful to a species we must consider, in our calculation, only the values
above a certain degree of temperature, which varies according to the
species. Direct observation seldom permits of our verifying the min-

* These degrees are centigrade.
{ Voyage Botanique én Norwege.
VEGETABLE SPECIES. 241

imum necessary to each species for each of its functions, but botanical

eography wili furnish us the means of doing so, if, as I propose to
Sra ethato: the limits of species depend at the same time on the
quantity of heat and the minimum required for each species. And
here I enter on a field which has not hitherto been explored.

An example will enable us to comprehend how the two principles
of which [ am speaking combine in Huropean climates, and bring
about a similitude or dissimilitude to which the means ordinarily
employed furnish no key.

London and Odessa are certainly not under the same lines of tem-
perature. ‘The mean of summer heat is at London 16°.7, at Odessa
20°, while in winter the difference of the mean is much greater. In
their monthly mean these two climates have no analogy. Notwith-
standing, if we consider the time at which the temperature of 4°.5
commences and terminates in each of these cities, and the product
which represents the heat between these two limits, we find the same
figure. At London the mean of 4°.5 commences the 17th of February,
and terminates the 15th of December. Between these two periods the
figure expressing, according to the process of M. Boussingault, the
heat received, is 3431°. At Odessa the temperature of 4°.5 com-
mences later, from the 2d to the 3d of April, and terminates sooner,
from the 17th to the 18th of November, but as it is warmer during
summer, the amount of the temperature between those limits is almost
equal to that of London, for it is 3423°. Hence a plant which would
require 4°.5 to commence vegetating with a certain activity, which
should arrive at the same condition, and would require in all an
amount of heat of 3430°, might advance in a northwest direction to
London, and in a northeast to Odessa. Ifa plant should require
more or less than 4°.5 as a minimum, or more or less than 3430° in
the whole, the climates would no longer correspond, and the limit of
species would be otherwise established.

This shows us how two European climates, which differ when con-
sidered as regards their respective mean monthly temperature, may
yet be identical under certain combinations of the two causes which
exert an influence on the life of species. For the purpose of discover-
ing these correspondences of climates I have calculated for a certain
number of the cities of Europe on what days the temperature of 1°, 2°,
3°, &c., up to 8°, commences and ends. I have placed over against
this list the product indicating the heat received over and above each
af those degrees in all the localities. The application of these figures
to the facts of vegetation is highly satisfactory, notwithstanding cer-
tain sources of error impossible wholly to avoid. I shall here cite but
two examples.

The Alyssum calycinum is a cruciferous annual, which grows here
and there on the eastern coast of Great Britain and as high as Edin-
burgh, and even a little beyond, as far as Arbroath. It is found neither
on the western coast of England nor in Ireland, nor yet in Brittany or
Calvados; but this must be attributed to the constant humidity of
those regions, for the Alyssum calycinum prefers a dry region, and it

16
2492 CAUSES WHICH LIMIT

is evident that itis not heat that is wanting in Brittany to a plant
which grows in Scotland. ;

On- the continent the Alyssum calycinum spreads to the northwest
as far as Holstein and the Baltic, on the northeast as far as Moscow,
but not to Kasan. The limit in the quarters where its extension may
be thought to be determined solely by temperature stretches, there-
fore, from Arbroath, in Scotland, under the 563 degree of latitude,
passes along the 54th degree in Holstein, and thence oscillates in
Russia between the 56th and 55th degree. I shall not stop to show in
detail how much this line varies from any isothermal line, isotheral,
or other founded on equality of temperature. Comparing only the two
extremities, Arbroath, in Scotland, with an annual average of 8°,
Moscow of 4°.5, Arbroath with a summer average of 14°, Mescow
of 17°.8, it will be seen that the mean of each month varies strikingly.
I consult my table of the correspondence of climates, and | find that
at Kinfauns, in Scotland, very near Arbroath, the temperature of 7°
or upwards continues from the 18th of April to the 31st of October, and
that during this time the product of the number of days by the mean
temperature amounts to 2281°. At Konigsberg the temperature of
7° and upwards is of shorter duration, but the summer being hotter,
the product amounts to 2308°. As the limit of the species is about
twenty leagues to the north of Kénigsberg, that figure must be
reduced, and becomes identical with that of Scotland. At Moscow
the mean of 7° commences the 22d of April, and terminates the 5th of
October ; the product, in consequence of the heat of summer, rises to
2473°. This is more than seems necessary to the Alyssum, and J am
induced to believe that it may live thirty or forty leagues to the north
of Moscow, but there is no local flora to furnish the assurance of it.
At Kasan, the figures fall to 2196°, so that it is not surprising that -
the species there disappears. Thus the hypothesis of 7° of initial
temperature and of a product of 2280° to 2300° accords completely
with the facts.

I shall cite another example derived from a ligneous species.

The Euonymus europeus has for a limit the north of Ireland, Hdin-
burgh, (564 deg. latitude,) the north of Denmark, the south of Swe-
den, (57—58 lat.,) the isle of Aland, at the entrance of the Gulf of
Bothnia, (60 lat.,) Moscow, Pensa, (52 lat.) This limit varies 8°
of latitude. In its course the mean annual temperatures vary 4°,
the mean winter 12°.7, and the mean summer 3°.4. Those from
March to November, which are more conformable, still vary to the
extent of 1°.5, and the species, moreover, disappears at several points
where the mean of this period of the year is overpassed. The average
from April to October and of each other period of the year does not
coincide more closely. It is necessary, then, to renounce this mode of
explanation. But an hypothesis is at hand which accords with all
the facts. The Euonymus europeus requires.a product of 2480° be-
tween the two epochs of the year when the curve of mean tempera-
ture ascends above 6°. In effect this product at Edinburgh is 2482°,
In Sweden the city of Stockholm is situated beyond the limit, the
product there being but 2268°. St. Petersburgh, with a product of
VEGETABLE SPECIES. 248

1894°, is likewise beyond it. The isle of Aland, where, as we are
told, the species grows, may well have a more elevated figure than the
neighboring cities of Stockholm and St. Petersbur gh, in virtue of the
influence of the sea, but we possess no observations as to this point.
At Moscow the product exceeds somewhat the supposed condition,
being 2524°; but probably, also, the species advances a little toward
the north of that city at a point where express information again fails
us. Finally, it is not found at Kasan, and here also the product i is
only 2250°. The values then found along the limit, in its neigh-
borhood and beyond it, accord as nearly as.could be desired in such a
matter with our double hypothesis of 6° and 24 80°.

The chartreux pink, (Dianthus carthusianorum,) a perennial species,
is arrested at the west by humidity, but from Koningsberg to Kasan,
where its limit depends upon temperature, it is requisite that the
plant should receive 2450 degrees between the day when the mean of
5 degrees commences and that when it terminates.

When hypotheses of this character are thus verified successively in

many separate cases, and when they repose moreover on incontestable
principles of physiology, it may be assumed that they correspond with
a law oe nature.

That law may, in the present case, be enunciated in the following
terms : Hvery species-having its polar limit in central or northern Europe
advances as far as tt finds a certain fixed amount of heat, calculated from
the day when a certain mean temperature commences to the day when that
‘mean terminates.

The apparent exceptions to this rule may be explained by two cir-
cumstances, which restrict its application.

1. Many species, even in our temperate or nendieth climates, are
influenced as to a portion of their hmit by humidity and dryness more
than by the conditions of temperature. Those which shun the dryness
have a limit inclining from the northwest to the southeast—the east-
ern part of the continent being the dryest. The species which shun
humidity have a limit inclining from the northeast to the southwest,
because the more humid regions are, of course, those lying toward the
ocean. These causes often determine the west and east limits of
species. Quite frequently the same species will be found limited to the
east and west by circumstances of this kind, and to the north by-the
operation of the law abovestated. In calculating therefore the figures
deduced from temperature, we must ascertain the point at which
the limit ceases to be regulated by one of the accessory causes and
falls within the control of the law of temperature.

2. The perennial species, and, above all, the ligneous ones, are
sometimes arrested towards the north by the absolute minima of tem-
perature. ‘The limit inclines ia this case from the northwest to the
southeast, because the intense cold prevails most in the interior of the
continent. In tracing a limit of species from west to east, if the law
as stated ceases to be applicable, the species may be regarded as having
encountered the action either of severe cold or of drought; and it is
often difficult to discriminate which of these two causes operates as an
244 CAUSES WHICH LIMIT

obstacle. We can only mark on the map the point where, the usual
law ceasing to apply, one of these two causes begins to act..

While the effect of temperature on species was sought for only in
thermometric averages and the minima of winter, it was impossible to
explain why a great number of the species stop precisely in those
parts of Europe where the mean temperatures differ least at great dis-
tances. Of this, Scotland is the most striking example. A multitude
of species have their limit near Edinburgh; to such an extent indeed
that the flora of the country beyond the Grampian mountains has
always been considered rather an appendage of the floras of Lapland
and the Shetland Isles than of the British. Yet the mean of tempera-
ture, compared month by month, differs surprisingly little from one
extremity of Scotland to the other. The law above stated enables
us to understand these facts. Precisely because of the uniformity and
slight variability of mean temperatures in Scotland, there elapses a
long interval of time between the day when the temperature of 4°, for
example, commences, and that when the temperature of 5° begins.
If, then, two species are organized in such a manner as to commence
actively vegetating—the one at 4°, the other at 5°-—the first will re-
ceive fora length of time a heat which is useless to the other, and
consequently their limits will diverge considerably. It is not the same
under an easterly climate, where the transition from 4° to 5°, 6°,
and so on, takes place so rapidly that all species begin to vegetate
nearly at the same time. Hence, in the west, the limits are influenced
especially by the initial and final temperatures necessary for each
species; in the east by the sum total of heat.

The examples on which I have relied are drawn from plants of the
centre and north of Europe. I have no doubt but that in countries
analogously situated, whether in Asia or North America, we should
find the same facts with regard to other species. It would only re-
quire that those regions should be as well known as Europe to enable
us to verify in detail both the temperatures and the limits. More to
the south dryness and humidity seem the principal causes of the
limitation of species. Besides, when the temperature operates it is in
those regions much more uniform and much more proportional from
one season to another, in all localities similarly situated, which is the
reason why the average of the year or the season is competent to re-
place the complicated law which governs species. Indeed, on the
borders of the Mediterranean sea, the limits have appeared to me so
often determined by the humidity, or by causes still unknown, that
the operation of the temperature has almost always eluded my calcu-
lations.

The law with which I have been occupied has its application no
doubt to the limitation of species as regards altitude. It will show
why it is that species do not observe the same relative distances on
the flanks of different chains of mountains ; why, in other words, the
limits of height cross one another in the same way with the limits on
the surface of a continent.

Itis also probable that by means of this law we shall be able to explain
the periods of flowering and maturing for species in different localities
VEGETABLE SPECIES. 245

dite different years ; but in this regard we must expect to encounter in
its application difficulties arising as well from the nature of the facts
to be observed as from the variableness of the years.*

** For the epochs of vegetation, as for heights somewhat considerable, and for polar re-
gions, a circumstance touching the manner of calculating temperatures will render the
application of the law rather difficult. In thermometrical averages the figures below 0°,
are made to enter as negatives; now, it would be necessary, in order to appreciate the
action upon plants, to regard them as nought, without retrenching anything from the
values above 0°, 1°, 2°, &e. A species which would manifest the effect of a heat of 1°,
might vegetate in a season when the mean should be greatly below 0°, according to the
ordinary mode of calculation. It would suffice that the thermometer has been above 0°
for a certain number of hours. This consideration has prevented me from taking for a
subject of study species which have their polar limit in Iceland, Lapland, and under other
very high latitudes. The meteorological tables give the monthly averages calculated by sub-
traction of the negative values ; and even ‘when the observations are given in detail, it is
difficult, and often impossible, to know during how many hours in a month the thermo-
meter has been above each of the degrees. I solicit the attention of calculators to this
point.

Finally, it will be incumbent on zoologists to examine whether the law we have given
does not regulate the limits of certain descriptions of animals; of those especially which are
hatched from eggs, or which recover from a hybernating torpor at certain temperatures,
and which thus require, I suppose, for the total of their active life a certain amount of heat.
Zoology and botany having always made a parallel progress, it is seldom that a law dis-
covered in one of these sciences does not immediately receive its application in the other.

As for the relations which connect botanical geography with geology, they become every
day more numerous. Perhaps geologists will take pleasure in seeing that the mode of
action of temperature upon actual species may be stated with precision. Let them permit
me, in closing, a reflection concerning the islands which lie in the neighborhood of the
European continent. It has occurred incidentally in the course of my researches. If it
presents no new results, which I do not know, it will have at least the advantage of resting
on facts foreign to geology itself.

As regards the British isles, the actual limits of the species which I have examined al-
ways admit of explanation from meteorological causes, without the material obstacle of the
sea appearing in the least to influence them. The limits are not the shore of the ocean; but
if a species is wanting to the British isles, it is wanting also to the opposite and neighbor-
ing coast, especially to Brittany, the climate of which is nearly similar; if it exists upon
the shores of the continent, it exists also in England. We may conclude from this, cither
that the seeds have been transported without difficulty across the Channel, which is not
probable for most of them, or rather that the arm of the sea has been formed within the
existence of the actual species. We know that this opinion has been recently maintained
by Mr. Forbes, who explains after an analogous manner certain relations between the
British islands and remoter countries, such as Spain, the Azores, Lapland, &c. With re-
gard to the islands of the Mediterranean sea the facts are different. I might cite several
cases in which itis impossible to explain the presence or absence of a species on meteorolo-
gical reasons. Thus, according to the observations, rather imperfect it is true, of M. de la
Marmora, the south of Sardinia presents the same conditions as regards rain and monthly
temperature with certain parts of Sicily ; yet many of the species of Sicily are wanting to
Sardinia and vice versa. The chamzrops humilis grows in Sardinia and at Villefranche near
Nice ; it failg in Corsica, which is between them, In general, notwithstanding certain evi-
dent analogies of vegetation, the islands and peninsulas of the Mediterranean offer numer-
ous anomalies in the limits of species. It would seem that this region had been disturbed
by many successive geological revolutions since the existence of the vegetables of our epoch,
and that the accidental transportation of seeds had been, to this day, insufficient to bring
about a conformity between the limits and the climates.
246 FORESTS AND TREES CF NORTH AMERICA,

ON THE DISTRIBUTION OF THE FORESTS AND TREES OF NORTH AMERICA,
WITH NOTES ON ITS PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY.

BY J. G. COOPER, M. D.

[This article has been prepared at the expense of the Smithsonian
fund for the purpose of illustrating, in connexion with the meteorolo-
gical observations now in progress under the direction of this Institu-
tion and the Patent Office, the climate of the continent of North
America. A favor will be conferred by any person who may furnish

materials for extending or correcting the list of trees herewith ap-
pended. |

The list appended to this article has been prepared in order to show
the present state of knowledge of the distribution of the most import-
ant and useful trees and shrubs of the country, and at the same tine
to elicit further information on this interesting subject.

With these objects in view, it has been attempted to give, where
known, the extreme points to which each species extends in every
direction, and at the same time to show in what part of the country
it attains its greatest development and abundance. The chief defi-
ciency in the first part of the plan has been found to be’ the want of
preeise localities in the limits mentioned by botanists. or instance,
a tree may be described as found in Virginia, and yet not occur for
hundreds of miles in travelling through that large State, which
includes parts of three very distinct botanical regions. Any positive
locality is of more use in determining range than such statements as
the foregoing, for it enables botanists to increase the known range by
observations in their own districts. The various State collections and
reports have given the most accurate information on this subject, but
very much is still wanting, and, in fact, respecting the range of most
trees east of the Mississippi, scarcely anything has been added to the
published observations of the two Michaux. .

In regard to the region of greatest abundance, there is much of the
same want of accurate knowledge. In some cases it has been neces-
sary to judge of this from the nature of the country and the known
preference of the tree for particular kinds of soil, or its ability to
withstand cold. Although there is much uncertainty on this subject,
it will probably be found that the chief facts now known are stated ;
since I have, at least, good authority for the occurrence, if not for
the abundance, of each tree in the region where it is considered most
characteristic. Thus, in the absence of statistical information, it was
necessary to select for the Mississippi region: Ist. Trees of the
swamps, which have their central or maximum of number and develop-
ment in such a locality. 2d. Such as extend scarcely north of Georgia,
and, presumptively, are more common in the warmer region near the
Gulf of Mexico. The trees believed to be peculiar to any region have
FORESTS AND TREES OF NORTH AMERICA, 247

their name (abbreviated) in small capitals in the last column. The
character (?) prefixed to a locality indicates doubt whether this or
some allied species is really the one attributed to that place.

Future information may lead to the addition to the general lists of
some trees included in the lists of trees nearly peculiar to Florida
and Mexico, or to the contrary change. The numbers and letters
prefixed to the names are intended to refer to charts of the distribu-
tion of trees, now in course of preparation, As trees do not forma
natural series distinct from other plants, and as size does not serve
as a criterion for their separation from shrubs, it might be considered
more scientific to have included all woody plants in this catalogue ;
but as that would have swelled the list entirely beyond bounds, I
have made a selection, guided first by the size, and secondly by utility,
independent of size. It may be advisable in future to add to or to
omit some of the species. Thus, as to the grape vines, Prunus
maritima and Cerasus pumila, I included these and a few more woody
plants, not properly trees, for various reasons. Some of the vines
grow a foot in diameter, and are of use for wood as well as fruit.
The .others are interesting as analogues of trees, growing under
peculiar circumstances. They may, too, become worth cultivation
for fruit ; and one of my objects was to include all such as far as pos-
sible. The species of Crataegus and Prunus mostly come under this
exception.

The reason for giving the maximum heights is, that it is thought
the cultivation of trees will become some day a matter of national
interest, and I wish to show what they are under the best natural
circumstances, supposing that, with cultivation, they will at least
equal this standard. Some of the western plants are little more than
shrubs ; but as the western regions are comparatively poor in trees,
I have stretched the limit a little there, since shrubs become more
valuable where trees diminish in number.

Nearly all the varieties mentioned by various authors are given ;
because, first, the difference between a species and a permanent variety
is scarcely definable; second, because they are often as truly charac-
teristic of botanical regions as the species themselves. In this article
Populus canadensis is separated from P. monilifera for example,
because Michaux could not identity the latter east of the Mississippi ;
and we look upon it as belonging rather to the Rocky Mountain than
to the Apalachian province.

As Michaux notices a difference in the beeches of Canada and the
more southern United States, we preferred (as in the other supposed
varieties) to consider them as species having distinct ranges, until
enough good specimens can be procured to determine the fact. It is
-doubtful whether there are any trees extending entirely across the
continent, within the limits of the United States, which are not more
properly included among those of the Lacustrian or Mexican provinces.

Collections of the leaves, fruits, bark, and wood of our native trees
are particularly desirable, and from as many localities as possible, in
order to determine both their range and abundance, and also to decide
those knotty points as to true specific distinctions, which still perplex
24S FORESTS AND TREES OF NORTH AMERICA,

the most skilful botanists. The specimens from each tree should be
kept carefully together, and the name of the locality and collector
given in full. Without such collections no information as to the
large genera of oaks, hickories, magnolias, and, in fact, most others,
can be at all depended on or made use of. Collections from the ex-
treme corners of the United States, and from any part of the western
mountains, will be particularly useful in determining all these ques-
tions. A good way of preserving a complete set from each species of
tree is to obtain two pieces of the thick bark of the trunk about a foot
square, taking care not to rub off the mosses or lichens, which are often
very characteristic of the tree. Other specimens of bark from the
branches, sufficient to show all its changes in appearance, and twigs
with leaves, flowers and fruits, may be pressed between the trunk
bark, with sufficient paper of any kind intervening, to absorb all
moisture. One change of this paper will usually be sufficient,
(especially if the bark is dry ;) and fruits, if large and hard, may
be so fixed as to hang outside, wrapped in paper. Particular care is
necessary to prevent mixture of specimens. Blocks of wood from the
trunk and branches at various seasons are also desirable for experi-
menting upon.

Observations as to the relative abundance of each tree at the various
stations may be expressed numerically, thus: very rare, 1; occasion-
ally met with, 2; not uncommon, 3; common, 4; very common, 5;
abundant, 6, &c.; using numbers up to 10, and explaining them.
Frequently several trees will be found so nearly alike in abundance as
to require the same number. Notice should also be made of the
nature of the country and soil—whether mountainous, rocky, gravelly,
sandy, or swampy, which will help to determine the limits of the
natural regions. The geological structure of the district is, however,
of secondary importance.

The columns of range may be used by observers filling the blanks
or adding to the recorded range in either direction ; but ‘this must be
done carefully and with a perfect knowledge of the species noted,
The name of the county should be given as well as of the town, and is
preferable if only one is stated. Such blanks, filled up, may be cut
out and sent to the Smithsonian Institution, addressed to the Com-
missioner of Patents, with the writer’s name. Meteorological ob-
servers will take a special interest in the subject, and in most cases
can make the best notes from their habit of observing the connexions
of peculiarity of climate and forest growth.

In the annexed catalogue generic and general English names are in
capitals. The most important synonyms are given in ttalics, as well
as local or little-used English names.

The following is a list of the principal authorities consulted in col-
lation of the facts regarding the distribution of trees of the United
States, and in the preparation of the map:

Michaux’s Sylva.

Brown, Trees of America, vol. I.

Torrey and Gray’s Flora of North America, vol. I, I.

Gray’s Botany of the Northern States, ed. 1857.

Lewis and Clarke's Travels, (Pursh Botany.)

Long’s Expedition. Botany by Dr. James, Say and Torrey, in Ann. Lyc. New York.

oo
FORESTS AND TREES OF NORTH AMERICA. 249

Pike’s Expedition to Rocky Mountains in 1808, 1812.

Pacific Railroad Explorations, vols. I to VI, and Reports on Botany by Drs. Torrey and
Gray, Newberry, Antisell, Bigelow, Cooper, and Suckley.

Collections in Smithsonian Institution from Nebraska, Kansas, California, Oregon, and Wash-
ington Territory, and other regions west of the Mississippi river.

Hooker’s Flora Boreali-Americana, 2 vols. quarto.

Fauna Boreali-Americana, preface, by Dr. Richardson.

Darlington, Flora Cestrica.

Emerson, Trees and Shrubs of Massachusetts.

Lapham, Plants of Wisconsin.

Hoy, Trees of Wisconsin.

Wailes, Agriculture and Geology of Mississippi.

Kitchell and Cook, Geology of Cape May county, New Jersey.

Thompson, Natural History of Vermont.
Fee Society Reports on Botany, 1849, including Geyers’ Notes of Journey across North

erica.

Agassiz, Lake Superior. (Narrative by J. E. Cabot.)

Torrey, Botany of New York.

Swallow, Geology of Missouri, Ist and 2d Reports, (list of trees.)

Hayden, Trees of Nebraska, in Warren’s Explorations, 1859.

Elliott’s Botany of Southern States, 1824.

Russell, Climate and Agriculture of United States, 1857.

Richardson’s Journeys in Search of Franklin.

Reports on Botany.

Darby, Botany of Southern States.

Geyer, Botany of Oregon, in Hooker’s Lond. Jour. Bot.

Gray, (Asa,) Statistics of Flora of Northern United States, in Sill. Jour., 2d series, vol.
XXII, 1856, and XXIII, 1857.

Anderson, Synopsis of North American Willows, from Proc. Amer. Acad. Arts and Sciences
IV, 1858.

Rafinesque, Florula Ludoviciana.
 arage Amer. Phil. Soc., 2d series, vol. 3, Dr. Pickering on Distribution of Plants of United

ates.

Ibid, Nuttall on Plants of Arkansas.

Lieutenant Colonel Kearny and Major J. D. Graham, Top. Eng., East Boundary of Texas,
with detailed maps, 1840.

Breyet Captain J. C. Frémont, Top. Eng., Explorations, 1842, 1843, 1844.

Major W. H. Emory, Top. Eng., Explorations of, 1846, 1847.

Lieutenant J. H. Simpson, Top. Eng., Canadian river and Navajo country, 1849,

Captain H. Stansbury, Top. Eng., Exp. to Salt Lake, 1849, 1850.

Lieutenant Colonel Johnston, Top. Eng., Explorations in Texas, 1849, 1850, 1851.

Captains Sitgreaves and Woodruff, Top. Engs., Boundaries of Creek country, (36° 30’, de-
viled maps,) 1850, 1851.

Captain L. Sitgreaves’ Expl. Zuii and Colorado rivers, 1851.

Captain R. B. Marcy, U.S A., Expl. of Red river of Texas, 1852.

Lieutenant G. K. Warren, Top. Eng., Explorations in Minnesota and Nebraska, 1855,
1856, 1857.
ee W. H. Emory, U.S. A., Survey of Mexican Boundary, 1849, 1850, 1852, 1853, 1854,
1855.

J. R. Bartlett, U. S. Comm., Survey of Mexican Boundary, 1849, 1850, 1852, 1853, 1854,
1855.

Personal narrative.

A. D. Bache, Supt. Coast Survey, maps of Pacific coast and along Gulf of Mexico.

United States Land Office Surveys of Michigan, Indiana, Illinois, Wisconsin, Minnesota

issouri and Arkansas, up to spring of 1858,

Journey to Pembina, on Red river of Minnesota, 1857, by R_ Kennicott, of Illinois.

Nicollet’s Report Expl. Upper Mississippi, 1843.

List of Plants by Dr. Torrey and C. Geyer.

Roemer’s Texas, 1849. ;

A. Von Humboldt on Distribution of Plants, translated in Edin. Philos. Jour., vol. VI,
VII, 1820.

Many other works have been consulted which were not made note of at the time, and also
results given of personal explorations and observations made from Maine to Virginia, and
across the continent through Nebraska, Oregon, Washington, and California.
FORESTS AND TREES OF NORTH AMERICA.

250

“SSITA
Bia)

"SSTIAI
Dive)

“uudag,
“SSTIAL
“IV
“UV

“Ul,

Bite)
“OldO

*uua,L

‘und.

*SSTIY
"Ivo
‘auay,
PP atye)
‘uuay,
“uUAL,
‘oud
uvO

‘gourpunqe
18a1e915 JO UOIDaY

poveee scenes

‘ey “ay vyRUTIy
eeeeeee ‘BA *Y[OJION

BUXOT [rreesecs cesses ceeeee|seeees eee upnOnT

seeeesees Kyonquay [rte rseeee epLong [ott t* vruBalésuuag
‘IOALL URMA

-[PoVYyseg jo yo}

"xa, ‘SIOqUILT, SSOID,

seen eee eheeneeessane OO

‘reese asey epeuro

. wecee ees

‘eoyry Saal pueryg jes ery SalifaAsyuny

Faveee Oprrtert[seeeeeta cence: seaee
TOALL UBALAYOILYSES
"STAN “XI019 “99 |"

SOO DOOOG ODUCT) acca

te eese Coeeerngn e*
soccersey VpBury
DOUGOGr fia) ‘SJQaqanH

Se er

seoptet .
‘wy “suTe]UNO

DOCOROOROROROIT > 1) .

vMo] ‘sung pounog |it sett tess apo LT

“WN S1OALI SOIqUUITT sees coee IOK MON

seeeee eer Ss UBATIING

sisigiaivisieieieisie(els) EBX],
fee eeeeJOSNUOUSSCY

se enee eraser eeeeee| senses sesees BDTIOLT
“GON SOMTd WOT peer

so ee wees ween ee

“T, ‘ord Saat

XNO!g Sg Jo yNoW |***euyforwg GUON

SDOGUCIOUCORIOOT (> 4: pi

omy Sug WOT | oy ‘nvapruiry adeg jeer s esses BpOold

‘SSI ‘zayoieN Mielsiare “sepitonr [t°°''* (N Sysrarey

rs

seoprtts

** puLIsIno'y

or i

vewooes* “QOSS9UU90T

reeens

er

se -puT[OARO YMOY
Fete eeeeeeeenngn tees
“-plupalAsulog
tee ON SuaReRIN
‘sessuy funy edu

P0500 Cn GHOOG0(0) G00

seroperes
‘aaSsauud,L,

Heseeees BDLOLT
RUT[OITD YION
teeeeee eee EDLIOLA

+ STOUT

Stee ee eeeeee

teeeeeee eon MON

"MS aq} 0} osuvy | *AAN OU) 01 oSuvy | “Gg 2Y} 0} BsuRYy ‘TIN 9} 02 osULy

0S
08

COOOOD Ne ‘BIBSPIN ford

ssereegspr fossny | OPT

OL

**** pul[OIRD TINO | QC
“te “NH SuojufooUur'T | oF
OF
OP
08
GG

‘Jaaj UL ISA

seco vecevesesecs seeves emi yuvsla
seer ee eeeeoeee SSR PARE Ajjoyqo'y

se eeve seve esos eeeessseeerTigiInOg

Le eeee eeee ee eeeeereeeeee® UTQITMION
*poomsseg Saurtry ‘NIGNI'T

seeeeceescoses sonar] AOU UY

*? dureag uosiog

teee eee y00US

tees eeeeee eesereragara 4 “ULOYIDIS
‘HOVNNOg

te eeee veneseees: seeeesggr TOOL

*usayIN0g
weer eee eee ee ese ee eet eee ULOqWON
‘HSY ATMO £901] ayoUyIOOT,

Pees ee ress eeeser eeeree rere mardeg
(‘pyaoung ‘nuouR)

seseeeee veee tn7d0ds) ‘POOMITY AA
‘AaUT, ATO,

see eee enaveeeese ses eeemrggIBIOAT
‘“paaval-weap
* paaval-asle'T
0043 prurvsidg
* poarval-ieq
eee eroeseeee: 951) BITOIGUI
sees eeeeee sere ereesgan Jaquinong
seeeres Avg J20Mg
*VITONODVIAI

.

Shee eres eresee eeeeees MOET 'T ‘susosoqnd
Se ey uury ‘snuyiuLisel s
‘sur ‘VINOGUOf)

teeeeeenesseeeeeses aya 4 Spi sydor1ay

se eeeerets eeeeee SOOT TE 5 ‘gunoliowe
‘wury *VYILY,

Cana ooauen sniujzog )*4ynpy ‘saprounos

teeceee Cuury fawusae) “Q ‘qr SayeuaUaA

seeeeeouury ‘eaqels

eee neee ee aeenes cennee sayy ‘purydAy
uury ‘sauy

eeeeee

see e wera teers sees oe rer euT *pyeI[OJIy
‘uurT ‘VaTaILd
.
yuny SuIMueBUpoIv—
rene ereeeeeeseeeee yar yr ‘UINUBOMOU
‘uapjag ‘NOIAXOHLNYVZ,

sere eeeeseeneees SOR 117 ig ‘eqonn
‘suppE SVNINISY

Pere re eaaeeeeseree CORY TT ef *erazrdiyny
‘uurT ‘NOUGNAGOINI'T

ee DOOD Th Ig 7 ‘viopipuris
see eee Sielejeieisicleielnieiaiein.el¢ oath: *eyepi0d
your SeyAydoroeur
seeeccerosooomar Svieplueidd ‘eA
* (yunT ‘nynynorinn) *1aq7p 44 “Waseay
seers sunyy ‘nynqadi4y) “wury Se|jorquin
“‘uury ‘eIVuIUINOR
tr eeeeeeeeseeeseuury SponRls
‘uty SVIIONDV]

*outeu rejndog

‘sumunoyy fyoory ay) fo ysna suoibayy—*y

‘SALVLS GHLIND FHL JO SAHUL GWALLVN FHL FO WAVOTVLVO

*UIBU [BOIURIOg

eoscov Fs © B88

soc

ie)

‘org ‘aoquny | PAGS SOS) Oi bo CR
251

ue)

gcuuag,
“o1lO

“SSI
‘uuaL

‘Ordo

‘oruO

‘NNAL

"11y
‘uua,

“SSI

gary

“SSTIA
e581
“UUaT,

“oryO

mn

‘oro

IRD
‘epo
‘o1lo
UW
‘epo

FORESTS AND TREES OF TORTH AMERICA,

‘ollO
muiite)
“10
‘UV

“STAR “XIOID IS

‘xo, {1A OpRsojog
"Xap SBIIYst AL WO

‘RURISINO'TJO SduIVMS
‘xO, ‘SdaqulLy, SSOAD

‘xaL ‘S19qUIL,L SSOIQ
‘Xa, ‘S1oquiLy, Sso1p

*Xog, ‘S1aqUILT, SSO1Q
le eeeeeees punqRly
****spxay, UIOISAAA

ve teeeeeeeees onyag,
te eeeees spUDIsInory

wees eee ee or eeeeee

‘xray ‘sayunvig MIN

see

** yon way
beeeseees BaUISINOT]
sobs 02 RBRTIUMIYT
‘nua, JO §.1UN0 JAY
“SIM “AL XI0IN "IS

amet ee eee ee ere eee ee

Fe eeeveeescereRYgT

Fewer er eee ee ee weeeee

*paiuea oln suamoads O10,y

penecorevererserescs| sina

Pewee arte eeeeerenne

JOATL UBMATOIVYsSeVg

eee e were ae eeeee saeeee

‘BMO] “ALI XNOIS SIG
EMO] VAL XNOIS STG
BAO] “ATI XNOIS SI
se sevees oe SREUENIY

se veeeeeees LINOSSITL
tees eee ULSITOTA

we eee tt oteeresaeeee

seeeceeoosepsOEMly

“*stounlt]
vere seer eecpsupy ly
axaz‘siaquiny, sso1g
‘UT, CALE XNOIS SI

JOATL URMOYOIVYsVg

Freee eee HTSUOOSTAL
seeee Zadquraa 9ye'yT
sia sielelsi® SITITSTIOOSLAA.

soee Sadr AA oyL'y

"Gon Sorulere’y 10,7
feet eetee ee STOUT
* Ayon ua y
tees eee eer TOSST IAT

*N Jo saunoyy [ott g IN

Peewee eee eeeeeeerenel®

se eeeereee “RIsI00y)

“TIT ut 2 @AlvU JON
seers ARG S UOSPNn]T

gepiuop |'t'O 's ‘uojsopingyo
ene eeeece sepigI00x teeepg ran OF IVT

te eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees| sere eg Spas UO]

“"e131005) Jo sjunoyy {ttt '***Aasiog MON

DQQOODOOCICES Holey i: | Pr ‘Aon,

coer eeee eens Ops tse *BIUISITA JO 8,JUNO[A]
‘RIBIODD JO S.JUNO, |" PIA ‘taal OvWMOIOg

Seem ee er ee eeee renee

sesh *exy SYRUURATS

OOO =e) 00) Ft seseeery AT JO SBOD

seeeee ‘tA 368 ‘qwy
sereers BIUVALASUUD
see" VUTOILO YINoS
sug Sdingsuld

“ny SAayunod MoT

Dette seeeeenopers
sees sia’esie/e'es 11005)
"ItO ‘N JO squnoy | *

“ary “og xoortAy |'''*'* BrueaL{suuad

wee eee ee mTUTBITA
se" gUpuoly
vee VIBLOOL)
“IVa "Gg Jo sjUuNoO[Ww

teres eg Cop Ur]
seo 'g S10ATI [OIOS
“fe Ssjjasnyousseyy
terete ron qRT

"BISIODN) JO S JUNOT!
seeeee eee semi t0ax)
*RIDIONH JO S JUNO

se neeeconveessgnetes

*WUOULLO A,
eeeecveces puvyAre yy
aniese soe SIU OUI AN,

Ce ee

OF
08
09

08

sSUITAU Tee

‘OUTA

FOUTAR(SS ue

“OUTA

*RUUTHO

pee eeeree se MUSRoOID
seeees poy Jo SMOLLOA “PITAL
‘wold

seeeee

eevee eeeeses acnoory JOB AL
oeeeceenooserasnooy Aauoy

seeene

Poee se econ seers rereses Ayonjuay
‘Aga, NVAI-WAAAOL)
seeeeereees aa47-spme Io ‘png-pay

seeees

seeeeeeeeesees NOOM-MO[IA

se *furunz9 Lo Ayoug
tees seeeeeeees® suommoay
‘pronoy ‘ATUL LSA00'7T

seneee

eeeree eres aoll-JeayM yong

eeeeeeveves seveesesaymMog
*NUOHLMONG

sree eeeeeeragKovong MOTIA

seeeeeesaKayong a[quivg

ee eee eee eee ofayong oo
*LANLSANY ISUOH

seeeee

peeves eceerecosesronia XOg
‘aTd VY QHAVAT-HSYV

se eeee

see *noomasooy § paduig
! W : padt

er

ss *dureMg 10 pay
seeeeyos 10 si AA
seeeeerlpong Youd
theeee ** avang

see

‘aa VIA

** gdury 18017 10 ATUL AA

s(s)ae ejoieieweiy ele QCBAX) XO UALS

be eeeeereeeeeryogr mays

beeeeesceee eyo WOON
*ANIADAVUL)

*soqoads JOUTISIP B oq ABUT pun “ONU SOUVA UOJ ULoINOS OUT, +
sede ceesee repay DITA [Toeeee teens seeeee slag ‘goiuval{suuad

*naissng ‘SASVUAO

see eee ee arenes coos ery ‘eseyoryo
Be eee eee tae eee ereeee *YSLP YT ‘guvououle
‘UANOT SSANOUT

ee ee sees Land A Seurladsououl
sere anes eeeeee ooees UIT fsoyuRoRLy
‘uu, SVIHOSLIGAID

see areas eenes OoereeeunT ‘sIsuapvurd
‘yuunT SSAGVIOONNAD

se eeeeeeee ceeeeeserseeuuyT 'sIsuapeurd
‘uury ‘Ss1IOUaQ

(ayount Snagny pyrsurg) “soy Seoioun
{oy ‘sILsvuav74)

sheeee ceneeeeeseeeseeeses a9 4 SRSOOSTA
seen eeee seers eesseenury® vrovonpnasd
"uUurT SVINIGO}Y

eee ee eee eee eee eeneee "277 Seuuysnsty
705 ‘VINOLAITD

thee eeeeeeeseeesees youn 44 SBURI[OIRD
"uinoy ‘VIODNVUT

rereeeeeees (envoy Spagnz) ‘uopiEe ‘RATT

ce ceeeeeseouurTy SvtAaRd

teeeeeceeeee senses noi ‘RAR soIoRUl

seevees(smyouy fsisua0ryo) ‘pyitAd “viqeis
‘uury ‘SATOOSaYy

sees aveeeeneeseseeses vouanr ‘saplolaor
. ‘yuunyy ‘OdNODAN

(‘yusn TS pores) Suury umMotueafsuuad
tee Cayo Sunauwoo9) Suury Sumaqni
(youy Smndinoorta) “yay Sundivodsep

seesee squat SUNIL JBA
eens coesooeSup 44 SUINUTIVIOOES

‘youapy SUTOV

see (eyoune Sprindis) “@yorpy Set[oJIp109

eee eee ry 1p *sITRATIS@

‘Cayo ‘yofipunjo.s) ‘uury ‘euldjna

ve eteeeeeeeeceeeeeerere eure OSnIqLl
“wuyy “BILIA

ol

Ass ot
FORESTS AND TREES OF NORTH AMERICA.

252

greg

“sSITN

“uud,T,
“TLV

“UV
“TV
a @)

Pista)
“SST
“UUdL,
2 Sst]
21vo
FSS
‘ol
*OluO

eee wee

‘oruO

“IW

“UV
‘T1V

‘ordO

“SST
‘OI

‘o1uO

boy

‘gouepunge isa

-je013 JO uO

***OOIXOW Ulojseq

ss epry STaATI auIqeg
eee sesso KW ONjUOS

fe W0#019 uoNog

wee .

rr

ee

i{e{oie{oje jee vin aires) pyisieisie

soeeeeee BUDISINOT

* -Ayonqusa y

ee i)

‘sexu, “S}Ul viIpueg

Re eeet ee ee we eeee

+eeeveeeee cTINOSSITL

“dQ “su apvoseg

Or i oe ee es

eee eeeee scene eceres
‘sexay, JO spur[MorT
xa ‘slaquiiy, sso1p

*'yo7, “81UL BIpuLs

*"M§ 9) 0} oSuRy

‘oy ‘UIeJUNOUL OTT:
***oW wlajsnaynog

MYWOMUBARAT 1107

Peete ek eee ee Cette ree

** pOllauy UBISSNY

Oe ed

¢

wee

ra

* *Ayonquoy
°° SeSUBYyIV

were cree veceresceces

tee eee TTTSUOOSTAL

aiaselesesisissen tipi puy

*** OAT BOSRqEYTY

ee ec eres eeees eee eee

"RIAA §S010d “IS

**sy1V JO spuv|Mo'yT

***9xBl QARIS 1v9Iy
‘GON

‘JaAlI Lnossipy “dQ

"MN OU) 01 oSury

eee eee ee een S 00x)

oe epllol gy

beeeeeseer es ppLO[y
“*9 +g Jo SUIRIUNO|,

W'N ‘sourur saddop
Le LIDIOAY)

Se

¢

OOOO OTIC +) 0) 8.0) A &

‘TEN ‘ynowsy10g

9 “yy monsauU0D

veeees A “uoqOTISeO
COSC OOONDOUOCIOL: ita)

"yy OIZUA YOUN ‘COT
"** Kasia MON
wore eee serene aqe'y

eee eeeeees VINIBITA,

spice eles Are eas eet sede HESNO(Sd@
“ ey Jo suleJUNOW |*°O'd SuoIsUIYSE MA

“opt

* VpHoly
“tm Jo SUITIUNOIA
'O ‘'B Jo sure unoy

teeeeeesens sBpOLT

deeeale hire) UpLO A

oe

*RId100H) JO SAUNOW,

beter eee eees ropeeee

"BIDI0d4)

te eeee sees ee enLoLy

“BI51004) JO spuvldp7,

eee O98 “BIQuIN[OD

Ss

‘AS ol} 0} esuvy

cease ROD see iO) *8 Jo AtUND MOT

OD wd] OOK
levee eeeeees DIUIGITA

roticieiuleieeieven perce

*4seq epeurp

er

sreses asp epeurg

Ce ee

teeeeegceg vpeueg

Fe eee eee eee eens ont
seeeesprupAlAsuuag

***sIOK MIN

"7" 9g “eiquinjog
seeeeeeneewes sagUry

beeen e eee ween eg oN

‘AN 9} 0} asuLy

09

“Jaa UL SIO

tren cesses seen ero Snrroddog
‘wing nog ‘otaany,

eres een eeeeestmedog Bio) paisa
‘WO LAIMS

tere eres cesses nooMAO(d SUTIOMO]]

eee ee ee rs poomnod uad1p)
*pooaA\sog “IaNU0g

- *ULI9S9 Af

fee e ee eeee ener ee eiay nog

fete ee eee eaeen we eeee auosso]g-pDYs
*AUNSA-AOIAUIG

seen

thee ee eee ee senses par iiag-MOT[O A
see eee s NQAval-ALOGIV” |
“UOISUIYSeAA § padna7-7.lnazT
soreerees SuULMOO[q-aWWNg
. * paava)-hapsingy
te eeee cree eeeeee seer agi] UIOIIINOG

poaval-Aumog

"aU M

eee eesees

CC eee

et eeeeee eee

weer eeeees veeeen sreere es mdsyo09
‘NUOHLMV

stereeeseeees UsW UIDIONOA
‘ajddy qevig poavo[-Molue Ny
seeees sorddy quig pajuaos-Jaamg
‘addy GNV Uvag

‘(asunig pitA1) ‘lainey uloyinos
ston eeeeeeeeeeeesseees sol DITA

tees ee ee reeeeneeecer senses caMQuy
‘AUUAHD

‘oureu ivpndog

‘ponuyyuojn—sumunopy Ryser ny fo ysna suciloay— vy

seeesauyT (Moynnbn) ‘Sun 4y “eroynnu
‘uWwT ‘VSSAN

eeeeeeereeeesere WIDOW TG SenyloesAys
‘uuvy ‘UV aWVaIodI'y

oe DODITOO OU OODOLOOT Hii.7 | *eploy
tee eeee ve eeeee sen UIrT “e1oyusay |e
"UWINGL SSAUNUOD

seeeomary COpOJIU[e {BA
teeeeeeseres ayy unde sii0q ory
Peewee ee eeeeteseeere *UuT ‘sisuapeuro
‘omayy SUAIHONY aK Y

seeeees(ryoug Snsoynpunis) Swope ‘VARY
“finky £ 4Loz Seipopliaqieq
es oooeeo ony ‘vivpi0d
sess eeeesesfingn § LOT, ‘SIBAISoR
“ayouy Seyojde
theeeeeseeeeseeeees none ‘suddsaIOIe
sees eeeeeere cesses hone ‘erejound sea
seessuUry ‘Beso UdUIOZ
uury ‘siplita ¢'18A
seeeeeeuurvy ‘RaUulv000
‘rrog ‘ejojtinid g1vA
ee cece een seeeeeeees suUyT “mes snio
"UUurT ‘SODTVLVUO

O0 (uur “yawn sng.og) ‘og Seuroweue

09 aT ad ‘nujoguisnsue

see eeenee seeeeesuurr “uTIBUOI0D
uuryT ‘sourd

Seno eeeeeeeees sense ronan BURIUTOICO
“Coyoyy fo punuisua) “pq “BUnodas

ve eeee sesso reeereereres 7 PURINA
“naissne ‘SAS VUdQ

‘ouleu TeoTuRjog

D

Sree

soos oF,

£6

9

gf
D

CG
p

2

ve
"epo
> 'UuaT,

“Vy
‘epo

253

aUvO

“SST

"SSI

ass}
“UU,

UU, L,

ile)
*SS1TH
oie)

“SSI

FORESTS AND TREES OF NORTH AMERICA,

“SSI
“SELL

sisisi¢/sisis:s5\8*T7NOSSTIN
“SUXOT, ‘SSUq o[5UR

See eee eee eres

EXAL ‘slaquyy ssurg |

eee eee eee eee

sneee cooeesvenyay,

seem ea tees erseresses

eee eee ee

Fee owe ee eee eee Bee eee

seeeceses DUBISIMNOT

sete e wc eee eee ope"

Feeeeeeeeee segs ees

reteeeeeeeeesspya Tr
"XAT ‘sIOqUILL sso19
rene neon eeeruspyra T

Hseie'e ee oe oR EUBYIV

ee

eee ee ee ee

“OOIXIATA

ulajsam  ‘elouog

SRR teeter w ee wees

TOATL ULMETIILYITG pots eruVATAsauag | *** *spayuNvig MON
seereda SUOIBULLING
“*?**srojuneig MON

Leen ee cece reeeee ones seeees sees ent t gas
21G100%

JOAL ULALOTOIBYSTG [eee 88889 yBi0ay

teeeseesernnnong [ott tt eueapésuuag

eee eee es

seeeecoeeronntond [oeeett'' ea “HIOJION
“eS
‘uojsopVYO 18 "IND

soeeeseeee e* BNTIONT

eee eee eee OCI 13 5) ‘qeuuPAtg
sererAny SOT[TASUBA TL

er SOC SUOTSUTYSe AA

teereeeeegogsouua [reteset sete ceeteeleeeren a (Smqsiolad

reese ecgperee| steeeeeseeeeeigneres

sees epLopd |**** euljoreg yINnog
Pewee eeeer tert ereverlseee re) Ts) ‘eIquinjog

se StOUTTIT
eee ey *Ayonjuey

v* ine ‘<junoo (9) 42g | (OO GUGUO “oper airese ma 33) ‘snquinjo9

* uRy “OAL stsury sees eeee ceeeccgnesestessery or SenooRag
“ypry ‘{qunod 0g teee cece ceeereonseretes on A1UNOD HIOK

SOOM IK) £1 (6) OR EUR AOCAIS 10) (8) 1 | seers: grupafAsuuod
‘eee eoeecesusupyIy |'* uy Jo surrqUNofy sermon ‘ystpurig

‘yay ‘Ajunoo Anog |G ‘g Josureiunoy |** ayg ‘Ayun0d yo x

ee ee re er? JOCRORORUAY 9) ILC

“e* pUOIRD YINOg

*SUXOL
*JIAL PayJo aoinog

tees wenn tees

“9 +g Jo IsB0D

Veeeseeee pnpismory
"xa, ‘s1aquiy) ssoig?

eeeeeeeere sop"

oe Sipisiesi © GDAOTT

“ey Sy aayo0050
“) puroruy yIneg

GG

** FOIVAA JO YoU
Tt eRe e eee ee eee eeeeee treet aI)

teeters Doay
Sete tee sere ota

ISV

eee ee ey

Tete eeee sees cees eeeees gar oSULY

eee ee rete tees oeeeee’* POOM-[IAIG
‘AALIO

teem eereraee

seeees vivg BIdI00n

teeeeeeeeers cers 99.17 doupmoug IO
Ween eee ee sweeter rsggay taq-oALIS

“*** yeHNs osi0oy ‘A Jo ‘eal-yoamg

.

eee eeeeeree seeeeeptoung AJIATS

** plyoung Aisny

teeeeseosoes OUTyoNgG UlayMog
‘VITaNag

Ween ee ees see neers eesennag unIpur
‘Vd 1VLVO

Peete eeeeee eres eeeeee rommmisiod
“KNOG

Feet ee ee steers ee eeee erpOTIOMLYy
*XT1IOL]

Deb e eben te ee tenet engi Toi0g
‘dooa-unog

Fete eee eeeeee seeeeeergmare nay

seeeesseseeusng-o9ng ‘poonuoody
* TayaAv'] NIVLNOAO

teeeeeeees sees NOOMUOI] VUT[OIEY

see e ee eee e tere Seree BUND PIUM >
*KUUAd-dvog

*pataq poy
Poe ee eee ee ee ee tuayinog

sr selelelsia € sielsis'e esieryeeny

‘prpojronqures
“Cog Muyofipunpinl) *cyoug ‘s1piata
‘Cryo ‘psojuauto7) “-ywany ‘suaosaqnd
‘*Cayoug ‘ntazdida) “uury Seuvodaewe
*uUAnoy ‘SONIXVUT

ee ee

*UuUrT SVOIUIBITA
‘UuurT ‘SQHLINVNOIHD

seer eee e eee eres I 1117 Ue ‘euvotIduis
"UsNOT, “VAIO

eee

teeeveenuog ‘suaqnd
‘ayo ‘V¥RANHONIG

teeeeeeeeeeereeeee seeeees er SprodIp
Stee ee eens ne eeesceeees suns Spraydeiay
‘sul ‘VASAIV]T

Cayoupy ‘uury ‘vadopy) ‘sary ,'7 “et0joUN
‘hope ‘S0001dNAG

See eeeeeeeeeereeereseesenn 44 ExpHal

sieielsieieisis Je ‘''*stag Sesoulsnury

seer ee eenee peereee LauraDy ‘saprorody
‘zyapang SvIIaNaAg

reeeeeeeeeeecceres sen 44 Ssaprolmousiq
*doog ‘VAIVLYO

Pee eee eee ee) uur'y *QUDLUISITA
‘uurTy ‘sOuxdsol(y

sees ee eneeee steerer serene vont “pando
"uuryT ‘xa

“t** (uury ‘ppauoupuR) “od ‘umazoqie
. ‘Od ‘NOUGNAIGAXGO

sieieieivivioinis\eveieia's'eis e/eie's 9 S717 CN UX BOL
‘uury ‘NOUCNAGOGOHY

ee ee uUurT ‘vO}ne]
‘uUurT SVIKIVY

teee eens sence eeesee sane BIOTIMIIRI
UuUT SVITIUAD

eee teen ew eenee SOS Lyi | ‘snqeuisieur
uuT ‘SOaNIdVg

sereseeveseeeeees senor SEyRded "IVA
Ceyayy Soynquampunss S490 44 “VIOyyUN +

aN sso °0v

b

a

=z
5°

eé

0€

6G

q
FORESTS AND TREES OF NORTH AMERICA.

254

“oro
IV

“oro

‘oO

*NNADL

*SSITT
“SSIPL
uUa,L

é *88TIAl

“SSI
*SSTIAT
‘OHO
"epg
“olyuo

uUdL

"avo

mae)
‘OIHO

‘gouepunqe
4Sa1wvais JO UOLsaY

"xo, LSsldquity, SSOID

oolxajy Sesoy viueg
SBXOJ, ‘ADAM S[IAO(T

veeeee seers  OOIXOTA

Hemera wees tere eeeeee

ween eaene ‘pubisino'T
xO, [ ‘S19qQUiL, S801

beee re orer ee eeee ones

“sUxa,L, ‘9A 8000g
sereyay ‘ssUd 9[oug
‘xay, ‘sjayunvig MON
‘xog ‘sfojunvig MoN

wee

"KOT, OAL SUSIPIOA

Pee CCUG ISILON

1ddisstsst Ay
seereereeggssauuaL

"MES 9U) 01 oFury

PMOTSIOATI XNOTY SIG

om Soo UlpyuRlg [PMOT “OAT XNOIS SI

*JOATI LNOS
“SII FG ofG “IVT

“*"qON Sood WO"
st eeee sees es repyay,

seer tees eee ceeetene

BAO] “SYN _ [ouND,

eeeerroes Ayonquo yy

+ © spUT[OIVD UVION
“' By Jo sUIeIUNO!A

seeeeeeeee semiaioay
seeere seve **R1d1009

‘ery fsayoo}yoRN

: i VISION

re ee ey

arenes

‘iy IoAl sesuvyly [sexo Soluoiuy urg

‘OW SureyUNOy Wor]
JI, ALL UBAMOTDIVYSVY
OAM UBMIYOIVYSEg
“CaN ‘adlatd 10,7

“uvy SI9AL SRSUL YT

seve eeeree srMOssIT]

‘MN OU} 03 oSury

eeeeee seee*piSIOOx)

Fee we ee ee oeeaeeeeee

"*' ey JO sulEjUuNO]
eeeeee eee eep15 lOO

*** py JO SUTLJUNOW

severe seseeeonuonyT

teeeeevers senrFioax)
sere reese we eeeee olgo

‘AS Of 0} o5uLy

“sce OUT 7 Uy
tebe enero QUID TA]

ODOODONY Fy; ‘puelwog
DOGG OCI 17 \ ceumog

“oy ‘Ajunoo sadsee

CO ee a) "yy SIOATI SusuRyIV

seeeeeoe ere STOUT]
SOCDOGUOORI TCL ty,"

seeeeepa SBuITOOUAL

ceeercees sSeSUBHIV
“ea fAuN0D MO]
VA Sure[dureyo aye
A‘ OISAL UISSBISSIT
eoenee ‘SSUy ‘yoneN

‘HN ‘yNoUrs}I0g

“19d ‘08 $8 IVT

eeceee sees PTUIITA
eeeeeeeses ULSITOTIAL

"MN 9} 07 oSuny

0g
OL

*qooy UL TYSON

"Inu [IO IO Aon

*LON'TV AA
‘9044
-aunjg 6y20a9-LajDA{ POOM-uOMNg
‘AUONVOAS

tees eee eeeeeeseseenoy UBOIIOUY
i *KUUAGTALY

reese eeeeee os eeueeseso300I0 asesoQ
"dOOM-DILSAT

Bees ee ee e Sewer eeeee tees ewes eens

**A1laq-yory woyinog ‘yse dooyy
seeeeeees Kyraqg-iveng ‘Aioq You
‘ADUL-ATLL YN

se eeeeeooreeereers ones oat Jourl[d

Cee eeeeeeeeeen seen se DgABaL-HOMT,

*AyIOQ WIDYINOG IO OOY-BY AA

terecescees KIO) WIIYWON

sr eeee*Sutdooig JO OI AA

ee ees e reer seers eeee poy Io Araddyg
WI

toes cence evevesesescose CpIIpSSED

*

teeeeees Kog poy JO Ivdg 10jeVSTV

seeeeeecee reeves cece sees sDUTOIe)

seseeeeeedcovseoeevooees eves one

‘HSV

‘que Ivjyndog

‘panuryu0g—seamunozy Aysoar ayy fo ysna suoboy—y

*
Seem cere cr en ecseesenes “uwury “elBit
tees Cayo “no1wvyqD2) “wT “paloUuld
‘uy ‘SNVIDOL

eee ee eee ee owes 8° eT ‘st]/Byuapioo0
‘UUT SSONVLVITG

Oe I 1) i la *piqni
‘UINOL ‘SAXOW

ere eee eee ee eeee s99 92a AT ‘ponnuemne
“qnNT SVUDIOVIN

seaman SeoyUsaIUT 2 IBA
OO ee "9807 ‘stsualddigstsstur
Heeeeeeeeeeeeenseees suuiy ‘stTR]Uaploo0
‘udNoy, ‘SILTAD

‘Cryo Spyofimn) “jawy Seonenbe
“yauty ‘VUANVIg

“+ (ganar Snondo *.ma) *4ynaz “eT[OJISse.1O

teeeeeeees(un 44 Snyuund) “xyorp “uyere

BOORODOOCOORIOUCCIOMIIOTs 7101) yp ‘psoula0Rl

SO OURDODIUOC OA OCOO OOOO TT I ‘vuRolowe

(ff oayoiny “oagna) “ayoiny ‘Baty
‘uury ‘SONI

eee torr eee beens eeeese SIONT ‘si[euIDWyo
"sayy SSVUAVSSVG

Cayo
o1p9 sninnyT) “saayr ‘SsISUAUT[OILO
‘sauz4any ‘VASUdg
see eee rere eee ee teow yoy ‘edivo dyed
ee ee ee *PYOUAT ‘eyeynsuvipend
‘UdnNOy, *SONIXVUT
*QUIVU [ROTULIO T
~
2

INyYooT Oe
255

FORESTS AND TREES OF NORTH AMERICA.

‘Uud,L,
‘tpo

‘XOL
fguimoqpryg 04
eeee Soci TAT .

éuuay, |xay ‘sfayuneagd MON

guuay, |xag ‘s

euly
cB tye)

UU,

STI
uv”

uudL,
é1vp

*uUdT,
“UUaAL
é01lO
é SSIIAT

é SSI

2 uuay,
“IV

é 0140

é ‘SSITAl
“una,

“LUO
2 ‘SST
“OI
“uu,
IW
"SSI

uneig MoN
. ylVv ‘

yy oo

sees

eee

eeeee

‘*xay, Sotuoimy ung

tees eeeess spsunyIy [ott

xoy, ‘sjajuntig MON
Fete eeee es SUSUR
"yl SqoAL
svsuryly Jo peoH{
Cte ee eeees? ora Al

|**xag, “sur IySTUTyy
yay fund wno0d
“UU, Saf IAXOUy
ses s,eisisie* ONIETSINON,

veeeeees* DITPISINO'T

xoy, ‘s19quiny, SS019
xox, ‘slaquulp, SSo1Q,
‘XO.L

‘IaAU eqeg uRBg

cseeer Sspsnolado
y ‘

xa L'sjasunvig MaN
‘yay ‘IAAL BITYSB AA
ese **BURISINO'T
2 VUBISINO'T

eeeee ee . évurismo'y
‘XO, “AP Olpad ug

wee

see TINOSSTT
JOA URMOTPIVYSVS
UMOT OAL XNOIS SIG
seeeeees ONT [pee
VMOTIOATI XNOIS SIT
sees coe OW ‘

(‘4.to°€ pun-u fo-qhy)
see ees LIMOSSITAL
seers STOUT]

seen

seer

Sea be ewee retorts

Pe

seem rseree sere er eeees reese py SsureqUnoyy
* UpHoly

XOZ°Y9010 UO ArT

IIA TTY oYVUSyoe lA

ores? *TINOSSITAL

*** UISHOOSTAL

«sees LNOSSIA
*

IOAI URMOTYOILYSeY
sees eee UISUOOSTAL

**qan ‘uoluog Woy

LEO OOO mere eeeenesene

bese eeeeeesrmossiTy
“ow Soo ulpyuray

"+ * 993 LINOSSIIAL
“LIMOSSTIAL
+) TNOSSIIA
*e*-TIMOSSIIA
. eevee BMT

ODOC Fi
OCP OOOOD IE 9 Ra

Sipiae/sisia's a7 xy)

arate}
“(iy pun ‘wu fo -gfy)

paqurod ajjst.g pun SaLua ‘yz00uUs sand)

sreeeng SSUIDIUNO]

se erary & sy ———
vy “sii ——

‘yeuurUtg

"** VUT[OIBD YON
Heese eprol ay

oe seers JOSNIPOUSsVyy
tee eg Svaqany

see q ae) if
‘ssey SU0IsOg

** oy SAlUNOD YAOA

te een SUMO UII[V

sewers “ny “usnsny
‘ong ‘niydpoperyd
fN Sumo qlo[[y
“BA SpuoUryoRy

seuTpPorry Neg
sree eprfioay |* XN Spuvist Suo'T

see*foslog¢ MIN
seep SH[OJION

0G
09

0S
OF

seeeuseesecerreseees Gumpag §ulg
“usayp4ony § ALVIN

eepoy
ss qapieog
settee eeeeeeceeees Suahice $ MORTET
eee eeee roses veeeeenay $ ystundg

eee

se eeeee

eeeeaeeeewe &

*paqurod ap7si.tq ‘paqo) fiydaap saanay fsyno pay pun yong *¢ §

see e ere eee eee

teeeg poy
* S$ UIRIyVg
ceees ong ‘youlyoulgd
Feet ee eeeeee ee reergID AL

£syno paang, ynyz, “fy §

eeeee **** AOTITAA purldQ
#9:9:00) 00.9050 9980 AA OTITAA

youlyourg §[oiney
beteeees eres QAIrT

‘quapsissad pun waaLe.tada ‘a.4qUa saana] FsyVO NOIIM pun 8yYDO BAIT °F §

* ey ‘spurysiy
“RIsd0OKy
****EpUOL] Ulaysuq

“erly “UW sUloL Ig

ve ee ee ee ee ee npTOLT
epg ‘peraavuryg adep

sees ** VIUISITA

emg

**+ omysdutepy MON | 09
510599) ) TA ‘ooug 08

“HEN ‘qinoutsiog

OP

“va ‘erydjapurdd | OF

“Fuysny yaams susoop £ pago) ou yng pay}00}g saan) £ BDO nUPSIYD °G §

* *'BUTTOIvD WION
TU

“prvAOUlLA S. BYE

106 o9h “IU'T

BOUCHE i STOAOd

08

0c
oor

OL

*qnujssyO Yooy
NUsIyD) MO[[IA
eee e reece neers ssis/< ONT ONAAI duemg
te ee eeeeeesovoes MNINSIUO dwvas

“OTITAL IO
4sod-duiemg ‘dno1a0 wang

seeeeeeeseeers® oiT Io ‘xog “sod
ers OTTAL

ee ee

ste e wees sececcoeree (NOIZAQ fing
‘avo

‘paqurod dinys 40 Ryyorud you yng paqo) saanaz fsyno any AL “1 2

Peewee reer ee nee eree

vesooecoee soprgioay
“ty JO SUIvINNO
Ory LIBLOaN
eeteee *R151004)
weer ooeeee ep TTIOor
ny) JO SUIRIUNO

jc 08

SuowdVYD
reseed a “uo ysulpANg
H'N ‘yinomsi10g
** + eprupalAsuuad
‘THN Suinoutsyio0od
teen Sproysuudg
FN ‘yjnouts}10g

¢
OF
08
0S
GL
08
06

wee ro eeee Scie SAT SoU LASINO'T 269

seeees sees Sour
+ -dureMg 10 11g
* woorg 10 INU-T_
tener eeeTaID AL
so seco canu-JIyIO]
*. ylUq-9us YOULL
teereeeesing-]fous
sects teeeeee eres mu-uvoad
*AUOMOMT

ee

teeeeeeeeees roar ng Seruisnqed
a ‘xyoug *styBatog 2 AA
se cooscerauerT “BIqnt
seees Sup yy Svauloo00
*-un.ying *e110joUnN
seeeees uo Seyeoley

soeesgnar SouRal ZIvA
sesee seenuomnr SetAydoraioy 2 ava
seeees (ayo ‘nauinssa/) Suury Sean
teeerereceseeeseeees efosgipg SonENbdU

soe eer eeeeeeeeree "t+ nyo SRaIOUTO
eeeeeneeeeecscsoocroress air Ssorayu

seeseesouone SRLROLIqutl
Yu “elavor :
sete eeeeeeeeeee® won ‘SUaIIA

|(uury ‘punjuom)xyoizg ‘VjOOWUOUT 7 .1VA
[+ (xyouy Sngnurunsn) ‘pris, SRouRIsvD
“(mrad $0020019) “-eyouy SAO[OOSIP 2 1vA
se (cyou ‘sugsnjod) “praia ‘souyd

seeeeeceeseeseeeeeeseeees uot ‘BInIsy

itt (pprnad <ynqjays) “@youpy Seqoyisniqo

sseuury Seqiu
Capy ‘site

-Lofanayo pun} Sayouy ‘SudivooiovUt

‘uury fsaougay

. ** ayo SsturojRonsuAU 2 IBA
vee teeeeeeee cee se senmar SRIBUIR
seeeeese(oomar nursod) ‘ator Seiquys
++ Cayo Spoynnbp) ‘-yynar SedavoorxOIML
ress seescqmnar R80] UNIO}
ses*Cayory Ssotuion2) © 97mAr SeIVOINS
seeseee(soyauy ‘psompnhs) ‘yma Seq{e
OTIC IIE ICH IS 79 4g *STULLOJAAT[O
“gyn SVAUVO

SRePsae

of

uU

“ox Gae e

SK

P

8S 03 ON oe

Q
wo
FORESTS AND TREES OF NORTH AMERICA.

256

uvO
“qeuyy
uaa
‘mY
éuiy

‘11yV
‘vao
NIV
“quiny
LLY

“epo

‘po

“1ud,L
a Ye)

‘SSI

Zuudy,

‘aourpunqge
198%

4so}¥vaI5 JO 10

see eee esee esas coeeer

"ZIV
OpRIo[oD é

STOATL
\L'OS s}ul opeaseg :

ste8 Sees UISUODSTAA

eee ee Sere esos eseene

ve ee +0003 UISUOOSTAL
seers ees gassouua,L,

“VDA oQh IVT Z
“ON ‘SIEM HORTA é

“yay “star Tysrury
_ Aneateeionctn a praca

DOCODOO GOOG: :> «14
ereeees sUTSUOOSTAL

XO.L ‘S1aquiry, SSorg
*1ddississt fy
WoyWoON JO s{(tH

"MS OUi 01 asULYy

Fe eeaseeeseeeeeeeeeepesense soeses vpuoLy

‘IOALT 8, 01Z

veeesBUl[OIvD YUON

-uayor S19 Ge} fe ALQHOO OBO. A000 eiaroie{ piaisie) sisieivi8I8) 4 TT OUITONAL
a a DODO OGIO} Fit ets} 9)

“‘punos s,anqazloy é
“IOALL 8, O1Z
uayory ‘089 “IRI

seeeeseseseeee

‘rouedng
aye'y jo pua weg

++++ -EOSSTIT
"IOALL S,O1Z
udyovyl ‘.69 “IVT

eee.

seeee Sodiuray OYL'T

seeeeosrM SXIOID 49

-eeeeeeees srMOSSI
“sees BodIUuiMy ayv'T]

“xy ‘Ayunod Allad

teeeee esos sTMOSSITY

"MN 2M} 03 o5uLy

‘ourysd ae py
MON JO SuUILIUNO|

‘fee's ]TISNTOVSSe IAL

re

-1004) JO SUTRIUNOTW
*eruvalAs

-uua g Jo sureyunoW
"RID

-1090 JO SUTLIUNOW
*BLUIS

-ITA JO SUIvIUNO[
“BIULS

-IIA JO suIejuNoy

voee senses sont81099

OUD OOOO ith (ols 59)

‘ela
-109 JO SUIRIUNO|
teers NUvIST BPOUY

teen eee eeees apa LT
‘eID
-1004) JO SulBIUNOJ

‘HS oy} 0} asuvy

seeceeoese WIOUMOA

DODO CODODATDODR (i cha |

*** auiqysdurny, MON

seeese- BONG LAON
“ 'yOIMSUNIG MAN

‘s}igsnyo

-USSeIY  UsOUION

te eeee eeeeeeeeraury

"**MOIMsUNIg: MON
‘e*MOIMSUNIG ALON
***yOIMSUNIg AON

teeeeeee fostae MON
***MOIMSUTIgG MON

seeees cTUBALASUUA

‘sor $Ajuno0o yIOA

“IN OU) 0} o8uvy

OP

08

0eL
06

OF
08

“Joos UI ISON

(yon

seereereeeeseseesseengzana, humog | -omyg ‘sadi#uo) “ourg ‘usoljtaqus

teee sinig Wieleieies 946407] 2LOAT fsamys

seer eeeeeee * uLayynog $yovig
"MOTTIIM

Teeeevevece see *TIMTUNOT $usa19

Pee e rere eee eee oeeeee sees paryoadg
‘waaly

seoceecove yourg §AOYD £108Mg
Veta eee eee tenons sees eee MOTTA

rete ee aeeeseeeeesesserrgaryT f pay

tree seeeeeerresseesegoung Siadeg

seeee

teeeeeeeeesenaypig S$ att{Ah
"HOU

se ee ners cece sseseessenooM JOAIT
‘NVAGNUOH-dOPT

seers eeeerrgaag ang ‘pooa Uol]
‘WVAENUOH

CO ‘urayInog SOMU AA
: ogg0ne * “WlaqWON ‘poy
‘mosag

se eeee reer oeeses ‘reeesurdenburyp

See eee reeree seeees erp OTOUY
*LANLSIHO

‘aureu aepndog

*ponuyyuog—surmjunou fiyooy oy, fo jsna suotbay—"Vy

eee ee a eeeeeceeeee coovees ononT SEpTONt

tres (xyouy “omnysnsi7)

¢

1mysoyy Seis
‘UINOT, *XVIVE

seeeeseeee (nyo Sndsiio) “OQ *q ‘SIpUtA

seeeeses (nyo ‘ponnis) *prusy ‘BueoUt

‘uno ‘SONTY

“(ayo tv Snyofiundsns) “wury ‘eyuay

seeeesess (oyompr ‘pagn)) ‘uot “esjaoxe

eo (cyouy ‘pLgn.t) Utley ‘eS

‘paafisidnd)

‘wou

Cayo
SpaovsiAded

eee eee ee uony ‘erpoytndod

‘udnoy SVIAdaAg

teeeteseeeeeceeees seen sn 44 SROTUTBITA

“yayoug ‘VAULSE

thee eeeeee nero essere sont RUBIIOUIL

‘uUulTy ‘SONIDUVY

seeeeeneee & se DUT ‘stsaaAs ZARA

seeeees von vaulsnIday

‘UINOT, ‘SODVA

eee eee ee ayo ‘vjtuind

eee. ereee ODOODDIDOORION TI Eig ¢ uRolemy

‘UINOL, SVANVLSVO

‘aurLU [voluLIog
257

FORESTS AND TREES OF NORTH AMERICA.

"uvO

cuo3sy

‘quuyly

6 uosTy
“qryly
‘Epo

11V
"qeyiy

*tpo

7g)
“SSI
IeO
éllV

éuuay,
nie)

"lly
IV
"quiyty

ellv
‘quiny
"SSIIA]
‘o1O

NoLSaM

¢ “ACO
"uOa[Y

“mY

*sRxOL
‘ssegq S.nvepiqnoy

**xar ‘laalr oprieg

Seen e ee eeree eres

TereSTAL XTOID “IS

"eM STAA SXIOIQ “18

ORG “ILL “su AYOOYE
"ON ‘SIH MOV
icicles °ATTRUOOST AL

ee eee eee eee

“sTAA SOOMOTTULTY

"STAA ‘S[[Bq XI0IN “1g

teeeeeee smuvIsINoy
seeeeespxag, ‘usny

ee

“yy STU TSTULyy

‘ MIV “SUL IYSTUTyy
The STAN SXIOLD FS

sores spUreqrly

set eee wee

“L'M “Al uvyodg ;

teres Koma y
+898" TISUOOSTAL
*xaL ‘siaquiny, ss019
“** JOAU MEsURyIy:

“TAN Seu 10,7
tee esses BavIsINOrT
' BMOT
F ‘W'N

*s]UL OOSTOURAY Ug

“ATL YOUW foL9 BT
seeeeeeeeeee stounty
Heese teens cont
“ALL yIEg ‘po INT

*IOAU
"MOUNT 08 -L9 IVT

“ATI YORI 629 “Te'T
“AI YOUW £,89 IVT
“euy SIOATI BYIIG 2

Eee ewe meee errant eeee

wy “Ag
“ALM "YOU * tg ‘IVT

sees sBadturag oyv'y
teeeeeee spuDISIOrT

sees esusuUMIV

er ay

qaN SSIITH Mov

sees sees ony spaqaNte
WY INS 08 09G IVT

seee eves: SOSSOUUIL
* “ASE SHOTIDNIA
“Uy ‘Wd fo pg ‘IUV'T

“*** UU “6b IVT
“WY ‘SSI ‘6,69 1e'T
**** OW 2 o][[Aou0Og
Hees eee ee SDIGaN 2

"JOT AA SoG 287

ose eee eee SOUT

. “- -

‘uy
uvissny ‘opg ‘3U'y

sree eeeecres epTIOLT
SOC OCESOTIE ES 6 (0) 5
tree ony Cnsniny

‘*'RA JO SUIvJUNLTY

“RA JO sUTEIUNO]Y

“DA Jo SUIe]UNO
beta te nese tonerenes
‘By Jo suIeIUNO
“ed ‘ulrjunoW auolg

‘uuod Jo sulnjunoy

*** By Jo sulvjuNo

Co

“epuoly
sraisiekelere 908s SN TTOl

ee ee ee er ery

** By Jo SUITIUNOTY

rete tees eeeepnuong
“sudad 608 olh WT

By ‘uIeJUNOU aUOIg
soeeseoe pI TI08x)

** oN ‘SIH YoU

eres ee Kasrap MAN
*** grysduiepy MON
ee **BLaloay
oo8.)sisies22 OTT HATA

eee eee ee ee ey

‘ayy SI9ATI Do qauua yf

"* "19. 0 o8E "IVT

DDO SODMOCIR II Lf 61)

ttt eeee sees rapry

. IQUE Caf af *5e9 ‘wT

Feet sees eeeeeeranry
tee eee wees ecaery
‘yoog ‘Avg §,uospnyy

‘uulad Jo surejunoyy

tet teseeesees san

“"°°O ‘10S Bh 381

eeee "e* BA SHIOJION
“py SAiunod [1009
“ spurfolNg YNog
‘OW ‘9A JOOSqoUId

see osqasntorsse a
teeter g Cop der
a , "BA
‘asp anig ‘Re IVT
"++ sKasiaf MON

*e*** DUR/PUNOJ MAN,
“'Ssuyq STAAL ‘UUOD
"eV VAL OISOOT]

eee ee ee

steseeeeees nifioan [reer sree sees quien

“*By JO sulejUnOy 2

Teen eeeeeeesreseess

‘ullad “aisayoisa AA |****yoIMeunag MON

0g

OoL

08

0s

i

eeeee eeeeeyodiune 10 ‘pay poy
“ddd Inae

Tete cere ee ee ee eee epOTIOULY
*SSAUdAQ GIVG

cctadwune ,, “Iepag aii A, Wrayinog
*sSdUdAQ

seeeeeees Ippag at AA UWayION
‘SVLIA WOU

sooecoes OnIBUIyORET § YOBIVUIT,
"HOUVIT

PODCOOROGEOO OOM DOOREy Fitts: £ Olly AA
SSS Csiviol eisiveieisice eo TOC. « Ould
Ce oo Wea yy

soeeeoeoee sconce urpsiug Wang,

seeeee sees seeeseuipsipg UBOOUy
‘Uy fgoaudg

Stee ee seeeereees eer AA ULOULON

woolg SpaAva|-SuoTy SpdITq UI ING
teres any 4 S PlayPIO * ATIOLQO'T |
teen eeee este ereete ones QUIT UO

Veet ages eeeeeeeeeeouantg ULaITION

ss esiaais ese ve ss\8 8s 8 pO s MOTION
pies aisle sieie Rieke ses sit RD MWONT sss DAN |
|
se seee reese s00° SeoorB UNO OldeL
reeeserereneesoores oning ffastar
16'S F Ne 8.6 Sinie WON see N LOCA LIX)

‘ANI
bee seeeeeeees seeenpoiry jo ule
seeeees onununony ‘re(dod wes[Ug
ues poomuonog wWayinos

Peete ree eese eee sees er UDIDRUUS
"SSING ¢, WHMIS
-U4 5, SpoomMUOnNog  UloyUON
ee paaval[-AUMOd
Fema ee wesw ne eeee seeeessuadsy Yos

Pee meme eee tee ‘uadsy uLvdyTeuy
suvIdog

eevee cote encees * vielen soar “euRTUTaITA

‘uurTy ‘sauadinoag

Toes ee eee eens teas eens snag ar “umuyonsip

‘yoy ‘WAIGOXVY,

HCPC oor eeerese eres nenees uurT ‘saprodyy

‘ulnoy ‘sassaudag

PROC ee eens ee eere ses ‘WUT ‘st[p1UapII00

‘UNOL, SVrOHL

; (‘uopE ‘snynpuad
‘qunTy ‘ndinoo.onu) “ayo euRoUaUIe

‘UNO, SXTUV'T

Stee ee cess censor sees srvoinr eqn
"tess (Qraquuny Snugns) Suog Seastu
eee e cece ee enee cscs “your ‘sisuapeuro
; CT ‘9
Id “rye ‘Msafimnsjng) “ysing ‘aasely

te ee esses eeseesseveeqoinnr ‘RaUIRs[Eq

UNO, ‘SAlay

sere eeeeeeeeeeeeseeneenes uur Ssngons

"sf ULSaAROT ‘¢ §
steees(ouongr ‘syp.qsnn) “wury ‘suisnyjed
eee enews soeeecocecaneT “epee
xyog SVUNOIIS FARA

eee meee m were e ee wenn * Lag ‘epi

‘S.@ UL saALaT *% §
srereee(using ‘syrgrrima) “ayo ‘srtul
secesees (cya ‘piqn.t) Suoguge ‘esoulset

eee eee ee Foes Soin ‘suoSund
ee ee ee ee uoju ‘sdour
“e+ (vy ‘s2.4sadn} “quyT ‘euvisyurq

‘S.G ULSaAvaT *T §

‘ULnoy, ‘SONIg

ee ryouy ‘sueotpuro eta
sereseeessunuey SBrasrUUsyeq
eee ewww * uo ‘eyepnsur

see cyan SsIsuapeUuvd gAeA

ey ores suonT ‘prajtjuour
“(xy Spaquatun) “uury ‘eyAydoss19y
sete te ee eeeeee sees cuoinr ‘ele]UapIpUuBss

Heater een eeee vivisisie VOTH ‘saproynulan

‘uinay, ‘saTadodg
FORESTS AND TREES OF NORTH AMERICA.

258

re be)

{UONNA
ost AA
"1003

“B10,
"D010

"ZV
“1kD

wie)

"ZY

"tld
‘VII
2 uOs[y

‘qeipy

*osouepunqe
48a] 8015 Jo UOLbaY

}
|

eewareee “RUULLOJ TLD

seeeswrrven

LO “SIN apRostg
‘L'A von T JO sways

seer en re rece Onno rere

eo Seieqieg Burg

Pewee ese eeesceseses

+e *1ug ‘ofaig urg

tesserae fopatg ueg

(OOD OHOOUOSOORT SEH

sinieisicieie ess OOIKOiE

Fee eee ere eereseseer

eeeeee Sot ‘oseoryp

‘L'O
‘surejUNOw aperosed

"MS Ot) 0} asuny

‘WN “AAU Opes0jop

TERR meee eee e eens reas

|

eevee sete eee aeeeee

}
Ce Ce i ey

“ ROLIOUy URISSNY
‘ BOLlaWYy ULISSNy

"WN ‘yaor0 redme x

ere ee

seeering SAara UO

** susury ‘ge eT 2

sexo, ‘o1uojUy ueg

eeeeeeeeeeeroneerese

“ALL 'YSUS ‘LFS ‘1eT

“ALOR S019 VT

"MN 2) 0} sauey

‘xOL

Ssjayunviy, = MANY

"100 “WW £09 WT

“uni aA vag]

“STUDY "yRod ,powlUs
*BIUIOS

118) JO SUTBIUNO LAT

"12D JO"SIW ‘Eh IVT

eo

QOOROO Ds Gy fi ‘eiouog

Oe

“vt SHOAL ABOg

teeeceeeseosssnyay,
**1eQ ‘Bulprey Mog

OO co

206
206
é08
OF
06

eevee

06

sero ere means ones oeee teeexag, ‘sseg a[aeq cl

tres eseeerer tgp LOW UBMUIOF[UL
‘ATAYN GAAVaT HSY

Fee ee ere eeeeeeeees NQABIT-YOION
betes eeeeeeeeee eee nQALAL-DUILL
*''* DaAval-ooulg

sewer eee e ens

***OUIA $ paABal-punoyy
seeeeeecoroororTUA §PaABal-asiB']
"aTa VIAL

Pele siaje\eieieie\sis\ejs/s)siesieeive ee MTtIOZTILY,

see e coos coves rece soos HBTUIOI [ED
“ANIATA VU)

CPPS OM HH Mose ee eee eee E HHH EEEH OD

se eeeeeeeees coos seeeengnual-TEug

‘HovNag

“oyrang ay} 07 pAnaysen pun sumpunow, yoo ayn fo suorbayy—*q

SIL 3) 0) 6 (0) 0

ererg Sarqug adeg

eee ee eee eeeevereses

** *BA Jo SUILIUNO}Y

eee Sy asnORsse]

‘AS oy) 0} osuey

“9 'q ‘uouryse A

‘O'N ‘suueney odeg

|
RIL 4) 60) 0 |

“++ © nUR;pUNOJMaN

teases eres cere rqEry

‘AN 91) 01 osury

sé

06

*JaoJ UL IYSIOY

Come eee eee eesreeese rere “query |

‘ANVO

lene eeeree sees ceeeesoees onoueg
‘WIVg-aNOQ0uUD

seSeceeevers BNO £ paaval-MaQ
*VAAUUOT,

Ve eeeeeeeeeeeers yOQTutap punosy
“MOK

eee Peer eee a wet eee STON
*uadINoP

sauugu avpndog

*‘ponurjuog—sumunou hyooy oyp fo psvo suoboy——Y

Hevesnereeceeeseserse tur ST OLUIOW[RD 4
‘youaopy ‘OM@NADAN | {{
seeeee cere eeecse senna SUMP UapIPUBIS L
Cr ee) ee) NN Suninied iy ¢
tester tgusoy SUIMIguys y
° sree susing SumMivutad9 a
Seeeenceccev creases ing ® win |[Aydosovur f
*yousoyy “UAW | OF
BOCCICOUCOOOONOODOOOOUry Erk rsd bite Teh ay di
vin)ie/e:olsleisiaieieisieie aie siecle gage OlION HD a
| ‘uumT ‘SILIA | 6
Ibsraisiateteerale(eictavors\esiors se eepUury ‘eljoynnqie
“7pury ‘VINILOHY | FL
tteeeeeererevereoe sm sucr Sei[AydoIoIUl iG
ruury ‘sany | 9 2
sence eneree sreees QUOI ‘puiradsolovul |
“ceyoyy *VIMVNIGNAUY ZL

|eevererteacveseserves “wary Soyaured

‘LUpT ‘SdOUTVNVND | TL
FOROUIODOT SOOOCOOOL UOOLL HIT) + SBI[ojIxe)

| *0uULy *VAANUOT,

}

(uury j*0na yn9909)**pLAL ‘a[sUapeUuBD
‘udnoy ‘SAX¥T,

{eis sisloreressieiesieis eis tie se uUrT ‘squnultuoo
“uury § SOuUad INO

i = ow $$$

*auluU [ROIUBIOg

‘ow Slaquiny | o*
259

FORESTS AND TREES OF NORTIT AMERICA,

Mize)
23010

he)

‘SIO

Fa be)

mize)
PAS 6
*DaAUO

21004
2 UOyN

ri 8 £4)
2 °ZUy
é1e9
‘Z1NY
‘ZU
{ZV
"unny
ACh s

Ataf

2zuy

*71EY

mre)
"DANO

pA

See eee see eeeeeeeente

‘Teg ‘AaraUO]Y
“e8*"IRg SosaIqg urs

eee

sereg ‘adiyaq urg

sereriag ‘odaIq uvg
*RIUIOJTIVD ‘ce “IeT

eee eee as

LO CAM ava]

seeeerpy SosaIq ues
shee eee eet ereeeree
|

ee ee

“1S BIMLIOJT[BO TOMO'T

sewer “xoy ‘e1ouog

OOO <1 ‘e1ouog

"18D 6.08 ‘IUT

eeeeee

ee eeeeree

“ULV 'SSNY 2 BYDIG
“TM StuoOoR[Ia1g

‘uly ‘ssny °oL¢ "IVT

stew e eee Teste errors

“TEAL SuroooRyIaig
“[RO Seieqivg Blues
veehee ees uty essmyy

ee

[eg Soostoursy ueg

I 'N ‘UoB.1A Ory

‘yeO au oUaUIRIORg

sts et eeeesevcceceseceloeseres yey §SU50A

"TT NT “SIL AIstOg

ee ee

eee ee

ee eee eee

See ww enone UE 7s 'N ‘TUN,

ee Ree ew ee w eee eeee

ee

‘TA ‘punog ey100N

es opee “op?***

‘eos youl s, playng ee ee ey 0G

‘ye ‘y.49 vsoy Burg
srreg “VAM EQNA

SOOO GF ¥0) ‘p10u0s

WON CALL SUTPTIITAL
Salas) |g WH OY UA} ES

"ZO ‘ssed yinog:

ee er

leveveevevevsvecseses

steers *xOW SoUTTeS

[reeeee ereeee sapere

sere sseree ee Ooo

Cr

Lee ee wee e news

Cee eeearee

“xayz fayorg dug
“L’O ‘daar nouyeg

"vp SAaea ssery

ee ee

ee

L'O Sayryt Wieurepy

Came meee nner ee eee

seeee

ee ey

"* sq 'y S96 ‘TET?

eee eee ey

eee ee

So" XOT, STOATI SO00d

xay, ‘oumnoqpeyyD ‘iW

“TWN ‘vuy eyod

‘Xd, “aa
pe uo ‘96 “suO'T

‘RIOUOS 07 JOAU UTD
“TWN ‘sstd smorg
‘WwW
°N SIOAT (SUIRITITAA
“xXap “ovlsg ouv’y

feee ee sees THAT BIE)

“obE
“UR AaATI SUERTE

seer to 6 oGP ‘ry

eee eee eens

Seem eee meter renee enleeee Seeeeeeeereenes peen eres oonOsTLO, veisieisetr ar) *0F ‘wy

| si oeaees
09

seeeee

seeeee

ee |

|9

0G fypsisteiet

se eeee le tenee

i
|
|
|
|
Jecccccireecoe
{
/
|

ee eeee

0€

°2

“1aNU0Q

be a | 5) uoOsaIO

‘aTddY 40 UVAg

tteeeeerereeereves cere tna

*KaTg

Sete e tweens eeeeees Kaqniys
paaro[-A{loHf
$1680 819°0(918)839.09 SOR 6 8S O ROTC)

*AUUTHD

eee ee IIS 1 Cosi @)
eee ciesie'cicleicie ose *'s'8 STB LIOnT ES

"NYOHLMVPET

te eeeeeeeeere OBIT DITAA 99

*SAHLONVAQ

Wsisis:sisie cies) 6isie cesT TUOZLLU:

“*xudadUvg

ge) sities sieie's's= seer UOIIEL)

‘andad4y

eee ee pod-maiog

‘aati aynbsayy

tr eveeee sees ees eenod-faUOT]

‘oat amnbsaly

eeecccecoos woud SURG
seresamay Fuudg

ee sores MOLOTIG.
*** paul VaAL

‘UVad NIMOY G

siaieie'elnisisivieieleseesisi eM AOUT TT

DOUMDURISCRTE ROCCE SE Rata =

*saLOVS dadany

**uoTaigQ $ pou
*NUOHLWONGT

Ste eee eeeeereaKovong U[UD

“LANLSAHD ASwoR

PeSevusvers VIUAOJT[LD
seeseceeee *nD0MSOD u0da1Q
See eee e eee e eres oo eTZgIE

or eves** *2 eT MTUTORITEC

"suar ‘sifisses

ooemonE “nyyeynU

WAT *SUsosoqnd
UNO], SSAXNUOQ

Pere ew eee ewes anes see

|

[ereesccces oe eee *yanog ‘SLUB[NAIL

{ ‘uuIT ‘saurg

[teeeecenes teeeee sees syausg “eyepsioaqns

| ‘unas, ‘SAaXaud

seers ence enone seeoececgmar “uestitap
Sree cee esses ee ssaar SBOTIOTIL

*eoan0dg ‘syjout

‘upissng ‘saSvVuaD

|
|
|

Cid taad derail eee. qmay SsuRyMArs
Oe eeveesceeeneesesess any SpaUINsUBS
‘UuUurT ‘SADAVLVUO

[thet tee eres eres cee senngerr CnIOYIsIAyy
‘uurT ‘SAHLONVSQ

jisseleiaie'e ioieiehs.cie\esieinisislslvigie GL Anuowasy
| ‘uury ‘slusauag

Sicie el sisisi@ie sins sole. #189 CSO O Ty: ‘st[e]Uapio00

‘UuurT SSIOUAD

ee ay a's = UDIEE) ‘suaasaqnd
"440, ‘V¥dAUVOOANOULS

teeeeeeeereseneoes eeeyior Sesonpaels
"9 q ‘Yidouvoly

|revove tooo esee cpeecccessoscoes conn Siny

* seeecscecseecs fg ‘BOTBDOUILEUE

[Pe eeeececccecooens se eeemstug MAO[OSIq
| Te eeeeneeee cone wesc ‘sUddSaIOQIe
‘UNO, SVILNAIC

see eeeeceuccceseseeees ea sinr agin
[ereeeseseccccs econ rou sure ‘snaqueas
“mpyy ‘saauag

ereeeerelin i) SpoTusojITRO
‘9 eq Seuerysind
‘UNO, VIOONVUT

see eeenteeeee cece soe seq nar (BOTTLLOfED
‘UuYT *SM'IAOSAY

—

"1VO
‘D109

Q°Z1Ny
“IVO

o*z14y

mize)

eZ

"IVD

‘DAYO
“Z1ay

é°211V

‘TeO
a Te)

"1k

‘DINO

FORESTS AND TREES OF NORTH AMERICA.

‘aourpunqe
189} Ba15 JO UOLZOY

260

1e9 “simi OSaTqd uRg
sees ee eees pIMTOgIIRO

eee eeoorxayy MON
ecco sees sDTUIOJ[LO

SOCCUCOCCUOMOT vy taka

cie\sie aielaiel¢0l"  OOIXOT

**BIUOZIY “GE 'IV'T

“RIUOTED ‘te “IVT

wenn “120 Sedun
veeeeexoI ‘BIouog

seeeee exo SuIONOg

[eo ‘slur ofarIq ueg

Steen ee eereerese rene

"1 °¢ “sll st09

*MS 94} 0} osury

“"7eQ SayIAoluMOg,

“purysy s1aAnoouvA

‘WON
“sjur OosIouRIy UVg

see eew tere eens eeoeee

***1e9 ‘sojasuy so'y

“BIUIOJ[VD ‘Gh IVT

“1 '¢ ‘saeg Mo.J

eee meee enters eeenes

“LM
ant Jo simag
AN TALL (SUT TTT AA

eee ee

Se etoptiresessoperes

“LA ‘eon, Jo syreng

“MAAN 2U} 07 osuRyy

ee

Tree seers PTUUOSTRD

eee ee eee eres reesee

seeeeeees BIOIONED

“WN Sopurin ory

“WW'N ‘sorquiiyy ony

‘stxay, “dA s000g

eer ee

His) Seles eles OOTKOTA

‘xa, ‘apuriy
On ay Jo YyNoKW

CO ry

veeeeees eoerOTEO

“t** xa Sepmyrog

see errr reeeeeeesene

‘AS ol) 0} osury

“eNO AU O]uaUILIORY
LM CAM BUTE x
ODOOT Tf ‘N ‘oq wiurg

eo

ee eoee rere eeeeraeere

SIN U SYLVA §.9H!d

“VIMIOJTIED ‘oth IE]

Femme meee twee ee eeee

“WN Sepuriy ory
‘***puiforeg nog:

“TM Staanooun A
**AIOJUIAT, UOTII

seem ee errr eee eeeeee

ee ee ee

‘AN 24} 01 osury

0€

*"Jooy UL IYSIOP]

teeeeereeeresemnuisayg UddIsIAAG

reser ttor Snamnuryoa) “LyFT Selopisuap

“quazsistad 40 Uaasd.taaa £ pay|o0} Lo aliqua saanaT—'syVQ aT *% §

see eee ewer eee sees OU AL UODIIO

seeeceeceoees OU UBOIXOT MON
teee teen eeeeseees ony 44 <SsJsnoyT
*hyyor.ud you ynq ‘payz007

‘uvO

Wena eee eeee reer eneeee® WDTIOZIVY
“LONTV AM

COC eee ewe ream eereeeee UBOTXO TA
“SHONVOAS

seeeeeess CaqyoV], Paavol-Ysnoy

“Gie\olele'eleleleleleielereieiseisesies TONG 55
“AYG NIVLINOOW

POP eee ewe rere were eereee uosa10

ena e eres ones cesses eI PIOZIY
‘HSV
teeeeecceeseooee SINvaIds £ VULO'T
“WITSAWNG

seee ee eee eeonse coeeee MITULZULIL
see e renee renee cere coos MITUIPZULIN
*"AUUAAUVIA

-beeeweeeeee eeeeeTQINe] £ BWOlpRIA
‘aa Alaqaviyg

states seeeee eeeeee* UraISaMION
*jame'y IwaIy

as

‘auieu iejndog

DOGO ODDO OUI OI 50 ‘puvAdies

.

wr ee eee wT, ‘nraquied
eee ewe eee eens seereeeeyyry TISsB[GnOp
pup paqo) saanaT—*s19Q apyAt “1S

uuUVT ‘saoumday

Feveecerreereeereres WSU ‘susadn1
‘uury ‘SsNvIDOoOr

“+ CorLopy Snunowawm) “yynyy SesomaoeRd
‘wUrT ‘SONVLYId

BUCO OUD COCO RECRUIT x0) 1 ‘nynnoner
UMNO, ‘SILIAD

(qynaz Sunsopfionnd wnpyhydourag
£ynyr Spieopnzpaquen) © 9ynpy “Bolo; [vO
"saan ‘ANUd VdOauUO

ee ee ed see aonAT “puoso10
“(sto Snwynaa) “107, Seloyavtovisid
UMNO T, ‘SONIXVUT

Fee eee cece reeeeeserers saa 4 ‘eyourpoal 3
‘zyipmg ‘VIIa Wag

teereseeeeesesereer Sno ‘usoiuaulo}
resets opury ‘voneld
*‘SOTAHAVLSOLOUY

Deveeereeeccorse verses rginy ‘IsaTzZUaut
‘uinoy, ‘SALaqay

Oe Oe 2 ee UUry SUN WIXVUE 2
‘UWT ‘NOUANIGOGONY

ee

‘auIvu [voTURjOg

*ponulyuog—avong ay) 07 pannysam pun sumjunow hyaoey 243 fo suorbay—'
261

FORESTS AND TREES OF NORTH AMERICA,

"1VO

*ysoug
é1V0
e1voO
e1vo

‘3010
‘ZUy
24RD

10031

"1VO

“BIIO
cuoynyA
*BIIO
“ysoug
a ysoug
Pate)

4

‘DIUO

"IV

ACh A
"ZN
aie)
ize)
é"1VO

o'Z1ay
“ZIV

CRN)

seeerreg SfaraUOTAT

seme e twee eee ee ener

Teo “sjur oFarq uvg

Oe ee

sees Ce as

"***ootxayg Selouog
**]RQ ‘IAL aARYOL

‘TWN Saat opesojop

Peewee wree rons eeeeee

sere sereg SAara UOJ
‘WN SIDALI OpRIOlOD
L'O VAM ANOUIRTITAL
LO “Alt viquinjog
oolxayy Senqenquyg

“IRQ ZOZ0Iq ULY
\L‘O

‘aA saiInyuO seq

LO ‘obh Vel SW

SOOO 19) ‘Karo UO

Heesopt ee seeroneses

i129 Soir onaIq utg
seeeeesx or SRIOUOS
[tg “sim oFarg uvg

ee ey

*ss5 sip ‘Lara MOP

seeees xany Serouog

“TAN Ssstq smorg | ‘twoooRlIAIg

seeereg SIDAL EQN
“L'M

Woy

OREO 610) £98 Sista

seee ere

tees reg ‘KaraqUOyy

“L'M‘vong jo sung

"INN Sssuq uoleg
*jeO ‘ssedg §,uOsIvD

** ROTIOULY ULISSNY

Caer eee ee weer ee sees

SE ICICES aLY aye, ysvog
sieisiejecsisreisise 2050) yes
SS Shine TC) JO 1SUOR

ee

“T° AA
sy

Seong jo

‘IOWA, UOTIIG

"88 Teg “s]UL stop

WA N‘ 9919 yedue A

‘WON
“sq oosTouRly ueg
“ eg ‘faqesy Burg

‘(ep Sojoqetg JuNoy

"ACN CsI TaN,

a

‘reg “Saal vunse'yT

eee ee

tees seeeing vsotlog
xap “siw vidurqy

ee eee tet ene ee

“WN Od Blues

sewer were sees Be eaee

***xag, Saal S009 dg
LT'O “ALL aqouey [LAL
“ooh “IVI “si AYO
“1° Sogslog Od

set eee

TO OAT agslog visieiojeie..e.cleie)*.0'6.¢.(6,0/e1010i¢,)

se eeeeee

fue seis sieisie tog pr s.ce

teeeeroes DITTIOTTIEO

ee ee

“TAD CN Sopuetyg ony

eee eee eee ee eee

seeesrosy Suola TL, WOd

ee ee

seer eee te eee ew eeee

*dnoi3 ulaisoM 4

SUMO # ‘Oo ‘oer ‘wy

Peewee nero rear eeeces

seer eg Sour 10,7

ee er ee

WN CA uoMTRUND

“WN ‘sseq uoyey

* eeporiouty YSU

se secees oMIIOTVO

ee ee ee

te eeee eeeepyseIqaN

eee ee ee

“'xay fepuery ont

|
|
|

OF
00

OST

FAR e ee ewan meee eeeeee

‘L‘O ‘poor uno

“RIULOTLD SoGp IVT

‘WON “slur eidaury
8? AON oCe “IVT
“Te ‘saipeayy 107

EOC ALLOIUIWIVIDY |

BOOS FO Ssomquuryy

‘WN 3oor0 yedue x

teneee QUOC TUCO COMED IORI Us OO Ok IC *eerrey “sseg uola, “Teg Syaaro aourp

09

08
0S
0G
08

teense

seeeee

0S

eee et eneeeeeeee youd UW191S9 MA

seeeressoemorad AAG

qu UBOTXaTY MON
*** 4uU poAaval-uQ

tener eee

*ANIG

re

seeeee NIATI[-MOMCN
*poomuoiog !uvTdog

these eeeeeeeoes nomos A[[OOAL

hala abaese aaa A tear | 1 178)

pe Ava|-SU0'T

see beeereeeeeeeeres | UOSIIO

tee eeeeeeeees DoARaL-AUd

. . “TngMneeg

sev eeeeeeeeee seeeeertpoINayy
*MOTIIAL

sees (ssapi.a "Br OSTR aag) *UOSIIO

‘uaa 1y

teen eee eee eee eee et TaISOMIUTO AT
eee cece reece eves tessoes JOWIG

HOWE

eee eee eeee eens sees oeee* UQIIZIOAT
*LANLSAHQ

Veen eeesee nesses sneseeeu Sno SstuSisur
(40 uupwyasua) (Suyad

“UT

‘psaqdhiyov.q) “p3nog ‘esorapuod
seeeeseeeeerr eens tlseeeen seerensresees ocr SQIINOD 2

IBA

ee *‘yenoq Suurutqes

speecccees tury (‘silott)

sees suo SeyeouNUt
"Sh 10 Sf UT SAAVIT “GB
S7sneq ‘e110jU0d

. . seee sere seuasUuT ‘sijnpa

eee ee

“4Lo7, ‘snyAqydouout

(‘o15uts 10) ‘sued ut soavay ‘7 §

‘ulna, ‘SANIG

(‘saproynwmay pun niafy
~WMo0U yf OSIM aag) *uULnay, Selfoysnoue

udnNoy ‘satadog

Fee ee ee ee ewan eeenee syqMag ‘stdajorse]

“puni4aynoos)

eee qq.

Sua
ececce pases sees TWO “erfos1Bu0f

seeee sqating ‘euriayooy
“‘pyppnno) “pytgy ‘espurjued

CLiwg
‘s{yorisAyorsq

**(gynar ‘vsoqoads) *stapuge Seurtia[puay
eee ee eee Seinieiaisie'wsis ees LODULS TY suM

"ULNOT, SX1l1IVS

or eee ceeecceves sonar “vuOsoIO

sees eee eee eee eee sees "ASETS

‘unos, ‘s

sljequapio00

sheen eee eeeeeeseeeee suo ‘esopnpuR|s

Ssuatiatoduas)

‘unos, ‘VIALag

(ax

SSnoq ‘ejAydoAiyo

‘ulnoy, ‘VANVLSV()

teeeee vee seeeesey ore vrurotug |i (qmaar SsFoyay) Stay SvotuosTTeo

‘snonproap £ squrol Aypsig Yan <pay}00} pun paqo) sa

ss **paaval- Suo(qo
tee AIT purdy
teeeeeeveeveceee sngaual- AT]OH
see eeecee cece NAWIOIB-sU0'T
BAIT PadAvol-ago'y

beeen eeeree ss O10T[94
unoovdseyg

Semen ee enw eee

Ce eT 6 6 OL

wee

apa T —"SY2O YOOIT pup pay ‘e§

"LLOT, *VI[OJHUOTGO

ODOUR a GE Io Lr § ‘rd10ta

ed tee seeeesgaay “BIfOJsE
"(Cato Snpunps2su07) Swnyquag “ISputy
ee °° °°" *SaaAT *eyeqol

seeceee eur eg spr Serformzayuoo

eee ee eee eee eens “Ato ‘yluopeAxo c4BA
(410, ‘njnoodissn 19 £350)

Py Ssuaosac ynf ) Sugary ‘

sidajosA1yo

aNly

Reogn o
FORESTS AND TREES OF NORTH AMERICA,

262

"v9

eXOW
‘SIO

‘JOON

suoyNA
"SIO

pinaict:(@)
‘B10

Easyce'(@)
21003
21004

Fae)

Parr @)
rake: @)

120
{UOyN
c1vO
"dvd

‘aouvpunqge
180] Vaid JO UOlDaY

eg Cer osard uBg jt" 'O Solh WeT

*yeQ “sur OSaIg utg
‘yeo “s}u oSsaiq urg

*s]UL
apeostp ‘ep IVT

vie)
‘ce "IU stUL sveD

129
98 "JBI “sjUI ISseOD

sere eee e ee neeens eee

eece cece BIUIOJTVD

Fe eeorooseresenesese

|

ssipistesy "A “By100N 2

eeeeeereeeessereeses

“*eIquinjod ysnug

*ROLIaUY UvISSNy

“WY ‘ssny ‘gg “Ie'T

Beers cers ereereeees

NL 'O “sjur opeosep

Oe

Pee ee esse rere neeses

*|eQ Soostourly UBg: |** ay, UOISUTYSeAA 2
|

se ee eee epILIOIED

weeeeees ¢ BIUIOSITEO
‘s7e] ‘epeaan ealg

‘uO “slur OSaIq ues
‘DAA “Siu apeoseg ¢

yeO “BIUL OSIIG URE |

ees ere

"MS 9} 0} osury

lowe ere reer esee

Pe eoorereresesenress

“LAA CALL BIquInjog
“ST ‘OUBRA ‘BYIOON

eevee

eee ee ey

SJUI “YY SYBId SANTI

“MN aut 01 asury

‘DM
‘Jaall AYSOOYSOOY

**3 101M, T, U0S9I109

Sel ‘Vpeaadny BLIOIg

“gon “siut ype

ye] “s]UL OpvoseDn
* obP

qe] Ss]UL apeosey
*s]U "Yy

‘sseq §nvapriqnoy 2
ACN

‘qui OosIoUuRI, URS
‘W'N

‘UI OosIaUvIA Utg

See eeeeees eh eoe sere

“WON ‘sseg uojey :

eRe IV|SEPBAON BOI) OFT

Pere rreeerreieeees

Foes esos cess Heeses
eee rere reer anes eses

ee eeee cess cree eseons

‘W'N SepeaoN BilaIg
“L‘O Spooy nop

2 AAC AT BIquIN[og

ee

“L'O ‘pooy duno

09°38] “SIU apeoseD

siieieieseyy ‘oO ‘er “Very

sees eeeees ese eres 2o6G "1B “BIUT AYOOY

Sooo re reer esas reeees

“TAN “StU eIpurg

"T'S 9} 0} asuRy

“L‘O “s1Ul apeosep

sees ee eres Creer esses

‘A ‘N 9p} 0} asuey

seoee-

oor

OsT

oor
00r
OL
0S

0SG
09

008
0S

0c

S
or)

*Jaoy UT ISTO

}

spisisisisisieieie* SUNDAE LUO BO) ieee eee epee oe She usen LL ONT, ‘sudtmoap

eCeeeeerereeeosene DOGG 4 UvoIxay

seer eroes

***repad v1IYM U0sIIO
‘AVLIAUORUY

se 80 eens cevecees seesta}caMUON
*HOUV'T

eeeeee errr sees “9g yoo[may u0da10

seeceeve’

teeeeeeeeey your JO POY

tees eeeeeeeeeeees - noOD-AJRaT
seeere earees DOCRIOU(<) pauoo-Aumog

seeeeeereres eoeeee yr IQATIS UOSIIO
eeoaeaeveee EOYs | £, UOSIUETTIT AL
tree eeeceeeoes OTM PaAva|-SUO'T

seeeeeeorers +o UTBIUNOU BpRdstyg

eoreeeser ere

eieieiie ear MOTLIDK
DODUOU CUO =: yoriq uosa1Q

OG: § faoaudg

nisisia)ejsicie(e)e/sieicieie vem mewese eee ang

°° OUI UleJUNOUT Ayo0qy
Oe sereees ALIIQMON
seheroie) veieieia: ie) BIUNOUL £ a[qixaly

‘aureu ieindog

‘qpug ‘soudaooaly

PERC OPO EHF Oe eeeeseeeses "SION ‘eyeoyd

oe Ceeeerareee POeraesee WNT “eaquesia

“unary ‘vroHy,

Sere ereere eres eseres "ANT ‘st[vIMapI900

‘UMNOT SXTAv'T

Se eerorereareesces

‘myo SsIsMapeUuRd ;
se eeeesesoceeeee sees saurqng T1ssepsnop

Ome reer sees reesees “uod ‘elea10elq
Pee ee eee eeeree senses "Ly AL ‘edivoorse]

Fee eee eeere rere sesees *yan0q ‘stjiqeuie
see we eeese sess sesees *qnaay ‘TUOSTUB TIAA
OCR Ce rere reese seeeee *quinyT ‘BI[OJIXB} 2

Serer e ee eee eee ee eeee eee *‘qonoq ‘stjiqou

***-oupT ‘Isatzuaul

‘uinoy ‘Saldy

‘ped “qaN ‘SIH NOVlg 01 94

vlueg wo £63 ‘d “gpat “9s "ON ‘00

‘uaS—'Ino} ,snuazi[stq, Ur (‘AaIIO,
you Smasury ‘syiway) ‘g'N Stuazt[sIM

(Cujasug
isuusofigoys) “7snoq ‘eueniaquiey
trees (“yey ssngois) “pono ‘ejoonuout
**(qnan Ssaprosquiao) “piayog SeuRaARi[
occcccvevseseccces cesses syior SSIIXOl
*8.G UI SaAtaT “¢ ¢

‘aueU [BoULIOg

*ponulyuoj—arfiong 94) 0) plvmjsam pup sumpunou hyooy ay fo suobay—"q
263

FORESTS AND TREES OF NORTH AMERICA.

"1V9

‘Sa1O

Atte
wAthts

“YUiy)

"1V0
"IVD

mize)
aie)

cuoyny

** "189 SalTAaTUMOGg

eee ee ee

"reg ‘Kola UO
89189 “AAU Id

* OBE
"ye, SepRaaN viaig
‘1eQ “sit oZaIq ueg

“*ereg ‘osaIq utg
Hees eeeeeeoorxany 2

“DAA Seong jo syeag

reeeeering Ope ey

‘LA ‘Pong Jo syieng

seeing Sodiaq ueg
vee ecray 'N IAL Ty

see Peer ee ee eees sees

TPO ote el SI

JOOIXOTA, MON

“LAA OT AlOO Wo ¢ |*** xag, “Aaa sov0g

Peewee eeeeeeee sees

"18D ‘oth “JUL ISROD

sree sereg ‘fara UOT OOo ee eee eee enereee
sS21EQ ‘Kalo uo ¢ Bees meee eee eeeeee

“aU

“SSTYSNUNOS HOJION |\L'O SoGb EL SIAL 2

|e eee seers erreee coves

FeO e eee sere nese sons

“UA N “syUr Nn,
eee cove cane *SEXOY,

He eee eee ee reese enres

eee ee enee we ween

[tees eee ewe we eeee ents

“wy
“yag “Al yo eyseg 2
-gr

SIWNG SIU StUeTITAL | CT

OF

Och
008

09

09

eee eoeereeee ceeee SOUINU PITAA ss
*VASUUOT,

seee

tee e teen eeeesereeseees 105310)
“MIX

eee ee be eee eeeee BU paavay-aienbe
posers “*f payzeq-yoryL

Trtseeeeeeeseeoees seseippaa yEIy |ett'*(ggnAr ‘Dutpnp) Sty FF Sst{eyuapiod0

‘uddInoe

see

Sete ee eee eeeeeeeeeees equip

Pete ee renee see ees eoprIOIED
“qoOMaaY

thee seen sees eseecsaid go yy SU0T
‘yxau ayy

sv owes oy} sduyiog f erusoseg

Stee eee eee wee e ee eeee eee DOOR

*SSAUdAQ

|

POH ee sewer leew eee ee eeee sees Aipsinge uURIUOSAIT] 2

ste (uy Spousttiu) “1107 Seoruroyeo
“770ULE ‘VXAUNOT,

(‘ayeid
ur “7ynay ‘st7pguapr000) *yynay SerjosTAaIG
"uNor ‘SAX, |

eee ee ee seeeeeq001YIg Spuo0sviq0}
(440z ‘pustaphiyond ) “4107 ‘vaojydsyoud

‘uury ‘snuadINoe

(‘4ayoozy ‘najquns
*hattoy, Seaquesis
"e** sowpy ‘suadtaaduras
*vlonbag

43 pyu075uI7194 )

eee

seer

see enqupeyT Sedivoo1oeul

of eeis\sie' deine 6 sisie eee eteieisreless PTB TOY LLY]

se eeeeenee wane seeees coun ‘sisualeyInU
‘uinoy ‘sassaudag

Cc

as
oc

a~)
264

FORESTS AND TREES OF NORTH AMERICA,

C.—TROPICAL TREES OF FLORIDA AND THE GULF SHORES.

Botanical name.

Meuicocca, Linn. |
Paniculata, JUSS, .ecesceereeees|

Cuustia, Linn.
flava, De Cr scccevcscesvccves

Guatcum, Plum.
SANCLUM, Linn .sereeveevsevace

SWIETENIA, Linn.
mahogani, Linn. secs cess ceeves|

ZANTHOXYLUM, Linn.
pterola, Willd. ..eseseseseeeees

SimanvuBa, ubl. |
glauca, De Cu..ceecccesescvcece
SCHAEFFERIA, Jaegq. |
buxifolia, Nitl.ccrcccevesecees

CoLuBRINA, Rich.
americana, Nutt..ccccccccsvecs

Amyris, Linn.

floridana, Nutt. .ccccssocteoces
BURSERA, Jacq.

gummifera, De C...sccveccvees

Ruvs, Linn.
metopium, Linn? ..secccrececes

XIMENIA, Cav. .
americana, Linn....secerecsee|

Piscipia, Linn.
erythrina, Linn..........- eeeeee!

Acacia, Willd.
latisiliqua, De C....ccccceccees

Inea, Willd.
unguiscati, De€ \ cece sees
guadalupensis, Pera...... eevee

Psipium, Linn,
buxifolium, Nuté ..ceccocssvece
CALYPTRANTHES, Swartz,
chytraculia, De C. seccsecssece

Eveenta, Micheli. -
dichotoma, De Crricsjcvesieliess
Procera, Potsel. .veevecececiaine
Duxifolia, De Co... .cccciceseceiee

TERMINALIA, Linn,
Catappa, Linn. cocccscsessevece

Conocarrpus, Gaert.
EQEClA NDEs Cinisieleieicieieleielsiaieisie

LAGUNCULARIA, Gacrt.
racemosa, Gaerl.ceccccccccqees

Paraya, Tourn.

vulgaris, De C.ccssevecces eres
|
Ruizornora, Lamb.

americana, Nutt.,(mangle,Jacq.)|

Arpisia, Swartz.
pickeringii, Nutt.. .......

seen

Acuras, Brown.
Zapotlla, Nutl..cccccecressese

Popular name.

: HONEY-BERRY.
Pantcledsfissisissiectaase wleisietateisie

BalSamitree\crecisicieieles sere eiaieie/e

Ce eo i

Lignumvite...

Mahogany. cocececsceserecers

PRICKLY ASH.

BittErwOOd seer sieisisisieie osstea 7

Jamaica boxwood...

see eeeeee

Peewee ee eee ee eeoee sess esses eeee

TOKCH=WOOdNer stsiciaieie\sieraveleiote leis

BURSERA.
Jamaica....

i ey

SuMaAcH.

POOH e Re ee we rereesoeeees senses

Jamaica dogwo00d...+..-seee
ACACIA.

Br0ad-p0d . ceccccccccsccesees

Cat?s ClAW...c.cc0e Belereliereletele'e

Guadalupe. ..00 recesses cccses|oere

GUAVA.
Box-leaved ...

Peer ee reeweseee

Chytraculia . siccciceconsse ose:
EvUGENIA.

OYE EO veis 0/0; vjeioteteraisiate

Branching .....

ee

BOx-leaved cc ccsicies-ccviecsene 5

Catappa..cccecccecevecevesecs

ButtOmtree ceiceis clelsicie vice sisineie

Cee meee ee tees weer tere meee

TRUE PAPpAw.
Custard apple....s.ssesceeens
MANGROVE.
AMEYFICANL. cccieceteresces wees

ARDISIA.
Florida.... eee

ee

Sapatilla...cececsccveescevecs

Height. Range.
20 Key West.
30 Do.
40 Do.
80 Florida.
eelalsejeieie Key West; Texas.
20°? | Key West.

leeneenee

eeee eee

seee eee

20?

Florida.

Key West.

East Florida.

Key West.

Do.

East Florida.

Key West.

Do.

Do.
Do.

New Smyrna; Florida.

Key West.

Do.
Do,
Do.

Florida.

-Tampa Bay, Florida.

Key West.

St. John’s river,southward.
Florida; Louisiana; Texas.
Lat. 28° southward.

Key West.

2

FORESTS AND TREES OF NORTH AMERICA.

265

C.—Tropical trees of Florida and the Gulf Shores—Continued.

Hkr.)

S
ze Botanical name. Popular name. Height. Range.
S
Zz
36 | Bomenia, Swartz. BuMeELia.
d augustifolia, Nutt......seceeeee| Narrow-leaved. .cccecsevcces|-ccosees| Key West,
e€ MODUIGISSIID AI. Cl Cereicieciciaisis ve'cel|ins clesewiniels sieves. cieiaeelstee cetera asela vee Do. ©
110 | Corpia, Plumier.
a sebestena, Hass,........s.e0+.| Nocahuiteo of the Mexicans..| 15 Key West and Rio Grande
to Salado river, Mexico,
b PIGKICLATID PEN Elis oie. c-0\miatelala eeie.e trail elcleleluleisieiaie ecielesie's seis wiele s\6-esie/eie| aisete seis | KCeVe WVESbr
111 | Crescentia, Linn.
cujete, Swartz .ccccss sesesees| Calabash-tre@...sssccsesesces| 20? Do.
T12 | Avicennta, Linn.
EOIIENLOR Re CO ne cicres ete'siets) oie ein isle ‘slate iivsisie o eisioteistetsice's cisieincn:siecicre 20 Tampa Bay; La.; Texas.
113 | Coccotosa, Willd. ;
a UVifera, LINNccrevecevariveses| SEASIDE GIAPCsrscersecsesase: 60 Key West.
b | DaLrvilOilas Nitiveoccisecessie coes|! EIZCOM PIUM, sce seine’ -o0:0:.|/oicisiseeee Do.
114 | Hrpromane, Linn.
| Mancinella, L777 s veessicces cee] MANCHINEE] ccscerecrceasienee 80 Do.
115 | Excaecaria, Linn,
| lucida, Swartz .ccvcccere ceces| POISON=-WOOd.ceresscecess ves} 20 Do.
|
116 | Dryvetes, Vahl.
a CROC EM ACE GILECT cars aeicisicivialelsisisinis!|(o sinie’ osie\s a(eiala'sieisaie’s-c'ciaicisieie sisieles Do.
b PIAUCA a P Ailaaeosacvetcnwesiscs| vaue nc esis ceccave ces seine asec Do.
e
117 | Ficus, Linn. Fic.
a pedunculata, Willd... .....seee.| Willow-leaved....e.ccocsecess 50 Do.
b BLGVILONTAMMN ULE a's cccicareaiais oc | SHOLESICA VEU ac csssie gees cele cae lleeectalalele Do.
c BUNCH ING wicesleje cen se cpieeiscaieil CROLUCM: vo pe solace ties wislciee-6 ome) siswieaisis Do.
D.—MEXICAN TREES FOUND ALONG OR NEAR THE BOUNDARY.
3
. Botanical name. Popular name. Height. Range,
S
a
118 | Larrea,
MEXICANA MOTIC. Ccccevesscsee| HediondOtecd.cccss 15 Gulf to San Diego mts., Cal.
73 | Lirnrara, Walp.
laurina, Nutt, (Rhus lawring, |.scccccscccssessecee| 20 Santa Barbara, Cal.
Nutt.)
119 | Pisracta, Linn. PIsTACHIA TREE.
mexicana, H. B. K.......ccees| Mexican seseccese-| 20 Pecos river, Texas, to San Diego,
Cal.
120 | Sonmnus, Linn. Peprer TREE,
MOMS, Lin cocccvverieseveocses| PCTUVIAN soceseases 15 Rio Grande.
75 | Unenanvta, Endl.
speciosa, Endl......seeeeeeee.| Spanish Buckeye ..|..++.+++.| New Braunfels, Texas, to San Pedro
river, Arizona.
15 | Rowrinra, Linn. Honey Locost.
c neo-mexicana, Grey ..........| New Mexican..... 15 Mimbres river, Arizona.
121 | Otneya,
tesota, Gray..scccoccesseeeones| Palo de Hicro ..,..)++++.+--| San Pedro river to Fort Yuma, Cal.
122 |} Parxinsonia, Linn. Pato VERDE.
a microphylla, Torr.......sese..| Small-leaved ..... 15 San Pedro river to Mort Yuma, Cal.
b aculeata, Limn...ccecevecseces| Prickly..csseseeses|seeeeers| (W. Indies,) Fort Yuma, Cal.
78 | Cercipium, GREEN ACACIA.
floridium, Benth ....eeseeeeees| Palo verde.....sses/+e+ ee++| San Pedro river to Colorado, Ariz.
123 | Apenostroma, Hkr.
BPALSUOMA) LOTT. we sis.e, sivioe/cisis cll Vaeiecwiedeesieeaticesies||| CO San Diego, Cal,
98 | Acacia, Willd.
b farnesiana, Willd, (cavenia, | Guisache..........| 30 (W. Indies,) Laredo to Pecos river,

Texas,
266 FORESTS AND TREES OF NORTH AMERICA,

D.—WMexican trees found along or near the boundary—Continued.

é
E}
> Botanical name. Popular name. Height. Range.
5 :
4
124 | DaLea, '
SPINOSA, Gray.cccccccccecsscoclocecceveccececcseses| 20 Colorado river, Arizona,
125 | StypHonia, Nutt. San Diego, Cal.
Integrifolia, Nutt. ssveceevcccslevcvcsccccerececcecs 20
127 | Ecutnocactus, Linn.
a CY]INAFACEUS .... ceceuscvevecesleccccscossesvesseresiseseeese| Colorado river.
b Wislizeni, Englim.,...sccccccceeles seccecceveveseess| 20? | El Paso, N. M., to Mimbres.
34 | Diospyros, Linn. PERSIMMON.
b texana, Scheele...sceccvcesceee| JAPOEr seccsccceeee 15 Fort Inge, Tex., to San Pedro river,
Arizona.
36 | Bumetia, Swartz. BuMELIA.
Wh Preclinata, Vent...¥...ees.e++.| Spreading; Loma..| 30 ?South Carolina to Sonora, Mex.

129 | CuILopsis.
HNCAXIS (79. C. 0, store aie! wioleldieis'eje aiel|(enteeeiesceecioee cecil 20 Rio Grande to San Felipe, Cal.

130 | EnRETIA.
EMI pticas BD. Crieisie olecieteteic'ciolslele| se eiseivjeisisieseseereselet 4cd0 Gulf to Chihuahua, Mex.

49 | Morus, Tourn. MULBERRY.
b Ptinctoria, Willd,.......+ee...-.| Mora; Fustick.....} 20 Gulf to Puerco river.

Ornus, Persoon.
dipetala, Hooker . «..eeceesss+| Flowering Ash.....| 20 Mexico and ?California.

53 | QuEeRcus, Linn. Oak.
m* aculidens, Torr.s.eeeeeeeseees| Sharp-toothed..... 20 San Luis Rey, Cal.
59 | ALnus, Tourn. ALDER.
d oblongifolia, Torr...seeeeeees+| Oblong-leaved .....j++++...-| Mimbres to Santa Barbara, Cal.
61 | Porutus, Tourn. PoPLAR.
ip trichocarpa, Torrierssereeveees| Hairy-pOd + sseveces|eeeees-| Los Angeles, Cal.
65 | THusa, Tourn. ARBORVITAE.
c plicata, Nees. Mexican.....eseese{eeeeeee-| San Diego mountains, (? Nootka.)
66 | Cupressus, Tourn. CYPRESS.
e macrocarpa, Hartw.....++.....| Long-fruit.........| 60 Monterey, Cal.
iF goveniana, Gordon,...+.++...-| var? Of last..cce.ss 15 San Diego mountains, Cal. ‘
131 | Yucca, Linn. Yucca.
baccata, Torr...... ecesoeces.| Fruit-bearing ......| 25 Rio Grande, N. M., to Monterey, Cal.

* Western group.
267

FORESTS AND TREES OF NORTH AMERICA,

\O 8L Ac:
NX Kt! i

268 FORESTS AND TREES OF NORTH AMERICA.

EXPLANATION OF THE MAP.

This outline map of that part of America north of Mexico is in-
tended to illustrate, so far as can be done on so small a scale, the
distribution of forests, trees, &c., according to the results of the latest
explorations and studies. In order to get it within the size of the
page it was found necessary to make the principal meridian oblique
to the sides of the map, but by noticing the corresponding numbers of
the degrees of latitude the reader will easily perceive the true direc-
tion of the several points, east and west being, of course, nearly at
right angles to the meridian. The equatorial projection is preferred,
as showing best the true area of the various regions. The dark full
lines crossing the continent are the outlines of the best determined
and most important natural divisions, which may be called NATURAL
PROVINCES. ‘I'he broken lines represent approximately the subdivi-
sions of these provinces, called REGIONS, and also parts of the province
boundaries not accurately determined.

The uadulations of surface, mountains, and other circumstances
cause great irregularities in the outlines of regions, especially in the
western part of the continent; but these are neither well determined
nor, if they were, are they capable of illustration on this scale. It is
believed, however, that the most marked limits are represented, that
is, those by which the greatest number of species, both of plants and
animals, are bounded in their range,

In using this map the reader should compare it with a good and
large map of North America. The regions in which trees are found
(indicated by letters on the map) are:

A. The Algonquin, in which four or five species of trees seem to
be more abundant than elsewhere, and therefore characteristic ;.

none, however, are peculiar. - - - - - 5
B. The Athabascan, in which about twelve are characteristic but

none peculiar - - - - - - 12
C. Canadian, having seventeen characteristic trees and one appa-

rently peculiar - - - - - - - 18
D. Alleghany, in which there are twenty-four trees characteristic

and six peculiar - - - - - "= oO
H. Ohio, having twenty-two characteristic and one peculiar - 23
F. Tennesseean, with thirty-four characteristic and three peculiar 37
G. Carolinian, with eighteen characteristic and seven peculiar - 25
H. Mississippian, with thirty-two characteristic and seven pecu- a

liar - - - - - - - -
I. Floridian, with about thirty-two characteristic and thirteen

peculiar - ; - - - - - 45
Total number of species in the eastern forest regions - - 234

D, E, F, G, H, may be considered as forming a natural province,
and called the Apalachian. Florida appears rather to belong to the
West Indian province.
FORESTS AND TREES OF NORTH AMERICA, 269

J, the Texan, K, the Illinois, and L, the Saskatchewan regions}
are characterized by prairies; and the forests, which occur only near
their eastern borders and along the rivers, gradually decreasing
towards the west, are composed entirely of species characteristic of
the region eastward. No new ones occur, while a large number of
trees disappear at the commencement of prairies. M, the Dacotah,
and N, the Camanche regions, are composed of these great treeless
and often arid plains which skirt the eastern slopes of the Rocky
mountains. Trees occur only in narrow belts along the rivers, and
for about three hundred miles east of the mountains most of the
streams are entirely woodless.

These five regions are, however, supplied with numerous peculiar
plants and animals, mostly of quite distinct species from those of the
forest-clad regions eastward. They are so well marked, in these
respects, that, together, they may be considered as forming a natural
PROVINCE, which, from its most remarkable character of plains, is
called CAMPESTRIAN.

O, P, Q, may be named, from the Mexican States which partly com-
pose them, Zamaulipan, Choahwilan, and Chihuahwan regions ; but
too little is known of them to define their limits well. Their trees
are given in the list of those along the Mexican boundary, and these
are found almost exclusively along the Rio Grande, within the United
States. Only seven or eight species are found, in addition to the few
which extend from the Mississippi region and Florida. - - 8

R, the Arizonian region, though in great part treeless, furnishes
a large number of additional species, some of which are probably
more common in the adjoining Mexican States of Sonora and Lower
California, while others, chiefly among the San Francisco mountains,
seem to be nearly or quite peculiar.

The former, thirteen in number, are included in the Mexican Boun-
dary list, while the fourteen characteristic and ten (?) peculiar are in
the catalogue of Western trees. - - - - :

These numbers, except the total, must, however, be considered as far
from settled, as the surrounding regions are but little explored, and
in aregion so poorly wooded, as most of it is, ten peculiar species
could scarcely be expected. It will be remarked also, that most of
these trees characteristic of the Mexican boundary are not over fifteen
or twenty feet high, and in many cases these are extreme heights.
Shrubs constituting the dense thickets called chapparal take the place
of forests over great tracts.

S, the Wasatch region, almost unexplored, is not known to have
any trees peculiar to it; but as the mountain summits are usually well
wooded, some may be hereafter found characteristic, if not peculiar. 1

T, the Padoucan, has apparently two peculiar pines, but its vege-
tation is scanty in forests, and but little explored. - - 2

U, the Utah region, being, as far as explored, almost woodless, it
is rather surprising to find that the only tree which is abundant on
some of its mountains is apparently almost peculiar to it—the Junt-
perus occidentalis. - - - - - 1

V, the Shoshonee region, though, like the last, almost woodless on
its plains, has some well-wooded mountain ranges, on which a larch
\

270 FORESTS AND TREES OF NORTH AMERICA.

and several pines arefound. Two willows have as yet been found only
in it. One pine is believed to be more common here than elsewhere. 3

In the four last regions the place of forests is also supplied by nu-
merous peculiar shrubs, mostly very distinct from any of the trees, as
well as from the chapparal of Mexico, though some of the same genera
appear asin thelatter. These are not all stunted trees, but of entirely
different families, and formed especially for the arid regions they in-
habit. R,S, T,U, V, together, form a peculiar province, which may
be distinguished as the Rocky Mountain Province.

W, the Californian region, is the most highly favored of the western
groups in the variety, though not of the extent of its forests, which
are confined chiefly to the mountains, while most the species occur
in groups, scattered singly through the prairie. Eighteen trees are
considered characteristic, and eighteen peculiar; making, inall, - 36

Seven others are found near San Diego, and are probably charac-
teristic of Lower California.

X, the Oregonian, is densely wooded over nine-tenths of its surface,
prairies occurring chiefly in the valleys of the southern part, and
gradually disappearing towardsthe north. Thirteen treesare considered

. characteristic, and nine peculiar, though the unexplored character of the

regions northward may make the number larger than it really is, 22
Y, the Kootanic region, is described as very densely wooded almost
everywhere, and certainly that part which extends south of latitude
49° is covered with forests almost equal in size and density to those of
the Oregonian. Hight trees are believed to be among those character-
istic of it, and some will probably be found peculiar. - -

Z, the Yukon region, is believed to be generally wooded, but almost
nothing is known of it or its peculiar products. Some trees have been
found as far north as Kotzebue’s Sound, (2) the northern limit of trees
which are not known farther south, but may be Asiatic. Six of those
in the catalogue are attributed to this region, as they are found only
as stragglers within the boundary of the United States. - - 6

The trees of the western regions (including the Mexican boundary
group) are, therefore, 131 species. The great wooded regions of the
northwest—X, Y, and Z—apparently form a province distinct from
those east or south of them.

W partakes of the characters of those of Lower California and Ari-
zona, and with the former may form a province to be called the
Nevapian. Further exploration is, however, necessary to decide their
mutual relations.

Although neither time nor space will permit here a full statement
of the grounds on which the dividing lines are laid down, yet a short
statement of the principal ones will be necessary, in order to enable
observers to collect and increase information on this interesting branch
of Physical Geography. ‘Trees represent only certain families and
genera of plants, and their distribution alone would not, therefore,
indicate that of other plants and of animals; but /orests have a won-
derful influence on both, and it is well known to naturalists that neither
rivers, lakes, nor mountains separate the range of so many species as
the line where a continuous forest skirts a woodless country.

The full line 1—2, broken towards the west, shows the northern
FORESTS AND TREES OF NORTH AMERICA. DEL

limit of forest growth. It is laid down from the information given
by Richardson, Belcher, and other arctic explorers, and is one of the
best defined boundaries of organized beings on the continent. North
of it there are no trees and but few woody plants; the vegetation is
mostly peculiar; and the animals, numerous in species, in but few
instances extend south of it. Both are generally identical entirely
around the north pole, and this therefore forms part of the Arctic
Province; while many peculiar species as well as marked geographical
boundaries separate it from the Asiatic portion and, it may be called
the Hsquimaux Region. This line coincides well with the yearly
isothermal of 17° 5’, summer 50°, winter —15°, in all that portion
between Hudson bay and the Mackenzie river, but it seems probable
that other circumstances besides temperature regulate the forest limit
near the east and west ends. Neither the climate nor vegetation of
these parts is yet well enough known to admit even of speculations on
this subject.

A, B, and C, may, together, be considered as forming a Province,
which, from the number of its great lakes, may be called the Lacustrian.
It is well characterized by its forests, almost unbroken, consisting
chiefly of evergreen Corifera, which afford food and shelter to a large
number of characteristic animals. It comprises most of the fur coun-
tries of North America. It is only near the Alleganies that its limits
are obscure, but the broken lines there indicate the average range of
its characteristic species. The next line southward is 3—4, running
nearly parallel to 1—2, and separating the water-sheds of Hudson Bay
and the Gulf of St. Lawrence trom the basins of the Great Lakes and
Lake Winnipeg. It forms the northern limit to a large number of
trees, &c., but can only be considered approximate towards its eastern
end. It corresponds very well with the isotherm of 37° 5’, summer
60°, winter 15°. The careful observations of Richardson at its
western end show that there are about 24 species of trees common
north of it, while many cease to grow very abruptly in the vicinity of
Lake Winnipeg.

The country between 1—2 and 3—4 is divided for convenience into
two regions, A the Algonquin, and B the Athabascan. Though the
peculiar products of each are little known, there seem to be indications
even among the trees of considerable difference, especially in the pro-
portions. The Algonquin is almost unexplored, but will probably be
found to have the greatest numbers of several of the trees mentioned
in the catalogue, as most abundant in adjoining regions; none are,
however, peculiar to either of these northern regions.

The line 5—6 is used to bound approximately the Canadian Region
on the southeast, though from the nature of the country there is no
well marked division there, the valleys belonging to one region and
the mountains to the other.

The numbers 5—6—7 indicate the general limits of D, the Alle-
ghany Tegion comprising the eastern slopes, and towards the south.
some of the highest peaks and ridges of this range ; 24 trees are con-
sidered characteristic, and 6 peculiar to it. ‘Towards the west and
south its limits are not well marked from the uneven surface of the
country, but to the southeast the line between it and G is the abrupt
V2 FORESTS AND TREES OF NORTH AMERICA.

geological boundary, between the metamorphic rocks of the hills and
those of later date, corresponding to the change in soil characterizing
the sandy flat low country.

The line 7T—8 is the northwestern boundary of G, and a very natu-
ral one both geologically and botanically. The range of animals also
corresponds to it in some degree. The boundary indicated by 9—10
is not a fixed limit, since the natural history of Florida is still but
little known. There is, however, a geological line near this point,
which, with the rapid increase of temperature southward, will proba-
bly be found to limit the greater number of species characteristic of
Florida. The line connecting this with 8 is also only arbitrary or
geographical, as it separates the waters of the Atlantic and of the
Gulf. There seem to be several trees, however, limited in range near
it, and probably none can be made more natural. S8—12is acontinu-
ation of the line separating the low, sandy country from the granitic
and limestone formations of the hilly country. From 12 it extends
southwest, bordering the hilly table-land west of the Mississippi
valley.

The broken line 6—12 is one of the most unsettled of all. Though
a number of trees are limited in this vicinity, there is no geological or
geographical line by which they may be bounded, and an attempt is
therefore made to make an average limit, depending on climate and
elevation as well as on the actual facts of distribution.

An eminent geologist has suggested to me that perhaps the southern
limit of the drift may be found the true boundary here and on the
line of 15—16.

The lines G—6—15—16 may represent the summer isothermal of
about 75°, while 7—6—15—16 are near that of 35° for winter an
55° for the year.

The numbers 11—15—13 indicate the eastern border of prairies,
and the limit of the great number of plants and animals which belong
exclusively to them. It is one of the best marked of all the lines,
though, since the settlement of the country, it has become obscured
both by the extension of forests westward and their destruction east-
ward of it. The line represents nearly its natural position. The
figures 13—23 show the northeastern border of the prairies, which is
considered pretty well established, as far as authorities examined give
any data for it. Richardson mentions their northern extremity near
Great Slave lake.

The line 13—14—22 is a good geographical boundary, and also
nearly coincides with the isothermal of summer 70°, though winter
seems to differ much at its two extremities. 14—18 is the line of
about 2,000 feet general elevation, and west of which scarcely any of
the eastern trees extend; in all not over six or eight species, while, as
already stated, most of M and N is entirely woodless.

The numbers 17—18 show approximately the boundary of the trop-
ical group of animals and plants which are found on the lower Rio
Grande. Ona larger map the direction of this line would be more
irregular in detail.

The numbers 18—19—16—21—22—23 mark the line limiting the
forests and other products of the western mountains. It will be found
FORESTS AND TREES OF NORTH AMERICA. 273

a very well marked, though irregular, boundary, and of trees only
two or three western species extend east of it, and as many eastern
ones westward. The general elevation of the country on this line is
from 3,000 to 4,500 feet, and the sudden change from plains to moun-
tains causes a corresponding change in climate, productions, and general
features.

The line 19—20—21 is a geographical boundary, which, from
the great elevation of the dividing ridge, and the different climates of
its opposite sides, causes a more marked limitation here than on most
of the other western mountains.

The line 24—26—25, provisionally bounding the Arizonian re-
gion, is founded chiefly on the isothermal lines. The great summer
heat of 80° and upwards is connected with the growth of the Cactaceae
and other peculiar plants, and the mountains between the Colorado
and Gila also have many peculiar forms even on their cool, high
summits ; and 26—20, bounding the upper Colorado valley, is the
geographical boundary of the Wasatch region on the west.

26—27 and 20—27 form the geographical boundaries of the Utah
basin; and the latter appears also to be near the summer isotherm of
75°. The whole of this region is more than 4,500 feet above the sea.

20—31—27 forms the northern boundary of the great Columbian
plains or Shoshonee region, and is also a well marked limit of the
continuous forests northward of it. It coincides also pretty well with
the summer temperature of 70° and 35° for winter, or 45° annually.
The sudden change in the surface by forests causes these isothermals
to be more abrupt than in a country uniformly bare or wooded. This
is probably the effect of increased rains, which, of course, affect other
products also. or this reason it is believed that the summer temper-
ature of about 65° will be found to run along the line of 13—4—23,
instead of being parallel to 70° on 13—14—22.

26—27—31 is the eastern limit of the continuous forests of the
Sierra Nevada and Cascade ranges, anda very good natural boundary.
27—28 is the approximate limit between W and X, and though in
reality very irregular from the rough character of the country, its
general direction is sufficiently shown. It limits the range of many
trees and other products.

A boundary probably exists between Upper and Lower California,
but cannot yet be determined naturally.

The broken lines 31—29, 21—30, 23—2, are of course merely con-
jectural, but are made to correspond to the general features of the
country as well as the direction of the isothermal lines. On the
coast at 30° the annual temperature is as high as 43° 5’, corresponding
to that of the coast of Maine; while what little is known of the inte-
rior shows that though exceedingly rugged and often inaccessible the
Yukon region possesses a good climate and a great variety of natural
products, probably comparable with Sweden and Norway. Its winters
are milder near the coast than those of Maine, though fifteen degrees
farther north.

These few notes, hastily thrown together, will, it is hoped, make
the design intelligible, and lead others to investigate and increase our
very imperfect knowledge of animal and vegetable distribution. The

18
274 FORESTS AND TREES OF NORTH AMERICA.

writer has collected a large amount of material relating to it, which
he hopes at some future time to publish in the form of physical charts,
and intends the present paper merely as a circular requesting further
information, for which due acknowledgment will always be made, and
the favor reciprocated as far as possible.

, GENERAL CONCLUSIONS.

Looking now at the regions as combined in groups, we may derive
the following conclusions from the examination of the number of
species, abundance and arrangement of their trees and forests.

Ist. Coming southward from the treeless Esquimaux region and
passing a certain well marked line, we suddenly find a continuous
forest, broken only where the poverty of the soil or other local causes
prevent the growth of trees. About filteen species compose this forest,
but the prevailing forms are the Coniferae. For much interesting
detail on the influence of climate and other causes on this northern
line, as well as for evidence of its encroachment southward, | must
refer the reader to Dr. Richardson’s interesting Arctic explorations.

Passing into the Canadian region we find seventeen species of trees
suddenly added as characteristic, and towards its southern border
many of those of the Apalachian Province begin toappear. Yet the
Lacustrian Province is a well marked one, and in the grouping of its
trees differs materially from those farther south.

Too littleis known of the climate, in its interior especially, as to
the amount of rain at different seasons, to form conclusions as to its
influence on this peculiar grouping. It appears more probable that
other physical agents were the chief ones in this respect, particularly
the geographical and geological barriers which those interested may
perceive on good maps. Another affecting the western part of the
boundary will be hereafter referred to.

2d. Coming next to the Apalacnian Province, and remembering
that the forests of a great part of the Alleghenies are only a south-
ward extension of those farther north, we find a vast increase in the
variety of our forest trees. In fact, looking at all its natural products
collectively, one of the most striking, as compared with the rest of
the world between the 30th and 45th degrees of north latitude, is its
richness in trees, which will compare favorably with almost any part
of the tropics.

It contains more than twenty species which have no representatives
in the temperate climates of the Old World, and a far greater number
of species of the forms found there. In fact, those trees which have
been considered characteristic of the Lacustrian Province, with perhaps
the addition of those of the Allegheny region, will fully represent all
the common trees of Europe in number of species, though a few
other genera must be added from other regions to give them all.

Yet with all this variety the bulk of the Apalachian forests is of forms
characteristic of the temperate zone. Only about twenty-three out of
one hundred and thirty-six species are broad-leaved evergreens, and
these nearly all in the two southern regions. We will hereafter see
a marked difference in another part of the continent in this respect,
FORESTS AND TREES OF NORTH AMERICA. 275

andI will merely allude toits connexion with, though nof dependence on,
the peculiarities of our climate. We have with a tropical summer a tro-
pical variety of trees, but chiefly of northern forms. Again, with our
arctic winters we have a group of trees, which, though of tropical forms,
are so adapted to the climate as to lose their leaves, like the northern
forms, in winter. But here, it must be distinctly understood, is no
alteration produced by climate. The trees were made for and not by
the climate, and they keep their characteristics throughout their whole
range, which with some extends through a great variety of climate.
I will not stop to discuss the relations of specific distinctions and ex-
ternal physical influences, assuming that the reader understands the
scientific views of the subject. Besides the connexion between the
winter climate and the deciduous trees, we find a remarkable instance
of a similar character in the great forests of pines which appear in our
subtropical southern borders, and with them a cypress, chiefly a sub-
tropical form of the Coniferae, which, unlike all others, loses its leaves
in winter like northern trees. Thus, as our climate shows great ex-
tremes, so do the forms of vegetation adapted for it; and the very wide
distribution of many of these forms may be considered by some a proof
of the great past duration of the same climate, on the supposition that
each species has spread slowly from a narrow centre of creation.

Another marked climatic connexion is that ofthe moisture annually
deposited on this province. I need not prove to those who have
studied the subject that this is one of the most essential elements for
the growth of forests of all kinds of trees. The dense growth of the
ever-rainy tropics in some parts of the world, with the bare plains or
deserts of other equally tropical countries which have little or no rain,
prove. that heat alone has little influence. On the other hand, our
Lacustrian Province is densely wooded almost to the limits of perpetual
frost, while the Steppes of Siberia, though of similar temperature, have
little or no wood, being supplied with little moisture. Other proofs
will be referred to hereafter. But besides the total amount, the equal
distribution of the rains is important, as will be seen when we speak
of regions having a dry and a wet season alternately.

Without, going further into this interesting subject here, I will say
that I believe the reader, upon close study of it, will come to the con-
clusion that so intimate a relation exists between the trees and the
climate of this Apalachian Province that their peculiarities always
have and always must exist together. The disadvantages we feel in
the climate are in this way compensated for, and will in time be looked
upon as among the greatest natural advantages of the country. The
midday heat, by rarefaction and evaporation, brings northward from
the Gulf its abundant moisture. After several hours or days the cold
westerly or northerly wind condenses this in rain over all that part of
the continent included in this province, and ina less amount for some
distance west and north of it. Thus in summer a continual supply is
provided, while in winter the same winds which condense the summer
rains become our most dreaded arctic blasts.

The Lacustrian Province does not derive much moisture from the
Gulf winds, but while its colder climate makes evaporation slower, it
receives a share both from its own waters and probably also from the
276 FORESTS AND TREES OF NORTH AMERICA.

Pacific, as is shown by Lieutenant Maury in his Physical Geography
of the Sea, though he makes the rains come down entirely too far to
the south in regions known to receive but little.

3. A few words on Florida will show its peculiarities in relation to
trees and climate. The trees of Georgia extend for a long distance,
some of them continuing as prevailing forms almost to its extremity.
But they are gradually replaced by more tropical species, although
where the most marked line of distinction exists is not well known.
Most of those in the special list have been yet found only on Key West,
but the examination of the almost unexplored interior, especially the
Everglades, will doubtless extend their range materially. Forty-eight
out of seventy-eight species found in it are evergreen, and all but four
of these the broad-leaved tropical forms.

Towards the middle of the State are found extensive prairies and
treeless tracts, which are evidently connected with the alternation of
wet and dry seasons, generally well marked in its climate. Though
the wet season is in summer, yet the little interruption of growth by
cold at other seasons makes their dryness influential. Its effects will
be hereafter more fully alluded to.

4. Now coming to the Camprstrran Province we find, as already
stated, that no new forms of trees appear, while those found rapidly
diminish and disappear towards the west. Thirteen species have not
been traced west of its eastern border ; about ninety extend pretty
far into the Texan and Illinois regions, but only five or six get across
the eastern limit of the Camanche and Dacotah regions, which, however,
receive nine or ten more from the west and north.

The Saskatchewan region, bordering close upon the well-wooded La-
custrian Province, may have a few more eastern species, and possibly
‘more from the west, as there is evidence that it is better watered and
-approaches in character to the Illinois region.

It will be observed that the southcast and northeast borders of this
province form nearly a right angle with each other, and extending
east into Michigan cause a wide separation of the Lacustrian and Apa-
lachian provinces. This is one of the most well defined facts in the

-distribution of trees. A careful examination of the minute land office
surveys has shown that the line is exceedingly distinct in Wisconsin
and Minnesota, prairies prevailing to the south of it interspersed with
oak-openings and groves of deciduous trees along the streams, while
to the north pine and spruce forests with tamarack swamps cover the
whole country, having the other Canadian trees with them. This is
doubtless in great part due to the change in the character of soil and
of the underlying rocks, which retain the moisture, while it is com-
pletely drained off to the south. Thus we have here a distinct divi-
sion of the two eastern forest provinces, assisting to determine where
it would be eastward were it not disguised by local irregularities of
surface.

The cause of the disappearance of trees in the Campestrian Province
is, in a word, the deficient and irregular supply of moisture. I need
not enter into the proofs of this, but refer to the records of meteorolo-
gists. It is true that this does not materially affect agriculture in
the more eastern regions; in fact, most crops will succeed better with
bo

FORESTS AND TREES OF NORTH AMERICA. ri:
less rain than is necessary for most trees to thrive, and in some years
there is even a greater supply of rain in the Texan and Illinois regions
than eastward. But there are years and series of years of drought,
when in their natural condition the forests take fire from the slightest
cause and burn over Jarge tracts. This was made even more general
by the Indians, but since the white settlement has in great degree
ceased and forests have been re-established. In the Apalachian re-
gion droughts have never been sufficient to keep trees from extending
themselves as soon as a forest might be partially destroyed by fire,
and thus the formation of prairies has been prevented. A consideration
of the source of the rains will explain why the limit of prairies has its
present direction. Coming north from the Gulf they are continually
carried more and more eastward by the westerly winds; and as the
greater part of the moisture is precipitated before reaching the Ohio
river, the Illinois region is deprived for many years of its due share of
rains.

The Texan region lying quite west of the line of travel of those Gulf
streams has to depend on less abundant sources for its rains. Now, as
we go westward the supply rapidly diminishes until in the Camanche
and Dacotah regions it is entirely inadequate to the growth of trees as
well as of most cultivated products; and in some parts even grass and
other herbage entirely disappear over vast tracts. From the great
bend of the Missouri north, however, there seems to be an improve-
ment in the country. On the banks of that river, above Fort Union,
there is no long interval without trees as there is farther south on
nearly all the streams, and on the Saskatchewan there is even less.

The very porous character of the soil and underlying rocks assists
much in this aridity of the country, and we therefore find that the
line marking the junction of the carboniferous rocks of the Illinois re-
gion with the cretaceous and tertiary is a distinct limitation of many
trees.

When better known the geological character will help much in de-
fining the physical geography of the surface of this province. In
Texas the border of the Llano Estacado coincides with that of the Ca-
manche region for a long distance. It is evidently more the reten-
tiveness of the soil than its mineral composition that affects the growth
of trees, for all soils contain more or less of their essential ingredients.

Even the saline substances, which are supposed by some to make
deserts of portions of the Great Plains, are rather the secondary effects
of the climate; for if rains were abundant these salts would become
diffused, and in their proper proportions enter into the structure of trees
and other plants.

It is certain, however, that even if the fires cease very few trees
will ever be made to grow in these two arid regions.

5. Coming now to what I have called the Rocky Mountain province, .
we find that the relations of climate and forest characteristic both of
the Campestrian and Apalachian provinces are repeated, but com-
bined in an entirely new manner.

The high mountain ranges resemble the latter in their regular sup-
ply of rain, while near their summits the vegetation of the Athabascan
region appears either in identical or allied forms, and still higher,
278 FORESTS AND TREES OF NORTH AMERICA,

near the limits of perpetual snow, the Hsquimaux vegetation is almost
precisely copied. But, on the other hand, the lower plains present
every shade of succession, from the continuous forests of the Apa-
lachian, through the rich prairies of the Illinois, to the barren deserts
of the Camanche region. All these characteristics occur, however, in
comparatively narrow belts surrounding isolated peaks or ranges, and
the species of trees met with are nearly all distinct from those of the
eastern provinces.

Another distinctive character is in the fact that this province receives
its rains from the west, (except, perhaps, some of the most eastern
mountain slopes and those of Arizona,) and the supply of moisture
is in direct proportion to the vicinity of any region to the Pacific, and
the obstacles between it and that reservoir. Thus the Sierra Nevada
cuts off almost all the rain from Utah, the little that reaches its eastern
part being from local evaporation and what is intercepted by the lofty
central ranges from the higher currents of the atmosphere.

It thus happens that no constant elevation and no similar exposure
has always the same amount of forest or other vegetation ; local cir-
cumstances make every range of mountains and every valley differ
somewhat from those around it.

But, as a general fact, we find that those regions towards the north
are the best supplied with moisture, and therefore best wooded—ex-
actly contrary to the character of those regions which receive their
moisture from the Gulf of Mexico.

Near the Mexican boundary we enter the belt of raznless regions
described by Lieutenant Maury; and here the supply is indeed preca-
rious, though apparently more adequate to vegetation than in the
Utah region.

Although I have enumerated a long list of trees as first appearing
on this line, it is in reality, for the most part, a treeless belt. Scat-
tered individuals of numerous species occur, often limited to one nar-
row locality, as if merely outlines of more extensive forests in Mexico,
or of what were once more extensive here, and have been destroyed
by drought. Lieutenant Ives found great tracts of some of the more
common trees thus standing dry and dead, as if killed within a recent
period; but this is not the place to discuss these apparent changes in
the climate of the country.

The higher San Francisco and other ranges seem, however, to
receive a better supply of moisture from the upper strata of the air,
while their more impervious rocks probably retain it, and their cool
summits condense around them enough moisture for the leaves of trees.
I may remark here, that it would seem as if trees, rising high above
the surface of the ground and expanding a vast evaporating surface of
leaves to the air, require a greater degree of moisture in the air than
herbaceous plants. They cannot, like the herbs of all arid regions,
dry up and die down to their roots, to spring again with the wet sea-
son ; they must retain vitality throughout or die. This constitutes a
real physiological distinction between trees and herbs. The shrubs
which live in thosé arid regions, presenting less evaporating surface,
and having larger rootstocks in proportion, withstand droughts.

6. The Californian region stands alone, unless combined with the
FORESTS AND TREES OF NORTH AMERICA. 279

Peninsula by natural affinities. Its mountains essentially resemble in
climate and forest growth the Lacustrian province. Its valleys are
like the Illinois and Texan regions, with this difference: that they
have periodic dry and wet seasons, occurring at seasons opposite to
those of Florida. Connected with this and with the mildness of its
winters we again find a large proportion of broad-leaved evergreens,
several genera, as the oaks and chestnut, which are deciduous in the
east, being nearly all evergreen there. I should have mentioned that
the same is the case in Arizona, though there a climate of tropical heat
requires no interruption of vegetation.

7. The Oregon region, and those north of it, as far as known, have
very peculiar characters as well as points of resemblance to the eastern
region. ‘The climate is mild and equable, without excessive heat or
cold, the rains abundant, and towards the coast excessive, with but
short intervals, scarcely amounting to adry season. The forests,
while mostly composed of the northern forms of Coniferae, have also
several broad-leaved evergreen trees and shrubs, which give them
almost a tropical aspect. Both in climate and vegetation this westera
coast resembles much the coast of Europe, species and genera of trees
being almost identically represented, and in about the same numbers.
On the other hand, a similar analogy exists between the Apalachian
forests and those of China.

The marked differences in the character of the various mountains
and valleys in these western regions may in future lead to more
minute division than I have adopted, but present information does not
warrant it now. Species formerly supposed to be limited to a narrow
district have unexpectedly been found in others far distant, but of simi-
lar natural character, the intervening wide tracts being entirely des-
titute of them. Many facts go to show that the distribution of trees
and forests was once very different, and is even now constantly
changing, together with the climate; but as even the possibility of
this change is doubted by some, except with such geological convul-
sions as can upheave mountains and sink continents, we must not be
hasty in deciding the question.

It may be objected to what I have said of the connexion between
the cold winds and the constant rains of the Apalachian province
that they do not coexist in the northwestern regions, which, together,
form the Caurmne Province. But there are other causes which pro-
duce the precipitation of rain there. One is the cold northwest sea-
breeze, which in winter precipitates the moisture brought by the south-
west winds; the other is the cold air around the peaks of perpetual
snow, which in summer produces at night a downward cold current
with the same condensing effect.

Thus the snowy mountains assist to improve the climate, and inter-
cept much of the rain which, more to the north, seems to pass over
the lower mountain ranges and to reach the Lacustrian province.

Mvch more might be said respecting the connexions of forests and
climate, but the general and best known facts are presented so as to
lay the way for more complete observations. The provinces and
regions may be classified in the following manner as to these con-
nexions :
280 BIRDS OF NOVA SCOTIA.

A.—Completely wooded ; rains equally distributed and abundant.—
The Lacustrian and Apalachian.

B.—Partially wooded ; rains sometimes deficient.— Florida, Texas,
and Illinois regions.

C.—Almost woodless; rains always deficient.—Dacotah, Camanche,
and Utah regions.

D.—Plains and valleys unwooded ; mountains wooded in propor-
tion to their moisture, which is irregularly distributed, or periodi-
cal.—Rocky mountain province, except Utah ?

E.— Partially wooded; rains periodical.—Californian region and
Mexican province ?

F'.—Nearly all densely wooded ; rains somewhat periodic, increas-
ing in amount to the north, and with elevation.—Caurian province.

From what examination I have been able to give the subject, I con-
clude that at least fifteen inches of rain during the growing season is
essential to the vegetation of trees of all kinds. This, however, must
vary with the retentiveness of the soil, the rapidity of evaporation,
and the species of tree, some requiring much more than this. We
have seen that, with its abundant moisture at all seasons, the Apa-
lachian province has far the greatest number of species of trees, while
the Caurian, though with perhaps more rain, unequally distributed,
has much fewer. ‘Chis is, however, connected also with its cooler
summers, and, as before remarked, we have in the east a tropical
forest with our tropical summers, in spite of arctic winters.

From an accurate determination of the range of trees much inter-
esting information on both climatic and other physical influences is
expected to be derived. At the same time the distribution of all other
plants and of animals must be studied in order to arrive at a knowl-
edge of that harmonious system which undoubtedly prevails through-
out the organic world, however obscured by the accidents of time and
of external influences. Among them all we believe that forests will
be found one of the most important, and respectfully invite the atten-
tion of the reader to its investigation.

LIST OF BIRDS OF NOVA SCOTIA.

Compiled from notes by Lieutenant Blakiston, R. A., and Lieutenant
Bland, R. £., made in 1852—1855, by Professor J. Lt. Willis, of
Halifax.

[N. B.—The species with an asterick (*) prefixed are inserted on the authority of
Andrew Downs, esq. The nomenclature is that of Audubon’s synopsis. |

Bald-headed Eagle, (Haliwtus leucocephalus.) Resident; not un-
common.

Osprey, (Pandion halictus.) Common along the coast ; breeds.

*Ice Falcon, (Falco islandicus.) Very rare and only in winter ;
one instance in ten years.—(A. Downs.)—? ?? J. R. W.

Pigeon Hawk, (/. columbarius.) Common; breeds.
BIRDS OF NOVA SCOTIA, 281

Sparrow Hawk, (/. sparverius.) Not uncommon; breeds.

Red-shouldered Buzzard, (Buteo lineatus.) Rather common; breeds.

Rough-legged Buzzard, (B. lagopus.) Rare.—? ?

Red-tailed or American Buzzard, (B. borealis.) Not common.

American Goshawk, (Astur atricapillus.) Rather common,

Sharp-shinned Hawk, (A. fuscus.) Rather common.

American Hen Harrier, (Circus hudsonicus.) Abundant; breeds.

Hawk Owl, (Strix funerea.) Common; breeds mostly north.

Snowy Owl, (S. nyctea.) Rare here in winter; breeds north.

Long-eared Owl, (S. ofus.) Not common.

Short-eared Owl, (S. brachyotus.) Not common.

Acadian Owl, (Noctua acadica.) Resident; common.

Tengmalm’s Owl, (XN. tengmalmi.) Rare; resident inland.

Sparrow Owl, (N. passerina.) Found inland ; very rare.

Barred Owl, (Syrnium nebulosum.) Resident ; common.

Great horned Owl, (Bubo virginianus.) Resident; very common.
fete ecco at (Caprimulqus vociferus.) Rare; arrives beginning
of June.
: Night Hawk, (C. virginianus.) Abundant; arrives end of May ;

reeds,

Chimney? (American?) Swallow, (Hirundo pelasgia?) Arrives end
of March.

*Purple Martin, (H. purpurea.) Occasional.

White-bellied Martin, (H. bicolor.) Abundant; arrives about 20th
April.

Republican or Cliff Swallow, (HZ. fulvas.) Abundant; arrives
about 1st May; departs about the 20th August.

Barn Swallow, (4. rustica.) Abundant; arrives about Ist of May;
departs beginning of September.

Bank Swallow, (H. riparia.) Inland.

Belted Kingfisher, (Alcedo alcyon.) Common; arrives about Ist of
May ; departs middle of September.

Tyrant Flycatcher, (Musicapa tyrannus.) Common inland ; breeds.

Green-crested Flycatcher, (JZ. acadica.) Not common.

Wood Peewee, (MM. virens.) Not common.

American Redstart, (AZ. ruticilla.) Abundant; arrives about 10th
May.

Least Peewee, (M/. pusilla.)

Great American Shrike, (Lanius borealis.) Not common ; resident
during winter.

Migratory Thrush or Robin, (Zurdus migratorius.) Abundant ;
arrives middle of April.

Hermit Thrush, (7. solitarius.) Arrives 1st May ; abundant ; nests
on the ground.

Olivaceous Thrush, (Z’. olivaceus.) Not common; nests in bushes.

Cat Bird, (7. felivox.) Common inland; arrives Ist June.

Golden-crowned Thrush, (7. aurocapillus.) Common; arrives about
10th May.

*Water Thrush, (Cinclus americanus.) Inland; rare.

American Pipit, (Anthus ludevicianus.) Arriving in flocks about
20th September ; goes south.
282 BIRDS OF NOVA SCOTIA.

Canada Flycatcher, (Myiodioctes canadensis.) Common inland;
arrives about 10th May.

Wilson’s Blackcap, (27. wilsonti.) Inland; not common; arrives
about 10th May.

Yellow-rump Warbler, (Sylvicola coronata.) Abundant; arrives
about 24th April.

*Black-poll Warbler, (S. striata.) Rare.

Bay-breasted Warbler, (S. castanea.) Rather rare; arrives about
10th May.

Chestnut-sided Warbler, (S. icterocephala.) Common; arrives about
10th May.

Hemlock Warbler, (S. parus.) Resident in autumn; departs in
November.

Black-throated Green Warbler, (S. virens.) Very rare; one in-
stance only.

“Cape May Warbler, (S. maritima.) Abundant; arrives about
10th May.

Blackburnian Warbler, (S. blackburnia.) Not uncommon inland.
if Yellow-poll Warbler, (8. aestiva ) Common; arrives about 5th

ay.
i Red-poll Warbler, (S. vetechia.) Very common ; arrives about 23d

pril.

Yellow-back Warbler, (S. americana.) Inland in hard woods ;
rare,

*Black-throated Blue Warbler, (S. canadensis.) Rare.

Black and yellow Warbler, (S. maculosa.) Abundant; arrives
about 10th May.

*Blue-green Warbler, (S. coerulea.) Very rare.

*Mourning Warbler, (Z'richas philadelphica,) Very rare.

Maryland Yellow-throat, (7. marilandica.) Abundant.

Nashville Warbler, (Sylvicola rubricapilla.) Rare.

Black and White Creeper, (Certhia varia.) Common; arrives about
10th May.

Winter Wren, (Zroglodytes hyemalis.) Inland; not common.

American Goldcrest, (egulus satrapa.) Resident; common.

Ruby-crowned Wren, (22. calendula.) Not common.

Blue Bird, (Sialia wilsonit.) Occasional.

Brown Creeper, (Certhia familiaris.) Resident ; common.

Blackcap Tit, (Parus atricapillus.) Abundant; resident.

Hudson Bay Tit, (P. hudsonicus.) J. R. W.

Solitary Vireo, (Vireo solitarius.) Not common.

Warbling Vireo, (Vireo gilvus.) Rare.

Red-eyed Vireo, (Vireo olivaceus.) Very common; arrives about
10th May. *

Cedar Bird or Waxwing, (Bombycilla carolinensis.) Arrives in
flocks Ist June; leaves end of August.

Shore Lark, (Alauda alpestris.) Arrives from north middle of
October; returns from south 20th March.

Fox-colored Sparrow, (ringilla iliaca.) Breeds north; arrives in
December going south; returns 15th March.
BIRDS OF NOVA SCOTIA. 283

Song Sparrow, (J. melodia.) Harliest singing bird, 14th March ;
goes south with Warblers.

White-throated Sparrow, (f. pennsylvanica,) Arrives beginning
of April; abundant.

Bay-winged Sparrow, (Lmberiza graminea.) Very rare.

Chipping Sparrow, (£. socialis.) Inland.

Tree Sparrow, (#. canadensis.) Common here in winter; breeds
north.

Snow Bird, (Niphoea hyemalis.) Very abundant; arrives Ist of
April; leaves 20th October.

Swamp Sparrow, (lringilla palustris.) Not uncommon ; arrives
Ist May.

American Lesser Redpole, (Linaria minor.) Abundant, in flocks,
during autumn.

Pine Finch, (Z. pinus.) Probably resident.

Purple Finch, (Fringilia purpurea.) Very common ; arrives about
27th March.

Savannah Sparrow, (Hmberiza savanna.) Abundant; arrives 10th
June; departs 15th September.

Snow Bunting, (Z. nivalis.) In flocks; arrives about 1st Novem-
ber ; departs about 20th March ; breeds north.

*Indigo Bird, (fringilla cyanea.) Accidental; have been one or
two instances. ai J. BR. W.)

American Goldfinch, (Carduelis tristis.) Inland; rare.

Pine Grosbeak, (Corythus enucleator.) Here in winter ; some years
abundant ; breeds north.

Common Crossbill, (Loaia curvirostra?) Resident.

White-winged Crossbill, (L. leucoptera.) Resident ; common.

Rose-breasted Grosbeak, (Coccoborus ludovicianus. ) ‘Inland ; rare.

*Scarlet Tanager, (Pyranga rubra.) Accidental.

Bobolink, or Rice Bunting, (Zmberiza oryzivora.) Common inland;
arrives about 1st May.

*Cow Blackbird, (Molothrus pecoris.) Occasional.

*Red-winged Blackbird, (Agelaius pheeniceus.) Inland ; occasional.

Common Crow Blackbird, or Purple Grackle, (Q. versicolor.) Rare.

Rusty Grackle, (Q. ferrugineus.) Common; arrives 17th March;
departs about 20th October.

Boat-tailed Grackle!! (Quscalus major.) Rare; only specimen [
have seen was shot by A. Downs, esq., last summer, and is now in a
case of birds belonging to Sir Gaspard Le Marchant.—J. R. Willis.

Raven, (Corvus corax.) Resident ; not common.

American Crow, (Corvus americanus.) Resident; common.

*Fish Crow, (C. ossifragus.) Resident; rare.

Blue Jay, (Garr ulus cristatus.) Resident ; ;(2) abundant.

Canada Jay, (G. canadensis.) Resident; abundant.

*White-breasted Nuthatch, (Sitta car olinensis. ) Autumn and
winter ; not common.
Red-bellied Nuthatch, (S. canadensis.) Common in winter; in-
and.

*Brown-headed Nuthatch, (S. pusilla.) Very rare.
284 BIRDS OF NOVA SCOTIA.

*Meadow Lark, (Sturnella ludoviciana.) Very rare; inland; one
instance.

Ruby-throated Humming Bird, (Zrochilus colubris.) Abundant ;
arrives beginning of April ; departs about the 20th September.

Pileated Woodpecker, (Picus pileatus.) Inland; rare; resident.

Hairy Woodpecker, (P. villosus.) Very common; resident.

Downy Woodpecker, (P. pubescens.) Common ; resident.

Yellow-bellied Woodpecker, (P. varius.) Inland; not common ;
migrates.

Arctic Three-toed Woodpecker, (P. arcticus.) Rather rare; resi-
dent.

Golden-wing Woodpecker, (P. awratus.) Common ; arrives about
Ist May ; departs in November.

*Black-billed Cuckoo, (Coccyzus erythropthalmus.) Very rare.

Yellow-billed Cuckoo, (C. americanus.) Rare; arrives about Ist
June; breeds.

*Carolina Long-tailed Dove, (ctpiestes carolinus.)

Passenger, Pigeon, (Columba migratoria.) Sometimes very abun-
dant; arrives about end of July.

Rufied Grouse, (Yetrao umbellus.) Abundant; resident; young
fly about 20th August.

Canada Grouse, (Z'’. canadensis.) Not very common.

American Coot, (Fulica americana.) Not common; depends on
setting in of the frost; 1st to end of November.

Yellow-breasted Rail, (Rallus noveboracensis.) Rare; depends on
setting in of the frost; 1st to end of November.

Sora Rail, (22. carolinus.) Not common; depends on setting in of
the frost; 1st to end of November.

American Bittern, (Ardea lentiginosa.) Very common; leaves end
of October.

*Least Bittern, (Ardea ewilis.) Accidental.

Great Blue Heron, (A. herodias.) Common; breeds.

Snowy Heron, (A. candidissima.) Very rare.

American Golden Plover, (Charadrius marmoratus.) Arrives in
flocks 15th August.

Piping Plover, (C7. melodus.) Rare.

Black-bellied Plover, (C. helveticus.) Not common; arrives in
August ; leaves in October.

American Ring Plover, (C. semipalmatus.) Abundant; arrives in
August ; leaves in October.

Turnstone, (Strepsilas interpres.) Not common.

Ash-colored Sandpiper,+ (Zringaislandica.) Abundant; August
and September.

Red-backed Sandpiper, (Z. alpina.) Abundant ; August and Sep-
tember.

Semi-palmated Sandpiper, (7. semipalmata.) Abundant; August
and September.

Little Sandpiper, (Z. pusilla.) Abundant; August and September.

Pectoral Sandpiper, (Z’. pectoralis.) Rare.

Schinz’s Sandpiper, (Z. schinzit.) Not common.
BIRDS OF NOVA SCOTIA, 285

Sanderling Sandpiper, (7. arenaria.) Abundant; August and
September.

*Willet, (Zotanus semipalmatus.) Very rare; breeds.

Spotted Tattler, (Z. macularius.) Common; arrives beginning of
May ; breeds.

Solitary Tattler, (7. solitarius.) Common.

Yellow-shanks, (7. flavipes.) Abundant; arrives beginning of
July ; leaves by end of August.

Tell-tale, (Z’. vociferus.) Abundant; arrives later; leaves end of
October.

Hudsonian Godwit, (Zimosa hudsonica.) Common ; arrives about
15th September ; leaves end of October.

Curlew Sandpiper, (Zringa subarquata.) Not common.
‘ panencan Snipe, (Scolopax wilsonit.) Common; arrives end of
Tarch.

Red-breasted Snipe, (S. noveboracensis.) Common; August and
September.

American Woodcock, (Microptera americana.) Common ; arrives
about 17th March; leaves about the end of October.

Hudsonian Curlew, (Numenius hudsonicus.) Common; August
and September.

*Long-billed Curlew, (NV. longirostris.) Very rare.

Esquimaux Curlew, (NV. borealis.) Not common.

Grey Phalarope, (Phalaropus wilsonwi.) Rare.

Canada Goose, (Anser canadensis.) Passes north 17th March ;
returns 15th October.

*Brent Goose, (A. bernicla.) Rare.

*Snow Goose, (A. hyperboreus.) Occasional.

Mallard Duck, (4. boschas.) Rare.

Dusky Duck, (A. obscura.) Abundant; breeds; resident.

Gadwall, (A. strepera.) In winter ; rare.

Pin-tail Duck, (A. acuta.) In winter ; common; breeds north.

American Wigeon, (A. americana.) Not common; winter.

Summer Duck, (4. sponsa.) Arrives about middle of March ;
breeds; rare.

American Green-winged Teal, (A. carolinensis.) Common; leaves
about middle of October.

European Green-winged Teal, (4. crecca.) One killed here in
September, 1854.

Blue-winged Teal, (4. discors.) Not common; here in September ;
breeds north.

*Shoveller Duck, (4. clypeata.) Very rare; breeds north.

Scaup Duck, (fuligula marila.) Autumn and spring; not common.

Ring-necked Duck, (£. rufitorques.) Rare; breeds in Jakes inland.

Ruddy Duck, (2. rubida.) Very rare.

*Pied Duck, (£. labradora.) . Occasional. '

Velvet Scoter, (F’. fusca.) Common; goes north to breed ; here in
winter.

Surf Scoter, (2. perspicillata.) Not very common ; breeds north as
well as inland.

American Scoter, (Z". americana.) Abundant; breeds north.
286 BIRDS OF BERMUDA.

Eider Dack, (#'. mollisima.) Abundant in winter; breeds north.

Golden-eye Duck, (F. clangula.) Abundant in winter.

Buffle-headed Duck, (2’. albeola.) Common; breeds north.

Long-tailed Duck, (2. glacialis.) Abundant in winter.

Harlequin Duck, (2. histrionica.) Common in winter.

*King Hider Duck, (/’. spectabilis.) Has been seen here; very rare.

Goosander, (Aergus merganser.) Common; resident; breeds on
the lakes.—(? J. R. W.)

Red-breasted Merganser, (JZ. serrator.) Common, resident ; breeds
on the lakes.

Hooded Merganser, (Mf. cucullatus.) Very rare.

Common Gannet, (Sula bassana.) Common of the coast.

Common Tern, (Sterna hirundo.) Abundant; breeds here.

Bonaparte’s Gull, (Larus bonapartii.) Not uncommon in autumn.

Black-headed Gull, (Z. atricilla.) Rather rare.

Kittiwake Gull, (ZL. tridactylus.) Very common.

Herring Gull, (LZ. argentatus.) Common.

*Commmon American Gull, (L. zonorhynchus.)

Black-backed Gull, (Z. marinus.) Common; breeds in Labrador.

Mother Cary’s Chicken, (Zhalassidroma pelagica.) Common off the
coast.

Least Petrel, (7. wilsonii.)

Common Puffin, (Mormon arctica.)

Little Auk, (Mergulus alle.) Rather rare.

Razor-bill, (Alcea torda.)

Common Guillemot, (Uria troile.)

White-winged Guillemot, (U. gryjlle.)

Great Northern Diver, (Colymbus glacialis.) Common; resident.

*Red-throated Diver, (C. septentrionalis.) Very rare.

Red-necked Grebe, (Podiceps rubricollis.) Common in winter.

Pied-billed Grebe, (P. Carolinensis.) Very rare here.

*Cormorant, (Phalacrocorax carbo.)

*Wandering Shearwater, (Pufinus cinercus.)

American Oyster-catcher, (Hematopus palliatus.) Has been seen
here, (doubtful I think, J. R. W.)

LIST OF BIRDS OF BERMUDA.
BY LIEUT. BLAND, R. E.
COMMUNICATED BY JOHN R. WILLIS.

Nore.—The systematic names in the following list, with the excep-
tion of Nos. 26, 29, 51, 73, and 94, are taken from Audubon’s Synopsis
of the Birds of North America, published ia 1839,

. Pandion halietus—Osprey, Fish Hawk, or Fishing Eagle.
Falco peregrinus—Peregrine Falcon, or Duck Hawk.
Felco columbarius—Pigeon Hawk.

QQ DD bet
BIRDS OF BERMUDA. 287

. Circus cyaneus—Common Harrier.

. Surnia nyctea—Snowy Owl.

. Ulula acadica—Acadian Night Owl, or Little Owl.

. Otus vulgaris—Long-eared Owl.

. Olus brachyotus—Short-eared Owl.

. Corvus americanus—American Crow.

. Lanius ludovicianus—Loggerhead Shrike.

. Chordeiles virginianus—Virginian Night Hawk.

2. Chetura pelasgia—American Spine Tail, or Swift.

3. Hirundo purpurea—Purple Martin.

. Hirundo bicolor—White-bellied Swallow.

. Hirundo rustica—Chimney or Barn Swallow.

. Hirundo riparta—Bank Swallow.

. Muscicapa tyrannus—Tyrant Flycatcher, or King Bird.
. Mytodioctes mitratus—Hooded Flycatcher.

. Sylvicola coronata—Yellow-crowned Wood Warbler.

. Sylvicola pinus—Pine-creeping Wood Warbler.

. Sylvicola petechia—Yellow Red Poll Wood Warbler.

. Sylvicola americana—Blue Yellow-backed Wood Warbler.
. Sylvicola discolor—Prairie Wood Warbler.

. Mniotilta varia—Black and White Creeping Warbler.

. Sialia wilsonti—Common Blue Bird.

. Saxicola cnanthe—W heatear, (of Yarrell.)

27. Orpheus carolinensis—Black-capped Mocking Bird, or Cat Bird,
. LTurdus mustelinus—W ood Thrush.

. Lurdus solitartus—Olive-backed Thrush.

. Seiurus noveboracensis—Aquatic Wood Wagtail.

. Anthus ludovictanus—American Pipit.

Alauda alpestris—Shore Lark, or Horned, Lark,

. Plectrophanes nivalis—Snow Bunting.

. Emberiza graminea—Grass or Baywinged Bunting,

. Ammodramus palustris—Swamp Sparrow.

. Dolichonyx oryzxivora—Wandering Rice Bird.

. Linaria minor—Lesser Red Poll Linnet.

. Pitylus cardinalis—Cardinal Grossbeak, Red Bird, or Virginian

Nightingale.

. Coccoborus ludovicianus—Rose-breasted Song Grossbeak.
. Vireo noveboracensis—W hite-eyed Greenlet.

. Bombycilla carolinensis—Cedar Waxwing.

. Alcedo alcyon—Belted Kingfisher.

. Picus varius—Yellow-bellied Woodpecker.

. Coccyzus americanus—Y ellow-billed American Cuckoo.

. Columba passerina—Ground Dove.

. Ortyx virginiana—Common American Partridge or Quail.
. Gallinula martinica—Purple Gallinule.

. Gallinula chloropus—Common Gallinule.

. Fulica americana—American Coot or Mudhen.

. Ortygometra cirolinus—Carolina Crake Gallinule.

. Crex pratensis—Land Rail, or Corn Crake (of Yarrell.)
. Ortygometra noveboracensis—Yellow-breasted Rail.

. Ortygemetra jamaicensis—Least Crake Gallinule.
BIRDS OF BERMUDA.

. Charadrius helveticus—Black-bellied Plover.

. Charadrius marmoratus—American Golden Plover.
. Charadrius vociferus—Kildeer Plover.

. Charadrius semipalmatus—American Ring Plover.

. Charadrius melodus—Piping Plover.

. Strepsilas interpres—Turnstone.

. Tringa pectoralis—Pectoral Sandpiper.

. Pringa himantopus—Long-legged Sandpiper.

. Tringa schinzti—Schinz’s Sandpiper.

. Tringa semipalmata—Semi-palmated Sandpiper.

. Lringa pusilla—Little Sandpiper.

. Tringa arenaria—Sanderling Sandpiper.

. Lobipes hyperboreus—Hypoborean Lobefoot, or Phalarope.
. Totanus macularius—Spotted Sandpiper.

. Totanus solitarius—Solitary Sandpiper.

. Totanus flavipes—Yellow Shanks Tattler.

. Totanus vociferus—Greater Yellow Shanks Tattler.
. Totanus semipalmatus—Willet or Stone Curlew.

. Scolopax wilsonui—Common American Snipe.

. Scolopax gallinago—Common European Snipe.

. Scolopax noveboracensis—Red-breasted Snipe.

. Microptera americana—American Woodcock.

. Numenius hudsonicus—Hudsonian Curlew.

Numenius borealis—Esquimaux Curlew.

. Ardea nycticorax—Black-crowned Night Heron, or qua Bird.
. Ardea violacea—Yellow-crowned Night Heron.

. Ardea lentiginosa—American Bittern.

. Ardea exilis—Least Bittern.

, Ardea virescens—Green Heron.

. Ardea herodias—Great Blue Heron.

. Ardea egretta—Great American White Egret.

. Ardea cerulea—Blue Heron.

. Ardea candidissima—Snowy Heron.

. Anser hyperboreus—Snow Goose.

. Anas obscurva—Dusky Duck.

. Anas acuta—Pintail Duck.

. Anas sponsa—Wood Duck.

. Anas carolinensis—American Green-winged Teal.

. Anas discors—Blue-winged Teal.

. Anas clypeata—Shoveller Duck.

. Luligula marila—Scaup Duck (of Europe and America. )
. Luligula perspicillata—Surf Duck.

. Luligula albeola—Bufile-headed Duck.

. Mergus cucullatus—Hooded Merganser.

. Phalacrocorax dilophus—Double-breasted Cormorant.

. Lachypetes aquilus—F rigate or Man-of-War Bird.

. Sula fusca—Booby Gannet.

. Pheeton ceethereus—Tropic Bird (Boatswain or Long Tail.)
. Sterna fuliginosa—Sooty Tern.

3. Sterna hirundo—Common Tern.

. Sterna dougaillii—Roseate Tern.
BIRDS OF BERMUDA. 289

105. Larus sabinti—Fork-tailed Gull.

106. Larus bonapartii—Bonaparte’s Gull.

107. Larus tridactylus—Kittiwake Gull.

108. Larus zonorhynchus—Ring-billed or common American Gull.

109. Larus occidentalis—Western Gull.

110. Larus argentatus—Herring or Silvery Gull.

111. Puffinus obscurus—Dusky Shearwater.

112. Lhalassidroma -wilsonii—Wilson’s Petrel, or Mother Cary’s
Chicken. |

113. Podiceps cornutuws—Horned Grebe.

114. Podiceps carolinensis—Pied-billed Dobchick.

There is every reason to believe that the following birds have also
been observed in the Bermudas, but as specimens of them have not
yet been obtained they are considered to be ‘‘ doubtful.”’

Falco sparverius—Sparrow Hawk, (of Audubon.)

Surnia funerea—Hawk Owl, (of Audubon.)

Trochilus colubris—Ruby-throated Humming Bird.
Ectopistes migratoria—Passenger Pigeon.

Ectopistes carolinensis—Carolina Long-tailed Dove, (of Audubon.)
Tringa maritima—Purple Sandpiper, (of Audubon.)

Ibis falcinellus—Glossy Ibis, (of Audubon.)
Pheenicopterus ruber—American Flamingo, (of Audubon.)
Anser canadensis—Canada Goose.

Mergus merganser—Goosander.

Pelecanus fuscus—Brown Pelican.

Larus atricilla—Black-headed Gull.

Nors.—Since this article went to press a small work has been published by J. M. Jones,
entitled ‘‘ The Naturalist in Bermuda,’’ London, Reeves & Turner, 1859, containing valu-
able information respecting the natural history of Bermuda. A list of birds furnished by
Major J. W. Wedderburn, contains the following additions to the catalogue of Lieutenant
Bland:

Cathartes aura, Falco sparverius, Astur fuscus, Lanius borealis, Muscicapa dominicensis,
Muscicapa virens, Turdus olivaceus, Turdus migratorius, Trichas marilandica, Alauda
arvensis, Emberiza savanna, Emberiza henslowi, Pyranga aestiva, Pyranga rubra, Loxia
curvirostra, Loxia leucoptera, Trochilus colubris, Ectopistes carolinensis, Himantopus
nigricollis, Rallus virginianus, Anas strepera, Anas boschas, Anas americana, Fuligula
clangula, Fuligula rufitorques, Fuligula rubida, Fuligula valisneriana, Pelecanus fuscus,
Sterna stolida, Puffinus cinereus.

‘The following additions are made in the same work by J. L. Hurdis, esq.:

Haliaetus leucocephalus, Syrnium nebulosum, Carduelis tristis, Larus marinus, Mergulus
alle, making an addition of 35 species.—Total 149.

Nearly all the species in the list are essentially those of the North American continent,
none being peculiar to the West Indies. The following are European species: Sazicola
oenanthe, Alauda arvensis, Crex pratensis, Scolopax gallinago. Of these the first and third have
been taken in the United States, where the others will probably yet be found.—Secrzrary
SsuTHsONIAN INsTiTuTION.

19
290 ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY.

REPORT

ON

ATMOSPHERIC: BEUBCTRICITY:
BY M.’F, DUPREZ.

Translated for the Smithsonian Institution from the Memoirs of the Royal Academy of
Brussels, by Dr. L. D. Gate.

[This article is, perhaps, the best digest of the history of the observa-
tions and researches relative to the electricity of the atmosphere which
has ever been compiled, and therefore forms a proper addition to the
reports of Miller on other parts of the general subject of electricity
which have been given in the appendix to the annual reports of the
Regents of the Smithsonian Institution. |

MEMOIR ON THE ELECTRICITY OF THE AIR.
PABI* I.

THE MEANS USED TO JUDGE OF THE ELECTRICAL PHENOMENA WHICH TAKE
PLACE IN THE ATMOSPHERE,

On the construction of the first electrical machine the observers
were struck with the resemblance between the effects of electricity and
those of lightning; scarcely had the first electric spark been perceived
when Wall, Gilbert, and Grey compared its light to that of lightning.
This resemblance was still more clearly marked when the discovery of
the Leyden phial enabled philosophers to produce with electricity the
most astonishing effects of lightning. To render the identity perfect,
nothing remained but to collect the electricity which was supposed to
exist in the atmosphere. Two methods have been employed for this
purpose, one consisting of stationary apparatus, the other of movable
ones. In the former case, upright insulated rods or metallic wires,
also insulated and stretched in the air, have been used; in the latter,
kites, portable electrometers and rheometers are employed. These
different articles of apparatus serve to collect the electricity of the air
in clear and cloudy weather, during fogs, rain, snow, and hail, and
finally in storms.

CHAPTER I.
OF ELECTRO-ATMOSPHERIC APPARATUS.

§1. Of siationary apparatus.—Stationary apparatus was especially
used in the earlier periods when atmospheric electricity engaged the
attention. ‘To Franklin* we are indebted for the first idea, and to
Dalibard,+ a French physicist for the first verification, by experiment,

* Experiments and Observations on Electricity, made at Philadelphia, p. 66; London, 1769.
+1d., p. 106.
! ?
ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY. 291

of what the former had conceived. His apparatus, established at
Marly-la-vilie, consisted of a pointed rod of iron forty teet high, the
bottom part of which was insulated and fastened on the top of a cot-
tage. On the 10th of May, 1752, between two and three o’clock in
the afternoon, a thunder cloud having passed over the rod, it gave out
sparks, and exhibited all the other signs of an electrified conductor.

Many philosophers have experimented by means of similar appa-
ratus; some of them have insulated at greater or less heights, and in
a horizontal direction or inclining to the horizon, metallic wires,
sometimes of considerable length. To obtain strong sparks, Delor**
connected several insulated rods of iron with a conductor which he had
raised on his house. Jie Monniert fixed on the extremity of a pole,
placed in the open air, a glass tube surmounted by a tin pipe ending
in a point, to which was fitted a slender iron wire about 300 feet long,
which, being insulated, was attached by its other end to a silk cord
stretched under a tent. In connecting this wire with several metallic
insulated pipes he obtained, with atmospheric electricity, effects not
less intense than those which are produced by the best electrical
machines. The chief difficulty of this apparatus consisted in insula-
ting properly the conductor designed to collect the electricity, and
transmitting it without sensible loss to the instrument which is to
indicate its nature and intensity. Cantont suggested insulated sup-
ports, protected from the rain by covering them with a metallic cap.
Read§ effected a more perfect insulation by placing these within an
apartment, His apparatus was composed of a pole of fir-wood of about
thirty feet long, firmly fixed on a glass supporter covered with gum-lac
varnish, and resting on the floor of a chamber situated in the highest
story of a house. ‘This pole passed into a hollow cylinder of wood,
which, going through the ceiling and the roof, was fastened to the
latter. To prevent the rain from falling into the chamber he attached
a large tin funnel to the pole, a little distance above the upper part
of the hollow cylinder. Copper wires, of one to two millimeters
diameter, wound around the pole, were used to conduct the electricity
into the interior of the chamber; there they were united in a single
wire ending in a metallic ball of two inches in diameter.

A more perfect insulation requires the presence of a conductor de-
signed to establish a connexion between the apparatus and the ground
in stormy weather and whenever the electricity is of great intensity.
Neglecting this precaution, Richman, professor of natural philosophy
at St. Petersburg, was struck by a discharge from an insulated rod
which he had set up on his house, and was found dead by the side of
his apparatus. To prevent this catastrophe, Read placed at an inch
and a half from the knob or ball of his apparatus a bell attached to a
metal wire in contact with the ground, and suspended a little metallic
ball by a thread of silk between the bell and the knob. This electric
chime was designed to warn the observer to be on his guard.

§ 2. Of the electric kite.—Another electro-atmospheric apparatus,
which the earlier observers also frequently used, isthe kite. The first

~ Histoire de Electricité, traduite de ]’ Anglais de J. Priestley; tom. II, p. 164; Paris, 1771.
+ Memoires de l’Academie des Sciences de Paris pour 1752; p. 235,
Transact. Philosophiques pour 1752, p. 568. § Id., pour 1792; p. 225.
292 ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY.

experiment was made by Franklin,* in June, 1752, by uniting two
sticks in the form of a cross, to which he fastened the four corners of
a silk handkerchief. This kite, surmounted by a pointed iron wire,
was held by a hempen cord terminating in a thread of silk, and a key
attached between the cord and the silk thread served for a conductor,
by which the electricity, descending along the cord, might be drawn off.

This experiment was repeated in France, in a more perfect manner,
by De Romas,+ of Nerae, who furnished the cord of a paper kite, seven
feet high by three broad, with very fine metallic wire, in order to render
it a better conductor of electricity. Moreover, instead of drawing forth
the sparks with his finger, which might expose the observer himself to
the discharge, he made use of a receiver connected with the ground
by achain. Having taken all the precautions which an enlightened
prudence could suggest, De Romas ventured to launch forth this ap-
paratus, thus improved, into the most stormy clouds; and in one of his
experiments, during a storm attended with little rain or visible light-
ning, he, for hours, continued to receive flashes or sparks of electricity
ten feet long. ‘‘ Imagine to yourself,’’ he wrote to the Abbe Nollet,t
‘¢ flashes of fire nine or ten feet long, and an inch in diameter, with a
report as loud as that of a pistol. In less than an hour I had cer-
tainly thirty of these flashes, and thousands of lesser ones. But what
gave me the greatest pleasure in this new spectacle was that these
great discharges were spontaneous, and that, in spite of the abundance
of the electric fluid of which they were composed, they constantly fell
on the nearest conducting body. This uniformity of result gave me
so much confidence, that I ventured to draw the fluid with my
discharger, even at the time that the storm was quite violent; and
although the glass arms of this instrument were only two feet long I
conducted where I wished, without feeling the slightest agitation in
my hand, streams of fire which were seven or eight inches in length.”’

These details show us how great is the uanger which attend ex-
periments ‘of this kind. The scientist Charles,§.in order to avoid
touching the cord of the kite in letting it off, rolled it around a cylin-
der, which he turned by an insulated crank. The cylinder itself
was mounted on four pillars of glass. While he wound the cord he
established a communication between the cylinder and the ground by
means of a chain which terminated in large iron pickets buried in
the moist earth; and when the apparatus was insulated he took care
to keep himself at a greater distance than these pickets, or in general
the nearer conducting bodies, so that if a discharge should happen it
might be attracted to them. To attain the same object De Romas||
constructed an apparatus known by the name of the electric chariot,
by means of which he could let off the cord of his kite without running
any risk, even when the storm was the most violent.

Among the observers who experimented on atmospheric electricity

“= Experiments and Observations on Electricity, p. 111.

+ Memoires des Savants Etrang., tom. II, p. 3894, 1755.

{ Memoires des Savants’Etrang., tom. IV, p. 514, 1763.

§ Traité de Ph. Experim. et Mathém., par Biot, tom. II, p. 446. Paris, 1816.
|| Diction. de Physique, par Brisson, tom. II, p. 174. Paris, 1800.
ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY. 293

in this way we should especially mention Cavallo.* After many trials
this philosopher found the ordinary kites with which children amuse
themselves as useful as those which had been carefully made by
himself, provided he took the precaution to cover them with varnish,
or saturate them with boiled linseed oil, in order to protect them from
the rain. Those which he used in his numerous experiments were
four feet long by two broad. Kites of these dimensions appeared to
him the best, because they could be managed with ease, and are suffi-
ciently large to sustain the weight of the cord at a convenient height.
Those made of cloth or taffeta he found less useful, because they needed
more wind to raise them. He discovered, also, that the best cord was
formed of two strands of hemp twisted with a copper wire.j Lastly,
he tried further to increase the conducting power of the cord by
coating it with lamp black, charcoal powder, powdered emery, or
other similar substances diffused in gum water; but the effect was
scarcely perceptible and of slight duration, because these substances,
not sticking to the cord, were easily rubbed off. In this respect Nairne
obtained a greater effect by simply steeping the cord in water satu-
rated with salt. In this way it became a very good conductor of elec-
tricity, on account of the diffused humidity of the air, which was
strongly attracted by the salt.

§ 3. Of electroscopes, electrometers, and rheometers.t—To ascertain
the presence of electricity in the rods which they had raised in the
air, observers at first drew the sparks with the finger, or with some
other conducting body. When the electric tension was too feeble to
give out a spark, they placed near the rods a little saw-dust, or some
very fine down or cotton, and then observed the attraction which was
exercised on these substances. The Abbe Mazeas$ attempted by this
method to measure the intensity of atmospheric electricity from the
relative distances at which this attraction was manifested. These
rude and inconvenient means induced philosophers to have recourse to
other more delicate ones, especially when it became necessary to ob-
serve electricity of feeble tension, with which the electro-atmospheric
apparatus is charged in clear weather. As early as 1752, Nollet,} to
attain this object, employed his electrometer composed of two simple
threads, which were separated from each other by the effect of repul-
sion when the conductor with which they were connected was electri-
fied. He was the first who reduced the measure of the intensity of
atmospheric electricity to the observation of an angle. A little
after this Canton,4 in his experiments, terminated the two threads of
the French philosopher’s electrometer by little balls of the pith of
elder, very nearly the same time that Franklin**. used with advantage
in the electric chime to study the electricity of the clouds.

= Traité complet. d’Electricit¢é, par Tibére Cavallo, p. 274, et suiv. Paris, 1785.

+ Charles used a metallic cord of wire, and M. Peltier a simple wire of (copper?) of 0 mm,
.5 diameter —(See the Traité de Physique Experimentale et Mathematique of M. Biot,
tom. II, p. 444, and the work of M. Peltier entitled ‘‘ Observations et Recherches Expéri-
mentales sur les Trombes,’’ introduction, p. 7. Paris, 1840.)

t The term rheometer is used in this article to denote a needle galvanometer.—7r.

§ Hist. de Electricité, par Priestley, tom. II, p. 222.

|| Lettres sur ]’Electricité, tom. I, p. 175. Paris, 1753.

Transact. Philos. for 1753, 1st part, p. 356, 1753.

«= Experiments and Observations on Electricity, p. 112.
294 ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY.

Various methods were used by the early philosophers to ascertain
the nature of the electricity with which their apparatus was charged.
Franklin® at first made use of two Leyden phials, one of which was
charged with the electricity of the rod, and the other with that of the
electrical machine. He placed them on a table at three or four inches
apart, and watched the motions of a little ball of cork suspended
between the two knobs. If, for example, the two bottles had each of
them been positively charged, the ball attracted at first and then re-
pelled by the one was equally repelled by the other; if, on the con-
trary, the charges were of a different kind, the little cork ball was
alternately attracted and repelled by both, and thus performed a series
of oscillations between the two knobs. ‘l’o discover the nature of the
electricity with which the electrical chime of bells was charged, he
brought a glass tube positively electrified near the edge of the bell
which:communicated with the rod ; in case this had negative electri-
city the ringing was stopped; if it was positive it continued and even
became more lively. Sometimes he suspended a little ball of cork
near the edge of the same bell, and by presenting to it a glass tube
charged with electricity, he determined the kind of electricity which
the bell had communicated. Other scientists had recourse to the
various appearances which the electric light exhibited, according as
it was produced by positive or negative electricity. For this purpose Le
Roy? placed opposite to each other, in a little box having a narrow open-
ing, two small metallic conductors, insulated and each having a blunt
point, one of which was connected with the atmospheric apparatus and
the other with the ground. In cases in which the atmospheric charged
the rod in a perceptible manner, the electricity was conducted by a
metallic wire into the inside of the box, and on looking in through a
small window two lights could be seen at the ends of the two points.
If the point connected with the rod presented a tuft or plume, and the
other a luminous star, the observer concluded that the air or cloud
was positively electrified ; if, on the contrary, the former presented
a luminous star and the latter a plume, he inferred that the elec-
tricity of the atmosphere was negative. This method was also used
by Beccariat

In his numerous experiments on this subject Cavallo$ made use of
an electrometer, with a graduated dial to measure the intensity of the
electricity. He wished to determine the proportion between the inten-
sity and the corresponding divergence of the instrument. For this
purpose he gradually brought a tin plate, on which was placed a small
quantity of bran, near to a conductor connected with an electrometer,
and at the same time to the string of a kite in full flight. He found
that when the pendulum of the electrometer stopped at six degrees
the conductor began to attract the particles of bran, at the distance
of three-fifths of an inch ; and when the pendulum was at twenty de-
grees the attraction took place at an inch and a quarter ; and, finally

* Experiments and Observations on Electricity, pp. 113, 115.
+ Journ. de Phys., année 1774, p. 1.

{Lettere dell’ Electricismo, p. 107. Bologna, 1758.

§ Traité complet d’Electricité, p. 277.
ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY. 255

that when it reached as high as thirty degrees it was manifest at
two and one-fifth inches.

When the same physicist tried experiments with the kite during
the night, and when it was not in his power to recognize at once the
nature of the electricity, he charged a Leyden phial, which was so
constructed as to preserve its charge for hours. ‘To effect this he
placed, by means of a wire, the inside lining in contact with the bottom
of a tube of glass sealed into the neck of the phial, while the rod
terminating in the knob was inserted into a second glass tube of a
narrower bore than the former one, but double its length, and cemented
in such a way that it passed in a very slight degree beyond the
lowest extremity of the tube. By taking hold of this latter piece in
the middle, it could be put within the tube of the phial and made to
touch with the rod or stem, the metallic wire in contact with the
lining; it could then be drawn out and the bottle lose no perceptible part
of its charge. Cavallo* assures us that he kept these phials charged
for six weeks. In other cases he fastened to the end of a fishing
rod a glass tube covered with gum-lac, at the end of which was fixed
a ball of cork, holding suspended by threads two small balls of elder
pith. He attached to this ball, by a moveable pin, one end of a
conducting wire, and taking the other end in his hand, he raised the
fishing rod outside of a window of the upper story of the house.
After having held it in this position for some time he detached the
wire by a jerk which, pulling out the pin from the ball, left it insulated
and charged with an electricity contrary to that of the air, the nature
of which was determined by drawing in the apparatus.

In 1783 Archard,+ of Berlin, proposed a new electro-atmospheric
apparatus; but, notwithstanding all the care he took in its construc-
tion, it did not appear that this apparatus exhibited a much higher
degree of delicacy than that of the instruments we have already men-
tioned. It is principally to the perfecting of the instruments by two
illustrious philosophers, De Saussure and Volta, that electric meteor-
ology is indebted for a great number of important observations. The
first electrometer was made as early as 1749. It was constructed
by two members of the Academy of Sciences of Paris, D’Arcy and
Le Roy;{ but its want of sensibility to the electric influence pre-
vented its adoption. We have seen above, that three years later Nol-
let proposed an electrometer, at once very simple and delicate, and
that he used it in his researches on atmospheric electricity. In 1780
Cavallo§ substituted for the two single threads of Nollet two delicate
metallic wires, bearing on their ends little balls of the pith of elder.
In 1784 De Saussure] obtained one of Cavallo’s electrometers, and so
improved it as to form an instrument superior in delicacy to all that
had been used before in the observation of the electrical phenomena
of the air. The electrometer of this philosopher was composed of two
very fine silver wires, each of them eee els by a little ball of the

= Traité complet d’ Electric., page 276, 295.
+ Nouv. Mém. de 1’ Acad. de Berlin pour 1780, page 19.
~ Mém. de Acad. des Sc. for 1749, page 63.
§ Transact. Philos. for 1780, vol. LXX, page 21.
Voyage dans les Alpes, tom. II, sec. 784, page 194, Neuchatel, 1786.
296 ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRIGITY.

pith of elder, half a line or more in diameter, and fitted by little rings
to a small metallic stem, which was attached to the upper part of a
glass bell two or three inches in diameter. The divisions marked on the
bell served to ascertain the number of lines and fractions of lines by
which the two little pendulums diverged from each other. Four small
slips of tin foil, pasted on the inner surface of the bell, and connected
with the metallic base of the instrument, served to carry off the elec-
tricity with which the internal air became insensibly charged. In
order to determine the proportion which subsisted between each
divergence of the balls and the strength of the charge of his elee-
trometer, De Saussure* took two of these instruments, as like each
other as possible, and after having electrified one of them so as to
of exhibit a divergence of six lines, he touched the rod or stem with that
the second ; at the instant, the electricity dividing itself equally between
the two instruments, the divergence in each of them was four lines.
From this it follows that a diminution of one-half in the intensity of
the electricity reduced the divergence but one-third. Restoring the
second electrometer to its natural state, and placing it anew in
contact with the first, the divergence was 2.8; after a third contact,
not more than 1.9 lines. He thus succeeded in arranging the elements
of a table which changes with different instruments and whick
every observer ought carefully to construct for himself before he com-
mences a regular series of observations.

To collect electricity De Saussuret made use, in his first experi-
ments, of a fine silver wire, from 50 to 60 feet long; to one end of which
was fastened a ball of lead three or four ounces in weight, and its
other end was attached toa hook substituted for the ball on the stem of
the electrometer, so that it might be detached by the slightest effort.
Holding the instrument in his left hand, he cast into the air with his
right the jeaden ball, which by this movement carried up the conduct-
ing wire and transmitted to the electrometer the electricity which it
acquired at its greatest height. But by the continuation of the same
movement, the wire drew on the hook, loosened it, and left the elec-
trometer charged with the electricity which it had acquired. De
Saussure foresaw an objection which might be made to this method of
observing atmospheric electricity. ‘‘ Might not the electricity,’’ said
he, ‘‘ which the ball exhibits be produced by its friction with the air,
even though the air may not be charged with electricity? To decide
this question by experiment, I attached the same ball to a cord of
silk, and I caused it to turn very quickly in the air; but it did
not by this contract any electricity, which proves that the friction
with the air is not capable of electrifying it, and that thus the elec-
tricity which is obtained by my method really belongs to the air into
which the ball is thrown.’’

This method has also been used by Messrs. Becquerels and Breschet, {
to approximate to an estimate of the intensity ot the electricity of the
atmosphere at different heights above the ground, except they used an
arrow instead of a ball. Having ascended one of the plateaus of the

*= Voyage dans les Alpes, tom. II, sec. 793, p. 206.
+ Voyage dans les Alpes, tom. II, sec. 785, page 197. .
+ Traité d@’Electricité et du Magnétisme, par Becquerel, Tom, IV, page 110, Paris, 1836.
ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY. 297

Great St. Bernard, they stretched on the earth a piece of taffeta pre-
pared with gum, on which they coiled a silk thread, covered with
tinsel, 262 feet long. They placed one of the ends in communication
with the stem of a straw electrometer by means of a knot fastened
loosely to it; and after having attached the other end to the iron point
of an arrow, they shot it upwards by means of astrong bent bow. The
arrow as it rose bore away the conducting thread, as in the experi-
ments of De Saussure, and separated it from the stem of the elec-
trometer. Messrs. Becquerel and Breschet observed that the straws
of their instrument diverged gradually as the arrow rose, so as at last
to strike strongly against the sides of the bell. They also ascertained
that the electricity transmitted to the electrometer by the arrow did
not proceed from its friction against the air; for they observed that the
experiment was unsuccessful when the arrow was shot horizontally at
three feet above the ground.

In 1785 De Saussure* added an important improvement to his at-
mospheric electrometer. Availing himself of the action which points
exercise on the electric fluid, he surmounted it with a conductor, ter-
minating in a point, two feet long and composed of three pieces which
could be adjusted to each other. The length of two feet appeared to
him the most proper, because a longer conductor would render the
instrument much more difficult to manage without increasing its deli-
cacy. To the conductor was attached a little umbrella of very thin brass
plate, of a conical form, and four inches and a half in diameter, de-
signed to preserve the electrometer from the rain or snow. By this
addition the instrument acquired such a delicacy that the two small
balls would diverge when a stick of sealing wax that had been elec-
trified was passed rapidly over it, at a distance of fifteen or eighteen
inches.

To make his observations De Saussure} chose an open place, free
from trees and houses, and there put the plate and conductor of his
instrument into communication with the ground; he then elevated the
point so as to bring it to the height of the eye. After having no-
ticed to how many lines the divergence of the little balls corresponded,
he slowly lowered the electrometer towards the earth, and marked
the height of the point of the conductor at the moment when the di-
vergence had entirely ceased, as the distance from the ground at which
the atmospheric electricity began to be perceptible. He regarded the
electricity as exhibiting itself at the surface of the earth, when the
electrometer without a conductor diverged when it was simply placed
on the ground. Tinally, if on being placed at the height of the eye,
and consequently its point two feet higher—that is to say, seven
feet—the electrometer exhibited no divergence, he raised it one or two
feet higher; but as then he could no longer observe the balls, he
touched the bottom of the conductor with the other hand, and then
brought down the instrument near the earth to see if it was electrified.
If it was so, he concluded that the atmospheric electricity was sensible
at eight or nine feet. If it was not so, he marked in his journal 0,

* Voyage dans les Alpes, tom. II, sec. 791, page 203, and sec. 793, page 211.
+ Voyage dans les Alpes, tom. II, sec. 798, page 216.
298 ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY.

designating by this that there was no electricity in the air, according
to his electrometer and the manner in which he used it.

However important might be the improvements made by De Saus-
sure in Cavallo’s electrometer, as applied to researches in atmospheric
electricity, still that instrument could not render very feeble degrees
of electricity perceptible. Volta conceived the idea of putting it in
communication with the condenser, and by this method he obtained a
perceptible quantity of electricity in cases where all other instruments
indicated nothing.* He also made a change in De Saussure’s elec-
trometer.t He left off the balls of elder pith, and substituted for the
metallic wires two smail straws suspended to very movable little me-
tallic rings, by means of which they were fitted to the stem of the
instrument in such a manner as to be near each other in a state of
rest. These little straws which, when dry, have the advantage of
being much lighter than De Saussure’s metallic wires, and presenting
for equal weights much more surface, were then enclosed in square
glass flasks, having on one side of them a scale divided into 0.5 ofa
line, and designed to measure their divergence. In this manner Volta.
formed electrometers, which, though differing in respect to their
sensibility, had degrees which corresponded in a given ratio for each
instrument through the whole extent of the scale. In that which was
the most delicate the straws were two inches long by the sixth of a
line broad ; and in varying their length and diameter, or in length-
ening the metallic wires by means of which they were suspended, he
obtained a second electrometer, in which a divergence of 0.5 of a line,
regarded as a degree, was equal to five degrees of the first. To render
these instruments capable ot being compared, he united their stems by
a conductor, then communicated to them the same quantity of elec-
tricity, and noticed the divergences they exhibited at the same
moment. Repeating this operation a certain number of times, with
different charges, he had all the elements necessary to form a table
which allowed him to reduce the degrees of the least sensible electro-
meter to those of the one which showed the greatest sensibility.

On comparing his electrometer with that fitted with metallic wires
and balls, Volta found that in the latter the divergences were not pro-
portional to the charges, as De Saussure had observed, while in the
former, when it is perceptible or moderately so, the divergence is regular
up to 26°. Still further he noticed that if the straws were equal in
length, a perceptible difference in their size caused scarcely any differ-
ence in the variations. Thus, with straws of the same length, the sizes
of which were one-eighth and one-quarter of a line, he found but one
degree of difference in twenty. He also observed that when the straws
are less than an inch in length the electrometer exhibits no longer a
regular divergence, and finally, that the flask must not be too large,
lest the internal air should retain too long the electricity which it takes
away from the straws each moment.

“To obtain exact results by means of the condenser, M. Becquerel observes, plates of
brass should not be used, for it is impossible to guard ourselves against the electro-chemical
effects resulting from the action of the liquids which adhere to the fingers on the metal.
Gilded plates of copper, or rather gilded plates of glass, should be substituted.

+ Diction. de Gehler, tom. III, p. 665, and Lehrbuch der Meteorologie von L. F. Koemtz,
vol. II, pp. 398 and 400 ; Halle, 1832,
ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY. 299

In his experiments Volta made use of the conductor with which
De Saussure had armed his electrometer, but he placed at the end of
the point an ignited body, such asa piece of spunk or of cotton wick
prepared with “sulphur. By this means he obtained results which
were frequently twice as great as those afforded by the apparatus
without the use of the ignited body. As to the mode of applying the
combustible to the end of the conductor, in order that it might be
kept there the necessary time, and not be extinguished by the wind,
Volta placed it in the inside of a coil of iron, adjusted to the point of
the conductor. He advises also to attach to the same point a little
lantern containing a spirit lamp, in case the rain is such as not to
allow using simply spunk or tinder or burning sulphur.*

The great divergence which an electrometer - presents when the stem
is furnished with an ignited body is worthy of observation. M. Pfafft
says that, in the case where he observed no electrical sign with an elec-
trometer of gold leaf exposed to the air, even while using a condenser,
the leaves diverged more than an inch as soon as he fitted to the point
of the stem a piece of ignited tinder. Let there be placed on an ordi-
nary electroscope a very small spirit lamp, and at five or six feet above
it present a stick of resin feebly electrified ; instantaneously there will be
seen, according to M. Pouillet,{ a very great divergence of the leaves ;
and yet the same body with the same electrical charge produces no
sign of divergence if it be presented to the electroscope without flame,
even at the distance of an inch. It might be objected that the elec-
tricity which is observed in Volta’s electrometer furnished with an
ignited body is not the result of the influence of atmospheric elec-
tricity, but that it is produced by the action of the flame or smoke on the
point of the conductor. This objection appears well founded, since
M. Becquerel,§ in causing flame to act on metallic bodies which com-
municate with a condenser, observed a disengagement of electricity,
the cause of which he attributed to an electro-motive action which
existed between the flames and these bodies. To be able to judge
how far confidence could be placed in observations made in this
manner, Schubler || repeated the same experiments in the open air
and in closed rooms. During the burning in the house of three
grains of tinder or of sulphur, “he could not obtain the slightest sign
of electricity with Volta’s electrometer ; while the same quantity “of
these substances burned in the open air, at the same hours in the after-
noon, when atmospheric electricity is at its minimum, was sufficient
to charge the electrometer, or even a small Leyden phial, to such a
degree that it could be used for other researches in electricity. He
could scarcely obtain any signs of electricity by the combustion of a
hundred ie of faye or tinder in closed rooms. It follows, there-

* M. Mattenci, seetihiy on the electric ¢ conductibility of the vapor of sh ouhtip hie prepared
in metallic tubes sticks of this substance one or two millimetres in diameter, to adapt them
then to the point of the conductor destined to receive the atmospheric electricity. —(Sce
Biblioth. Univ. Sc. et Arts, tom. LI, p. 351; Genéve, 1832.)

+ Diction. de Gehler, tom. VI, p. 518.

{ Ann. de Chim. et de Phys., tom. XXXV, p. 401, 1827.
§ Ann. de Chim. et de Phys., tom. XXVII, p. 17, 1824.
|| Journal de Schweigger, tom. XIX, p. 1, 1817.

300 ATMOSPHERIC. ELECTRICITY.

fore, that if there is a disengagement of electricity by the action
of the ignited tinder on the conductor of Volta’s electrometer, this
electricity is too feeble sensibly to affect the results which are obtained
by this instrument in the researches on atmospheric electricity.

But how does an ignited body increase the divergence of the electro-
meter if the electricity disengaged must not be attributed to an action
of the flame on the metal? We do not know what explanation Volta
gave to this phenomena, but M. Gay Lussac* says: ‘‘ The smoke
which passes off from the tinder ignited at the point by which the
electrometers, designed to ascertain atmospheric electricity, are armed,
may exhibit an image of an electrified cloud. This smoke acts as
as a conductor, which, as it expands, collects the electricity of the air,
and renders it more sensible by accumulating it at the surface; but
the ignited tinder acts also in another way by heating the air and
thus rendering it a conductor.’’ We shall see farther on that an
electrometer becomes charged by induction and not by the contact
of the surrounding air; consequently that its straws or leaves may
diverge as well negatively as positively in the same stratum of air,
We may conclude from this that the smoke produced by the ignited
tinder does not act as a conductor to accumulate in the electrometer
the electricity of the surrounding air, for then it would be necessary
for the instrument to take a permanent and not a transient charge.
We believe rather, with M. Gay Lussac, that the effect produced is from
the conductibility which the air acquires by heat ; for we see that the in-
tensity of the electric tension, observed in the electrometer, depends on
the effect of the conductibility of the air, this latter favoring the elec-
tric radiation of the instrument.§ Besides, M. Gay Lussac has demon-
strated by a very simple experiment that the air, the temperature of
which is raised, becomes a conductor of electricity. He observed that
an electrometer on being charged quickly loses its electricity when red
hot charcoal or the flame of an insulated candle is brought near it, while
it preserves its charge if the charcoal has not been heated. Thus may
be explained the fact observed by M. Mattencci,{ that the discharges
of a musket, fired at the height of the flame of electrometer of Volta,
occasion a very strong divergence in the straws of that instrument.

By means of series of straw electrometers rendered capable of com-
parison by the method indicated by Volta, Schtibler{ made numerous
observations, the special object of which was to determine the pe-
riodical variations of atmospheric electricity. These instruments
were provided with metallic stems three feet long, terminating in
coils, furnished with a combustible substance; and, like Volta, he
took for the unit of his scale 0.5 of a line. Schiibler preferred Volta’s
electrometer to that of Bennet, with gold leaf, because with the former
the valuation by degrees could be made with more exactness, because
it preserved longer the electricity which had been communicated to it,
and also because it is more convenient to observe comparatively the de-

* Ann. de Ch. et de Phys., tom. VIII, p. 68, 1818.
+ Biblioth. Univers. Sc. et Arts, tom. LI, p. 352, 1852.
Journ. de Schweigger, tom. III, p. 123, tom. VIII, p. 22, andtom. XIX, p. 11, 1811],
1813, and 1817.
§ The term radiation is used in this article to denote the escape of electricity from the
point of the electrometer by the partial conduction of the air.
ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY. 301

grees of increase or diminution which occur in its index. Schiibler has
also remarked that the electrometer is char ged much more quickly
when, instead of tinder, there is fixed on the point of the stem a wick
prepared with sulphur.

The discovery of electro-magnetism having led to the construction
of the rheometer, this instrument was soon apphed, in the hands
of philosophers, to ascertain the electrical phenomena of the atmos-
phere. Its first use as an electro-atmospheric apparatus was by M.
Calladon.* After having demonstrated, in 1826, that an electrical
machine might, like the pile, produce a current capable of deflecting the
magnetic needle, this scientest showed that the rheometer might be-
come a means of determining the quality of electricity which passes
into the conductors used in the researches on atmospheric electricity.
He raised on the observatory of the college of France a pole thirty-
six feet long, supporting a conducting wire covered with silk, and
terminated by two fine needles diverging a little from each other.
This wire passed through a glass tube and descended into a chamber
where two rheometers were placed with two needles, one of 100 and
the other of 500 coils, the wire of which was doubly covered with silk,
and each series of coils separated by taffeta, prepared with gum. Heat-
tached the conducting wire to one end of the wire of one of these instru-
ments, while the other end communicated with the ground. By means
of this arrangement he obtained deviations of the magnetic needle,
not only during storms, but also in days when the sky was merely cloudy.
M. Peltier and M. Clarke,+ of Dublin, also used this instrument with
advantage, especially for studying the distribution of the electricity
in thunder clouds. They used a rheometer of 3,000 coils, the wire of
which was covered with silk, and also with a coating of gum-lac var-
nish, which insured the best insulation.

Researches on atmospheric electricity have also been made with
other instruments than those we have mentioned. In 1794, Ready
used for this purpose the electrical condenser, an apparatus described
first by Bennet, and afterwards improved by Nicholson. It was
designed, by the aid of a movable disk, to render a small portion of
electricity perceptible by increasing the quantity $f electricity con-
tained in two other similar and opposed stationary disks. From ex-
periments with this instrument Read concluded that the atmosphere
when entirely pure is almost always in a state of positive electricity, and
that when itis vitiated, whether by putrefaction of vegetable matters or
by that of animal substances, its electricity becomes negative; and finally
that respiration alone renders the electricity of the air ‘negatiy e, These
results, obtained by means of the doubler, have not been confirmed by
experiments made with other instruments ; on the contrary, it has
been discovered that they must be attributed not to atmospheric elec-
tricity, but to other causes derived from the imperfections of the in-
strument. The use of that apparatus, therefore, has been abandoned
in all researches on electricity of this character.

In 1809 De Luc exhibited to the Royal Society of London, iden the

* Ann. de Chim. et de Phys., sen, XXXII, p. 62, 1826.
+ Comptes Rendus, tom. III, p. 145, 1836; dna Philos, Magazine, tom. XVI, p. 224, 1840.
{ Journ. de Phys., tom. XLV, p. 468, 1794.

302 ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY.

name of the electric column and atmospheric electroscope, consisting of

a dry pile, composed of 1,600 disks of zinc and gilded paper, which

appeared to him adapted to determine the electrical variations of the

air and of the surface of the earth. A small pendulum set in motion

by the electricity of the column alternately struck against two metal-

lic balls, one in constant communication with the positive pole, the

other with the negative pole or withthe ground. The vibrations of
this pendulum would, according to De Luc, indicate by their fre-

quency the electrical variations of the surrounding medium or those of
the surface of the ground.* But it is now known that the irregularity

of the vibrations of the pendulum cannot be regarded as an indication

of the influence of the surrounding electricity; that it is the character

of the dry pile to permit only a very gentle circulation of electricity,

and not to become recharged, except very moderately, after having

lost its electricity by the communication of its poles; consequently,
that more or less time must pass before sufficient electricity is accumu-

lated at the two poles of such a battery to renew and continue the

movements of the pendulum, Besides, Schiibler} examined this ques-

tion, and concluded, from a great number of observations, made under

very different circumstances, that the action of De Luc’s dry pile was

subject to the influence of moisture, and not to that of atmospheric

electricity.

CHAPTER TP.
OF THE USE OF ELECTRO-ATMOSPHERIC APPARATUS.

When we examine the opinions which have been advanced as to the
phenomena of atmospheric electricityg we are struck with their want
of harmony. The mode of action of this agent on the instruments
has been variously interpreted by scientists; and while some consider
these instruments as having been electrified by the contact of the sur-
rounding air, whote electricity is positive, others see in the electrical
signs which are manifested only the effect of electricity of induction.
In speaking of the electrical phenomena of the atmosphere M. Biot{
Says :

‘¢ The experiments on atmospheric electricity present the only case
of an indefinite medium, such as the air, all the molecules of which
are individually charged with an excess of electricity of the same kind
adhering to their surface; so that the whole mass of the medium be-
comes pervaded with it in proportion to the heights. The different
particles of this medium cannot be in repose except from the mutual
compensation of their repulsive forces, combined with their weight ;
and the same condition applies to the conducting bodies which are
immersed in it. Thus, in all bodies in the air, the electrical equilibrium
cannot take place when their natural electricities are merely neu-

* Biblicth. Britann. Sc. et Arts, tom, XLVII, p. 213, 1811.
+ Journ, de Schweigger, tom. XV, p. 130.
t Traité de Phys. Expérim. et Mathém., tom, II, p. 457.
ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY. 303

tralized; it can only take place when they possess an excess of one or
the other electricity which is the same as that of the stratum where
they arefound. If the particles possess a greater excess of this same
electricity they will act only in virtue of this excess upon each other
and upon all the molecules of the surrounding air; they must then
mutually repel each other. If, on the contrary, the excess of elec-
tricity which they possess is less than that which they naturally re-
ceive in the position where they are placed, the mass of the medium
will act on each one of them by virtue of this difference, and their
natural electricities will be decomposed as much as is necessary to
complete what is wanting to them of the electricity of the medium; by
virtue of this addition they repel the medium as much as the medium
repels them, and will therefore undergo no more action. But they act
on each other with the excess which they have acquired from the
opposite electricity, and if the medium is an indefinite fluid composed
ot particles susceptible of being electrified by contact, this excess will
by degrees be dissipated in space.’’

Experiment does not sustain this mode of regarding the action of
the electrified air on the conducting bodies which are immersed in
it; for it would follow that an electrometer ought to present almost
always a negative divergence at the instant of its exposure to the air
under a serene sky, since its leaves would act on each other with the
excess of the electricity which they had acquired by the pesitive influ-
ence of the stratum of the surrounding air. It would likewise follow
that if, after having freed the instrument of its negative electricity, we
should lower it or raise it suddenly the leaves would exhibit a posi-
tive divergence in the former case and a new negative divergence in
the latter. Now, experiment shows that precisely the contrary takes
place. Other phenomena, of which we shall have occasion hereafter
to speak, are equally irreconcilable with the principle announced by
M. Biot.

In his explanation of the formation of thunder clouds, M. Guy Lus-
sac* supposes that the electricity is diffused in the atmosphere, and
that it exists in a free state, ready to be transferred and collected on
the conductors which are presented to it. On this supposition the
electrometer would always take a quantity of electricity corresponding
with that existing in the air into which it is immersed ; but this elec-
tricity cannot be the cause of the positive divergence whichis observed,
since the surrounding air and consequently the armatures and the
gold leaves of the instrument being then in the same degree of elec-
trical tension, there is no reason why the last acted on by equal forces
should diverge fromeach other. This appears from the following experi-
ment, for which we are indebted to M. Peltier.t This scientist took
a glass globe covered with tin-foil, with the exception of two small
Openings opposite each other so as to see what passed within. At
the centre of this globe he placed a small electroscope, the gold leaves
of which corresponded to the visual ray, crossing the two openings ;
he then charged the globe with a considerable quantity of electricity,

* Ann. de Ch. ct de Phys., tome VIII, p. 163. 1818.
f Observ. et Kecherch. Expérim., sur les Trombes, introduction, p. 3.
304 ATMOSPHEZIC ELECTRICITY.

without obtaining the slightest divergence in the gold leaves. The
effect was the same when he previously charged the electroscope with
a quantity of electricity, similar or contrary to that of the globe ; the
divergence given to the leaves was not in the least changed. The
same conclusion may be drawn from an experiment made by Mr. Far-
raday,* in which he saw no perceptible divergence in an electrometer

laced in air, which had been powerfully electrified in a small
insulated chamber, the wall of which, composed of conducting sub-
stance, communicated with a powerful electrical machine, which was
worked in an adjoining room.

De Saussure} was the first to observe that atmospheric electroscopes
varied in their indications, according as we raise or lower the instru-
ments ; he likewise recognized in these variations all the signs of elec-
tricity of induction, and not those of the permanent electricity of con-
tact. M. Erman,t of Berlin, in prosecuting these researches with very
delicate electroscopes, concluded, from his experiments, that the varia-
tions in the nature and intensity of the electricity, manifested by these
instruments were entirely independent of the surrounding air, and
resulted from the fact that all bodies—even those which are absolutely
in electrical equilibrium with the earth and the air, and which cannot
consequently produce any divergence, have yet, under the influence of
the earth, atmospheres of free electricity of their own which are modi-
fied mutually by the changes produced in their removal or approach.
M. Peltier§ has recently resumed the enquiry, and, while he has been
led to a new interpretation of the electrical phenomena of the atmos-
phere, he has shown, by decisive experiments, that it is by induction
solely and not by the contact of the air that the instruments become
electrified. The considerations which he adduces in support of his
opinion, and which he communicated to the Academy of Sciences,
at the sitting of February 8, 1841, are the following:

1. If the stem of an electrometer is surmouned by a polished ball,
and the instrument is brought to an equilibrium by touching the
covering plate and the stem at the same time, we may leave it exposed
to the agitation of the air under a clear sky for hours, keeping it at
the same height, without its exhibiting the least sign of electricity.

2. If the stem ends in a point the electrometer sometimes takes a
Jittle electricity after half an hour or more; this time is much
shortened if the stem ends ina bundle of metallic points or in an
ignited body, as in the experiments of Volta.

3. In case the instrument gives no indication, if we raise it a few
feet, the leaves immediately diverge positively; if, on the contrary,
it is lowered the same distance below the point of equilibrium, its
leaves diverge negatively ; and every time that it is brought to the
height of equilibrium the leaves fall to zero.

These experiments clearly demonstrate that the electricity exhibited
by the electrometer is, in fact, developed by induction ; for, if it were
otherwise, the air would communicate to this instrument when it is

** Experimental Researches in Electricity, eleventh series, p. 5, 1838.
+t Voyage dans les Alpes, tome II. sec. 795, p. 212.

{ Journ. de Phys., tome LIX, p. 98. 1804.

§ Comptes Rendus, tome XII, p. 307. 1841.
-

ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY. 305

raised or lowered, a permanent and not a transient charge. Further.
M. Erman* has remarked that if we cover the stem of a glass tube,
closed above, the phenomena remain the same; positive or negative
divergence shows itself equally well, according as the direction of the
motion is up or down. The same result is still obtained by placing a
second tube around the first, in order more effectually to intercept the
contact of the air. Finally, to give to this demonstration every pos-
sible accuracy, M. Peltier and M. Pfaff} reproduced in a room the
same effects as under a clear sky ; the former experimenting under
an insulated globe suspended to the ceiling, and positively electrified:
the latter, by alternately raising and lowering the electrometer in an
apartment, in which the upper strata of the air had been strongly
electrified by means of points communicating with the electrical
machine.

It hence follows that an insulated conductor, which has been exposed
to the air under a clear sky, is in the same state as if it had been sub-
jected to a body positively electrified ; it has consequently its natural
electricity separated, the negative attracted to its upper part, and the
positive repelled to its lower part. If, in this state, the lower part is for
an instant placed in connection with the ground, the positive elec-
tricity escapes and the upper part remains charged with negative
electricity ; the conductor, as M. Peltier says, is equipoised. But then
the lower part cannot receive a new positive charge, inasmuch as a
new decomposition of its natural electricities would take place, which
may happen either in raising the conductor in the air or in favoring
the escape of the electricity attracted. The same extremity becomes
charged, on the contrary, with negative electricity, either in lowering
the conductor or in modifying the electrical induction to which it is
subjected ; such is the natural consequence of the facts which we have
related above. If the application be made to electro-atmospheric
apparatus, we see that all such apparatus show the great inconve-
nience of indicating the differences of one and the same state, and not
of absolute quantities, as in other instruments of meteorology like
the thermometer and the barometer ; they establish and measure only
the changes which occur in their electric state, as they recede from
the normal condition, which is that of equilibrium.

From the preceding considerations, it is easy to give a reason for
what takes place in the electro-atmospheric apparatus, and to see
how their indications may be interpreted. A stationary apparatus
may be compared to an insulated conductor which is in equilibrium ;
it cannot, on account of its immovableness, afford signs of electricity
at its lower end, except by the radiation of the electricity which is has
previously attracted, an effect which takes place.slowly if the air is
dry, and rapidly if it is moist or becomes a conductor by any means
whatever. This radiation will be promoted also if the apparatus is
subjected to the influence of a cloud powerfully electrified, or if it has
considerable length; for in this latter case its extent may make up for
the weakness of the local radiation produced by the conductibility of

* Journ. de Phys,, tom, LIX, p. 100. 1804.
+ Dictionn. de Gehler, tome VI, p. 507.

20
306 ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY.

the air. From this it follows that, however decided may be the signs
of electricity which stationary apparatus exhibits at the approach of
certain clouds and at the beginning of rain, they usually disappear
when the sky is clear or more or less free from clouds. This apparatus
is then insufficient to study atmospheric electricity in clear weather ;
it can only show the existence of this electricity. Besides, in the case
where the radiation is active, they must frequently furnish uncertain
results, because the insulation of their supports, besides the difficulty
of rendering it perfect, varies with the hygrometrical state of the
air, the dust which settles on them, and a multitude of other secondary
causes.

Beccaria, who devised a great mavy contrivances, avows that fre-
quently he was ignorant whether the absence of the electrical signs
proceeded from the fact that the air was deprived of electricity, or
because the humidity had destroyed the insulation.

Another cause of error, to which M. Peltier* first called attention,
is found in the chemical action which the moisture exercise on the
wire or the oxydizable points of the apparatus. This scientist states
that among the apparatus which he set up he found one which con-
stantly gave an electrical current, because it was formed of a rod of
iron painted with oil. In moist weather the needle of a rheometer
was deflected to 80° without there being any electrical action of the
atmosphere. It was to avoid this great inconvenience that M. Peltier
constructed of platina the parts of his apparatus which must remain
‘exposed to the action of the air. We may also remark that there ar
multitudes of cases where the use of stationary apparatus must be
difficult, as when we attempt to study atmospheric electricity on
mountains, in open sea, and generally in places where there are no
buildings. Perhaps, then, we might use the apparatus recommended
by M. Pfaff,; consisting of a long glass support, sustained by three
feet, and bearing a disk of wood, with which is connected, by means
of a hinge, a metallic stem composed of several pieces fitted to each
other. This apparatus may be placed in the open air in such a way
that its stem, movable on its hinge, may take any desired inclination.
A simple metallic wire communicating with the stem serves to con-
duct the electricity to an electrometer.

If the stationary apparatus is not well adapted to ascertain atmos-
pheric electricity in clear weather, it may still be very useful to
establish the electrical state of the clouds, especially in stormy
weather, provided care be taken to connect it at the same time with a
discharging conductor. In these circumstances, M. Peltier} made use
of a simple insulated copper wire, of about a hundredth of an inch in
diameter, which was raised at one of its ends to about eighty feet above
the ground, and at the other plunged into a well forty feet deep. This
wire, wound with silk and covered with many coats of thick varnish, was
terminated above by a tuft of platina wire; and the lower end, which
was plunged into the well, was also terminated by a wire of the same
metal. ‘Towards the middle of the wire was interposed a rheometer

* Ann. de Ch. et Phys., 3d series, tom. IV, page 414. 1842,
+ Dictionn. de Gehler, tom. VI, page 517.
+ Comptes Rendus, tem. I, page 95, and tom, II, page 145, 1835 and 1836.
ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY. 307

of varnished wire, or an electrometer, according to the object. The
electricity which descends along this wire being always of the same
nature with that of the cloud, we ascertain the character of the one
by observing that of the other. It was with a similar apparatus, well
insulated and protected as far as possible from the chemical action
of moisture, that M. Peltier made numerous and important observa-
tions on the electrical phenomena which take place during storms.
We might accomplish the same object by the use of the kite, as
many observers have done; but, as we have seen, the danger of this
movable apparatus in stormy weather is so great that prudence alone
ought to forbid its use in this case. Besides, the facts which it fur-
nishes can be obtained, as it appears to me, equally well by the use of
stationary apparatus. For in the great number of cases, not to say
all, the kite can only be influenced by the lower clouds; we can
ascertain nothing respecting the ranges lying above these clouds, or
discover what belongs to each one of them, and thus furnish the
means necessary to an analysis of the different phenomena which
concur in the formation of storms. We believe that an insulated wire,
arranged like that which M. Peltier used, and affording all possible
security, will accomplish the same object much more conveniently.
But if the use of the kite possesses little advantage in stormy
weather, it is not so when we use it in clear weather. It may then
render eminent service to science, and it was by means of it that
De Romas, Beccaria, Cavallo, and many other observers ascertained
the fact that the influence of atmospheric electricity increases in pro-
portion to the distance from the surface of the earth. It furnishes
a simple means of determining the law according to which this in-
crease takes place, a law which is not yet known, but which evidently
depends on the want of conductibility of the constituent parts of the
air, and must consequently vary on account of the vapor which rises
from the ground, or which settles on the earth. M. Peltier* has suc-
cessfully used the kite to accomplish this object. He ascertained
the height to which it ascended by employing an insulated drum,
around which the metallic wire was coiled, and furnished with an
index which constantly showed the length of wire given out. If we
would ascertain the height, let the cord be the hypothenuse of a
right-angled triangle, of which one of the sides is the perpendicular
height of the kite. If we wish to examine atmospheric electricty
at very great heights, we may make use of a series of kites of dif-
ferent sizes.{ We first allow the largest sized kite to reach its great-
est height; then,.having attached its string to a second, but of less
size, we let it likewise ascend, its string being in its turn connected
to a third, and so on. ‘This union of kites was used for the first time
by Wilson{t when engaged in his researches on the temperature of
elevated strata of air in 1749. The height to which the first kite
thus reached was very remarkable, since it could be frequently seen to

* Comptes Rendus, tome X, page 712, 1840.

7} In his experiments on atmospheric electricity, Cuthbertson made use of three kites com-
bined in this manner, and the cords of which presented an entire length of 1,500 feet.
Bibliotheque Britannique, Sciences et Arts, tome XXXIX, page 118. Geneva, 1808.

{ Lehrbuch der Meteorol., by Koemtz, tome II, page 395.
808 ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY.

disappear in the clouds. We can in this way examine the state of
very high clouds, the electricity of which would be too feeble to act
in a sensible manner on apparatus placed at the surface of the earth.

In reference to the great utility of the kite in researches on at-
mospheric electricity, it is necessary to take into consideration the
inconvenience of not being able to use it except during winds. In
calm weather we might substitute for it a balloon furnished with the
necessary additions, and retained by a cord which is a good conductor
of electricity. But this method of experimenting is much less simple,
because we can not always procure hydrogen gas, and because the
lateral currents bear the balloon to the leeward and prevent its rising
perpendicularly. We should also mention certain effects obtained by
the use of the kite, and which do not appear to be owing to the influ-
ence of atmospheric electricity, but to the induction of an electric cur-
rent on itself. It is well known that Mr. Henry,* [now Secretary of
the Smithsonian Institution,| has shown that a discharge of ordinary
electricity produces a powerful secondary current in the wire adjoining;
he thinks that ordinary electricity ought to produce an analogous
effect in the same wire when the discharge takes place; and gives on
this subject the following experiment made on atmospheric electricity,
in 1836, by a committee of the Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania:
Two kites had been attached and raised with an iron wire in place of
cord; the wire extended for the length of about a mile. The weather
was perfectly clear, and yet sparks drawn from the wire were of such
great pungency that fifteen persons joining their hands, and standing
on the ground, received the shock at the same moment that the first
touched the wire. On holding a leyden phial by its external coating,
_and presenting the knob to the wire, a very strong shock was received
which was nothing but the result of an action of sudden and powerful
induction. According to Mr. Henry, these effects must not be at-
tributed to the electricity accumulated at the ends of the wire, for it
was necessary to approach the finger to about one-fifth of an inch betore
receiving the spark; he adds that we cannot attribute them to
quantity only, since Wilson’s experiments have proved we cannot
produce the same effect with an equal amount of electricity diffused
over the surface of a great conductor ; he concluded, therefore, that
the effect observed was owing to an induction of the current on itself.
The wire containing a considerable quantity of electricity of feeble
tension, which passed in the form of a current, it produced an induc-
tion at the end of the discharge, as in the case in which a long wire
transmits a voltaic current. To the same cause must be attributed
the remarkably pungency of thesparks, though very small, which are
received from a long conductor along which a feeble current of ordi-
nary electricity passes.

The electro-atmospheric apparatus acquires great sensibility when
the insulated conductor is movable. De Saussure} states that he
obtained signs of electricity when he raised his electrometer, furnished

= Contributions to Electricity and Magnetism, page 47.—From the Transactions of the
American Philosophical Society, vol. VI.
+ Voyages dans les Alpes, tom. II, § 799, p. 218.
ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY. 309

with a point, ouly from four to seven feet above the ground, at the
time when stationary conductors of more than a hundred feet high
gave no indication. What we have given above furnishes a sufficient
explanation of this fact; for the movable apparatus being under the
influence of an electricity which acts on them by induction, the elec-
trical equilibrium must be disturbed at every change of elevation.
Besides this, the stationary apparatus, as we have seen, however care-
fully constructed, loses in part its isolation when the air is mois¢, during
fogs, heavy dews, cold and rainy nights ; while a movable apparatus,
such as an electrometer furnished with a point, which we usually keep
in the house, and which is not exposed to the air except at the moment
when we wish to use it, always has a sufficiently good insulation.
This kind of apparatus is the only one which has yet led to any definite
results in regular observations, made under a clear sky, at the sur-
face of the earth.

There are two ways of using the electrometer, affording different
indications, and which we should be careful not to confound. If we
desire only to know the nature of the electrical influence, whether
under a clear sky or a cloudy one, let the conducting stem be termi-
nated by one or several points, or by an ignited body; the leaves,
after having been brought to an equilibrium, will slowly or rapidly
diverge by the repelling electricity without the necessity of moving
the instrument. But the electricity thus collected being wholly de-
pendent on the conductibility of the air, and consequently varying with
the moisture in that medium, the rain and even with the force of the
wind, this mode of experimenting will simply give the measure of the
repulsive electricity which the instrument is in a state to preserve in
consequence of its insulation, and not that of the electric induction to
which it is subjected. To obtain this latter, M. Peltier* directs that
the conducting stem be terminated by a ball, which, at the same
time that it prevents the radiation of the electricity accumulated at
the lower extremity, increases the effect of the induction. It is clear
that, after having brought the instrument to an equilibrium at a cer-
tain height, the indications which it will give by its elevation or its
depression will depend only on the induction of the atmospheric elec-
tricity, and may consequently be used as a measure of it. This
method is that which M. Peltier used in his regular observations, and
it appears to be the only one suitable to ascertain the variety of the
electrical tensions at short intervals of time. When this scientist
wished to make an observation he ascended on a terrace and placed
his electrometer on a tablet raised about five feet; he brought it then
to an equilibrium by touching the stem and the lower part with a
metallic wire; then he descended into a room below the terrace, and
there placed the instrument charged with electricity opposite to that
of the atmosphere on a tablet designed for it, where he afterwards
read it. This series of operations could be made with such rapidity
that it required only eight seconds. .

M. Peltier remarked that for these experiments he needed only to
use a ball of about three inches in diameter, and not a longer stem

* Aunales de Chimie et de Physique, 3d series, tom. IV, p. 400, et suiv.
310 ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY.

of the electrometer than twenty inches; he preferred even one of from
twelve to sixteen inches. A longer rod diminished the sensibility of
the instrument, because the electricity driven to the upper extremity
leaves to the opposite electricity the remainder of the length over which
ii is to be distributed. Consequently the longer the stem the less is
the electricity which reaches the gold leaves.

Instead of raising the instrument, he prefers to lower it below the
point of equilibrium, because it is not convenient, and frequently it is
even impossible to read exactly the number of degrees which the
apparatus indicates while the air is charged with resinous vapors,
when it is necessary to raise it one or two metres above the same point.
M. Peltier remarked, however, that the divergence of the leaves or the
deviation of the needle of his electrometer is less on lowering the
instrument than on raising it; so that we ought to fix the proportion
in order to establish the direct tension in the formation of the tables
which it may be desirable to prepare. The reading was made in a
room, and not in the open air, to avoid the inconveniences of the
wind, rain, the heat of the sun, and especially the error which may
result from the electric tension which the head of the observer receives
in the open air, and which might act on the instrument and compli-
cate its indications. Finally, to avoid alike the induction of the hand
on the stem, this is touched in. the lowest part with a fine metallic
wire.

Besides electrometers, science also has rheometers to measure the
intensity of atmospheric electricity; but, as M. Peltier* remarks,
two things limit the use that can be made of them. First, a great
quantity of electricity in motion is necessary to produce deviation in a
rheometer, while a small portion is sufficient to determine the di-
vergence of the gold leaves of an electrometer. M. Peltier} proved
that the escape of a quantity of electricity, representid by a devia-
tion of 7.069 degrees of his static electrometer, was needed to produce
a single degree of deviation in an exceilent rheometer of 3,000 coils
of a wire of 0.15 millimetres, having a system of light needles of
five centimetres in length. ‘Then, also, it was necessary for the devi-
ation of this instrument to apply a continued current, and not a succes-
sion of small discharges. It therefore follows that the rheometer gives
no indication during the dryest and most electric days, if the extremity
of the wire is not raised to a great height in the air, while in the
last case the electrometer exhibits a very powerful electricity. Thus
it is that M. Peltier observed in his experiments under a clear sky,
that the deviation of his rheometer did not begin to be produced till
the kite with which one of the ends of the wire of the instrument
was connected had reached the height of one hundred feet above the
ground, while his electrometer indicated an increasing positive elec-
tricity beginning from the height of ten feet.

It the rheometer gives no indication under a clear sky, when the
extremity of the wire is placed_at a small height above the ground,
it is not so when clouds and especially thunder gusts pass over the

* Comptes Rendus, tom. X, p. 712. 1840.
+ Annales de Chimie et de Physique, tom. LXYVII, p. 440. 1838.
ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY. $11

apparatus. In this case the radiation from the wire raised into the at-
mosphere may become so considerable that the needle moves rapidly
and even reaches its maximum of deviation.

We shall finish this first part of the general subject by a succinct
summary of what we have said of the use of electro-atmospheric appa-
ratus :

1. The electro-atmospheric apparatus becomes electrified by induc-
tion and not by contact of the air. It acts in the same way as if it
were placed under a body positively electrified ; consequently, it does
not indicate the absolute quantities, but the differences of one and the
same state. ¢

2. Stationary apparatus, on account of their immobility, must be con-
sidered as conductors in equilibrium; they are insufficient for the study
of atmospheric electricity under a clear sky and ina dry time; they
do not become electrified, except by their radiation, and even then
they do not indicate the nature of the electricity, except when their
insulation is perfect, and they are not influenced by electric currents
proceeding from the chemical action of the steam upon the oxydizable
parts which enter into their composition.

3. Stationary apparatus in which the two conditions mentioned just
above are fulfilled is very well suited to observe the sudden or gra-
dual changes which take place in atmospheric electricity, during
storms, and in general under the influence of clouds sufficiently elec-
trified. An insulated copper wire, covered with silk thickly varnished,
terminated at the end in platina, and arranged in the manner indicated
by M. Peltier, appears to be best suited to this case.

4. Prudence alone should prevent the use of kites in stormy weather.
When the sky is more or less clear, this movable apparatus may serve
to study the variations which occur in the induction of atmospheric
electricity, when the kite is raised from the surface of the earth towards
the upper regions of the atmosphere.

5. We may obtain under a clear sky remarkable effects, such as
very powerful shocks, by means of the kite, which, according to Mr.
Henry, we must attribute not tothe direct influence of atmospheric
electricity, but to the phenomena of induction of an electric current on
itself,

6. When it is desired by a series of observations to measure the
variations of atmospheric electricity, and obtain comparative results,
the electrometer furnished with a stem terminated in a ball, appears
to be the only suitable instrument. We put it carefully in equilibrium,
at a definite height, and then lower or raise it a constant distance.
Its indications may then serve to measure the atmospheric electricity.

7. Ifthe stem of the electrometer is terminated by one or several
points, or by an ignited body the instrument furnishes indications
which are dependent on the conductibility, or in other words on the
moisture of the surrounding air.

8. The rheometers are not deflected, except by a continued current of
electricity, and their sensibility is far inferior to that of the electro-
meters. They are very useful in stormy weather and at all times
when the influence of atmospheric electricity is very strong.
a ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY.

PART. If
OF THE STATE OF OUR KNOWLEDGE OF THE ELECTRICITY OF THE AIR,
CHAPTER I.
OF THE ORIGIN OF ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY.

In the month of July, 1752, Cassini de Thury * observed that a rod
placed on the observatory of Paris became electrified when there was no
appearance of a thunder cloud above the horizon ; but at this period it
was believed that such clouds were necessary to the production of this
penomenon, and this led him to suspect that there was a cloud near the
horizon, which, without being perceived, communicated to the air elec-
tricity enough to charge the insulated conductor. In the meantime the
observations made by Le Monnier} soon left no doubt that the elec-
tro-atmospheric apparatus does become electric under a clear sky.
During a drought of six weeks, from the middle of September to the
end of October, 1752, this scientist found that the apparatus which he
had established in his garden of St. Germain en Laye, became sensibly.
electrified, though the clearness of the sky was not disturbed by clouds
during all this time. The experiments of Beccaria, Cavallo, and
especially those made with the most delicate instruments by De Saus-
sure, Volta, and Schubler, confirm this result. These philosophers
took pains to determine the character of atmospheric electricity, and
from the sum of their observations we may conclude that in clear
weather the atmosphere is always positively electrified.

Many hypotheses have been framed to account for atmospheric elec-
tricity. We shall present a brief exposition of some of these and show
how far they correspond with the present state of the science.

When friction was the only known agent capable of producing the
decomposition of the electric fluids, it was natural to seek the source
of atmospheric electricity in the friction of the air against the clouds
and the earth and against itself. This opinion was entertained by
Nollet { and adopted by many philosophers; but it was afterwards
entirely abandoned, when observation taught that there was no rela- .
tion between the intensity of electricity and the force of the wind.
Friction is no doubt a most active means of developing electricity ;
~we know likewise from the experiments of Wilson that the air be-
comes electrified by its friction against glass. It is then probable
enough, as M. Koemtz § observes, that the friction of the air against
the clouds and the earth develops electricity ; but it may not pro-
duce any sensible effect, either on account of its want of intensity or
because it is immediately dissipated by the ways of escape offered to it.
| Faraday found no electrical excitement from the friction of dry air. |

= Histoire de l’ Académie des Sciences de Paris, pour 1752, page 10.

+ Memoire de |’ Académie des Sciences de Paris, pour 1752, page 241.

{ Memoires de l’ Académie des Sciences de Paris, pour 1764, page 409.
- § Lehrbuch der Meteorologie, tom. II, page 408.
ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY. 5

Other philosophers have limited themselves to simple conjectures.
In a memoir containing his observations on atmospheric electricity,
Canton* threw out in advance this question : Might not suddenly rari-
fied air impart electricity to clouds and vapors, and would not condensed
air produce a similar effect? Priestleyt inquired if the empty space
which is above the clouds might not always have an electricity opposed
to that of the earth? May not thunder and earthquakes, he adds, be
owing to a re-establishment of the equilibrium between the two elec-
tricities ?

According to Beccaria,t electricity proceeds from the earth wherever
the ground is surcharged, bearing with it the light bodies which may
facilitate its passage. These bodies thus assist in transferring to the
atmosphere the electricity of the earth.

Franklin§ considered the sea as the source of lightning, founding his
opinion on the light which it exhibits at night on the slightest agita-
tion. In his view, the particles of water are so many little solid spheres,
which only touch the salt in some points, and he supposes there exists
between these particles and those of salt, the same friction there is
between the glass and the cushion of the electrical machine ; so that a
particle of water at the surface, being surrounded by an electric atmos-
phere, is repelled, and conveys to the air the electricity with which it
is charged.

It was in the evaporation of water at the surface of the earth that
Volta|| sought for the cause of atmospheric electricity. According to
this celebrated scientist a body on being reduced to vapor acquires
a greater capacity for electricity as well as for caloric. In the case of
water, the vapor in forming absorbs positive electricity and renders
it latent, while the water becomes negatively electrified. When this
vapor again condenses in the colder strata of air which it meets as it
it rises, its electricity is disengaged, and the feeble conductibility of the
air would prevent its return to the earth, from which it originated, if it
were not for rain, snow, hail, or violent discharges. This theory,
which was likewise adopted by Saussure,{ is based, first, on the pro-
duction of electricity in the passage of a body from one state to
another. Second, on the preservation of the same quantity of electricity
in a latent state by the body as long as the molecules of the latter
continue in the same state of aggregation. Volta sought to verify by
experiment the first of the above suppositions. Placing in com-
munication with its condenser a metallic vase,** in which he caused
water to be evaporated, he obtained, in concert with Lavoisier and

* Transactions Philosophiques, tome XLVIII, Ist part, page 357, 1753.

} Historie de Electricité, tome ILI, page 32.

{ Lettere dell’ Electricismo, page 202.

§ Experim. and Observ. on Electricity, page 175.

|| Journal de Physique, tome XXIII, page 98, 1783.

Voyages dans les Alpes, tome II, sec. 829, page 252.

** This experiment has been the subject of a question of priority between Volta on the one
side and La Place and Lavoisier on the other. See the historical eulogy on Volta by M. Arago,
Annales de Chemie et de Physique, vol. 44, page 396. We may observe that attempts
had already been previously made in England to ascertain whether evaporation contributes
to the production of electricity. We find in the 3d volume of the History of Electricity by
Priestley, page 440, that this philosopher placed a small quantity of water on a small bit of
glass and made it evaporate rapidly by means of a red-hot iron which he held under it. He did
not notice that the glass acquired any sensible degree of electricity.
314 ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY.

La Place, manifest signs of negative electricity. But as these illus-
trious philosophers carried on their experiments in metallic vessels
which were affected by water; the results at which they arrived could
not lead them to the truth, since they knew not that the slightest
chemical action produces electrical effects; they therefore attributed to
the change in the molecular state of bodies that which ought to have
been referred to the combination of the same bodies with other elements.
Hence resulted the freauent contradictions which De Saussure* obtained
in repeating this experiment. When he caused water to be evaporated
in an iron crucible his electrometer was electrified, sometimes posi-
tively, sometimes negatively, and sometimes even remained without
presenting any signs of electricity.

Science possesses facts which philosphers have cited in support of the
opinion that there is a disengagement of electricity on the change of
state of bodies. Wilke observed that certain bodies, like sulphur,
wax, &c., poured into glass vases, where they were left to cool, exhibit
when they are withdrawn, strong negative electricity, while the glass
exhibits positive electricity of equal intensity. But if the change of
state were the true cause of this phenomenon, ought it not to produce
electricity in the solidifying of any body whatever? Now this does
not take place. M. Gay Lussac} ascertained that the adhesion of bodies
and their separation by the inequality of their contraction, as is the case
of sulphur and glass, wax and glass, &c., are indispensable condition
for obtaining electricity after the fusion and solidifying of a body. The
electricity observed in this case must then be attributed to another cause
than the change of state, which appears to reside in the pressure which
the two bodies exert on each other. The electrical state of steam at the
moment it comes out of a boiler has been cited as favorable to Volta’s
theory.{ But, though the disengagement of electricity is in this case
unquestionable, still it is very difficult to attribute it to the evapora-
tion of the water, since it is only at the instant of the expansion of
the steam that the electricity is exhibited. Must we not rather refer
this phenomenon to the expansion, or to-some circumstance which
accompanies it, such as the diminution of the pressure of the steam
against the sides of the boiler? This latter opinion is strengthened
by the fact that jets of atmospheric air act precisely in the same manner
as those of steam. If we compress air in a vessel, such as the recepta-
cle of a portable fountain, and then let it quickly pass off in a jet,
we observe that an electrometer which is exposed to the current of air
becomes positively electrified, while the vessel, if it be insulated, shows
signs of negative electricity.§ Possibly it may be the same cause which
produces the electricity which M. Mitchell observed during the solidi-
fying of carbonic acid. This physisist informs us that when the acid
becomes liquid by pressure and escapes from the vessel which contains
it, the solid which it forms receives positive and the receptacle nega-
tive electricity. [This article was written before the publication of the
researches of Faraday on the electricity of steam, which conclusively
prove that the excitement is due to the friction of the particles of water,

* Voyages dans les Alpes, tome IT, sec. 807, page 228, et suiv.

+ Annales de Chimie et de Physique, tome VIII, p. 161, 1818.
jAnnales de Chimie et de Physique, tome VIII, p. 161, 1818.

&Philos. Magaz., vol. XVI, page 374, 1840.
ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY. 315

which are mingled with the steam, against the sides of the orifice
through which the steam escapes; neither dry steam nor dry air is
capable of exciting electricity by friction. This is in accordance with
the experiment of De Saussure mentioned at page 296 of this article. |

Atmospheric electricity being very weak before the formation of a
storm, and rapidly attaining its maximum in the thunder-cloud, Volta
concluded that the vapors which rise in the air have their electricity
latent and set it free on their condensation. But nothing appears to
authorize the admission that one of the electricities can be rendered
latent, without the presence of the contrary, and that the one can
exist insulated without the other; for it is an undoubted principle
that, whenever electricity is produced, its positive and its negative states
exhibit themselves simultaneously with the same intensity. These
considerations appear to us sufficient to prove that Volta’s theory cannot
be admitted in the present state of science.

The question as to the origin of atmospheric electricity has also been
the object of M. Pouillet’s researches. This philosopher found, by
numerous experiments, that simple evaporation produced in a pla-
tina crucible, whether slowly or rapidly, never disengages electri-
city when it is not accompanied by chemical action; but that it
always produces electricity when the water which is evaporated holds
in solution gases, acids, or salts. In this case the steam takes the
positive electricity, and the solution the negative. He observed the
same phenomena with solutions of alkalies; but the steam then took
the negative electricity, and the alkali the positive.* Applying
these results to the evaporation which takes place constantly at the
surface of the earth, M. Pouillet remarked that the waters of the sea,
and, in general, those which plants imbibe and those which moisten
the surface of the ground, always hold in solution foreign substan-
ces, which they leave behind; and hence at the surface of the earth
there is no evaporation without there being, at the same time, chem-
ical segregation, and consequently the production of electricity. He
also believed that it followed, from his experiments, that all the vapors
which form at the surface of the earth are brought into an electric
state, not by evaporation, as Volta supposes, but because the water, in
being evaporated, leaves the foreign substances which it held in solu-
tion. This may be, according to that philosopher, one of the causes
of the positive electricity which is observed in the air in clear weather.

M. Peltier,+ from similar experiments, arrived ata different conclu-
sion. He showed that, in the evaporation of saline solutions, we only
obtain signs of electricity in the case of a rapid segregation of the
dissolved body, produced by the action of the elevated temperature of

*See the Journal L’Institut of October 21, 1841, No. 408.

+M. Pouillet made use of a platina crucible in order to remove the causes which might
produce electro-chemical effects. This crucible, brought successively to various tempera-
tures, was placed on a disk or metallic ring connected by a brass stem with the lower plate
of a gold-leaf condenser. See his Memoir, Annales de Chimie et de Physique, tom.
XXXVI, p. 5. 1827.

+ Comptes Rendus, tom. IT, p. 908, 1840; and Annales de Chimie et de Physique, tom.
LXXV, p. 330, 1840 It was with a needle electrometer, described in vol. LXII of the
Annales de Chimie et de Physique, that M. Peltier made his experiments.
316 ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY.

the sides of the vessel in which the evaporation takes place ; and that, in
all other circumstances, we do not observe a trace of electricity what-
ever may be the quantity of vapor produced. Thus, in evaporating in
a capsule of platina heated and connected with its electrometer a drop
of a solution of sea water partly saturated, M. Peltier found that there
is rarely a sign of electricity in the first experiment; but, if we re-
commence without having cleansed the platina, the saline layer left by
the first drop being taken up by the second, and saturating it in a
higher degree, the latter becomes nearly opake when it is reduced to
a third of its volume. We then see a multitude of little bodies
swimming in it, and, soon after, we hear decrepitations attended with
saline projections which at the same instant produce in the electrome-
ter a negative deviation. If the platina is sufficiently cooled to admit
of being moistened, the decrepitation ceases, the drop extends and is
at once reduced to vapor. Now, M. Peltier observed that this sudden
evaporation, instead of increasing the electrical deviation, took away
a part or the whole of what had been produced during the decrepitation.
A third experiment produces a yet greater effect ; the decrepitation
is stronger and the needle forcibly deflected by the intensity of the
manifestation.

It follows, therefore, that evaporation is only an adjunct in the elec-
trical excitement, and that the electricity is due to the chemical
decomposition of the hydrated molecules which adhere to the metal
possessing a high temperature. Thus M. Peltier obtained the same
result by substituting for salt water sea salt itself; this latter decrepi-
tating without any aqueous fusion, the water between the molecules
performing the part of the saturated solution, caused the needle of
the electrometer to move. If, on the contrary, we use a salt that is
unaffected by heat, and nearly insoluble, such as the carbonate of
barytes, there is no electricity produced, either with or without water.
Thus it appears that it is at the very moment of the separation of the
combined molecules of water that the electricity is produced, and not
during the evaporation of the superfluous water, as M. Pouillet believed.
When this separation takes place slowly, an electric neutralization
is produced before the molecules of vapor are sufficiently separated
from the liquid to retain the electricity which they had at the moment
of their formation ; while the sudden explosions produce the isolation
necessary to the preservation of the electricity developed. We know,
in fact, that when the two electric fluids are separated from each other
simply by chemical action, they always tend to unite again to form a
neutral state, through the conducting bodies which are present.

The difference between the results,to which M. Pouillet and M. Pel-
tier arrived may be explained, perhaps, by that of the instruments
which these two philosophers employed. The first used a condenser of
gold leaf; he observed no signs of electricity except at the instant of
the separation of the plates of the instrument; and the electricity
which it then indicated was that which, being produced during the
decrepitation of the substances used, had remained disguised by the
opposite electricity of the upper plate. M. Peltier appears to have
made his experiments with his electrometer without a condenser. By
ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY. 317

this instrument as he was able to seize the instant when the electrici-
ties were set free, when the disengagement ceased, and to follow step
by step the phases of the phenomena, he could thus distinguish what
was owing to chemical action, produced by the high temper ratare, from
that which was due to simple evaporation,

M. Pouillet* pointed out another source of atmospheric electricity in
the act cf vegetation. He had established, by a series of previous
experiments, that gases give off electricity when they combine either
together or with solid or liquid bodies; that in these combinations,
oxygen disengages positive electricity, and the combustible body, what-
ever it may be, negative electricity; and that reciprocally, when a com-
pound is decomposed, each of the elements then wanting the electricity,
which it has disengaged, is found in an opposite electrical state. Thus
when oxygen combines with carbon, the carbonic acid which is formed
is positively electrified, while the carbon remaining becomes negatively
electrified. We may verify this phenomenon by placing a cylinder of
charcoal perpendicularly, at about a foot below a metallic plate, con-
nected with the upper disk of a condenser with plates of gold, and
having placed its lower portion in connexion with the ground, "then
igniting the upper part of it, a column of carbonic acid gas imme-
diately 1 rises, and transmits to the upper plate an excess of positive
electricity.

But we know that different parts of plants act on atmospheric air ;
that sometimes they form, at the expense of the oxygen, quite a large
quantity of carbonic acid, which escapes insensibly, and that sometimes
they exhale pure oxygen, arising from some combination in the in-
terior of the plant. Now, if it be. true, says M. Pouillet, that carbonic
acid is positively.electrified at the moment of its formation, it follows
that plants ought to yield to the air, by the exhalation of that acid,
a greater or less quantity of positive electricity. This scientist at-
tempted to verify his conclusion directly by experiment. If the hypo-
thesis be true, the plant ought to take the negative electricity, and M,
Pouillet obtained, in fact, in the day as well as at night, signs of nega-
tative electricity, by g germinating grains in glass capsules, varnished
on the outside, which were connected together by metallic wires and
at the same time with the lower plate of a condenser, while the upper
plate was in communication with the ground. Thus he thought he

might conclude from his experiments that on a surface, in full vegeta-
tion of one hundred metres square, there was eliminated in one day
more positive electricity than was necessary to charge the strongest
battery.

Many philosophers have believed that the effect obtained by M.
Pouillet cannot be attributed to the combination of the oxygen of the
air with the carbon of the plant, since this phenomenon being ‘analagous
to combustion, the plant will set free the negative electricity, and the
carbonic acid, the opposite electricity, which will immediately enter
into combination with the former, if ever so little gas remains in contact
with the excess of carbon. This is so far true that in the combustion of

* Annales de Chimie et de Physique, tom. XXXY, p. 405. 1827.
318 ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY.

carbon, as observed by M. Pouillet,* we obtain signs of electricity only
while the carbon, held perpendicularly, burns at its upper surface ; if
it be held nearly horizontally so that the carbonic acid which is formed
cannot rise except by ascending along the base of the carbon, the con-
denser no longer becomes charged, the two electricities having had
time to recombine. Now it is known that the combination of oxygen
with the carbon of the plant does not take place outside of the paren-
chyma, but in the interior; therefore before the carbonic acid formed and
remaining in contact with the carbon in excess is disengaged, the elec-
tricities that are developed ought to reunite and every sign of free elec-
tricity disappear. On the other hand it may be asked how it is that the
electrical effects obtained by M. Pouillet were the same night and day.
Ought they not to be different, since in the day there is the decompo-
sition of the acid absorbed, while during the night a portion of the
oxygen is transformed into acid? Further, may not these same
electrical effects proceed from the remains of organic bodies which are
found in the vegetable earth of the capsules, and which, decomposing
by contact of air, generate carbonic acid, or rather may they not be
attributed to the electro-chemical action which the same earth would
naturally exercise on the conducting wires with which they may come in
contact ?

Vegetation is, without doubt, the result of a multitude of chemical
reactions which necessarily disturb the equilibrium of the two elec-
tricities and thereby set free a portion of each ; but it is very difficult
to see in this the cause of the uniformly positive electricity, which
manifests its presence in the atmosphere whenever the sky is clear. If,
with M. Pouillet, we attribute the production of atmospheric elec-
tricity to evaporation and vegetation, the usual electrical state of
the atmosphere must vary in different regions, as this philosophert
himself observes ; in one place we ought to find positive electricity
predominant, and in another negative. But experience is opposed to
this conclusion. We do not find any notice of observations of nega-
tive electricity in clear weather, except in the report of M. Arago,{
on a memoir containing the researches and observations made by
Marshal Mormont, duke of Ragusa, during his voyage to the Hast.
‘*]T perceived in this memoir,’’ says M. Arago, ‘‘three observations of
negative atmospheric electricity, made at Constantinople in clear
weather; three observations of the same kind at Alexandria, and three
entirely similar ones made near Cairo. We do not think,’’ adds he,
‘“that in France, England, or Germany, any observer has ever found

negative atmospheric electricity in clear weather.’’ But if we recollect
that these experiments were made by means of a conductor, which
was moved slowly downward from above and upward from below until
an electric effect was produced in the electroscope with which it was
in communication, we see from what has been said (1 part chap. IT)
of the electric phenomena which the electrometers present when they

* Annales de Chimie et de Physique, tom. XXXV, page 405.
+ Eléments de Physique Expérimentale et de Météorologic, tom. II, page 827, Paris, 1829.
t Comptes Rendus, tom. II, page 212, 1836.
ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY. 319

are raised or lowered, how we may explain these indications of negative
electricity in clear weather.

It appears to follow, from what precedes, that the phenomena which
accompany evaporation and vegetation are not sufficient, in the present
state of science, to explain atmospheric electricity. M.A. dela Rive*
made in respect to this the following observations: ‘‘ Vegetation and
chemical action which take place on the surface of the globe produce
so little electricity, and especially afford signs of electricity the nature
of which is so variable, that we can hardly attribute to them the con-
stantly positive electricity with which the atmosphere is charged,
Moreover, these are phenomena which almost wholly cease during
winter, and yet observation teaches us that the atmosphere is very
frequently charged and sometimes with more electricity at this period
of the year than in any other. What is then the cause which pro-
duces this agent? May it not be sought for in a more general phe-
nomenon than any to which it has been hitherto attributed, to wit:
the unequal distribution of the temperature of the atmosphere?”’

The idea of regarding atmospheric electricity as a thermo-electric
phenomenon had already been propounded by the philosophers who
were first engaged in researches of this kind. After having ascer-
tained the Jaws of electric polarity which the tourmalin acquires
when its temperature is raised or lowered, Canton} advanced the
opinion that heat might probably exercise an influence in the elec-
tric phenomena of the atmosphere. ‘‘If we supposed,’ says he,
‘that the air possesses qualities similar to those of the tourmalin,
that is to say, the capacity of becoming electric by the increase or
decrease of its heat, we can easily explain thunder-clouds, positive or
negative, as well as the peals of thunder.’’ A similar supposition
was also made by Th. Ronayne,} in the course of his observations on
atmospheric electricity.

The opinion which consists in regarding heat as the cause of atmos-
pheric electricity has received some degree of probability from the
labors of M. Becquerel. It is known that this philosopher succeeded in
demonstrating that when caloric is propagated in a metallic body
it produces in its whole extent such a series of decompositions and re-
combinations of the natural electricity that the positive electricity,
successively imparted by one molecule to the next, goes from the warm
to the cold part, and that the negative electricity follows the contrary
course. Hence a particle which becomes warm in receiving its heat
from a neighboring one, takes from the latter positive electricity and
gives it negative electricity. Ought not the same effect to be pro-
duced, though in a less degree, in bodies which are bad conductors of
electricity ? This appears the more probable, when we recollect that
the conducting power of these bodies for electricity increases with the
temperature. M. Nobili|| succeeded in producing thermo-electric

% Essai Historique sur l’Electricité, page 140.

+ Philosophical Transactions for 1759, page 403.

{ Philosophical Transactions for 1772, page 139.

§ M. Becquerel verified by M. Rousseau’s apparatus that the glass which had been
heated from 90 to 80°, and even below, becomes a conductor of the electricity even for
very weak tensions.—Annales de Chimie et de Physique, tom. XLI, page 356, 1829.

| Bibliotheque Universelle, tom. XXXVII, page 125, 1828.
20 ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY.

S)

currents in bodies which are poor conductors, by merely taking the
precaution of slightly moistening them. In this way he obtained
very sensible deviations of the needle of a rheometer by fixing to the
extremities of the wire of the latter two sticks of moistened clay, one
of which, strongly heated, was placed in contact with the other, re-
maining at the ordinary temperature. ‘‘ If we consider for an instant,”’
says M. Becquerel,* ‘‘a portion of the atmosphere in a perfect calm,
and having throughout the same temperature, the state of equilibrium
of its electricity would not be disturbed; but if, by any cause what-
ever, it should happen to be penetrated by a current of cold air, a
part will become cool, take the negative electricity, and the other
part the positive electricity. The contact of the molecules being
short in duration, by reason of the rapidity of the current, every one
of them would preserve a part of the electricity which is disengaged
during the change of the temperature. If the portions which have
become cooled enclose aqueous vapor, this will become condensed, im-
bibe electricity, and form a cloud charged with negative electricity.
When the cold current of air contains vapor, a cloud will be found pos-
sessing positive electricity. It has been observed that in general the air
which is at a certain distance from houses and trees, possesses positive
electricity. This is evident, for the cold air which is found in contact
with the earth, after being heated at its expense, is raised on account
of a less specific gravity, and bears with it the positive electricity
which it has taken during its heating.’’ It is probable that effects of
this kind take place in the atmosphere. Experience and observation
only can decide in what degree they concur in the production of the
electrical phenomena of the air.

We see trom the foregoing how httle we have advanced in our knowl-
edge of the origin of the positive electricity of the air in clear weather.
In examining this question, M. Peltier} offers a new opinion, accord-
ing to which the air is completely deprived of electricity, while
all the electric phenomena of the atmosphere derive their source from
the negative electricity of the earth. In describing the experiments
previously mentioned, in which an electrometer diverged positively
when it was raised, and negatively when lowered, he presents his
mode of considering atmospheric electricity. ‘* These experiments,”’
says he, ‘‘demonstrate that the earth acts as a body powerfully nega-
tive, and the celestial space as a body strongly positive, and all the
bodies interposed between them become electrified by induction, accord-
ing to their pesition and relations with the earth, and not by contact
with the air. When a person is in an uncovered place, and under a
clear sky, his head is in a negative state, as are the upper ends of
all bodies, such as the tops of trees. This negative tension changes
with our position, with the state of the sky, and the shelter which
cover us. This electric induction is proved by placing the hand
raised above an insulated globe screwed to the upper part of the elec-
trometer. The leaves of gold diverge somewhat negatively. This
effect is reproduced with force when there prevails one of those red-

* Annales de Chimie el de Physyique, tom. XLI, page 372.
Compte’s Rendus, tom, XII, page 807 1841.
ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY. _ 321

dish dry fogs which are strongly negative ; they act at a less distance
and produce a greater inductive effect. These fogs show also what a
series of discharges would be produced between the gold leaves and
the armatures, if it were the air which was the electrified body.’’
These experiments place beyond doubt the existence of the nega-
tive electricity of the earth, of which M. Peltier speaks. It had
previously attracted the attention of De Saussure,* who, by a particular
arrangement of his electrometer, sought to ascertain its variations.
The most direct means of determining it consists in placing one of the
ends of a platina wire of a rheometer in a moist part of the ground,
and the other inadry portion of the same ground or under an ad-
joining building. This part of the ground or of the building being,
on account of its partial conductibility, less charged with: electricity
than the moist ground, the electrical equilibrium is established be-
tween the two by the means of the metallic wire, and results in
an action on the magnetic needle. In this way M. Peltier} ascer-
tained that during clear weather the ground is constantly negative at
very different tensions, according to the hygrometric state and tem-
perature of the air. But if it be true that the earth possesses a nega-
tive electricity, and that an electrometer placed under a clear sky
becomes electrified by induction, and not by contact of the surround-
ing air, must we conclude, with M. Peltier, that the air is wholly
deprived of electricity? This philosopher introduced the positive in-
duction of celestial space in the electrical phenomena of the atmos-
phere; but he used this language only that he might be the more
easily understood. According to him, ponderable bodies only have
the power of controlling the cause of electric phenomena. Empty
space, therefore, can control nothing. The earth, as a ponderable
body, possesses the power of coercion which M. Peltier calls negative
electricity, while celestial space, not being able to control this cause,
owes to this negative quality an electric reaction, which he calls vitre-
ous electricity. Further, this philosopher admits neither the theory
of the two electric fluids nor that of one fluid; but he regards the cause
of electric phenomena, the same as that of light and heat, as a
modification of a universal fluid which fills all spacs, and the terms of
‘‘vitreous’’ and ‘‘resinous’’ have for him no other meaning than that
of indicating the different degrees of one and the same state, beginning
at a point of equilibrium deprived of all electric manifestation. It is
by these considerations that he explains the phenomena which the
electroscopes present when they are raised or lowered. This interpre-
tation of atmospheric electricity is then joined to a new theory of
electricity, which M. Peltier has hitherto only indicated, and of which
he promises afterwards to furnish all the details. However this may be,
it appears that the different methods of managing electroscopes under
a clear sky could likewise be explained by the theory of two electric
fluids and by the hypothesis of different atmospheric strata progressively
electrified. We might, however, ask how it happens that an electro-
scope which has been brought to an equilibrium presents no diver-

*% Voyages dans les Alpes, tom. II, § 830, page 254.
} Traite de l'Electricité et du Magnetism, par Becquerel, tom. LV, p. 107.

21
322 ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY.

gence by its contact with the air, if it is the latter which becomes
electrified? We believe that the explanation of this fact may be
derived from what we have said (part 1, ch. IL) in quoting the opinion
of M. Gay Lussac on the distribution of the electricity of the atmos-
phere; besides, we ought to remember that the lower strata of the air
can possess, in a free state, but a feeble quantity of electricity. Many
causes may, in fact, be opposed to the accumulation of free electricity
in these strata. In the first place, there is the proximity of the ground,
which, charged by induction with an electricity contrary to that of the
air, reacts consequently, by its attraction, to neutralize it. Another
cause is found in the great conductibility which the air of the same
strata naturally possess in consequence of the elevated temperature to
which they are subjected, and the approach of the molecules of water to
the state of vapor, circumstances which permit an easy escape for all the
free electricity. In fine, even though it should be supposed that the
air of these strata could contain a greater quantity of free electricity,
it appears, according to the experiment of Mr. Faraday and that of
M. Peltier himself, that the electric action being the same in every
direction, no divergence could take place in the instrument.

Oe An PP EyR) IT.
OF THE VARIATIONS OF ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY IN CLEAR WEATHER.

§ I. Of the influence of local causes and of the height on atmospheric
electricity im clear weather.

By means of his electrometer, furnished with a metallic stem, De
Saussure * observed that local causes exercised a very decided influ-
ence on the electrical indications obtained under a clear sky. He
discovered that they did not become sensible in the open plain, except
at a height of from 4 to 5 feet above the ground; that they are stronger
in the most elevated and isolated places; there are none in houses,
under trees, in streets, in courts, and, in general, in localities wholly
inclosed; that, nevertheless, in cities they are sensible in the midst
of large, open places, on quays, and especially on bridges where they
have been found more powerful than in the open country.

These results are confirmed by the observations which Schiibler+
made during a journey in which he twice crossed the chain of the Alps
separating Germany from Italy. He always observed an increase in
the intensity of atmospheric electricity in proportion as the places
which he passed through were more elevated and isolated, and this
increase was so much the more remarkable the farther he was
removed from forests and habitations. Thus, on the 13th of April,
1813, at 4 o’clock in the evening, the electric tension at Mount St.

© Voyages dans les Alpes, tom. IT, § 792, page 205, and § 800, page 219.
j Journal de Schweigger, tom. IX, pages 348 and 350, 1813,
ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY. 3238

Gothard, 6,200 feet above the level of the ocean, was only + 10 de-
grees of Volta’s electrometer, but the instrument rapidly passed to 50
and even to 60 degrees when it was placed on a granite rock 30 feet
high, which was found near the place where the observation was made.
The same instrument ordinarily indicated only 4 or 5 degrees at the
same time of the year, and at the same hour of the day, in the low
part of the same country.

Though Schiibler could not discover any direct relation between the
intensity of atmospheric electricity and the height of the place above
the level of the sea, yet he thought that this relation existed, but that
it was influenced by a multitude of causes. He believed he could not
be mistaken in general as to an increase of electricity with the height,
as is manifest in the following table, which contains the result of
his experiments made under a clear sky on the inclinations of an Alpine
mountain:

Height above | Height above | Degrees of Observations.
the valley. | thesurfaceof| electricity.
| the ocean.

Feet. | Feet.
30 | 1,830 + 5 | At the foot of the mountain, at 6 fect above
| the ground,
42 | 1, 842 + 9 Isolated station, 12 feet above the ground.
98 | 1,898 -- 24 | Ona height about 20 feet above the ground,
far from trees.
110 1,910 — 4 | Near a small fall of water.
195 | 1,995 + 27 Isolated place, 20 feet above the ground.
205 | 2,005 + 18 On asmall height, at 8 feet above the ground..
202 | 2,002 + 10 | In the same place, 5 feet above the ground.
500 | 2,300 + 32 Ona height, far from trees, 10 feet above the
| ground.
510 | 2,310 + 20 | At 10 feet from the ground, near a forest.
730 | 2,530 + 3 On a level soil, isolated, 10 fect above the:
ground.
724 | 2,524 -+- 15 | The same station, at 4 feet above the ground.

De Saussure} found, on the contrary, atmospheric electricity weaker
on mountains than inthe plains. Thus, according to him, it is rather
the relative height of the place of observation than its absolute height,
which exercises an influence on the indications of the instruments.

The mode of action of atmospheric electricity on the electrometer,
and the negative electricity which terrestrial bodies possess, explain
the influence which local causes exert on that instrument. Though
in general the electrometer gave no indication in places which were
sheltered, we ought, however, to remark, that it might give indica-
tions under trees or near buildings which are in the neighborhood
of uncovered places, but then these indications are negative. This
happened when, after having brought the instrument to an equi-

* We shall hereafter see the cause of this negative electricity.
t Voyages dans les Alpes, tom, IV, sec. 2008, p. 197, and sec. 2055, p. 257.
324 ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY.

librium, it is moved horizontally toward these bodies. If the sky
is clear, there is observed a negative divergence, which reached
its maximum when the instrument had come under a tree, or as near
as possible to a building ; while it returned to zero every time it is
carried back to the place from which it started. This observation,
which appears to have been reported for the first time by M. Erman,*
may be explained by observing that when the electrometer was brought
into an equilibrium under a positive influence its stem remained in pos-
session of the negative electricity, which, repelled by that of the same
name possessed by the tree or building, produces the divergence which
is observed.

The intensity of the electricity increases in proportion as we recede
from the surface of the earth. This increase was proved by the phi-
losophers who first engaged in this kind of research. De Romas,y{
Cavallo,t and others obtained signs of electricity, the more powerful as
the kite which they used rose to a greater height. Science possesses
hitherto few data in respect to this fact. Schiibler sought to verify it
by observing the degrees of an electrometer, placed at increasing heights
on the side of a tower, so as to leave as nearly as possible the same
distance of five feet between its stem and the wall. The following
table shows the result of his experiments, which were made under a
clear sky, and at a temperature of 20° centigrade: -

Perpendicular height} Degrees of the Observations.
above the ground. electrometer.
| pa i
H
Feet. |
30 | + 15 |
50 + 20 |
75 + 26
86 + 18 | These observations were not made at a suiil-
115 + 22 t cient distance from the wall.
145 + 50
152 + 53
171 + 58 |
180 + 64 |

By a series of experiments made with a kite, the string of which
could at pleasure be connected with an electrometer or with a rhe-
ometer, M. Peltier§ discovered an important fact relative to the increase
respecting which he was inquiring. He observed that the electrometer
indicated an increasinz positive electricity for 10 feet, while the first
indications of the rheometer did not take place except at a height of ~
131 feet. From 131 to 328 feet the needle moved feebly; but
beyond this height, even up to that of 810 feet, which was the

% Journal de Physique, tom. LIX, p. 101. 1804.

+ Memoires des Savants Etrangers, tom. II, p. 406. 1755,
{ Traite complet d’Electricité, p. 294.

Journal de Schweigger, tom. IX, p, 351.

§ Comptes Rendus, tom. X, p. 712. 1840.
ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY. 325

maximum of height which the kite could attain, the deviation increased
so that the needle struck the check at 90°, and was maintained be-
tween 70° and 80°, consequently the current had at least a force of
600 proportional degrees of the electrometer. Thus, then, under a
clear sky the intensity of atmospheric electricity increased slowly
up to a certain height, beyond which it increased with very great
rapidity. Another fact, not less important, is the existence of a stratum
of negative air interposed between the positive strata, a fact which
M. Peltier observed when in the course of warm days light clouds
were formed. The reverse of the sign in atmospheric electricity
was exhibited for the first time April 21, 1840. The sky was quite
clear, except that here and there the vapor formed into long cirrus
clouds, which moved slowly from the south, while the lower wind
was from the northwest. The kite reached the height of 100 feet,
and the rheometer had as yet given no signs of a current, though
the electrometer had indicated an increasing positive tension at the
height of 10 feet. At from 100 to 164 feet the rheometer deviated from
2° to 3°, and indicated a descending positive current. Above this
height the two instruments remained an instant without giving any
electric sign, after which the rheometer indicated a descending current
of 2° or 3°, but negative. The electrometer assigned to this negative
zone a thickness of about 66 feet, above which the positive electricity
reappeared. The new positive current, of which notice was given by
the rheometer, was at first feeble; but the kite being raised to 394 feet,
the needle began to move rapidly. When it had reached 590 feet, the
current showed 60°, corresponding to 160 proportional degrees.

Some experiments on atmospheric electricity at different heights in
the air have also been made by Messrs. Becquerel* and Breschet, on
one of the plateaus in the vicinity of the Great St. Bernard, by
means of an arrow provided with a conducting wire, the extremity
of which communicated with a straw electrometer. The results at
which these philosophers arrived prove, 1. That on high mountains, in
clear weather, the electricity increases in intensity from leaving the
ground up to the height of at least 262 feet, the limit to which the
observations were carried; 2. That this electricity always remains
positive, without any appearance of change of sign.

We ought also to mention the experiments which Messrs. Gay
Lussac and Biot} made during their erostatic ascension. These
philosophers likewise found atmospheric electricity increasing with
the height; but it appeared to them negative, though the sky was
perfectly clear. This result is not surprising, if we consider that
the mode of experimenting adopted in this case consisted in suspend-
ing, by one end, a metallic wire of 164 feet long, terminated at the .
lower end by a ball of metal, and that it was the electricity at the
top of the wire which was observed. This electricity would, then, be
of the same nature as that produced by a charged plate held over the
point or the ball of an electrometer; the point or ball would be
charged negatively by the positive induction of the plate. M. Biot*

* Traité de l’Electricité et du Magnetisme, tom. IV, pag, 110.
+ Journal de Physique, tom, LIX, pages 315 and 318.
326 ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY.

has shown in this way that the result may be very well inter-
preted by the hypothesis of atmospheric strata more intensely electri-
fied with height, since then the upper strata, more strongly charged
‘with positive electricity, exercise on the metallic wire an action of
induction more powerful than that produced by the electricity of the
lower strata.

§ I1.—Of the diurnal and annual variations of atmospheric electricity
in clear weather.

Le Monnier} first observed that in the same place positive elec-
tricity in clear days was subject to regular variations of intensity.
He noticed that it diminished by degrees towards sunset, and finally
at last disappeared one or two hours afterwards, and did not re-
appear till towards eight or nine o’clock in the morning. He at first
attributed this daily variation to the moisture of the night, which
rendered the insulation of his apparatus less perfect ; but after taking
suitable precautions he ascertained that there was another cause for
this phenomenon. Beccaria,{t Gardine,§ Crosse,|| and other observers
arrived at the same result. DeSaussure{ determined the laws of this
daily period by means of observations made with his electrometer,
armed with a conductor terminating in a point. He observed that it
presented two maxima, which followed some hours after the rising
and setting of the sun, and two minima, which preceded the rising and
setting of the same luminary. ‘‘In winter,’’ he says, ‘‘ the season
during which I have most successfully observed the electricity of clear
air, it appears to me that the hours when it is most feeble are those
which are comprised between the time when the evening dew has
wholly completed its fall and that when the sun has risen, Next,
its intensity increases gradually and reaches, almost always, before
noon a definite maximum, after passing which it seems to decrease
until it is renewed at the fall of the dew, a period at which it is
sometimes stronger than during the day. After this it diminishes
gradually during the night, without, however, becoming null when
the weather is clear.’’ The observations which Schiibler** continued
for a whole year, at Stuttgard, lead to the same result. They showed
that when the weather is clear atmospheric electricity, which is very
feeble before the rising of the sun, afterwards increases at first slowly,
then rapidly, until it reaches its first maximum some hours after ;
that it also diminishes, at first rapidly, then slowly, until it has reached
its minimum, some hours before the setting of the sun; that it begins
again to increase when the sun approaches the horizon, and attains
its second maximum some hours after its setting ; to diminish again
during the rest of the night.

* Traité de Physique Expérimentale et Mathématique, tom. II, page 455.
+ Mémoires de 1’ Académie des Sciences de Paris pour 1752, page 241.

{ Lettere dell’ Electricismo, page 166.

§ De influxu Electricitatis Atmosph., §§ 50 and 51.

|| Bibliothéque Britannique, Sciences et Arts, tom. LVI, page 524, 1814.
§| Voyages dans les Alpes, tom. II, § 802, page 221.

= Journal de Schweigger, tom. III, page 123, and tom. VIII, page 21.
ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY. 327

The electrical periods determined by the observations of Mr. Clarke,*
of Dublin, are somewhat different. According to him, the first minimum
takes place at three o’clock in the morning; the electricity then
increases till ten o’clock; it then slightly diminishes till eleven o’clock,
then increases anew till two o’clock and forty-five minutes in the
evening ; at three o'clock it begins again to decrease, but more rapidly
than the first time, till five o’clock; it then increases till seven
o'clock; then rapidly decreases till it has reached its minimum at
three o’clock next day.

In order to exhibit more clearly these periods of atmospheric elec-
tricity, we quote the observations which were made by Schiiblert
on the 11th day of May, 1811, at very short intervals of time, and
under a sky constantly clear. We shall follow them by a series of
analogous observations, for which we are indebted to De Saussure,}
and add some of those which were made by M. Arago§ at the observa-
tory of Paris by means of the straw electrometer,

Observations by Schiibler.

Eee a Snct hen Gee |

SS diianl Oo ae

ne 2 a) pues 2

Hours. og 23 £9 2 | State of the sky.

ef | g2 | gos S

oo os oO q

er bn 7 tos 2 3

Bm Mere Pure © 1 yeu

° fo) °

AVR. Mt Oe see tas + 5 88 72.5 | + 9.3 R./)
Breas im! -... sees sc 64 88 75.4 9.5 | Perfectly clear ; gradually
Gidtem . saee sebin- 8 87 77.4 10.5 + the sky became vapor-
(CES i il 86 80.8 12.0 | ous; dew was formed.
eee a 13 84 82.7 13:5°° |J
SUE AP Mei Se 10 76 TT.9 15.5 }
1Ovarrmisse 2.22 8 70 73.9 17.0 | The horizon completely
1 tb 11 7 63 Tle 20. 1 | cleared up; the color
rT 64 61 71.6 21.6 of the sky became a
can ni 54 60 TOL 21.3 pure blue.
eypime 22). 1_.. 5 62 71.9 20.9 |
Gepe mM. as5-6:-% 2 6.0 65 T5093 pl, 22050 SiNGbY 1 1 ie
aS0! Dy Wieden 2- 8,0 72 77.0 17.5 pie dene ae =
Seat p mse ss 12.0 83 84. 2 15.5 OH onrea.
ORSON ss ema ae 8 86 80. 4 3.0 )
40!-300p.m-.i. 5: 7 88 79.8 4251 : ;
= ie 6} 88 121 1. WG } Perfectly _—
TAS 1 ae ee ee 53 88 74. 2 10.1 J

* These observations were undertaken at the request of the Royal Irish Academy, and
were continued during a whole year.—Philosophical Magazine, vol. XVI, pages 224 and
228, 1840.

+ Journal de Schweigger tom. ITI. Beilage.

{ Voyages dans les Alpes, tom. II, § 802, page 224.

§ Traité de I’Electricité et du Magnetisme, par Becquerel, tom. IV, page 93.
- 828 ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY.

Observations by De Saussure.

5 i &
Bo Re ©
Hours. 8 By g State of the sky.
z S) f=
E ES E |
zs ss] &
Feb. 21,1785. o eS ©
§:lbiaym 2. <- +2.0 89.3 | —8.3 | Pale sun; fleecy ciouds.
11.10 a. m~.-.- 1.6 83. 9 4.3 | Fine sun.
2 LOS me). = - 1.1 69.6 0.2 | Fine sun.
Depew oan = = Lipa iter 2.3 | Sun setting.
Gi pems os. 55) J 1.0 85.0 5.2 | Some clouds in the southwest.
(op t= Beeseoe 1S 89.0 6.8 | Perfectly clear.
Cj apeaen See 2.0 95.0 10.0 | Perfectly clear.
Spam sas. a. 1.8 97.5 10.6 | Perfectly clear.
LOvpams. 2.7 1.2 95.0 9.9 | Little clouds towards the horizon at the
south.
Pipes. S=. - 1 ts) web ul 12.3 | The same, more extended towards the
southwest.
LZ Spee oe 1.2 | Hoar frost.| 12.5 | The same, more extended towards the
southwest.
Feb. 22, 1785.
armel sa oot 0.9 |..--do..-.| 14.3 | The same, more extended towards the
southwest.
QUIN Sn =x os a 1,2 |..--do._..| 14.5 | Clouds increase and approach each other,
645 a.m 2. 0.8, Wee a-doz.. 4) | 1550)" Clears
oO Ae noe 1,2 |..-.do....| 14.7 | Fogs, very light.
Sal0'aam oc... 1 jee sedosl.-| | 14. 2° |. Fogs, very light.
SOLA ume ei Gi wieesdo. =. 4 10... Kogs wery, hebt:
LO} AOya- im... 22 We edOnace|\) y8.2 | Hogs, very thick.
Oa. m2 2. 1.8 jas-wdos.-2| 4.87 |} Hogs very, thick.
Opps meso. Lot eeedow see 4.9 Fogs, very thick.
2200p! ama 1,4 82.0 | +0.6 | Fog, thin; sun pale.
SoU pss —2 2 el 81.9 | —0.9 | Weather, half cloudy ; sun pale.
Spm so. Soe 1,2 89.0 4.3 | Half cloudy.
Speame tos. . 2, 2 91.2 4.6 | More cloudy.
pene aes oe os 1a 94.0 6.1 | Half cloudy.
Sipe. sae 3.7 94.0 5.9 | Cloudy; fogs at southwest.
Feb. 23, 1785. |
0.45 a.m _...- 1.0 95.0 4.1 | Cloudy; more foggy.
Se oram! Sooses 1,2 81.3 1.0 | Cloudy; more foggy.
HOMAiitas am ee oe. 0.8 76.0 0.0 | Cloudy; more foggy.
SOR Ds aeee 0.8 76.60 | +0.5 | Cloudy; sun very pale.
Sep wee eke 1.0 75.3 | —0.3 | Cloudy.
Gep ems eos 0.8 74.6 0.7 | Cloudy.
dm sirn 2 7m oo 7ke x 2. 2 GOSue 1.7 | Almost perfectly clear.
Sap mse sae esl 87.3 3.7 | Half cloudy.
UZ pee ctatainnn 0.5 92.0 3.0 | More cloudy.

ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY. 329

Observations by M. Arago.

Hours. Electrometer.| State of the | Winds.
sky.
fo)
MarGhwo—(.208,,.1. o2o55cmecnccenaciencmees =1-0.50. || Clear)....-— E.
(ASE TUIRG 3h «a eee eg ape ee ae ere 145 |P2do.t.S.ne. E.
(RAN) ag 10a pc i le 2.30" 1 |-adonteseese E.
Skate bss h2 ee BS sees Swed 100) Mikedoosee- 222 EK.
£SNG TIRE: Wak a Wri tp i Se 2:60, |scdOsceeasse EK.
CU od 5 6 6s RR ao i A A Si 6:25 edocses sees E.
GR50P at es ee ea See aosene es 5: 10” \Exdoss-222s" E.
O56 ym. tee: Bee 300 lAudo.dssce28 E.
CLES LS oem 6 rere ke er Se 0:.85., |;2doo.tesees EK.
March 16-4650 2.0 Soe ace oan noone sl, 50. |sedOueasenee SE.
(ee wae ote ee coe ce bacab seas Oc7S “eedo csteeee SE.
Shans: eae eee Eh eek OShOM \.4doz 3. oee— SE.
£33 Yt Yay Wi 60 en SU Ne, 6:00" |sdo.Secease SE.
Oi Maas ee sc eee es 15. 00) |e-doteceane- SE.
QUhatar ine se ete ot occk coe taenc 23:50) (Sedo. s2eee= SE.
LOY 20cak mse ee osc t cool coee 9500 “lcedozsouceee SE,
STA ORD Wes oak co tid sect ate aoe oe 000) ‘|c.do.2-4e2L% E.
fet 9g) 0 pe a ep ep ts oe 0920: L2idou. 2tese2 E.
ODO pees neem eee w nares one as 10500! \c2doss-2235: EK.
Wirarcliwid—— 40" ar Me 8 oo eee own mance can emik‘Go: |pedoase seco W.SW.
Sian eee oe ee I Se S95 idossaskease W. SW.
O. 208a. mre) eae 14500 |t2dovs<sese: W.SW.
S.30has ieee ete ee eS 18HO00: \|-dozlan22e2 W.SW.
8.45 ac meee eee see ee cee 2 24500 “Eedosseieees W.SW.
Qiiqe mis Ise Pe. Selo sees eee sess 720700 Tedoc -2=h22 W.SW.
MOcatm sah one sete ee Sed 210 O.e |-sdo. 222. §. SW.
RUS cae Mees sooo ioe mae are bel: sILedo. ete face 8. SW.
Lea meee eee oe Lee eee 2°00", |-2doseleneee §. SW.
Qi Oe Dede oeae 2 eee comin cian. As 5Q) IER OO set 5 cee Sno.
TP200p ma soe cee ea beat ceed 5.50) | odossassee2 5. SW.
TAO GDH a see sete oie eee =e S500) (iLedoz22s24e2 S. SW.
1G 0 10 i ee ep ee ey a 0.00 | Vaporous.-..} S.
GeLOM De ee etees ode sama oleae ater 0..20- (edo canecce s.
(eA OND: Te ee wale ea anes soe ese 200 ve2d0e as aeee s.

The hourly observations of Schtibler indicate a first minimum at four
o’clock in the morning, a first maximum at eight o’clock, a second
minimum at five o'clock in the evening, and a second maximum at
eight and a half-o’clock in the evening.

If we look at the first eighteen observations of De Saussure, which
include from twenty-four to twenty-five hours, during which the
sky remained almost clear, we see that at first the electricity was
quite strong towards nine o’clock in the morning; that it decreased
gradually till six o’clock, when the first minimum was exhibited ;
it then increased till eight o’clock, when it reached the second
maximum; and then it decreased anew till the time of the second
minimum, which took place about six o'clock the next day. We do

* Deviation variable. + More than 269°.
330 ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY.

not subsequently observe as much regularity in the electrical periods
on account of the cloudy weather.

The observations of M. Arago indicate a first maximum toward nine
o'clock in the morning ; but as all the observations of the succeeding
hours have not been collected, we cannot determine the hour of the
second maximum, nor the hours of the two minima; still we can always
establish their existence.

Schubler* found that the electrical maxima and minima do not
always take place at the same hour of the day. They vary, particularly
with the periods of the rising and setting of the sun; in the longest
days of summer the first maximum appears sooner, and in the shortest
days it happens later, and approaches the hour of noon; the second
maximum, on the contrary, is retarded in the first instance, and hap-
pens sooner in the second. It follows that the greatest distance
between the first maximum and the second fall in the middle of the
summer, and the least in the middle of winter, when the two maxima,
especially in a cold and cloudy day, appear blended together. This
result does not at all accord with that which De Saussure} deduced
from his observations. ‘‘ Generally in summer,”’ he says, ‘‘ when the
earth is dry, on account of the drought of the preceding weather, and
when a day occurs which is elear, dry, and warm, the electricity of the
air goes on increasing from the rising of the sun, when it is nearly
imperceptible until towards three or four o’clock in the afternoon,
when it acquires its greatest force. It then gradually decreases till
the moment of the fall of the dew, when it increases again, then
diminishes, and finally ceases entirely in the night.”

We ought, however, to remark that Schiiblert sometimes observed
that the maximum happened later than ordinary in the morning, and
sooner in the evening, when the temperature of the air was colder
than usual at the same season. He observed this phenomenon also
during a severely cold winter, and in some cool days of summer.
However this may be, we give the mean periods of the two maxima
and of the first minimum for the different months of the year, such as
follow from the observations of this philosopher. As for the second
minimum, which happens in the afternoon, Schtibler found in all his
observations the same period of two o’clock, because atmospheric elec-
tricity at that hour is very near its minimum in all seasons, and in
winter it coincides with it.

*: Journal de Schweigger, tome VIII, page 25.
+ Voyages dans les Alpes, tome I, § 803, page 225.
{ Journal de &chweigger, tome VIII, page 26.
ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY. SaL

Months, First minimum, First maximum, | Second maximum,
morning. morning. evening.
suney ISM S: 29.24 nce From 4 to 5 o'clock | 74 to 6 o'clock 10 o’clock.
Wives Vell se eon feo cece 5 o'clock 64 o'clock 94 o'clock.
AUP USte LOU poc< sce cas = - 5 o'clock 74 0’clock 84 o'clock.
September, (811-....._-..- 7 o'clock 8 o'clock 8 o'clock.
OctobersviSUls.) 22... 28. 7 o'clock | 84 o’clock 74 o'clock,
November, 1811........--- 7 o'clock 9 o'clock 7 o'clock.
Mecember 18dd 22 - sc cce 8 o’clock 10 o'clock 6 o'clock.
January, W8I2 0s 5...25cc.. 7 o'clock 10 o'clock 6 o'clock.
Hepruary. WoL2s cs. - 2.56. 7 o'clock 9 o'clock 7 o'clock.
Manele, 2802;(2)icec e024 25. - 630’ clock 84 o'clock 74 o'clock.
Al ISU28: 26 cones emt 6 o'clock 8 o'clock 8 o'clock.
May lSil2ee se 22 2b 5 o'clock 7 o'clock 9 o'clock.

(7) In his observations on atmospheric electricity made during clear days of the month
of March, 1830, M. Arago found that the mean hour in respect to the first maximum was
about 8h, 48m. for the same month,

These observations show that the different periods of the year exert
a striking influence on the intensity of atmospheric electricity in clear
weather as indicated by the electrometer. This fact was previously
established by Cavallo,* who found the intensity with which it acted
greater in cold weather thanin warm. Voltat observed that in winter
his electrometer indicated from ten to twenty degrees as the maximum
of the morning, that it often indicated eight degrees towards the hour
of sunrise, while in summer the maximum of the morning rose to only
six degrees, and that of the evening to eight. De Saussure} observed,
likewise, that atmospheric electricity is much weaker in summer than
in winter; at the latter period of the year, in the open country, he
observed the small balls of his electrometer diverge two lines, whereas
in summer their greatest separation was but one line. This circum-
stance was especially to be noted in Schiibler’s§ observations, as
may be seen by the following table, which includes the mean intensi-
ties of the electricity of clear air at mean periods of the maxima and
minima, as well as the general mean and absolute maximum of each
month.

= Traité complet d’Electricité, page 293.

+ Dictionnaire de Gehler, tome VI, page 475.

{ Voyages dans les Alpes, tome II, § 803, page 225.
§ Journal de Schweigger, tome VIII, page 21.
332

ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY.

Mean monthly forces of atmospheric electricity. ® g
5 ‘ Ba.
2 z
. ; > 2 o
4 E E atts). VRE S
Months. 5 I E Bey (188 hoe: ae
£ & ‘s S Fal 3 Ee
2 3 S| & 2 z =
a a a a 3 3 zs E x
= = i x n ae n < = =
1811. ° ° ° o ° ° °
June ........./4t05 | + 5.64) 7ito6 | + 12.85) 2) + 3.92 | 10 12.00 16 8.60 15.8R
Tulyanencwase 5, 4.87 | © 63 13.50 |... 4.56 | 92 i 14.43 iB 22 4 9.34 ai 16.6
August. ees: 5 5.87 ves IGG Gon 5.47 | 82 10.11 25 | 10.84 14.3
September.... i 5.54 8 15.43 |... 5.00} 8 15.61 25 | 10.39 11.3
October ....- 7 7.25 82 15.35 |.... 6.28 | 7 19.71 28} 12.14 11.3
November.... a 5.50 9 14.42 |... S220 17,44 30 | 11.39 5.1
December .... 8 12.40 10 18.80 |.... 12.85 |} 6 20.71 35 | 16.19 1.5
1812,
January so. id 14.75 10 31.00 19.10 | 6 31.88 40 | 24.17] — 2:4
February. .... 7 7.54 9 25.55 16227 "7 24.54 55 | 18.47} + 3.0
March... .e... 63 5.37 gr 13.00 |. 6.42 | 72 14.00 21 9.69 3.8
April.... ; 6 4,00 8 14.75 Joe. 4.75 | 8 7.58 25 Tedd 4.3
May. vee 5 4.15 7 13.00 |. . 4.33 | 9 10.27 20 7.93 11.1
Means..... eevee] + 6.90 eevee) + 16.96 + 8.09 +- 17.01 |+28.5)4+12.24 | + 7.9R
Rete

In going over this table we perceive that the intensity of elec-
tricity for the two maxima and for the two minima increase perceptibly
from the month of July to the month of January, inclusive; con-
sequently that the greatest intensity appears in the winter and the

smallest in summer.

Moreover the proportion of the mean minimum

to the mean maximum is nearly double in the months of summer
compared to those of winter, as may be seen in the following table,
which comprises the report for the different months of the year, and in
which the mean minimum is constantly taken as the unit:

DSTA UBC aia. .fepied debate serious catisem slo eteetaeett

ce
¢

1812,

(74
ce
c¢
74

ATS AE. ip ol ok cpl aoiaia ane oniterden omeeh auimenlesles
De Pte DEN. agdsivaaels Joico salpeeewetsaesomalys se
Octohered Mbstdiscudadiss aycbsecases dasel ne
INO Vera WER asin os iscbihesehdeeeh deere nenees
Decembeie.;s<cscswcases sepitines aidewedease
DAN UWOLV  « ceicaalnd oasis in dom pa tpemed onus males
Hebeuany, occa ances yusaithiense tueeblnbicsoash
Mare his. sidedeectrepiedeaenecaetts antauses
MAN. 5 <. «‘ebieneeidvseppiorghedbelenntin sms sete aivneatene

faek Speed et a Pe ped pace ee pee pede pk

2.59
: 2.94

2.59

bo DS DD bw A eb
aTO'tbpo re CO Orc
moo OO Sb

§ 3. Of the probable causes of the periodical variations of atmospheric
electricity in clear weather.—Many physicists have endeavored to ascer-
tain the cause of the daily variations of atmospheric electricity when the
weather is clear. De Saussure,* observing that they were in propor-

* Voyages dans les Alpes, tom. II, sec. 831, p. 256.
ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY. 333

tion to the hygrometric state of the air, gave the following explana-
tion: ‘‘ Towards the end of the night the electricity appears very
feeble, either because the evaporation is nearly nothing, or because the
moisture of the preceding evening and that of the night which fol-
lowed it have transmitted to the earth nearly the whole electric fluid
accumulated in the air. But when the sun begins to warm the earth
again the electricity of the atmosphere increases, because the vapor
which the heat causes to rise from the earth conveys electricity into the
air, and transmit, in part, that which begins to accumulate. But
when the sun reaches a certain height the heat increases in a greater
degree than the evaporation; the air is dry, and transmits with
difficulty the electric fluid accumulated in the height of the atmo-
sphere. It follows that our electrometers, placed near the surface of
the earth, indicate a decrease of electricity, although the electric fluid
continues to accumulate in the elevated regions. Again, as the sun
approaches the end of his career the air is cooled, becomes damp, and
begins to transmit more abundantly to the earth the electric fluid
accumulated in the higher regions. The electrical intensity must
then increase with the moisture until two or three hours after sunset.
Finally, when the air begins to be exhausted of its moisture the elec-
tricity decreases anew until the next day.’’ De Saussure, according
to the same principle, explains why atmospheric electricity is much
less powerful in summer than in winter. The air in the first case
being warm and dry resists with more force the escape of the electric
fluid accumulated in the upper regions of the atmosphere; while in
the winter the moist air must produce a contrary effect. He thought
that the accumulation of free electricity, in summer, in the elevated
regions of the atmosphere is probably one of the causes of the fre-
quency of thunder storms in this season,

This manner of accounting for the daily variations of atnowphurié
electricity, which M. Becquerel* and other philosophers have also
adopted, rests on the development of electricity during the evaporation
of water-—a phenomenon which does not appear sufliciently proved in
the present state of science, as we have heretofore shown. It sup-
poses, also, that an electrometer is charged by the contact of the sur-
rounding air; and we have seen, according to M. Peltier, that the
contrary, is true. Besides, it is difficult to conceive how vapor can
transmit the electricity with which it is charged to the higher strata
of the atmosphere at the same time that it transfers towards the
earth that which is accumulated in these same strata. Finally,
among the lower moist and conducting strata there must be found
other strata sufficiently dry, and consequently so imperfect in their
conducting power as not to permit the transmissions of electricity.

Schiibler’s observations establish a direct relation between the
daily variations of the electricity of the air and those which occur in |
its state of relative moisture. In fact, if we examine the table which
contains the hourly observations made by this philosopher on the 11th
of May, 1811, we see that atmospheric electricity is at its minimum a

* Traité de l’Electricité et du Magnétisme, tom. IV, p. 102.
334 ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY.

little before sunrise, and that it increases but slowly during the rising
of this luminary, the increase being very small in the first hour; at the
same time the hygrometer advances but little at first, and in a man-
ner barely perceptible, towards dryness. Soon after the electricity
increases rapidly, and it attains (some hours later) toward eight
o’clock its first maximum. At this time of day the temperature of the
air rises quite rapidly ; the hygrometer likewise advances some de-
grees towards dryness; but if we reduce by calculation its indications
to the same temperature, it is found that the absolute moisture of the
air, instead of decreasing, rather increases in the first hours which
follow sunrise. When the electricity has reached its first maximum
and begins to decrease, the lower strata of the air lose their moist
condition ; the atmosphere becomes clear, and the sky assumes insen-
sibly a pure blue. It is also at this period that the dryness of the
air becomes real, which is clearly announced by the hygrometer.
About two o’clock in the afternoon the electricity is very feeble, and
near its second minimum; it contributes to decrease a little in summer,
until towards four or five o’clock. Now, we may observe that this
is precisely the period of the greatest real dryness in the air. An hour
before sunset the electricity begins anew to increase, though slowly ;
it shows itself more and more in proportion as the sun descends ; and
a little time after it disappears below the horizon it increases more
rapidly, and soon after reaches its second maximum; also, during
this time light vapors appear in the atmosphere. At sunset the air
had lost its transparency, the moisture rapidly increased, the fresh-
ness of the evening came on, and the dew is formed. From this mo-
ment the electricity decreases with the actual moisture of the air.

The relation between the progress of atmospheric electricity
observed by Schubler and that of the hygrometric state of the air in
the course of the day is then evident. It is the same for the periods of
the mean maxima and minima of the year; for, if we examine the
table which contains the intensities of the electricity for the different
months, we observe that the intensity is the strongest in the month of
January and most feeble in the months of April and May. Now,
it is precisely the same periods which exhibit the extremes of the rela-
tive humidity of the air.* It is, therefore, no longer doubtful, as De
Saussure was the first to observe, that the daily variations of atmospheric
electricity are only the result of the changes which take place
in the hygrometric state of the air. Schiiblert advanced the same
opinion; but, admitting Volta’s theory, he found the explanation in
the electricity which the vapor conveys to the air in a latent state,
and which it set free at the moment of its passage to the state of
vesicles.

We know that it is not in the greater or less quantity of positive
electricity conveyed by the vapor of the atmosphere that we must
seek for the cause of the daily variations of the electricity, since the
circumstances which attend the formation of vapor give the air suf-
ficient conducting power to produce the decomposition of the electric
fluids liberated at the instant.—(See page 316.) We know, further, that

* Lehrbuch der Meteorologie, von L. F. Kaemtz, tom. J, p. 337.
t Jourzal de Schweigger, tom. VIII, p. 29.
ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY. 335

the divergence of the gold leaves or straws of an electrometer is owing
to a superior positive induction, and not to the electricity which the
surrounding air has communicated to this instrument. Finally, if
we recollect that the presence of an ignited body is sufficient to render
this divergence greater, we may perhaps conclude that the daily vari-
ations of atmospheric electricity, such as have been observed by
De Saussure and Schiibler are only in a great degree the effect of
changes which, during the course of the day, take place in the electric
radiation of the electrometer. In fact, these changes depend directly
on the greater or less facility with which the negative electricity
can ‘escape, and consequently on the conductibility of the air.
Everything which tends to increase this conductibility will favor the
electric radiation, and consequently the divergence of the gold leaves
produced by the repelling electricity ; on the contrary, everything that
diminishes the conductibility also weakens the radiating power and the
divergence of the instrument. But as the conductibility of the air is
in its turn dependent on the quantity of vapors it contains, it appears
to us that an electrometer with a metallic rod ending in a point,
would give in the same circumstances, that is to say, under a clear sky,
indications in direct accordance with the hygrometric state of the air.
Accordingly, the electric radiation, and consequently the diver-
gence of the gold leaves, will increase at sunrise, on account of the
vapor which rises in the air, and render this medium a better con-
ductor of electricity; it will be the same in the evening towards sun-
set, when the decrease in the temperature will produce the condensation
of the vapor which isin the lower strata of the air. Toward the
middle of the day, on the contrary, the warmer air is at the same
time dryer and consequently a poorer conductor of electricity;
hence the radiation of the electrometer as well as the divergence of its
leaves will diminish. Finally, this divergence ought likewise to
decrease some hours after sunset, when, by the fall of the dew, the air
becomes relatively less a conductor.

Thus the daily variations which the electrometer exhibits in its
indications appear to us to explain in part the changes which the
electric radiation of this instrument undergoes in the course of the
day. Inthe same manner we account for many observations made by
De Saussure and other scientists. It is known that De Saussure
found the intensity of positive electricity under a clear sky stronger
onquays, and particularly on bridges, than in the open country.
This ought evidently to be the case, not because the vapors which rise
constantly from the surface of the water convey to the air a greater
quantity of positive electricity, as has been supposed, but because the
air, being in these places more saturated with moisture than elsewhere,
ought to possess greater conductibility, and consequently render easier
the electric radiation of the electrometer. In the same manner may
be explained why the electric intensity is more feeble in summer than
in winter, since, in summer the air being less moist than in winter,
would also be less a conductor of electricity. Wesee, also, why in the
times of prolonged drought the intensity of the electric periods decrease
gradually, as has been observed by Schiibler.*

* Journal de Schweigger, tom. VIII, p. 28.
336 ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY.

But it is not necessary to conclude from what has been said that it
is in radiation only that the cause of the daily variations of atmos-
pheric electricity isfound. We shall see, in speaking of the formation
of electric clouds, that the sum of the facts tends to prove that the
vapors reach the air charged with negative electricity, and that it
weakens by its presence the higher positive influence to which the in-
struments are subjected, so that the indication of the electrometer must
still decrease in the course of the day proportionally to the quantity
of the vapor which rises in the air. But to appreciate the effect pro-
duced by this latter cause it is necessary to render the observations
independent of the electric radiation of the instrument.

It has been remarked that a certain relation might be observed
between the variations of atmospheric electricity and the other phe-
nomena which take place periodically on the surface of the earth.
For example, according to Mr. Kaemtz,* these variations are not per-
haps without relation to the phenomena which accompany vegetation.
It is known that, under the influence of solar light, plants give out
oxygen, and that during the night they exhale carbonic acid. ‘The
former of these two opposite phenomena would be the most active
when the sun is nearest the zenith, and the latter when this body
approaches the horizon. Mr. Kaemtz thought that these two differ-
ent modes, in which the plants acted on the air, could not be without
some other influence on the daily variations of the electricity. But
if we admit this opinion we must prove that the electric phenomena
observed by M. Pouillet in his experiments on vegetation are, in fact,
produced by the cause which this philosopher assigned to them.

Schiibler thought he observed a correspondence between the oscilla-
tions of the magnetic needle and the electric periods.t The point of a
horizontal magnetic needle turned to the north in fact moves from
the east to the west, from eight and a half o’clock in the morning till
one hour and a quarter after noon, and from west to east from one and
a quarter hour in the afternoon till the next day morning. There
is then a maximum of departure to the east, which takes place at eight
and a half o’clock in the morning, and another to the west towards
one and a quarter o’clock. Finally the same philosopher} made the
observation that the daily variations of atmospheric electricity corre-
spond very well with those of the barometer, the maazima also taking
place for the latter as well as for electricity later in winter than in
summer.

*Lehrbuch der Meteorologie, tom. II., p. 411.
t Journal de Physique, tom. LXXV. p. 177. 1812.
{Journal de Schweigger, tom. III, p. 126.
ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY. 304

CHAPTER III.
OF ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY IN OVERCAST, FOGGY, AND CLOUDY WEATHER.
§ I.—Of atmospheric electricity in cloudy weather and during fogs.

De Saussure* appears to be the first who observed that in cloudy
weather, but without rain or storm, atmospheric electricity exhib-
ited almost the same character that it did in clear weather. The
observations made by Schubler} confirm this result. The latter estab-
lished the fact that when the weather was cloudy, without being at
the same time stormy, the electricity was still positive; but he found
that its intensity was less than in clear weather, as Cavallot and other
philosophers had already remarked before him. Further, the indica-
tions of the electrometer are stronger in winter than in summer;
and although the daily variations may be less regular than in clear
weather, they nevertheless present a period in the means of the ob-
servations made during the hours which are relative to the maxima
and minima of every month. This is shown by the following table
which gives the results of the observations that Schubler made under
an overcast sky four times a day:

3 =

Mean monthly forces of atmospheric electricity. 2 5

& 2

- < : = fies >
Months. 5 = 5 5 = as
& & E & S BE
gi = id a Z = a a B =e
5/2) |]2!]:ii|)#)]é& | & | g | &s

rH = m 2 = & bs i a | 5

«| ° :
FUME SIS Misia cose csi0'e wae *08 + 3.40 | 7} to6 |+ 8.20 2 |j+ 3.83 | 10 |+ 7.33 |4 5.69 |115.8R,
PULLS ieee ceca 4.08 G2) B.75 |aceeesc- 4.00 | 2 7.00; 5.43] 16.6
August, 1811] ......00, 5 5.00 72} 8.33 |.0. 4.66 + 10.00 6.99 14.3
September, 1811 ..... 7 5.50 8 8.00) |) cecces. 3.50 8 9.00 6.50 | 11.3
October, 1811........ 7 5.20 BE B12 | ecaccass 4.83 ves 8.00 6.53 | 11.3
November, 1811...... 7 6.00 9 7.86 | -cccoee 8.50 Le 10.66 8.00 Layee
December, 181!...... 8 8.93 NO EAS OOK bre wjetate' sic 15.31 6 19.41 13.91 1.5
January, 1812........ 7 9.76 oC) Mat fame (CA Arse 16.86 6 25.64 16.56 |— 2.4
February, 1812.... .. i 6.60 9 9.60 |....ceee 8.50 7 13.10 9.45 | 3.0
Marens 181 2h. ..05 ses: 62 3.00 SF GIG [cae wees 3,83 ii 7.40 5.09 3.8
April, 1812.... ss... 6| 3.00 Sl XG 50uiseies, 3.50 | 8: | 5.50} 4.62] 4.3
May 1812.5 sisiviss aise: 5 350 | 7 6.09 4.50 | 9 5.80 4.95 | 11.1
PCBIIN 4 sis)<cieeh fias aie visi + 5.32 ae decked PE GEBE lszemaae 10,7 Le 7,8 RG
i

The comparison of this Gible with that given on page 328 shows that
the intensity of atmospheric electricity indicated by the electrometer
is, In fact, less with a cloudy sky than with a clear one. But Schibler§
frequently observed that it was much stronger than ordinary in clear
weather, and when, after acloudy season, “the sky suddenly became
clear, the hygrometer indicated also considerable moisture in the air.

If a cloudy sky produced a decrease in atmospheric electricity,
without, however, entirely concealing the daily variations, it it was not

= Voyages dang les Alpes, tom. II, § 201, p. 221,

} Journal de Schweigger, tom. VIII, p. 21,

{ Traité Complet d’Electricité, p. 293.

§ Journal de Schweigger, tom, VIII, p. 28. This increase in the intensity of the atmos-
pheric electricity when the sky suddenly cleared up had been already noticed by Beccaria,

22
338 ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY.

the same when fogs obscured the air. The latter, on the contrary, ap-
peared by their presence to increase the positive tension of the appar-
atus, as nearly all have remarked who have made observations on
atmospheric electricity. It was in thick fogs which did not terminate
in rain that Th. Ronayne,* in Ireland, and Achard,y+ at Berlin, ob-
served the strongest electricity. The latter of these scientists twice
noticed that the divergence of the balls of Canton’s electrometer
ceased when the fog fell in the form of very fine rain, and wholly
disappeared in less than a quarter of an hour. 'This phenomenon has
some connexion, perhaps, with the fact, frequently observed, that the
electricity of fogs sometimes changes from positive to negative when
they are resolved into rain.

Voltat and De Saussure§ have both noticed the great tension of
electricity during fogs; according to the former it was especially fogs
attended by an odor which exhibited the most powerful action on the
instruments; in this case, also, he frequently saw his electrometer
exhibit a divergence which reached 100°, and sometimes gave out
sparks at the approach of a conducting body. Schiibler’s|| observa-
tions also agree with those which we have mentioned, but the latter
remarked besides that, during fogs, the variations of atmospheric
electricity were wholly irregular, though its force varied with the sea-
sons, as it occurred in clear weather, the electrometer presenting the
greatest divergence in the winter months during the coldest days.
The following table gives the mean force of this electricity fur every
‘month in the year:

Electricity during fogs.
Months.
Mean monthly force.) Monthly maximum.
fe) fe)
ernes WS Unley ke BR ee ae ee Ae ree arta + 416.0 | + 20.0
Sallis See Se ras SAR che Se ee ee fora ete ere ele | ae ale a at as
eA ust SI le emma see seeise ce cece comcts + 25.0 + 30.0
September, el3ile eo. oak aia See ae ele ee 20.5 25.0
October. S14 Sele ee we es ae Sk rey 18.0 30. 0
cKO devonllover pan esl Ih ee Pe Be ae oo Seooeee 18.1 28.0
December US) See se 5a Sac secs ees 32.0 36.0
panuany, VON) sees waren: ote Seles 84. 1 44.0
HHebroarys UG) as no eee es 5 cee eee ee 32. 2 55. 0
sVlarch Sia) ss eee RANT AS OF 18 RoR O EST LEAT 21.0 21.0
y Ni OLA oh ee ae Me 2A OS ee Sa Aro 15.5 17.0
ilaiy, (lB UO, a Be os ence tae e Re Ae aeeees ee 14.0 14.0
IMCANS Sess dct aos ae Oe eee nee eee =f 22000 |aaeee ase eee

Fogs sometimes exercise a negative action on the instruments ; but
fogs which produce this effect are less common. In speaking of the
formation of electrical clouds, we shall see on what principle the fre-
quency of positive fogs is explained.

* Philosoph. Transactions, vol. LXII, p. 140. 1772.

+ Nouv. Mém. de l’Acad. de Berlin for 1780, p. 17.

{ Dictionn. de Gehler, tom. VI, p. 484.

§ Voyages dans les Alpes, tom. II, § 8U1, p. 221.
Journal de Schweigger, tom. VIII, pp. 27, 31.
ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY.

§ 11.—Of the electricity of the clouds.

When the sky is cloudy without being overcast the instruments
indicate numerous and irregular variations, either in the nature or in
the intensity of the electricity. Nearly at the same period, Frank-
lin,* in America, and Canton,t in England, first observed that

among clouds some were ina positive others in a negative state. This
fact was confirmed subsequently by all other observers. Frequently

the electric tension was increased in the apparatus when a cloud
approached the zenith, and the phenomenon was the more decided
when the cloud, after being rapidly formed, was dissipated slowly.

Science possesses few data relative to the electricity of the clouds.
According to observations cf De Saussure{ during his sojourn on the
Col. de Geant, the electricity of the clouds on the peak of Mount Blanc
was found to be constantly positive. Schiibler,§ who examined the
electricity of the clouds in the region of the air where they are
formed, there discovered a force equal to what he was accustomed to
find possessed by thick fogs in the low countries, and he obtained
no signs of negative electricity except where the rain was formed.
We will quote here some of his observations made in an ascent of
the Rigi, 5,276 feet above the level of the sea.

ae
= a
os :
Dates. 28 Observations.
Pass
ap ©
& cs)
July 10, 1813, 4 o’clock in the evening ---.| — 120 | The rain continues, and the ob-
server is enveloped in the clouds.
4) ASS OL seaot Ose ese=s — 130 | More powerful rain,
A. 30 aa NOs A neds ee ee — 120 } Less powerful rain.
Bonsaos do=o5-=- dOnveaetaee — 10} Rain ceases.
Ga vase d0eeecoe d02-ccosse= — 10] Clouds some hundreds of feet
higher positively electrified.
This electricity varies from 10
to 30 degrees.
S2accec GOeciamie dou. sens — 110 } Rain recommences.
Qe sa5- dovsce a. G (eer — 150 | More powerful rain.
July 11, 1813, 6 o'clock in the morning ---| — 140 | Rain continues.
6:4 32 500-s255< dO s2qssee — 140 | Rain and thick clouds.
Gr bZe COs. = dOzt2-2ee- —13 Do.
6.202 2-0-6 a=5 doseacaane — 150 Do.
6528.42d02.2 <3. do2.22234 -— 130 | Wind and rain.
W02 2200 sae aoe do.2--ss56 — 200 | Rain more powerful,
9.205. -d02 25 = d0s2-25-25 —110 } Rain less powerful.
1Qes--- dos2=-2- doves 2222s — 200 | Rain more powerful.
1. 20 o’clock in the evening..| — 160 | Rain a little less so.
1:40) 2200s sons COnee sae — 0 | Rain has ceased.
ae d0ssccas deena as — 4] The electricity of the clouds has
become positive.
* Experiments and Observations on Electricity, pages 112, 114, and 129.

Philos. Trans , vol. XLVIII. Ist part, page 356. 1753,
P

{ Voyages dans les Alpes, tom. IV, § 2071, page 282.
§ Journal de Schweigger, tom. IX, page 354.
340 ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY.

It follows, from observations made by M. Peltier,* that during the
course of the summer of the year 1835 the greater part of the clouds
were electric, and that nearly all of them possessed positive electricity.
He found scarcely ten to twelve negative clouds among those which
passed over his apparatus; but the case was entirely different in the
summer months of the next year, during which M. Peltier continued
his observations. The clouds were for the most part neutral, and even
among those which he judged were electric, from their ashy color and
their jagged and movable edges, most of them left the instruments
in complete repose. Those which were electric were nearly all nega-
tively so.

The only inference which can be drawn from the preceding is, that
positive clouds are greater in number than negative ones.

§ III.—Of the formation of electric clouds.

The formation of electric clouds is a question the solution of which
has occupied many philosophers. Some of them, and at their
head the illustrious Volta,f have sought to explain it by admitting,
as we have already seen, that the positive electricity rises in the latent
state with the vapor furnished by the ground, and becomes free
again when it is condensed. Such might be the origin of clouds
positively electrified as well as of atmospheric electricity. As to the
formation of the negative clouds, Volta thought that a cloud strongly
positive must exercise an electrical influence on a very feebly electrified
cloud lying within its sphere of activity, and consequently produces
a decomposition of its natural electricities; so that if the repelled
electricity meets other clouds, vapors or eminences on the surface of the
earth, it will escape and leave the cloud charged with negative elec-
tricity. By means of this theory we may explain in a satisfactory
manner the strong positive electricity which is observed during fogs
and dew, and especially that which is exhibited in the rapid formation
of thunder clouds; but we have seen that the facts which science pos-
sesses in its present state do not favor this theory.

De Saussuret has advanced the opinion that the clouds perform no
other office than that of a conductor, and that the electricity which 1s
perceived at the moment of their passage above an electro-atmospheric
apparatus is only that which they derive from the higher strata of the
air. He was led to this result by an experiment made on the top of
Fours, in which he observed that, in throwing into the air during
the absence of clouds the small leaden ball of his electrometer, he
obtained an electricity equal and even superior to that which those
clouds gave in passing above his head.

M. Gay Lussac§ supposes that the electricity is disseminated in
the atmosphere, in a free state, ready to be transferred to the con-
ductors which are presented to it, and that it exists in the same quan-

* Comptes Rendus, tom. IT, page 145. 1836.

+ Journal de Physique, tom. XXIII, page 99, 1785.

{ Voyages dans les Alpes, tom. II, § 783 and 786, page 194 and 198.
§ Ann. de Chimie et de Physique, tom. VIII, page 167.
ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY. 341

tity in the cloud just formed as in the mass of the air before the
formation of the cloud. ‘‘If,’’ says he, ‘‘a cloud is formed while the
air is pure and transparent, and the electricity is thus disseminated
in all its mass, every vesicle being a good conductor, the electricty
will unite at its surface in a stratum extremely thin, and may
remain in this state, if it is weak and if the aqueous vesicles are not
near each other. We shall thus have a cloud which in this state
will not be stormy; its electricity will be the same as that of the mass
of air in which it is formed, but its tension will be increased by its less
diffusion and its concentration around the vesicles. The cloud must
then appear more strongly electrified than the transparent air, as ob-
servation demonstrates. If the cloud is very dense, and consequently
the vesicles which form it are much closer, it may be regarded as a con-
tinuous conductor; and according to the laws of electric distribution
the fluid will abandon the interior of the cloud for its surface, on which
it will diffuse itself in equilibrium, and will be there retained by the
pressure of the surrounding air.’’

M. Gay Lussac thinks that the electricity usually diffused in the
air and collected in this manner is sufficient to render clouds power-
fully electrical.

In this way of considering the formation of electric clouds, M. Gay
Lussac makes no mention of the nature of the electricity which is
transferred to their surface when they are very dense; it must be ne-
cessarily admitted that it is positive, since the atmosphere in clear
weather always possesses positive electricity. We might, indeed, thus
explain the formation of clouds charged with positive. electricity : but
how cou d we conceive the existence of clouds negatively electrified,
when the atmosphere in which they are formed contains only positive
electricity. M. Lamé* thus explains this phenomenon. ‘The clouds
occupying different heights, and experience indicating that atmospheric
electricity observed in clear weather is greater at greater distances from
the surface of the earih, itis conceived that the higher clouds, charged
with a greater quantity of positive electricity than those below, may
act by induction on the latter, repelling their positive fluid, which
being dissipated more quickly in the air than the fluid attracted,
leaves the negative electricity free on the lower clouds.’’ But if it is
we admit that electric clouds exercise on each other an action by induc-
tion, still it is not seen how the positive fluid repelled should dissipate
itself sooner in the air than the fluid attracted; ought not the contrary
rather to take place on account of the less distance which separates the
upper cloud from. the portion of the lower cloud where the negative
electricity attracted may be accumulated?

M. Becquerelt proposed a new theory of the formation of electric
clouds, which embraces at once positive, negative, and neutral clouds.
According to this philosopher, the vapor which is formed on the
surface of the globe in general carry with it, besides the positive
electricity which is peculiar to it, a portion greater or less of the
negative electricity which.the earth habitually possesses. ‘‘ Hence,’

* Cours de Physique de Ecole Polytechnique, tom II, 2d part, page 80. Paris, 1837.
7 Traité de l’Electricité et du Magnétisme, tom IV, p. 121.
342 ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY.

he says, ‘‘according to the tension of this electricity, the vapor
which rises in the air is electrified positively, negatively, or is found
to be in a neutral state, and the clouds to the formation of which
it concurs partake of the same electrical state. We cannot deter-
mine,” he adds, ‘‘in what circumstances the vapor is negative,
since the tension of the electricity of the earth must vary on ac-
count of the nature of the portion of surface where the evaporation
takes place. If the liquid which forms the vapor rests on conducting
bodies, the negative electricity diffuses itself at a distance; while, if
they are bad conductors, it remains in its place, and in this case per-
haps it is borne off by the vapor and unites in the formation of nega-
tive clouds.’’

This theory of M. Becquerel is based on the hypothesis that the
water receives positive electricity by being transformed into vapor,
and that the same vapor, in certain circumstances, carry off a greater
or less portion of the negative electricity of the ground. The first part
of this theory is at variance with the experiments of M. Peltier. The
second M. Becquerel sought to sustain by observation of the nega-
tive electricity of cascades. We are indebted to Tralles* for the first
observation of this phenomenon. Finding himself one day in the
Alps, opposite the cascade of Standbach, (Staubbach ?) near the Sauter-
brunnen, he presented his atmospheric electrometer, not armed with
the metallic wire, to the fine spray, which resulted from the dispersion
of the water. He immediately obtained very distinct signs of nega-
tive electricity. The same effect was exhibited at the cascade of
Reichenbach. Volta, a short time after, verified the correctness of this
observation not only above the great cascades, but also wherever a fall
of water existed, however small provided the intervention of the
the wind, caused the dispersion of the drops. The electricity always
appeared to him as it did to Tralles, negative. Schubler} repeated
the same experiments in his journey to the Alps, in 1813. He
observed farther, that this negative electricity was very strong, since
it became perceptible at a distance of 300 feet from the cascade of
Reichenbach, and at a distance of 100 feet his electrometer indicated
400, and even 500 degrees. On presenting to the spray a small
Leyden phial, armed with a point furnished with ignited tinder, it
became charged in a few moments, so as to furnish sparks and sensible
shocks—a phenomenon which Schiibler did not observe, except in
rains, strongly electrified, and during storms. During these experi-
ments the sky was clouds.

The negative electricity found in the dispersion of water has been
explained in different ways. Tralles attributed it at first to the fric-
tion of the minute drops of water against the air; but soon after he
thought with Volta, that the cause was to be found in the evaporation
which the same minute drops experience in falling. It may be said,
as to the first manner of interpreting this phenomenon, that if expe-
rience shows that the parts of a solid body, like charcoai, reduced to fine

# Oeuvres de Volta, tom. II, page 239.
+ Journal de Schweigger, tom. IX, page 358.
ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY. a43

powder, acquire by their friction an electricity perceptible by the elec-
troscope, there is nothing to show that the same will not be the case
even from the friction of the liquid particles against each other, or of
the liquid particles against the particles of air. Besides, an electricity
as strong as that which is exhibited by the spray of the cascades would
be scarcely in proportion to so feeble a cause of development. As
for the second explanation, which is the one given by Volta, and which
Schiibler also adopted, besides that it rests on the hypothesis of the
development of the electricity, in the formation of vapor, a num-
ber of other objections may be made, to which it is difficult to give
a satisfactory answer. Tlius it appears impossible to conceive how
the drops of water in simply falling from the height of some hundred
feet can become electrified by evaporation, so as to produce an elec-
tricity as strong as that which has been observed during storms, and
even stronger than that which is ordinarily exhibited in the drops
of rain which fall from a height incomparably greater.

As we have already said, M. Becquerel found in the negative elec-
tricity of falls of water a proof of his theory of the formation of nega-
tive clouds. According to him, this electricity proceeds from that
which the earth habitually possesses. The water, in falling with great
velocity on the rocks, is scattered into vesicular globules, which carry
with them into the atmosphere the negative electricity which they
have taken from the rocks. M. Becquerel drew from this the con-
clusion that the vapor which is formed at the surface of the globe
may, in the same way, carry away a portion of the negative elec-
tricity of the earth.

This explanation has been opposed by M. Belli,* who believes that
the electrical phenomenon of the water of cascades is owing to the
development of electricity by the induction which the positive electricity
of the atmosphere exercises on the water. ‘‘ The water,’’ he says,
‘tis by induction in the negative state, when the atmosphere is as it is
ordinarily, charged with positive electricity. At the moment when
this water divides into thousands of minute drops, it cannot fail to carry
the electricity with which the electrical induction of the atmosphere
has impregnated it to all the bodies which it meets.’’ M. Belli made
some experimental researches in support of hisopinion. He arranged
in an uncovered place, and under a clear sky, a portable fountain.
He then discharged a jet of water slightly inclined from the perpen-
dicular, and collected the drops which escaped in an insulated vessel,
communicating with a Leyden phial. On examining it with the con-
denser, he ascertained that the drops of water were very perceptibly
negatively electrified. When the compressed fountain was insulated
and put in communication with an electroscope, he obtained a very
marked divergence of positive electricity, which was reproduced every
time it was destroyed by momentarily touching with the hand the ball
of the electroscope. According to M. Belli, these experiments demon-
strate that the column of ascending water becomes electrified by the
electric induction of the atmosphere. 'T’o show that the evaporation
of the water was of some importance in this phenomenon, he repeated

* Bibl. Univ., Nouvelle Serie, tom. VI, page 148. 1836._
344 ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY.

the same experiments in one of the courts of a large building, without
any electrical sign appearing, which accords with the theory since
we know, from De Saussure’s experiments, that the electric induction
of the clear atmosphere is not felt in a sensible manner in places
inclosed on all sides.

This last explanation indicates the true cause of the negative elec-
tricity of the water of cascades, since the divergence of the gold leaves
of an electrometer exposed to the air proves that the induction of the
positive electricity of the atmosphere is felt at the surface of the
earth, while experiment demonstrates that it is in an habitual state
of negative electricity. We may remark that this explanation is
susceptible of proof of another kind; for if it be true, the electricity
of the water of the cascades will not always have the same sign ; it
will be negative if the atmosphere is positive; on the contrary, it will
be positive when the clouds are negative. In order, then, that there
may remain vo doubt as to the cause of this phenomenon, it would
be sufficient to examine the electricity of natural cascades in stormy
weather.

Although the explanation of M. Belli differs sensibly from that
which M. “Beequerel has given, yet it goes to support the cause as-
signed by the latter philosopher for the formation of negative clouds.
If the water at the moment of the evaporation is negatively electrified
by the influence of atmospheric electricity, the vapor must neces-
sarily partake of that electric state and carry away with it a portion
of the negative electricity. This vapor, then, in passing to the
vesicular state will constitute clouds negatively electrified. But, as
we have already observed, if the theory of M. Becquerel explains the
formation of negative clouds, it gives an explanation of positive
clouds which the present state of the science cannot allow us any
longer to admit,

M. Peltier, in his new theory of the electrical phenomena of the
atmosphere,* considers the formation of electric clouds in a way which
appears more in harmony with observed facts. He remarks that the
atmosphere is the seat of two kinds of evaporation, one of which is
produced at the surface of water and of moist ground, and the other
at different heights in the air, when the opaque clouds pass to a state
of elastic vapor. The former, when the sky is serene, cannot generate
positive vapors, since experiment shows that when vapor is produced
at the ordinary temperature the electrometer exhibits no sensible trace
of the electricities disengaged at the instant of its formation; but as
this vapor is formed at the surface of the earth, which possesses a
great negative tension, and under the positive influence of the sky, it
must necessarily be charged with negative electricity. M. Peltier
sought to verify this by the experiment of placing the water in the
same conditions as it is found in nature, that is to say, under a
positive influence; the vapor disengaged from water, distilled or not
distilled, contained in an insulated vessel and placed under a globe
positively electrified, was found to be negative, while the remainder
of the liquid remained positively electrified.

* Connie Rendue) tom. XII, page 307, and Annales de Chimie et de Physique, 3d series,
tom. IV, page 414, &c. -
ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY. 345

After having established this principle, M. Peltier thus explains
the electricity of clouds: When the first elastic vapor charged with
negative electricity has been condensed into opaque clouds by being
cooled down, and the temperature in rising again afterwards pro-
duces a second evaporation, which takes place under a superior
positive induction, and the first vapor produced has its negative
tension increased, at the expense of the lower strata of clond, kept
at the positive state by terrestrial influence. It follows that the
elastic vapor produced in the second evaporation is more strongly
negative than that first formed, while the vapor produced by the
evaporation of the lower strata of the cloud will become positive.
When a new lowering of temperature afterwards produces condensa-
tion into clouds of the secondary vapor, the higher masses form
negative and the lower masses positive clouds, the former keeping
themselves at a greater elevation than corresponds to their specific
gravity, because of the repulsion of the earth, the latter, on the con-
trary, descending to a lower level than belongs to their weight on account
of the attraction of the globe. This transformation of the elastic into
opaque vapor, and of opaque into elastic vapor, alternating a
great number of times, according to the atmospheric conditions,
would result in clouds the electric tension of which may become very
powerful. M. Peltier produced an illustration of one of these transforma-
tions by making use of a considerable number of very small soap
bubbles, which he subjected, in an insulated capsule of glass, to the
positive action of a globe; he saw some of these balls elongate, shoot
out, dissolve, and disappear, leaving the rest of the cloud powerfully
charged with positive electricity, a phenomenon which indicated that
all the parts which rushed out and were dissolved were negative.

It appears, also, according to the same philosopher, that observations
may be made in support of this theory when the sky is sprinkled
with cumuli, thin enough to distinguish their interior movements.
In examining one of these thin clouds, we see that each of its
parts changes its position in relation to the others while the evapora-
tion is going on; and these movements are the more extended the
more rapidly the evaporation proceeds, without, however, being the
same in the whole mass. Toward the edge which receives the direct
rays of the sun, the evaporation being greater, the opaque vapor
becomes strongly positive, and we see it attracted towards the earth,
pass below the mass of cloud, and continue there while on the
opposite side the vapor extends and disperses until it is all trans-
formed into elastic vapor, but without the great agitation or lively
repulsion from above to below. Finally; after a succession of
of warm days, which reproduced a series of transformations of the
opaque into elastic vapors, and vice versa, we may sometimes, by means
of the kite, reach some of those masses of elastic vapors having an
electric tension different from that of the adjacent masses, and strong
enough to neutralize the whole positive current produced in the lower
strata.

This explanation of the electricity of the clouds admits that the
vapor enters the air charged with negative electricity. The detail
into which we have entered, and the observations on the elec-

>
346 ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY.

tricity of cascades of water, appear to leave no doubt as to this
fact. On accountof the electric repulsion of the globe, and the superior
positive induction to which the vapor from the surface remains subjected,
it preserves its negative state though the first strata of the air in
which it is diffused are generally already very humid and conse-
quently conductors of electricity; but the presence of this negative
vapor in the air weakens the superior positive, and thus, as M. Peltier
remarks, the indication of the electrometer would decrease in the
course of the day in proportion to the quantity of the vapor which is
eliminated under the contrary tensions of the earth and of space.
Such might also be the cause of the daily variations of this instrument
if its indications were wholly independent of its electric radiation,
and consequently of the conductibility of the air. The primitive
vapor while undergoing the commencement of condensation produces
at first clouds possessing a feeble negative electricity. According to
M. Peltier, these are then subjected to a double electric influence; the
one positive, produced by the celestial space, the other negative and
produced by the earth; and as it is under this double influence that
the new evaporation takes place, this evidently will produce at first neg-
ative vapor, and afterwards positive vapor, which, in its turn, forms
clouds possessing electricity of the same kind. But would not the
same thing happen supposing the air to be provided with positive
electricity, the intensity of which might vary with the height? In
this case the cloud might experience the induction of the positive elec-
tricity of the strata of the air which are above it, and at the same time
that of the electricity of the air situated below it; on account of the
increase of the electric intensity with the height, the first action may
be stronger than the second, and supposing the cloud negatively
electrified at first, there would also result an accumulation of the nega-
tive electricity in its higher strata, while the positive electricity pro-
duced by a new decomposition of the natural electricities of the same
cloud would be restored in a great measure in its lower strata. In
this way the first elastic vapor, produced by a new evaporation, might
still be negative, while that which had been last formed might equally
become positive. Only if it be admitted that the molecules of the air
have a positive electricity which is peculiar to themselves, it will happen
that the negative electricity of the primitive vapor may re-combine, in
part or in whole, with the positive electricity of the molecules of the
air, consequently the cloud formed by their condensation will be found
to be positively as well as negatively electrified, or rather be in a neutral
state. In every case the first elastic vapor, owing toa new evaporation
of this cloud, will be found in a negative state, in consequence of the
positive influence of the higher regions of the air. This mode of
regarding the formation of the electric clouds explains also the fre-
quency otf the fogs with which the lower strata containing positive
electricity are charged. As for the negative fogs, M. Peltier thought
that they are retained in contact with the earth only in consequence
of their specific gravity, which prevails over the electric repulsion
of the earth, or by the repulsive force due to a current of negative
vapor which, according to the same philosopher, travels from the
equator to the pole.
ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY. 347

SIV. Of the distribution of electricity in the clouds.

Experiment shows that electricity is conveyed to the surface of con-
ducting bodies, and that it exhibits no trace of itself in their interior.
We may ask if it is the same with respect to clouds. Ought we to
regard the mass of vesicles which form a cloud as a single body, on
the surface of which all the electricity is distributed, or rather ought
we to admit that during the formation of a cloud each vesicle preserves,
in whole or in part, its atmosphere of electricity ? We are already ac-
quainted with the opinion advanced by M. Gay Lussac on this sub-
ject; he supposed that the clouds which exhibit certain density are
similar to ordinary conductors and that the electricity is simply con-
veyed to their surface. M. Kaemtz* does not concur in this opinion.
In fact, if it were so, it would be difficult to explain how the clouds can
contain so great a quantity of electricity, as that which is observed in
storms ; how in this case the electricity does not neutralize itself by
a single explosion, or at least by a small number of explosions ; and
finally, how the charges of electricity ane reproduce so numerously
and so close to each other. Besides, the explosions ought to cease
with the first rain, since the communication which this establishes
between the cloud and the earth ought to allow the electricity to
escape freely. It appears more probable to M. Kaemtz that every
vesicle, whether it enters into the composition of a thunder-cloud or not,
preserves a portion of its electricity, and that this portion is greater
the nearer the vesicle is situated to the surface of the cloud. As to
the cause which might thus retain the electricity around each vesicle,
M. Kaemtz found it in the resistance which the electricity must experi-
ence in passing from one vesicle to another, a resistance which is
due to the imperfect conductibility of the air interposed. This
mode of considering the distribution of the electricity in the clouds
does not explain how the vesicles of vapor, electrified in the same
manner, form masses as limited as the clouds are, instead of diffusing
themselves uniformly by their mutual repulsion.

M. Peltier + also regards the vesicles of vapor of which clouds are
composed as surrounded by an electric stratum. ‘‘ A clond,’’ says he,
‘Cig properly not a body such as is usually understood by this word ;
it is not a whole of which the particles are compacted as those of solid
bodies, nor even those of liquids by their adherence or proximity.
Held together with little force the particles of clouds do not readily
permit the propagation of electricity ; the spaces which separate
them maintain their isolation and their independence, and it is
only in their condensation, from whatever cause, that their masses
resemble in some slight degree ordinary bodies, and readily transmit
electrical changes, If these particles are widely separated, and
have consequently preserved a great independence, they each re-
tain all their electric energy, the whole tension which they have
acquired, and the mass of vapor will act with a power propor-

* Lehrbuch der Meteorologie, tom. IT, page 414.
+Comptes Rendus, tom. X., pages 202 et 841. 1840.
348 ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY,

tional to the sum of the partial forces, without there being any re-
markable discharges. It will produce only the effects of static elec-
tricity, those of attraction or repulsion, and those of simple radiation.
If, on the contrary, the particles of vapor are sufficiently near for their
electric spheres to penetrate each other, or if the repulsion of the
electrical spheres act more strongly than the bond which unites
them to the vapor, all the internal particles will lose a portion of
their electricity in favor of the extreme particles ; there will then be
formed around the exterior of the cloudy mass a stratum of free elec-
tricity such as is usually formed around an ordinary conductor.’’

Thus, according to M. Peltier, the clouds have two kinds of tension;
the tension of free electricity at the surface, and that of the electricity
retained around each of the moleculs of its vapor. From this M.
Peltier sought to explain how vapor could form limited masses,
notwithstanding the mutual repulsion of the particles, owing to the
electric tension of the latter. The tension of the particles repels them
and keeps them at a distance, while the electricity of the surface
attracts them, groups them, and retains them in mass, everywhere
leaving to each its individuality, if the exterior tension is moderate
and proportional to that of the interior. M. Peltier has demonstrated
this repulsive and condensing action from the exterior to the interior,
by the following experiment: He isolated a glass funnel, the tube of
which was one or two millimeters in diameter, and filled it with water,
communicating by means of a conductor with an electric machine.
By allowing the water to escape under the influence of the electricity
furnished by the latter it falls, as we know in rain more or less fine,
according to the electric charge which is given to it. But if a copper
tube of the height of 5 to ten centimetres and of a diameter nearly
equal be placed a little below the orifice of escape, and if it be charged
with the same electricity as the water, instantly the drops of the
latter will approach and unite together in a single stream. This
experiment is rendered more complete by making use of a metallic insu-
lated globe, the diameter of which is pierced with two holes to let in a
ray of light. The water of the funnel being electrified falls into
the globe in a divergent cone. The globe gradually becomes electrified
and reacts on the streams which approach and unite until there is
an equilibrium of reaction between the interior repulsion and that of
the exterior. If the globe communicates with the electrical machine,
the powerful tension immediately reunites the divergent streams into a
single one as in the experiment of the tube.

The electricity which surrounds acloud could not therefore be formed
of all the electricity which it contains, as that of a metal conductor
which retains no portion in its interior ; it would be, on the contrary,
only a feeble portion dependent on interior reaction and conductibility.
This theory simplifies and facilitates the interpretation of many phe-
nomena which take place during storms; it would be important to
see it confirmed by direct observations, which might be possible by
studying, especially in mountainous countries with the help of kites
sustained by conducting wires, the electrical modifications of the dif-
ferent parts of acloud. M. Peltier* found in the two kinds of elec-

* Journal l'Institut, No. 335 and No. 370.
ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY. 349

trical tension existing in the clouds the cause of the different forms
which these bodies assume. ‘‘ At first,’’ remarks he, ‘‘ every vesicle pre-
serves an electric atmosphere like an independent and insulated body ;
then if all the reactions which follow have been in every respect equal,
the vapor should be uniformly diffused ; but it is sufficient that there
are inequalities in the density of the vapor, in order that there should
be inequality in the electrical reactions. The more powerful tensions
distributed in the different points react by repulsion on the internal
vapor; they condense it, limit it more decidedly, and form the first
cloudy flakes. These, acting together as elementary vesicles, form by
their unison masses more complex, called fleeces, separated by in-
tervening clear spaces with jagged edges. Each of these fleeces is sur-
rounded by its own electrical sphere, which reacts on the flakes and
passes them together as the sphere of flakes reacted on the elementary
vesicles. These fleeces, regarded as elements, producein their turn strata
or clouds, properly so called, and then afterwards form the euwmuli of
different orders.’’ The formation of the cirri reveals also, according to
M. Peltier, another electrical cause, namely, the attractive action of
two masses of vapors or of two separate bodies possessing different
electricities. The vapors interposed and attracted in the longitu-
dinal direction are formed in a line, while their unequal density in
the vertical direction, permitting an unequal distribution of electri-
city, there result lateral repulsions producing, fibrous condensa-
tions of vapors which constitute the cirri. This last effect may be re-
produced experimentally by substituting for the vapor small pieces of
gold leaf placed between bodies charged with opposite electricities.
These pieces of gold leaf are formed into line between the two bodies
and constitute threadlike conductors. M. Peltier relates that he like-
wise reproduced a part of this phenomenon with clouds formed of

small soap bubbles.

CHAPTER IV.
OF ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY DURING RAIN, SNOW, AND STORMS,
§ 1.—Of atmospheric electricity during rain and snow.

When a cloud resolves itself into rain, every drop of water conveys
to the electrometer its electric atmosphere, and this attains an elec-
tric tension which is sometimes very considerable. Observers are not
all agreed respecting the changes which the electricity of this instru-
ment indicates, during the fall of rain. Thus, according to Volta,* the
positive electricity increases on the approach of the cloud, and decrease
afterwards with the fall of the first drops of water, becomes nothing,
and finally passes to a very strong negative state. This electricity
preserves its intensity during half or an entire hour; but if the rain
continues a longer time it decreases and becomes very feeble ; only it

* Lehrbuch der Meteorologie yon Kaemtz, tom. II, p 418,
350 ATMOSPITERIC ELECTRICITY.

receives a new addition, every time that the rain increases a few
moments. It would follow, then, from this that rain should, in
general, be negative. According to the English philosopher Ioggo,*
the electricity, on the contrary, is positive as long as the cloud which
pours out the rain is at a distance from the zenith of the conductor,
and it only becomes negative when the anterior part of the cloud is
above the conductor. This state then continues during a short space
of time; after which positive electricity appears anew, and continues
while the cloud is passing over the conductor, to which again succeeds
positive electricity. M. Kaemtz states that he has frequently observed
positive electricity during rains of short duration.

We owe to Schiiblert two regular series of observations relating
especially to the electricity which is exhibited during the fall of rain and
of snow, and which were made, the formerat Ellwangen, from January,
1805, to the month of April, 1806, and the latter at Stuttgard, from
June, 1810, to the month of August of the following year. In the
space of two years and a half Schibler observed the electricity of 412
falls of rain, snow, &c. According to these observations, it is rare
that there is rain without electricity ; the phenomenon has not been
noticed, except when the electricity of a rain changes from plus to
minus, or the reverse ; then the electricity ceases for several seconds.
The electricity is again at zero at the commencement, or at the
end of a negative rain, as well as at the period of the passage of ordi-
nary positive electricity to that of an equally positive rain, and finally
during a very feeble rain. When the rain falls in a regular and
uniform manner, which is frequently the case, electricity remains
for whole days negative or positive ; it varies simply in its intensity,
which is generally in proportion to the quantity of water which has
fallen.t It is not the same when it rains in an irregular and discon-
nected manner ; the electromoter then exhibits oscillations ; the straws
diverge, fall back, and their divergence is sometimes positive, some-
times negative. NSchiibler remarked that the changes of the sign in
electricity corresponded to the difference either in the size of the drops
of water or in their number. These facts are frequently observed
when isolated waves succeed each other rapidly; we then frequently
find the electricities positive and negative, successively, in the same
degree of intensity. The electrical phenomena which accompany
the fall of snow are not less complicated ; just as in rain, at every
change which happens, either in the form or size of the snow
flakes, or in their number, there is a corresponding new electrical
state. Schiibler rendered these changes in the intensity and nature
of electricity more evident by making, at very short intervals, suc-
cessive series of observations, which he represented by curves, in
which the abscissa expressed the time and the ordinates the cor-
responding intensity of the electricity in the degrees of the elec-
trometer.

** Edinburgh Journal of Science, volume LY, p. 124.

+ Journal de Schweigger, tom. XXV, p. 249, tom. VIII, p. 21, and tom. XI, p. 377.
1829, 1813 and 1814.

{This latter has also been established by Beccaria, Lettere dell’ Electricismo, p. 307.
ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY. 851

This relation between the fall of rain and the changes in the electrical
state of the apparatus was observed by M. Arago* and M. Peltier.+
Besides, the latter of these two philosophers noticed an electrical fact
which preceded the sudden appearance of hoar-frost, and which tends
to verify the opinion advanced by him as to the formation of this
body, which he considered, as well as hail, accompanied by electrical
discharges. He states that, before the hoar-frost falls, the needle of
the rheometer of his apparatus may be seen to deviate a number of
degrees, more or less considerable, then all at once retrograde rapidly
and pass from the other side of the zero, as is the case during storms
before a flash of lightning, and at the moment of its appearance. By
means of these indications he ascertained that the approaching fall
of small hailstones could be readily foretold.

The oscillations which are exhibited in the electric state of the elec-
trometer, during the fall of rain or of snow, is particularly worthy of
the attention of observers, since similar effects are produced in the
electrical discharges during storms. We may ask, if the indication
of this instrument is really produced by the electricity of the rain.
Schtibler’s observations cannot decide this question. In fact they
were made with Volta’s electrometer, supplied with a conductor and
an ignited body; now, when this instrument is exposed to the air
during the fall of rain it is subjected at once to the influence of the
electricity of the air, which is always positive, to that of the electri-
city of the cloud from which the rain falis, and which may be positive
or negative ; and finally to the electricity of the rain which strikes on
it. The following observation of M. Peltier{ may throw some light on
this subject: ‘‘ On the 8th of June,”’ as this observer states, ‘‘toward
four o’clock in the evening I had a descending current, the rain began
about five o’clock. There were several negative and positive alterna-
tions in the direction of the current. The water which fell did not
change its sign as the current did, it always gave negative indications
to the electroscope.’’

To ascertain what in the indications of the electrometer is due to
the electricity contained in the rain when it comes in contact with
the ground, it is necessary to withdraw the instrument from the elec-
trical influence of the clouds, as well as that of the air. Perhaps it
may be ascertained by receiving the rain into an insulated metal vase,
which may be made to communicate with an electrometer without by
a stern placed in the inside of an apartment. It is well known that
in this case the instrument is protected from the electrical influence
of the air, as well as from that of the clouds.

We have already said that the electricity of the electrometer acquires
during the fall of rain a tension superior to that of the clear sky. If
we refer to the observations made by Schiibler, at Stuttgardt, from
1811 to 1812, the intensity of the electricity of the rain and the snow
presents an annual period, the stronger electricity taking place in the
summer, the feebler in the winter. This is what is indicated in the
following table, which gives the mean force of the two electricities for

= Traite de l’Electri. et du Magn., par Becquerel, tom. IV, p. 100.

+ Comptes Rendus, tom. III, p. 145, 1836, and Le Journal l'Institut, No, 228, May 10,
1838.

t Comptes Rendus, tom. IL, p. 145. 1836.
52 ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY.

Oo

every month, as well as the number of days of rain or of snow during
which the electricity was negative or positive.*

Bg
Mean force of elec-|No. of days during| No. of days in which} =| im
tricity. which the electri-| the electricity was} =
Months. city was positive. | negative. CE
Bog
| Es
Positive. Negative| Rain. | Snow. | Rain. | Snow. | ¢ 5.5
| S
O °
June seid soe eos se + 235 | — 275 9 0 9 0 5.0L
TWly A Ollie Sees e ome + 400 | — 280 5 0 5 0 105
Auoust: 18 el. 2eeise + 290 | — 80 ia 0 7 0 1. 66
September, 1811 ----- + 30;— 10 1 0 2 0 0.70
October, lS. Sao -- + 26; — 31 5 0 6 0 1.89
November, 1811 ._--- + 24 )— 25 2 1 3 0 0. 84
December, WSii se. + 32) — 157 1 9 3 0 1.42
January. 18123-22252 + 40 | — 178 0 7 al 2 1. 06
February, 1812 -..-.- + 41)— 44 2 il 8 1 1.72
Marchy G02 oases ee + 74 |)— 65 6 2 8 3 TG
Aprels LUZ osceeo es + 40/}— 58 0 4 5 0 1. 26
May, WiSl2Ze2 sshe22e- + 186 | — 179 9 0 6 0 2.14
Vearlys-5222== + 118 | — 114 47 24 63 6 21. 06

We may add to this table the general remark that rains exhibit an
electricity which is strong in proportion as they are abundant ina
given time. This stronger electricity accompanies showers—always
transient rains and storms.

We have seen above that Volta in general found that the elec-
tricity of the rain which he observed was negative. If in Schiibler’s
observations, of which we have already given a summary, we re-
capitulate separately the number of days of rain or snow during
which the electricity has been positive or negative, we find, on the
contrary, 71 days positive and 69 negative, that is to say almost
the same number of positive as negative days. The observations made
by Hemmer,t at Maunheim, from 1783 to 1787, lead to the same
result ; he found these two numbers in the proportion of 1 to 1.08.
According to the observations of M. Arago,t during the first seven
months of 1830, there were eleven days of rain without electricity,
six days with positive electricity, and eight days with negative electri-
city. From the collective result of these different observations, we

* To obtain the numbers contained in this table, Schubler noted separately the degrees
of positive electricity and those of negative electricity. Where the electricities of different
nature alternated, he added apart the degrees observed and corresponding to the rains or
snows, positive as well as negative: and, if one of these two electricities preponderated,
he kept a proportional account. When a rain or snow gave signs of only one electricity,
but with a variable intensity, he placed it at the higher degree in the account. Finally,
he did not measure the electric tension beyond 600 degrees of the straw electrometer; then
the electricity began to give out sparks, and a small Leyden phial, which was charged
with free air, gave quite powerful shocks.

+ Lehrbuch der Meteorologie, von Kaemtz, tom. II, p. 418.

{Traité d’Electricité et du Magnet., par Becquerel, tom. IV, p. 100.
ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY. 353

might conclude that the electricity of rain or snow is sometimes posi-
tive and sometimes negative, and this nearly for the same number of
times. But we ought to observe that the two other series of observa-
tions by Schiibler* do not exhibit the same result ; of the 412 observa-
tions of which they are composed, the rain or snow was 161 times posi-
tive and 251 times negative, that is to say, in the proportion of 100 to
155. It would appear, even according to these observations, that the
winds were not without influence on the kind of electricity with which
the air was effected. In fact, in grouping the positive rains and the
negative ones according to the directions of the winds, Schtibler found
the following results :

an a a | 4 S os
a fora Ft 5A
Winds. ae ie ea as
vo 2Q > fo} 7
re a3 = 3
a: Be 2 #°

ie Ml a al pe es B
NiGtIie 36 Ake ee ae 12 TL e049 25
INGHOM CAS SSE =. taco Soccie cm cen owes 1l 12 1s, 09 23
IRS eet eet sina eile Se oka cree cis cones 33 5 1: 1.66 8
SOnuMeasteme nes Home ee ee a ee 4 76 eds aD 1
SWtill Oo SSS a6 Soe ee eee ee 5 3 12760 18
SOUUINES teem aime fisieela ame cran a cee aa, 28 Sys ya et pit FEN 17) 93
Wh) Gale Ge nn em iio 106 LO nia 179
ANOrntliwestmes 63, 88 cs cca Seca ase ace | 25 32 1 E28 57
Otan eee ees ee Se | 161 Pome, Weel Iss a 412

= ——— ==

For three winds—NW., N.,and NE.-.-_-.| 48 55 dee ale 103
Do. SHS; and SW 2 2-— | 3T 85 2. 30 122
Do. SW.,W.,and NW. ...-| 126 203 1: 16% 329
Do. NE, Eeyand'SB 2.222 <. | 18 24 1h Bolen} 42

Taking for unity the number of positive rains, Hemmer found for the same winds the
following proportions :

INO Oi mcrae Soh ST eee ART NE i i Sh Lo ao T0347
PB ONUDCHS Heer a esata ete o Laisa ate Se nae ste ce ee 1: 0.84
ASU Seria oe cece e en tls. Reet eae eee ee, eee E0291
DOMUNCHS ts sane aoe ke saa oe nee eee. fo eee 1: 0.38
So bo Ame ees ke ee Le i ee ee eee LP L04:
POW OM WES see eee eee ae we Sane ee ee ees Pale 20
VCS ULE irs a per a a es se, Sos Beet alee cee ee 0s
INGRUNWES baa se eetete cee a oc = on ee ee ee ee 1: 0. 66

|
|
i
i

* Journal de Schweigger, tom. XXV, p. 254

23
354 ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY.

These observations concur in showing that the rains which fall
while the north winds are prevalent are more frequently positively
electrified than negatively, while the contrary is exhibited by the
south winds. The maximum coincides with the north wind and the
minimum with the 8. or SW. wind.

Although in Schiibler’s observations, mentioned above, the pro-
portion of the number of days of positive rain to that of days of nega-
tive rain was as 100 to 155, yet the mean force of the positive electri-
city was greater than that of the negative in the proportion of 69 to 43.
This superiority of positive over negative electricity was observed in
all the winds, as may be seen by the following table, in which the
mean forces of the two electricities are given for each:

MEAN FORCE OF ELECTRICITY.
Winds.

Positive. Negative.
ea PLAMRN BBCI aaT ood RET oO fo)
IN pee ao ay an dct + 131 — 99
INGA se CS ene AoCe 105 132
Pe Paks 3 Reet es ca ae 15 3
Slee 282 See ee Bee ee 19 10
CU A rs se Ree eee 26 23
SW ae ea nee ea are ve 66 33
(aie a P= a A ip ry a re 75 39
TS Be WSS ys Sete ete 51 46

+ 69 — 43

We think we may pass in silence the explanation which Schiibler
gave of the different results to which his observations conducted him
on the electricity of rain, since it rests on the hypothesis that the vapor
at the moment of its formation receives positive electricity. Besides,
it is evident that an explanation ought not be hazarded until these
first observations shall be confirmed by new observations, in which
the indications furnished by the instruments shall be more in accord-
ance with the actual intensity of the electricity which is to be
measured.

§ 2.—Of atmospheric electricity during storms.
sg °P y g

Atmospheric electricity has its greatest tension in stormy weather,
and is often so great that the instruments are insufficient to measure
it. The currents are sornetimes so intense that they demagnetize the
needles of the rheometers, and tear in pieces the gold leaves of the
electrometers.* This powerful tension is exhibited also by the flashes
of lightning, the sparkling rain, and the luminous effects which
appear at the extremities of conducting bodies.

These observations concur in showing that electricity undergoes
frequent and sudden variations in its nature as well as in its intensity

* Comptes Rendus, tome II, page 147, and tome XIII, page 214. 1836 and 1841.
ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY. 355

during the whole time a storm lasts. Volta,* who directed his atten-
tion to these variations, states that he observed as many as fourteen
changes of sign in the space of one minute by exposing his electro-
meter to the action of thunder clouds; and, according to De Saussure,f
these changes follow each other in some cases with such rapidity that
we have not time to record them. Schiiblert has also made some ob-
servations, which define these electric variations better than any one
had done before him ; they teach us that the electricity of the electro-
meter gradually increases in proportion as the storm draws near; that
it reaches its maximum when the storm is nearest to the point of ob-
servation. Independently of these gradual changes, it also under-
goes others, which are exhibited in a sudden manner at the moment
of the appearance of every flash of lightning; finally, that this last
phenomena produces, also, in the electricity a sudden passage from
one state to another of an almost equal intensity. To study the
course of the electricity during storms, Schiibler made a series of ob-
servations at very close intervals of time, and he represented the
result by a curve, as in his observations on the electricity of rain and
show.

To show how complicated are the electric phenomena, we here
quote the details of observations made during two storms—one of
which passed at a distance, the other appeared directly over the zenith
of observation:

“‘April 11, 1806.—In the day the electricity of the air is feebly positive, and the tem-
perature rose to 11° R.

**6 o'clock, evening.—lt began to rain; the electricity became negative.

‘*7 o'clock, evening.—'The rain ceased; dark cloud covers the sky, and a storm shows itself
in the horizon on the southeast. The electricity is still negative; it decreases suddenly
with the flashes of lightning, every one of them producing, in the straws of an electro-
meter, an approach, followed by a new divergence, but less than that which took place
the moment before.

‘*7 o'clock 14 minutes, evening.—A flash of lightning suddenly reduces the electricity to
zero, but causes it to pass for an instant to the positive state; it afterwards becomes
negative.

‘7 o'clock 18 minutes, evening.—The electricity becomes positive, and remains so from this
instant till that in which the storm appears to be nearerest; the positive electricity goes on
increasing ; with every flash of lightning the straws diverge, to fall back almost immedi-
ately, yet preserving every time a greater divergence than what they before had.

**T o'clock 45 minutes, evening. —Yhe storm moves in the direction of the northeast; the
positive electricity decreases, and the flashes of lightning are more rare.

‘© 8 o'clock 4 minutes, wening.—The clectricity is at zero; but a rain which follows causes
it anew to pass to the negative state ; nothing more is perceived of the storm.

‘* Muy 14, 1813.—During the day the temperature rose to +16° 3 R.; the barometer
is several lines below its mean; the wind blows lightly from the SE., and the electricity
has a feeble positive tension.

‘*4 o'clock 40 minutes, evening —A storm rising on the horizon in the SW.; the positive
electricity increases with every flash of lightning, but more rapidly than in the first storm ;
great drops of water fall.

“*4 o'clock 47 minutes, evening.—The storm is nearer ; its distance appears about 4,000 feet.
A very vivid flash of lightning, followed by a peal of thunder, suddenly changes the
positive to negative electricity, of a nearly equal intensity; at the same time there
oceurrs a heavy shower. From this point, and while the storm passed to the NW., the
negative electricity presented a course opposite to that taken by the positive electricity,
The rain continued.

**3 o'clock 4 minutes, wening.—The electricity became positive anew.

7 Journal de Physique, tome LIX, page 296. 1809.
{ Voyages dans les Alpes, tome H, § 801, page 220.
§ Journal de Schweigger, tome I, page 377.

o
o
356 ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY.

**5 o'clock 12 minutes, evening.—The electricity becomes negative.

‘*5 o'clock 18 minutes, evening.—The electricity decreases considerably with the rain; but
continued negative, and this for a long time, after the rain had completely ceased.’’

The sudden passage from the strongest positive to the strongest nega-
tive electricity is certainly the most remarkable fact in the electrical
variations which were exhibited while the last storm continued.
Schiibler observed that this phenomenon is not rare in stormy weather,
and it ordinarily occurs after vivid flashes of lighting or during the
sudden showers which often accompany them. This remark of the
German philosopher is confirmed by the observations of M. Peltier,*
made by means of the rheometer. ‘‘On the 16th of June, 1836,’’
he writes to the Academy of Sciences of Paris, ‘‘ I was awakened at
two o'clock fifteen minutes in the morning; a storm was raging on
all sides ; I ran to my instruments ; they denoted 80° of a negative
descending current ; the vivid flashes of lightning produced only ten
to fifteen degrees of decrease of deviation. At 2 o'clock 30 minutes
the negative current denoted 70°, when a very powerful flash of light-
ning occurred ; the needle whirled about and stopped at 80° on the
other side, where it remained thirty seconds; then it returned to 70°.
The storm passed off about 2 o’cleck 45 minutes; the needle returned
to its zero; then passed to the positive side, where it remained.’’
The sudden changes which occurred in the intensity of the electricity
at the instant of the appearance of the flashes of lightning were
also observed by this philosopher. He speaks thus on this sub-
ject in the same note: ‘‘The storm of August 4, 1836, was entirely
different from any other; at 2 o0’clock in the morning the electricity
was at first positive and then negative; the needle advanced gradu-
ally towards its maximum; then a flash of lightning occurred, and
the needle fell back half way ; then recommenced its ascending course
until the next flash of lighting, which made it retrograde. The
progressive course so entirely coincided with the electric changes
that I could foretell them by the fall of rain detaching itself from the

-cloud.”’

We have already said that Volta and De Saussure observed the
frequent succession of the two electricities exhibited by the elec-
trometers when they were exposed to the action of thunder clouds.
This frequency of the phenomenon did not escape M. Peltier’s obser-
vation, who cites, among others, the storm of the 6th of August,
1836, as having exhibited to him at least twenty-five changes. Voltay
sought for the cause of these changes in the electrical induction which
thunder clouds must naturally exercise on each other. If it be sup-
posed that while a cloud positively electrified produces in the electro-
meter a positive divergence, another cloud possessing a stronger
electricity, but of a contrary nature, happens to come above the
former, the electricity of the stronger will, according to Volta, neu-
tralize, at a distance, that of the weaker, and will drive, into its lower
part, the electricity opposite to that which existed there at first; or
rather the more powertul electricity, after having caused the neutralizing

* Comptes Rendus, tome III, page 147.
+ Journal de Physique, tome LXIX, page 343.
ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY. oot

of the opposite electricity, will, by virtue of its excess, act directly
on the instrument placed at the surface of the earth, producing there a
negative divergence. If, afterwards, these two clouds happen to separate
from each other, the electrometer must exhibit the positive divergence
which it at first had. Wemay conceive, says Volta, that these clouds,
driven by the wind and the different currents of air which appear
everywhere to exist in stormy weather, undergo a sort of fluctuating
movement sufficient to cause the various electric states which are
observed in the electrometer. For the purpose of reproducing, by ex-
periment, an imitation of this phenomenon, Volta placed, horizontally,
one below the other, two disks of metal, insulated and movable,
charged with opposite electricities. As the distance that separated
them was very great, the lower disk, which was negative, produced,
in an electrometer placed below it, a negative divergence ; but in
proportion as the same disk was raised or the other was lowered the
negative signs gradually decreased till they sunk to zero, after which
the opposite electricity was manifested.

It is very probable that a great number of changes which are
observed in electricity during storms are only effects similar to those
under discussion. If we unite to them the numerous discharges
which, in disturbing the electrical equilibrium at every moment, modify
the action, of induction, to which the instruments are subjected, we
shall, without difficulty, comprehend that the numerous oscillations
ought to be exhibited in the intensity as well as in the nature of their
electricity. M. Peltier* thought that these oscillations might also
result from the partial electrical changes which take place trom the
interior towards the exterior of a thunder cloud. In fact, we have soen
that, in the way shown by this philosopher, the partial conductability
of the clouds gives to them distinct atmospheres—the one exterior
and a great number of others interior. When the external atmo-
sphere has escaped by an instantaneous discharge, all the internal
masses, Which have their own atmospheres, restore gradually to the
surface the electricity which it had lost. These partial changes which
follow the external discharge of a cloud must be manifest to the in-
struments placed at the surface of the earth, if the latter have an
adequate sensibility; for example, in an electrometer we see the leaves
spring out, open, close suddenly, or strike against the armatures
without any explosion being heard.

It is after a certain number of these partial discharges that we see
the flash of lightning which indicates the discharge from the surface,
after which the internal exchanges recommence, “and with them the
oscillations of the electrometer.

We design to state in the second part of this memoir all the results
to which the observations hitherto made on atmospheric electricity
lead, in order to present in the same outline the state of our knowledge
of this branch of meteorology. We may remark that among these
results some of them are derived from observations too limited in
number to definitively take rank in science, and that as to others,
they were obtained by means of too imperfect instruments, or those of

* Ann. de Chim, et de Physique, 3d series, tome IV, page 423.
358 ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY.

which the indications were complicated by elements foreign to those
sought; in the mean time we await new observations which may
serve to correct them. It is only by means of many series of regular
observations, made with proper instruments, that we can hope to
illustrate, and resolve the various questions which are raised by the
results under discussion.

Confining ourselves to the province of the historian, we proceed to
give in the ‘Jast part of our task an epitome of the information hitherto
cained relative to the phenomena of lightning,

PART Ii.

SUMMARY OF OUR KNOWLEDGE OF LIGHTNING,
CHAPTER. J.
OF THE FLASHES OF LIGHTNING.

When the two electricities accumulated in the contiguous portions of
two clouds, or of a cloud and a body placed within its sphere of activity
at the surtace of the earth, have acquired a tension capable of over-
coming the resistance the air opposes to their union, an electrical
explosion takes place, and we see the lghtning dart through the air
under different forms, such as, according to M. Arago,* diffused flashes,
linear and zigzag streams, and globular masses; the latter having a
progressive motion.

Some attempts have been made by Helvig+ to determine the velocity
of the linear flashes of lightning. His observations by means of the
camera lucida have led him to ‘attribute to them a velocity of 40,000
or 50,000 feet ina second; but, as Messrs. Pfaff and Kaemtzt observe,
so many illusions may have existed in the mode of observation pur-
sued by this philosopher that we can only consider this data asa
rough approximation. But we know, according to the beautiful expe-
riments of Mr. Wheatstone,§ that the velocity with which the electric
fluid passes through a conducting wire is about 115,000 leagues per
second, and we may conceive that the velocity of linear discharges of
lightning must be the same. [This does not follow. |

The length of these flashes does not appear to be well known; we have
only a single direct determination of this element. Ina storm which
happened on the 2d of May, 1839, M. Weigsenborn, | of Weimar,
counted 19 seconds as the time comprised between the appearance of

* Annuaire du Bureau des Longitudes pour l’an 1838, pp. 249, 255, 257.

t Annales de Gilbert, tom. LI, p. 136.

+ Dictionnaire de Gehler, tom. I, p. 1001, et Lehrbuch der Meteorologie, tom. II, p. 430.
§ Philosophical Transactions for 1834, 2d part, p. 589.

|| Comptes Rendus, tom. IX, p. 218. 1839.
59

oo

ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY.

a horizontal flash of lightning and the commencement of the report,
and he found that the angle embraced by the two extremities of this
flash was 75°. By means of these data he calculated the length of
the flash observed to be more than 8,932 metres—that is to say, more
than 2 leagues. M. Arago,* in his notice of thunder, points out a
very ingenious methodof obtaining if not the true lengths of the flashes,
at least the limit within which these lengths must be contained ;
but this method rests on the hypothesis that the duration of the
peal of thunder is the time which its sound requires to pass through a
space equal to the difference in length of the two lines, drawn from
the ear of the observer to the two extremities of the flash. In apply-
ing it to some observations, M. Arago found for certain flashes the
lengths of at least 3.3, of 3.4, and 3.8 leagues. So great a length
naturally leads us to admit that the electricity which forms the flash
is incomparably greater than that which can be accumulated in the
most powerful batteries. But M. Gay Lussact observes that we cannot
really judge of the relative intensity of the electricity accumulated on
our conductors and ina thunder cloud by the length of the sparks, since
the former are very good conductors of electricity, and are surrounded
by air, which in its usual state has little conducting power, while the
clouds are tolerably good conductors, and the surrounding air, rarified
and saturated with moisture, possesses in a considerable degree the
power of conducting electricity. The portion of vapor with which
the air enveloping the cloud is probably more or less charged appeared
to M. Pouillett capable of serving as a medium to produce a discharge,
in the same manner that metallic powders, spread on woolen or silk
cloth, cause the spark of our machines to be projected to a greater dis-
tance. In order to explain the length of the discharge of lightning he
supposes that in the course which it is to take there are patches of vapor,
and possibly even those of air, already electrified by the contrary
induction of the electricities which have a tendency to rueh against
each other, and that at a given moment the equilibrium is finally
broken without there having been any transfer of the fluid of one
cloud to another, but simply the successive transfer of the electricity
of one patch to another over the whole path of the discharge.

M. Lamé§ explains the length of the flashes of lightning by supposing
that it may be the result of the small excess of the conductibility of the
clouds over that of the air between them, and consequently the free
electricity of feeble tension, diffused at their surface, may be discharged
between two clouds at several points at once, and successively between
different portions of each one of these clouds.

It is known that the zig-zag form is common to the flash of light-
ning and to the electric spark. Helvig|| sought to determine the exact
form by means of a camera lucida, and, according to this observer, it

* Annuaire pour 1838, p. 459.

+ Annales de Chimie et de Physique, tom, XXIX, p. 105. 1825.

+ Elements de Physique et de Météorologie, tom. II, p. 808.

§ Cours de Physique de Kcole Polytechnique, tom. II, 2d partie, p. 82.
|| Annales de Gilbert, tom. LI, p. 139.
360 ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY.

was always under an angle of 40° that the deviation of the flash of light-
ning was produced; but Brandes* remarks that this determination cannot
be regarded asexact, because, in the instrument by which it was obtained
the same angle would appear more or less acute, according to the
position of the observer’s eye. But it would not be without interest
to science to have more certain data as to the form of linear discharges
of lightning, and the more so as it is thought that some connexion
has been discovered between this form and the peals of thunder.
Possibly the property which certain substances possess of becoming
instantaneously phosphorescent under the influence of the light de-
veloped by an electrical discharge, and this at the distance of several
yards, as M. Becquerel has shown,} might furnish means of obtain-
ing phosphorescent impressions of the streaks of lightning, and thus
determine all the irregularities which the discharge exhibits in its
course through the air.

It may be asked, What is the cause which produces the zig-zag forms
of lightning ? Without stopping to consider the hypothesis of Lo-
gan,{ who regarded them as the result of irregular refractions which
the atmospheric vapors and the clouds cause the rays of light to
undergo, we shall remark that two different explanations have been
given of this phenomenon. According to the first, which is by
Parrot,§ it is produced by alternate portions of the air, more or less
humid, and consequently of more or less conducting power, which the
electrical substance meets in its passage, and which oppose to it unequal
resistances in different directions. It is true that the atmosphere
contains a great variety of exhalations, and particularly of watery
vapor irregularly diffused; besides this explanation agrees with
the phenomenon which lightning presents at the surface of the earth,
where we see it leave bodies which are poor conductors of electricity
for those which offer it a more ready passage; but this explanation
is considered insufficient, because it cannot be applied to the ordi-
nary electric spark. In fact, in the narrow space which separates
a body from the conductor of the electric machine, we cannot regard
the air of a chamber as presenting strata alternately dry and moist,
and yet the spark none the less pursues a sinuous course.

The second explanation, which is more generally admitted, is based
on the resistance which compressed air opposes to the motion of
electricity. Atmospheric air being a slight conductor of electricity,
it is natural to suppose that the electricity, in passing through it,
drives before it the molecules of which it is composed, from whence
results, successively, compressions along the whole line through which
the discharge takes place. This effect of an electric discharge is also
confirmed by the known experiment of Kinnersley. Compressed air
opposing a greater resistance, the electricity will follow the path along
which the air is less condensed, and will deviate from its direction in
a straight line to traverse that of a broken line.

Linear discharges of lightning ordinarily take place between the clouds;

= Beibrage zur Witterungskunde, p. 353. Leipzig, 1820.
+ Comptes Rendus, tom. VIII, p. 216. 1889.

t Philosophical Transactions, vol. XX XIX, p. 240. 1735.
§ Dictionnaire de Gehler, tom. I, p. 999.
ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY. 361

but it is not rare to see them launch out from one group of clouds to
another; sometimes, even, the electric fluid, after several zig-zag move-
ments, returns toward the region from whence it came. This last
phenomenon is frequently observed in volcanic clouds.* Exact obser-
vations place it beyond doubt that streaks of lightning sometimes
become forked, and are divided into three branches, which often sepa-
rate to points very remote from each other.

Mr. Faradayt has given a new and ingenious explanation of the
phenomena. Ashe regards them, the different forms which the flashes
of lightning take do not belong to the discharges, but to the edges
of the clouds behind which they are produced. Get any one imagine
a dark cloud, presenting an irregular and well defined border, placed
between the eye of the observer and the place of electrical discharge;
at the moment when this is effected the cloud will present an illu-
minated edge, similar to the shining edge which it would exhibit
were it placed between the sun and the observer. Such may be, in
many cases, the cause of the apparent form of the flashes ; what the
observer really sees being only the irregular outline of a cloud.
Mr. Faraday states that he has frequently been able to verify this
opinion, and according to him, we are thus to explain the branching of
the discharges of lightning, their return to the region from whence
they came, and also the remarkable phenomenon of the flashes having
frequently exactly the same form and succeeding each other rapidly
in. the same point of the sky, without, however, being produced by the
same electrical discharge. We readily believe that illusions of this
kind sometimes take place ; but we have observed the branching of the
lightning exhibited under such circumstances that it becomes difficult,
not to say impossible, to apply the explanation of the learned English
philosopher. For example, the Abbe Richard§ states that he saw a
luminous discharge, single at its departure from the cloud, divide itself
in two at some distance from the earth, and each half strick a separate
object. Here is certainly a case of forking in which the bright line
delineated in the space belonging clearly to the discharge of lightning.

The streaks of lightning are not always of the same color. Those
which present themselves under the form of a narrow winding dis-
charge are, in general, white; they have sometimes been observed,
but rarely, of a purplish violet or bluish tinge. The light of the dif-
fused flashes of lightning neither presents this whiteness nor an
equal brilliancy ; its tint is often of a very intense red, sometimes
mixed with blue or violet. Sometimes it appears only to illumine the
edges of the clouds; at others it includes their whole superficial ex-
extent. The differences which are observed in the intensity and color
of the light of the flashes may depend upon several causes, among
which we must reckon more or less the density and moisture of the
stratum of the air in which the clouds are found, as well as its greater
or less degree of conductibility. In fact, experiment proves that

* Philosophical Transactions for 1795, Ist part, p. 73.

+ Annuaire for 1838, p. 252; Dictionnaire de Gebler, tom. I, p. 1000; and Lehrbuch der
Meteorologie, tom. II, p. 428.

¢ Philosophical Magazine, vol. XIX, p. 104. 1841,

§ Annuaire for 1833, p. 252.
362 ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY.

the density of the media traversed by the spark of our machines singu-
larly influences the brightness and the color of the light produced ;
that when this density is very small the light becomes diffuse and
reddish ; that in the case where it is considerable the light is con-
tracted and brilliant. The electrical sparks of our machines have
also different appearances, and especially vary their color according
to the hygrometric state of the air. They are also generally the
more brilliant the better the substances between which they take
place conduct electricity. Finally, in the electric explosion occurring
between the strata of a cloud lying above another, it may happen, as M.
Kaemtz* observes, that on account of the thickness of the lower cloud
the light of the flashes, however intense it may be supposed, produces
on the eye of the observer only a feeble and diffused light.

The experiments of Mr. Wheatstone show that the duration of the
linear streaks of lightning and of diffused flashes does not exceed the
thousandth part of a second. It is not the same with the globular dis-
charges, which are sometimes visible for several seconds, and pass from
the clouds to the earth with sufficient slowness for the eye plainly to
follow their course and ascertain their velocity. Their existence
appears to be now well established. Schiiblert and M. Kaemtz{ men-
tion flashes of lightning which had the appearance of a current of fire as
large as the arm, terminated by a much larger and more brilliant ball ;
and Muncke§ saw a discharge which descended vertically, and which
must have been about 200 feet long, transformed, under his eyes, into
a great number of small balls. These globular discharges, which some-
times leave along their passage inflamed portions, appear frequently
in the midst of volcanic storms;|| the same is the case with linear
streaks of lightning; they often become subdivided, and after their

xplosion they commonly leave a strongly sulphurous smoke. We
are as yet ignorant of the cause of the formation of these meteors ; they
seem to be the agglomerations of ponderable substances strongly
charged with electricity. M. Arago{ thought that it might not be
impossible that the lightning in passing through the air sometimes
produces instantaneously a sort of half union of substances which may
exist in this medium, and thus produce these globular discharges.
There are many facts which favors this opinion. First, it is established
that lightning, when on its passage through the air, produces chemical
combinations, as is proved by the presence of nitric acid in the rain
water gathered during storms.** hen the observations of M. Fusi-
nieri,+}+ confirmed by those of M. Boussingault, on the presence of
metallic iron, of iron in different degrees of oxydation, and of sulphur
in the powdery deposits which surround the orifices in the bodies
through which lightning has forced a passage; the fact that hail-
stones have for a nucleus small fragments of sulphuret of iron,{t the

* Lehrbuch der Meteorologie, tome II, p, 429.
t Journal de Schweigger, tome XLI, p. 36; 1824.
{ Lehrbuch der Meteorologie, tome IJ, p. 427.
§ Dictionnaire de Gchler, tome I, p. 1000.
|| Philosophical Transactions for 1795, part I, p. 82.
€ Annuaire pour 1838, p. 426.
= Annales de Chimie et de Physique, tome XXXV, p. 329. 1827.
+t Bibliothéque Universelle, tome XLVIII, p. 371, and tome XLIX, p. 1. 1831 and 1832.
t{ Bibliotheque Universelle, Sciences et Arts, tome XVIII, p. 78. 1821.
>
ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY. 363

presence of iron in the rain water which falls from thunder clouds,
the cdor and vapor of sulphur that the lightning almost always
gives out where it breaks forth, appear to establish the conclusion that
the atmosphere contains, at least as high as the region of the thunder
clouds, iron, sulphur, and other substances. [It is more probable that
these substances are carried immediately up from the earth by the force
of the discharge.—J. H |] The existence of the deposits, of which
we have spoken above, proves that lightning conveys these bodies.
Besides it is known that the ordinary electric spark may also convey
ponderable substances in a state of great tenuity. It may happen then
that the lightning, in passing through the air, may induce a com-
mencement of the union of the different substances which it contains,
and that the electricity concentrated there by their conductibility may
appear under a form more or less globular. New experiments and new
observations, however, can only assign the proper value which this
opinion sh ould have in science.

CHa ett. a:
OF THUNDER.

As is the case with every electric explosion, the flash of lightning
is accompanied by a noise more or less intense of longer or “shorter
duration, to which is given the name of thunder. This noise varies
with the distance of the observer from the place where the electrical
discharge takes place; if itis very near, the flash is almost immediately
followed by successive and rapid detonations, but at a little distance
these detonations are replaced by a sort of reverberation, which lasts for
several seconds, and which is frequently intermingled with violent ex-
plosions. Physicists generally are agreed in considering the thunder as
the result of the sudden re-entrance of the air into an empty space, thus
likening the phenomenon to what happens in the experiment known as
the burst bladder, but they differ in opinion as to the manner in
which this voidis produced. According to some, the flash of lightning
is always attended with the sudden formation of rain, and the vapor
contained in a large space being suddenly condensed, it must form in
the atmosphere, almost instantaneously, a void into which the strata of
surrounding air rush by virtue of their elastic force. This rapid motion
will produce a loud noise, and as the portions of the atmosphere
which have filled the void formed by the condensation of vapor leave
in their turn an unoccupied space, new strata of air will rush into
this latter, producing a new report, and so on.

It is conceived, also, that the intensity of the explosions must become
weakened, since, on the one hand, the cause which produces them
loses its intensity, and, on the other, because they take place at dis-
tances more or less remote from the observer. ‘'T'o this we may reduce
in substance the opinions advanced by De Luc,* Girtanner,} Mayer,
and Monge.t

= Tdées sur la Météorologie, tom. II, page 150. Paris, 1787.
+ Dictionnaire de Gehler, tom. I, pages 568 and 569.
{ Encyclopédie Moderne, tom. XXII, page 319. Brussels, 1832.

s
364 ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY.

This explanation is in accordance with the violent showers which
ordinarily attend the loud peals of thunder, but numerous objections
have been made to it which are difficult to answer in a satisfactory
manner. We do not see, for example, why the rapid condensation of
vapor into rain should not always be attended by thunder. On the
other hand, it has been established that there is sometimes formed, in
a perfectly clear sky, a single cloud, the appearance of which is imme-
diately followed by the rapid formation of several other clouds, which
spread in a short time over the whole extent of the sky without thunder
being heard.

Other philosophers have sought for the cause of thunder in the
vacuum generated by the lightning in its passage through the air.
Kinnersley’s thermometer and many electrical effects prove that the
electricity, in traversing the air, drives aside the portions which it
meets, producing a momentary void, into which immediately after the
surrounding air rushes, wiih a violence which depends on the intensity
of the electricity. Hence the prolonged noise of thunder is the report
from all points of the discharge. This explanation was combatted
by M. Pouillet,* who remarked that, if this were the cause of thunder,
the passage of a cannon ball in the air ought to produce a similar
noise, while there is heard from it only a sort of hissing. This
philosopher contends that when the spark passes between two bodies
the electric fluid experiences no movement of trans‘er like that of the
projectiles of ponderable matter, but that there are decomposition and
recompositions of electricity along all the path of the discharge, and
consequently there is a vibration more or less violent in the pon-
derable matter—a vibration which M. Pouillet compares to a kind of
tearing apart, or quick separation, as, for example, in the experiment
of the perforated card. According to him, the noise is the result of
this vibration which afterwards is propagated in all the surrounding
mass.

On the subject of this explanation M. Becquerel} observes that
there is no proof of the agitation of the particles of the air being
sufficient to produce the noise of thunder; and as for the objection
drawn from the motion of the ball, as the circumstances are not the
same, the velocity of the ball being appreciable, while that of elec-
tricity is not so, he thinks that the effects ought not to be alike in the
two cases. The velocity of electricity being nearly infinite compared
to that of the ball, tne vibration of the air must be vastly more in-
tense, and there is nothing to prevent the contractions and expan-
sions of the air from producing detonations with reverberation.

The explanation which attributes the sound of the thunder to the
sudden re-entrance of the air into the void produced by the lightning is
regarded by M. Tessanj as insufficient, and we owe to this observer some
new ideas on the formation of this sound. According to him a gaseous
conducting body, such as a cloud, changes its form and volume, and
which its surface is externally subjected from the surrounding dry air
consequently its density, when it is electrified, because the pressure to

* Eléments de Physique et de Météorologie, tom. IT, page 809.
+ Traité de l’Electricité et du Magnétisme, tom. IV, page 129.
{ Comptes Rendus, tom. XII, p. 792. 1841.

:
ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY. 365

decreases in proportion as the electrical charge increases; and because
the expansion of the electrical clouds is always such that their own
elastic force, added to the expansion of the electric fluid, is found to be
in every point equal to the external atmospheric pressure. Now, if in
this state an electric discharge bursts from a cloud, the external air
being no longer retained by the expansive force of the electric fluid
which produces the equilibrium will rush from all parts towards the
cloud. There will be a condensation and a driving back of the sur-
rounding particles, and consequently a report. Such would be, accord-
ing to M. Tessan, the explanation of thunder, and the shower that
follows it.

A question, the solution of which possibly may not be without
some importance in the explanation of thunder, is the existence of
flashes of lightning without noise. Many observations tend to prove
its existence; and first, do we not often perceive, even in a clear sky,
in the beautiful nights of summer, gleams more or less vivid which
are termed heat lightning, and which are not distinguished from
the flashes of ordinary lightning except that they are not attended
by thunder? It is true some philosophers regard these flashes of
heat lightning as the reflection on atmospheric strata more or less
elevated, of the flashes of common lightning produced in thunder clouds
hidden by the convexity of the earth. Experiments mentioned by M.
Arago* prove that the feeble light which results from the kindling of
several ounces of powder is reflected very perceptibly by the atmo-
sphere; we may then admit that the reflection, infinitely more bright,
of distant flashes of lightning must produce similar effects. Moreover,
we may observe tnat there exist observations which directly demon-
strate the possibility of this explanation. We find in De Saussure’st
work that on the night of the 10th or 11th of July, 1783, this philo-
sopher, finding himself at the hospital of the Grimsel, with a calm and
clear sky, saw near the horizon, in the direction of Geneva, several
bands of clouds from which darted forth flashes of lightning that pro-
duced no noise. Now, the same night and at the same moment the
city of Geneva experienced a most terrific storm. But if heat light-
ning appears sometimes to derive its origin from atmospheric reflec-
tion, observation shows that in many cases we cannot attribute it to
distant storms. Among others, Schiibler{ states that in some parts
of Wiirtemberg, over an extent of more than 400 square leagues, there
were observed on the night of the 26th of August, 1823, from nine to
eleven o’clock, flashes of lightning ina sky perfectly clear, without the
slighest storm appearing in that whole extent of country. Besides, the
fact that heat lightning is sometimes seen entirely around the horizon,
may alone suffice to demonstrate that it is impossible always to explain
it thus; for it would be necessary to suppose that storms exist at the
same instant and in all directions, from the centre at which the ob-
server is placed in a calm and clear atmosphere, a supposition which
is scarcely admissible. We may remark again that if heat lightning
ordinarily shows itself on the edge of the horizon, it is also sometimes

* Annuaire pour 1838, p. 429. + Voyages dans les Alpes, tom. III, § 1700, p. 470.
{ Journal de Schweigger, tom. XXXI, p. 39. 1824.
366 ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY.

seen at the zenith. A number of physisists likewise regard this phe-
nomenon as existing by itself independently of storms.*

Besides these flashes of heat lightning, frequently in cloudy weather
very bright flashes may be seen to pass through the clouds without
being followed by any noise.t| Perhaps it might be said that the storm
is at too great a distance from the observers to hear the thunder, since,
according to the calculations of M. Aragot a distance of three, four or
five leagues i is sufficient wholly to deaden the noise of the detonations
of the lightning. But to this it may be answered, that during the
same storm and in the same clouds frequent flashes of lightning are
observed to gleam forth, a small number of which only are accom-
panied by thunder. It is true that M. Delezenne§ has given, in a
similar case, an explanation, based on the phenomenon of interference
of the waves of sound; but if this explanation is applicable to the case
in which a flash of lightning without thunder is followed by another
accompanied with noise, we cannot see how it can be admitted when
numerous flashes of lightning succeed each other in silence. Now if
it were well established that there are flashes of lightning without
thunder, would not their existence be irreconcilable with the expla-
nation which regards the sudden re-entrance of the air into the void
left by the flash of lightning as the physical cause of thunder? Obser-
vations on cases of lightning supposed to be without thunder, giving
the heights and distances of the clouds, in which they appear, might
therefore throw some light on the question of the theory of thunder.

Another fact which, if it were confirmed by new observations,
would be no less important in regard to this theory, is that of
the hissing noise by which a flash of lightning was attended, in a
storm which Lee on the road from Avignon to Remoulin on the night
of the TSth or 19th of September, 1840. ‘‘A flash of lightning,’’
says M. Tessan|| in reporting this observation, ‘‘ caused a loud hissing
sound, whtended by a terrific crash of thunder. The flash, the hissing
and the crash appeared to me simultaneous, as well as to two persons
who were with me in the front part of the stage coach; I, however,
believe that it was rather in the order just mentioned in which the
sensations succeeded each other.’’

Whatever explanation of thunder we adopt, we must not neglect
to take into account two remarkable circumstances, which are its
long duration and the successive decrease as well as increase of intensity
which are so frequently renewed during the reverberations of the same
peal. In discussing the point as to what effect echoes may be considered

*Schubler thinks that the flashes of heat lightning are only irradiations of insulated
clouds, surcharged with electricity. MM. Mattenci has sought for the cause in the electricity
accumulated at the surface of certain portions of the earth which have become insulated,
either by the nature of the soil which compose them, or by the effect of the evaporation
which has dried them up. Finally, Brandes believed that the phenomenon of heat light-
ning has some relation to the falling stars.—See Lehrbuch der Meteorologie von Kaemtz,
tom. II, p. 484; Bibliotheque Universelle, Sciences et Arts, tom. XLII, p. 9, 1529; and
Beitrage zur Witterungskunde, p. 354.

+ Annuaire pour 1838, p. 295; Annales de Poggendorf, tom. XLIII, p. 531; 1838, &e.

ft Annuaire pour 1838, p. 442.

§ Traité de Meteorologie, ou Physique du Globe, par Garnier, tom. I, p. 389.

|| Comptes Rendus, tome XII, page 792.
ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY. 367

to have in producing these phenomena, M. Arago* remarks that there
is little hope of arriving at anything decisive on this subject. He
cites the echoes which have continued during half a minute from the
sound of the discharge of a pistol, and from the observations he has
been able to collect, the longest peals of thunder are not more than
thirty-six, forty-one, and forty-five seconds. The objection has been
made that sailors hear the rolling of thunder in the open sea where
then there is no terrestrial object capable of reflecting the sound; but
observation proves that clouds possess, like other bodies, the property
of producing the reflection of sound.+ Nevertheless a remark seems to
prove, according to M. Arago, that the rolling of thunder does not
always result from simple refiected sound when the flashes of lightning
succeed each other in a sky uniformly cloudy. Some are attended by
long reverberations while others are followed only by short and sharp
peals. It is evident that these remarkable differences cannot be ex-
plained by considering the rolling of the thunder as a simple phe-
nomenon of echo.

Recourse has been had to another consideration derived from the
inequality of time which the noise, produced by the displacement of
the air in the different points along the course of a flash of lightning,
takes to reach the ear by which it is perceived. Dr. Robert Hooket
appears to be the first who observed this circumstance ; according to
him the different portions of the long line of the flash being in
general at different distances, the sounds generated, whether succes-
sively or simultaneously, will require different or unequal times to
reach the ear of the observer. Hence the length of the flash of lightning
would determine the duration of a peal of thunder, and to an observer
placed under the line of a flash of lightning, near its middle, the
same peal would produce reverberations only half as long as to one
placed at the extremity of the flash. This explanation, based on the
time necessary for the propagation of sound, has been generally adopted
by philosophers. This also accounts in the most rational manner for
the reverberation of thunder. As for the changes of intensity so fre-
quently mentioned, Helvig§ regards the zigzags of the flash of light-
ning as playing a very important partin this phenomenon. He founds
his opinion on an observation in which he saw a flash of lightning
which, in descending towards the earth made four bends, and pro-
duced as many distinct and well defined explosions, but not all of
the same force. According to him a change in the direction of a
flash of lightning must occasion a change in the sound of the thunder.
And in fact, as M. Arago|| also observes, when a flash of lightning
that is proceeding directly from an observer doubles upon itself for
a moment, it is evidently a necessary result that there will be an
increase of the noise. Farther, this increase will in its turn be fol-
lowed by a sudden decrease, if by a second bend the flash is brought
again to move a little nearer to the visual line, and soon. The changes

* Annuaire pour 1838, page 451.

7 Annales de Chimie et de Physique, tome XX, page 210. 1822.

t The Posthumous Works of Robert Hooke, page 424, London, 1705.
§ Annales de Gilbert, tome LI, page 139.

Annuaire pour 1838, page 456.
p] S
368 ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY.

of intensity in the report may also result, according to M. Kaemtz,*
from the fact that the compression of air must naturally be stronger
towards the apex of the angles where the inflexions of the flash of
lightning take place. There would then be, according to these phi-
losophers, a close connexion between the claps of thunder and the zig-
zags of the streaks of lightning, which it would be important to con-
firm by direct observation.

CHEAP IMVn a Seer

OF THE PRINCIPAL EFFECTS PRODUCED BY LIGHTNING AT THE SURFACE OF
: THE EARTH,

After having followed the lightning in its course through the air
and discussed the phenomena which it presents, it only remains for
us succinctly to state the principal effects which mark its passage to
the surface of the earth.

Definite observations show us that lightning follows the best con-
ductors of electricity which it meets in its passage; that it turns off
from its original course to strike metallic masses behind large piles
of masonry or even inside of them, when a conductor is wanting or does
not offer a passage for its sufficient escape. Though harmless as long
as it passes through a metallic rod of sufficient size, we observe it
issuing from the extremity of the metal by breaking, pulverizing, or
throwing off the substances which oppose its course.

As in the case of the discharge of an electric battery, the lightning
in its passage considerably raises the temperature of the conducting
bodies, and frequently melts or volatilizes them. It is not unim-
portant to know what is the greatest thickness of different metals which
lightning has been known to fuse, and to assign to this phenomenon the
limits that have been observed. M. Arago,{ in his notices on thunder,
directed his attention to this question, and from the sum of the obser-
vations he was able to collect, deduced the following conclusions:
that a flash of lightning could melt completely and through its
whole length a chain of iron 130 fetet long, of which the diameter of
the different links was not above a fourth of an inch; that it might effect
the fusion of a conical bar of copper 9 feet long and one-third of an
inch diameter at the base; that it could also melt a leaden pipe of 3
inches in diameter and half an inch thick ; and, finally, that hghtning
has never yet brought to red heat a bar of iron of half an inch in
‘diameter.

When lightning traverses conducting wires and the heat which it
sets free is not enough to fuse the metal it shortens them. This singular
phenomenon was brought to view by the observation of an English

* Lehrbuch der Meteorologie, tome II, page 434,
+ Annuaire pour 1838, p. 305, &c.
ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY. 369

experimenter, Nairne,* in which the lightning, after having passed
through a tube for conducting rain water, followed a metallic wire,
by the aid of which a person could, without going out of his bed,
open and shut a gate; after the passage of the hghtning it was dis-
covered that this wire was shortened several inches. It is to be
observed that the common electric discharge produces the same effect
as that mentioned by Nairne, which has been proved by M. Edmund
Becquerel.¢+ The latter attributes this phenomenon to the expansive
force of the electric spark.

Another effect of hghtning, not less remarkable, is the magnetic
polarity which it communicates to iron and steel. The packet ship
New York, in May, 1827, exhibited a striking example of this
effect. When this ship reached Liverpool, after having been twice
struck with lightning, Mr. Scoresby{ discovered that the nails of the
partitions and broken panels, the iron work of the masts, the knives
and forks, even the points of the mathematical instruments, had ac-
quired a very decided magnetic power. It has also been observed that
when the lightning passed near the needle of the compass it changes
its magnetism, sometimes entirely destroys it, or reverses the poles.
These ‘effects, which are common to lightning and to ordinary electri-
city, and of which the consequences may be very serious, are not rare ;
the annals of science furnish a great number of examples.

Lightning, in condensing the particles of imperfect conductors of
electricity, sets free sufficient heat to kindle light substances, such as
straw, hay, cotton, &c. In forcing its way through sand to reach a
sheet of water at a certain distance below the surface of the ground,
it instantly fuses together the particles, and gives them the form of
vitrified cylinders, “called fulminating tubes. These tubes, which
are sometimes 30 feet long, 2 inches in outer diameter and a few
lines in the inner diameter, are often divided into fragments by long
transverse fissures and terminated at their lower extremity by several
branches resembling roots. Their inside walls consist of glass uni-
formly brilliant and pure, while their covering is formed of a crust or
grains of agglutinated sand, the color of which varies with the nature
ofthe strata through which the lightning passed. There can remain no
doubt as to the origin of these tubes, especially after the experiments ef
Messrs. Savart, Hachette, and Beudant § These experimenters obtained
tubes of 25 millimetres long with a millimetre of inside diameter, by
causing the discharge of a very strong battery to pass through glass
reduced to powder. Effects of fusion ‘similar to the fulminating tubes
have been observed on the peaks of high mountains ; where the surfaces
of the rocks present balls and vitreous strata, which alike attest the
passage of lightning. ||

Lightning } produces mechanical effects of an astonishing intensity.
Thus when it bursts into a room it almost always displaces or over-
throws the ero and utensils; tears ee, of ghee from

©Philosophical Transé ne Vol. LXXII, Part I, p. 357. 1782.
{Bibliotheque Universelle, nouvelle series, tom. XX, p. 350. 1839.
{Mémoires de Savants étrangers, tom. IV, p. 709. 1833.

§Annales de Chimie et de Physique, tom. XXXVII, p. 319. 1828.
| Voyages dans les Alpes, tom. II, § 1153, p. 608.

24
370 ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY.

the places where they were fixed; raises and transfers to a dis-
tance masses of great weight, and even has been known to tear from
its foundation and transport a whole wall composed of 7,000 bricks,
which would weigh 26 tons. These mechanical effects have been
differently accounted for by physicists. M. Pouillet* thinks that
they cannot be explained by the ordinary laws of electric attrac-
tions ; but that they depend on a difference in the decomposition of
the natural electricities of bodies, according as this takes place by
slow or by sudden action. In the first case the conductibility is suffi-
cient for allowing the displacement of the electric fluids, and they have
time to arrange themselves at the surface, where they exercise against
the air a pressure which is capable of retaining the body in posi-
tion. In the second case, all the atoms of the mass undergo simul
taneously and suddenly a decomposition of their natural electricities ;
they are acted upon with so much violence that the arrangement
required by the laws of equilibrium has not time to be perfected, and
the masses are thus acted upon by forces incomparably greater than
those which tend to retain them in their position.

M. Aragoy has given to these phenomena of transportation pro-
duced by the lightning an entirely different explanation. He admits
that the lightning in its passage through bodies which contain water
developes steaim, the expansive torce of which is exerted in every direc-
tion’; so that, if we conceive of moisture being in the pores or cells of
a free-stone which the lightning strikes, the sudden development of
the vapor will break it, and its fragments will be projected to a dis-
tance in every direction. Under the same circumstances the rapid
transformation into vapor of water mixed with the stratum of the
ground on which the foundations of a house rests will be sufficient,
according to M. Arago, to raise up the building in a single mass and
transport it to a distance. This philosopher refers, to the same cause,
the singular dividing into splinters which wood undergoes when
lightning passes through it. It divides it lengthwise into a multi-
tude of slender laths or very fine splinters, and in green wood
separates the bark from the trunk; the wood, leaves, and bark are often
completely scorched, in consequence of the dispersion of the water,
without presenting any trace of combustion.

It is probable that the expansive force of the vapor produced by the
passage of the electricity through wood may be the cause of the phe-
nomena which is presented when lightning strikes it, since water
which has only reached the temperature of 260° possesses an elastic:
force of 45 atmospheres ; and since the heat developed by lightning in
passing through metallic wires is sufficient to melt them, it must
raise the temperature of the small quantities of water which it meets.
in its passage to a high degree.{ But if the ingenious explanation of

** Elémens de Physique Expérimentale et de Météorologie, tom. I, p. 613.

+ Annuaire pour 1838, page 463.

+t In advancing the same opinion, M. Becquerel thought that we might explain these
phenomena by supposing that the electric discharge meets less resistance in running
through the woody fibres in the direction of length than across them ; this, according
to him, shows an expansive action, and, consequently, a tendency te cleave in the form of
laths. Traité de ]’ Hlectricité et du Magnétisme, tom. VI, 1tre partie, page 167.
ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY. 371

M. Arago is applied without difficulty to the effects which lightning
produces in wood, it does not appear to be the same when we seek
to give account of the transfers effected by the lightning. It is diffi-
cult to conceive how the sudden vaporization of a small quantity of
water placed in the fissures of the body is capable of detaching the
fragments of a weight of more than two hundred pounds and to “send
them forth to a distance of nearly two hundred feet, as observation has
often proved. It is also by having recourse, as M. Pouillet has done,
to electrical attractions that M. Peltier* explains this last phenomenon.
It is known that this philosopher regards a thunder-cloud as having
two distinct electrical tensions: the tension of free electricity at the
surface, and that of electricity retained at the surface of each of the
vesicles of vapor. This latter electricity not being able to participate
in the igneous discharge produced by the former, since it never
leaves the inside of the cloud, continues to act by its tension on terres-
trial bodies, and maintain them, in a free state of contrary electricity.
It is this powerful tension of attraction which, after the igneous dis-
charge caused by the nuturalization of free electricity, produces, ac-
cording to M. Peltier, the raising and transportation of the heavy
objects with which the strokes of lightning are very frequently at-
tended.

[The simple explanation of the phenomena is that the air in the
path of the discharge is instantaneously endowed with an intense re-
pulsive energy, which causes it to expand with explosive violence, and
thus produce the observed mechanical effects. Bek |

Our object being to state only the principal effects of lightning we
shall add but a few words on the disastrous effects which are produced
when the discharge strikes men and animals. Observation teaches
that it kills them, either by producing lesions in the organs and in
the vascular system, or by paralyzing the nervous system; they then
quickly undergo putrefaction, as is the case with all bodies suffer-
ing a violent death. But it sometimes happens that individuals are
struck with lightning without being killed, while other persons are
known to be killed by lightning without being directly struck. The
former fact is to be explained by the consideration that organic bodies
being partial conductors, the electric matter may glide over their
surface without entering their interior; while the latter is referred to
the effect known by the name of the return stroke, the result of
a violent action which takes place in the ponderable elements of
bodies, by the sudden recombination of their natural electricities decom-
posed by the electric induction of the thunder-cloud. Finally, it is
sometimes the case that lightning sets fire to light clothing on an
individual without causing any sensation of burning. This phe-
phenomenon is explained by the property which the electric fiuid has
of setting fire to all fine substances which enter easily into combus-
tion, and of a oy kindling solid substances.

= Observations et Recherches ate sur les Causes qui concourent a la formation
des trombes, page 94; and Comptes Rendus, tom. X, page 202. 1840.
REPORT

OF

RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS.

BY Dr. JOH. MULLER,
PROFESSOR OF PHYSICS AND TECIINOLOGY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF FREIBURG.

[Translated from the German for the Smithsonian Institution.]

_In the portion of the report published this year it has been con-
sidered proper to insert notes rendered necessary by later investigations
or discoveries. These are suitably indicated, and, asa matter of course,
the author should not be held responsible for them. In no case has
the geet been altered with the single exception noted last year,
p. 332. ;

Grorce C. ScHAEFFER.

FIFTH SECTION.
THE CHEMICAL EFFECTS OF THE CURRENT.

§ 171. Daniel’s researches on electrolysis.—It may be considered as
well established that the chemical decomposition produced by the gal-
vanic current is always proportional to the force of the current, and
yet a more accurate examination of the electrolysis of different bodies
has disclosed phenomena which cannot satisfactorily be made to accord
with this law. If the current passes at the same time through a tan-
-gent compass, and through a voltameter, the quantity of detonating
gas evolved is always proportional to the tangent of the angle of de-
flection, whether the fluid in the voltameter be diluted sulphuric acid,
or a solution of phosphoric acid or of sulphate of soda. Casselman
has proved this by a series of accurate experiments in the treatise
already mentioned several times.

This seems, at the first glance, to agree completely with the law of
constant electrolytic action ; but the solution of salt was also decom-
posed, the acid accumulated at the positive, and the base at the nega-
tive pole, and consequently, in addition to the decomposition of water
corresponding to the force of current, a part of the salt was also
acted upon.

Daniell was the first one who accurately observed and investigated
this phenomonon.—(Philos. Transact., 1839, part I, page 97; 1840,
part I, page 209; Pog. An., 1842, sup. vol. p. 565 and p. 580.)
\
RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 373

In the circuit of a battery of thirty constant zinc-copper elements
a decomposing cell of the following construction was inserted. <A
strong glass cylinder of about 14 inches cubic content and closed at
both ends, was cut lengthwise and a porous
clay plate inserted between the two halves ; the
whole was then connected again by means of
brass rings with clamp screws. In each of
the two cells thus formed’a platinum electrode
22 inches long and 1 inch wide was fastened
to a wire passing through the bottom of the
vessel. <A bent glass tube was ground to the
top of each cell for the purpose of conducting
off the evolved gas. <A preliminary experi-
ment showed that after 24 hours only a very
minute quantity of distilled water passed from one cell into the other.
Figure 156 is a sketch of this apparatus.

The first experiment with this apparatus was the following: Both
cells were filled with a solution of sulphate of soda so that the
electrodes were just covered ; the apparatus was then kept in connexion
with the battery until the evolved gases amounted to 29 cubic inches,
(corrected for pressure and temperature 28.3 cubic inches.) There
were, therefore, 3.6 grains of water decomposed.

The solution at the negative pole was strongly alcaline; it was
carefully drawn off with a glass syphon, and saturated with sul-
phuric acid of known strength, and was thus found to contain 12
erains of free soda. The solution at the positive pole was acid, and
by saturating it with a solution of carbonate of soda 15.1 grains of
free sulphuric acid were found.

If, now, the atomic weight of oxygen be taken at 100, that of water
will be 112.5, that of sulphuric acid 500, and that of soda 390.
Hence result the following proportions :

T1225) 8000 — 300 to
andl i2cos wo U0 = ons LO

For one equivalent of the water decomposed, therefore, in one of
the cells, nearly one equivalent of sulphuric acid has been separated,
and in the other nearly one equivalent of soda.

Several experiments with other salts gave the same result. But
this experiment furnishes no datum for determining the relation of
the chemical decomposition to the force of current. This relation
would have been simply and precisely ascertained if, in addition to
the decomposing cell, a tangent compass had been inserted in the
circuit. Itis to be regretted that this instrument appears to be so
little known in England, or at least very little use is made of it.
Daniell inserted into the circuit, instead of it, a voltameter filled with
dilute sulphuric acid, and found equal quantities of detonating gas
evolved in the voltameter and in the cell with sulphate of soda; but
it appeared that, besides the decomposition of water, still another
effect had taken place in the voltameter, for the acid had accumulated
at the positive pole. For this reason Daniell examined more accu-
rately the decomposition of dilute sulphuric acid in a decomposing

Fig. 156.

374 RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS.

cell with a porous diaphragm, and found, after the evolution of a
certain quantity of gas represepting one equivalent of water, on the
side of the positive pole about one-fourth an equivalent of sulphuric
acid more, and on that of the negative pole one-fourth an equivalent
less than before the experiment. In this case, therefore, besides the
decomposition of water, a separation of water from sulphuric acid had
taken place analogous to the decomposition of the salt, though only
to the amount of one-fourth an equivalent.

This transmission of sulphuric acid to the amount of nearly one-
fourth an equivalent of the decomposed water was independent of the
degree of concentration of the acid. Daniell modified the experiment
in various ways, but always obtained the same result.

A voltameter filled with sulphuric acid, therefore, is not applicable
for measuring the force of current passing through the solution of
sulphate of soda.

Besides the double cell with the solution of the salt, Daniell then
introduced, in addition, fused chloride of lead in the circuit of
the battery. It was placed in a bent tube of (green) glass, free from
lead, above a spirit lamp; a platinum wire in the fused chloride of
lead served as the negative pole, while the positive was formed of
plumbago. At the latter chlorine gas was evolved ; upon the former
the reduced lead was deposited.

Here the following remarkable result was obtained: For one equiva-
lent of chloride of lead decomposed, in the other cell one equivalent
of water, and in addition to this one equivalent of salt were decom-
posed. According to the usual acceptation, therefore, it would appear
that in the cell with the solution of salt there was a chemical action
twice as great as that produced by the same current in the cell with
the chloride of lead; this is in direct contradiction to the law of con-
stant electrolytic action.

In order to avoid this contradiction, Daniell considers the consti-
tution of salts from a quite novel point of view. He considers, for
instance, the sulphate of soda not as immediately formed by the com-
bination of acid and base, but assumes the electro-negative constituent
of the salt to be one equivalent of sulphur with four equivalents of
oxygen, while the positive is only sodium.

According to this view, therefore,

Sulphate of soda is not SO,. Na.O, but SO,. Na.
Sulphate of potassa is not SO;. KO, but SO,. K.
Nitrate of potassa is not NO,. KO, but NO,. K.
Phosphate of soda is not PO3. Na.O, but POZ. Na.
Sulphate of copper is not SO,. Cu.O, but SO,. Cu.

If the current pass through the solution of such a salt it is not the
water but the salt which is decomposed into the constituents just
named. In the electrolysis of the sulphate of soda, therefore, SO, is
produced at the positive pole as a direct effect of the electrolysis, from
which (by a secondary action) O is immediately set free, leaving SO, ;
while at the other pole the Na. separated takes oxygen from the water,
and in this way liberates for each equivalent of Na. an equivalent of
RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS, 375

hydrogen ; while the Na O, produced by secondary action, remains in
the solution.

The electrolysis of sulphate of copper proceeds in the same manner;
with this difference only, that the copper, reduced at the negative
pole, is not immediately oxydized again, and therefore evolves no
hydrogen, but is deposited at the negative pole in the metallic con-
dition.

Daniell also proposes a new nomenclature corresponding to this
theoretical view of the constitution of the inorganic salts. He desig-
nates, for instance, the combination SO, as oxysulphion, NO, as
oxynitrion, &¢.

According to this view, sulphate of copper is equal to oxysulphion
of copper ; nitrate of potassa 1s equal to oxynitrion of potassium, &c.

The experiments with a saturated solution of sal ammoniac perfectly
agree with the supposition that sal ammoniac is chloride of ammo-
nium, viz: that it is composed of the simple anion, (the negative con-
stituent,) Cl., (chlorine,) and the compound kathion, (the positive
constituent,) NH,, (ammonium.) ‘The positive pole, made of tin,
was dissolved ; while at the negative hydrogen and ammonia were
liberated, proceeding from the decomposition of NH, into NH, and
H. Sulphate of ammonia is, accordingly, oxysulphion of ammonium,
SO,. NH,.

These views also lead to the generalization of the theory of hydrogen
acids, which has been repeatedly discussed by chemists, according to
which the oxygen acids, containing water, are like the hydrogen acids,
binary compounds of hydrogen, with a radical ; thus, sulphuric acid
would be SO,. H.

Between hydrate of sulphuric acid SO,. H and sulphate of soda
SO,.Na, therefore, the same relation would exist as between muriatic
acid Cl.H and table salt Cl.Na; the H being only replaced by Na.

But the above mentioned experiments on the electrolysis of dilute
sulphuric acid do not fully agree with this view.

If the hydrate of sulphuric acid really is oxysulphion of hydrogen,
then it must by electrolysis be decomposed into H and SO,; but the
oxysulphion, liberated at the positive pole, is immediately decomposed
into SO, and O, the latter escaping as gas, while SO, remains in the
fluid ; therefore for each equivalent of hydrogen liberated at the nega-
tive electrode, and for each equivalent of oxygen at the positive, an
equivalent of sulphuric acid SO, ought to appear at the positive pole ;
but, according to the above quoted experiments, after electrolysis only
4 equivalent SO, more is to be found in the positive cell than had
been there before.

The experiment was modified in various ways, but always with the
same result. Phosphoric acid behaved in like manner.

By electrolysis the quantity of phosphoric acid in the positive cell
was only augmented by } equivalent. A similar experiment, made
with a solution of caustic potassa, showed that while 1 equivalent of
water was decomposed, somewhat less than ¢ equivalent of potassa was
transferred to the negative pole.

Baryta water gave results similar to those obtained with caustic
potassa. ;,
376 RECENT PROGRESS IN PILYSICS.

It would have been a great support for Daniell’s view if he had
succeeded in isolating the hypothetical oxysulphion SO,. In order to
attain this, if possible, he experimented with dilute sulphuric and
phosphoric acids, and with a solution of sulphate of soda in an
U shaped decomposing cell, provided with a diaphragm below, the
leg containing the positive pole being cooled down to o°F’, in order,
by this low temperature, to prevent the decomposition of SO, But
these experiments did not give the desired result.

Daniell then experimented with solutions of acid salts. He pre-
pared a solution of bi-sulphate of potassa. After electrolysis it was
found that for each equivalent of hydrogen evolved at the negative
pole one equivalent of oxygen had escaped at the positive pole, but
that the cell at the negative pole contained only + equivalent of
potassa, and that at the positive pole } equivalent of sulphuric acid
more than before, or, in other words, that for one equivalent of water
decomposed + equivalent of potassa had been transferred to the nega-
tive, and 4 equivalent of sulphuric acid to the positive pole.

This result appears, at the first glance, very complicated, but
Daniell succeeded in suggesting a simple explanation. Let us assume
that the fluid consists of 3 electrolytes, water, neutral sulphate of
potassa, and hydrate of sulphuric acid, or, according to Daniell’s
designation, OH, SO,K and SO,H. If, now, the current is so divided
that one-half is conducted through HO, one-fourth through SO,K,
and one-fourth through SO,H, the direct results of the decomposition
will be:

At the positive pole— At the negative pole.
From OH
4 equiv. O, 2 equiv. H,
From S0,K
t+ equiv. SO,, 4 equiv. K,
From 80,8
4 equiv. SO,, + equiv. H.

By the secondary effect the one-fourth equivalent of K takes up +
equivalent O to form + equivalent KO, and thereby + equivalent of
His liberated; but at the other side SO, separates into SO, and O,
and thus we have:

At the positive pole— At the negative pole—
4 equiv. O, 4 equiv. H,
4 equiv. SO, + + equiv. O, i equiv. KO + 4 equiv. H,
4 equiv, SO, + 4 equiv. O, + equiv. H,
4 equiv. SO, + 1 equiv. O, 1 equiv. KO + 1 equiv. H,

which, in fact, perfectly agrees with the results of the experiment.
This, also, gave the key to the explanation of the decomposition of

diluted sulphuric acid; it is a compound electrolyte, consisting of

water and hydrate of sulphuric acid. The current is so divided that
RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. Si bi |

$ of it is conducted by the water, and } by the hydrate of sulphuric
acid, and thus we obtain :

At the positive pole— At the negative pole—
2 equiv. O, 2 equiv. H,
4 equiv. SO,, + equiv. H,
and by the decomposition of SO,:
At the positive pole— At the negative pole—
3 equiv. O, 2 equiv. H,
4 equiv. SO, + + equiv. O, + equiv. H,
z equiv. SO, + 1 equiv. O, ) Apequring. Fi

exactly as demonstrated by the experiment.

In support of his view of the electrolysis of acid salts Daniell also
mentions the fact, that from a neutral solution of sulphate of copper
the metal is deposited in a compact mass at the negative pole, and
firmly adheres to it ; while the copper is depusited in a more pulveru-
lent state when reduced from a strongly acid solution.

In the neutral solution only 8O,Cu. is decomposed, and therefore
only Cu. deposited at the platinode; while in an acid solution HO and
8O,H are also electrolized, and, therefore, besides Cu., H is also libe-
rated at the negative pole.

Daniell also relates some additional observations on the electrolysis
of secondary combinations. He examined carbonate of potassa, of soda,
and of ammonia, and found that the carbonic acid and oxygen, both
given off as gas at the positive pole, were equivalent to the alkali and
hydrogen at the negative pole. He considers, therefore, the carbo-
nates as oxycarbonions of potassium, sodium, ammonium, &c.

Nore.—|Daniell’s theory of the constitution of salts, although
affording, as far as it goes, a simple explanation of the phenomena
of electrolysis, is not adopted by chemists at the present time. The
theory now becoming general is one which, while it is perfectly in
accordance with the whole range of chemical facts, explains, as well
as that of Daniell’s, everything relating to electrolysis, but is sus-
ceptible of far greater extension. In this view salts are considered
not as made up of two pre-existing substances, but as a whole, a form
or type dependent upon laws of nature which we can yet but partly
determine. The general expression for a salt will then be R. M., or,
rather, R. Mn., in which M. represents a metal, or hydrogen, (a metal,)
which may be replaced by any other metal. RK, in this case, repre-
sents that element, or those elements, which combine with a metal or
metals so replaceable. This view is only an extension of that of Davy,
which, by a splendid generalization, includes the so-called haloid
salts—the chlorides, iodides, &c.—under a common head with the
salts of, what are called, oxygen acids. A departure from this view
at one time led to the separation of common salt (chloride of sodium)
from the very family to which it gave name, and involved an intricate
and circuitous explanation of phenomena which were evidently iden-
tical.

But the theory of the constitution of salts to which we refer not

~
378 RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS.

only embraces Davy’s views, but goes still farther. It not only in-
cludes, under a common expression, the salts and the acids, but also
the oxides. In this relation it must be distinctly understood that,
while the type exists as a whole, and the replaceable metal is also
that which, as an element, may be separated from the type, it is by
no means necessary that the remaining elements should be, together,
capable of a separate existence. Before carrying out this theory in
its application to the phenomena of electrolysis, we should, as a bare
act of justice, state that it is mainly due to the labors of Laurent and
Gerhardt, chemists, who have gained the noble but uncoveted distine-
tion that they have attained their greatest reputation when they
have—died.

It is also not a little remarkable that the views of these chemists
should now be quoted as supporting a correct idea of electrolysis,
when their chief labor was to overthrow the so-called electro-chemical
theory. It is quite possible that some other generalization may cause
both theories to coincide, (a clue to which has been furnished by these
chemists ;) but, meanwhile, it is highly instructive to learn that
where the nature and reaction of various elements are concerned true
chemical philosophy is able to assert and maintain its own dominion.

To proceed to details without entering into unnecessary refine-
ments, we shall show the electrolytic action upon the salt type, always
presupposing the indifference of either electrode to the substances
evolved, the metal (or the hydrogen) being eliminated at one pole and
the residue at the other, and no secondary effect being produced. As
instances of the simplest case we have the following:

From O.H., H. is removed, and O., the residue, is given off at the other pole.
From Cl. H., H. is removed, and Cl., the residue, is given off at the other pole.
From Cl. Cu., Cu. is removed, and Cl., the residue, is given off at the other pole.

Of these water is the most stable compound, and is, therefore, de-
composed with the greatest difficulty.

But, carrying out this view, such compounds as Cl. Cu.,, &c., are
still considered as belonging to the same type; but the metal is
regarded as entering into combination with a new equivalent, which
is either a simple multiple or fraction of that which usually occurs.
This hypothesis, advanced without reference to electrolysis, is strik-
ingly corroborated by the experiments of Becquerel, noticed further on.

But if, with many chemists, we consider water to be O H,, the
ordinary oxides O M,, (and this is in accordance with the physical
properties of the elements,) we will have O M H as a hydrated
oxide, which, in the case of O K H, will be more readily decomposed
than water alone.

In the instances above given we have noticed only such cases of the
saline type, which, on the abstraction of the metallic element, leave a
residue, itself an element and capable of a separate existence. But
in the ‘‘ oxygen acids’’ the residue is not capable of a separate exist-
ence and breaks up into such compounds, or compounds and elements,
as can exist. As representatives of this class we haveS O,H, or
generally 8 O, M, from which H or M being taken, the residue
cannot remain as such, but O is given off and S O, unites with water

YY
RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS, at9

and remains in solution. Pure 8 O, H (concentrated sulphuric acid)
does not afford the water, and the remaining S O, is decomposed by a
secondary action.

We are thus able to represent equally well the increased facility of
decomposition of water, either by the addition of an acid or of an
alkali, (in the latter case secondary action may, however, take place,)
and this, too, from a purely chemical point of view, chosen without
reference to electrolytic action.

One further remark is required. In the salt type N H, is capable
of taking the place of a metal; this is simply a statement of the fact,
but in electrolysis this substitution for the metallic element is with-
drawn instead of the metals but not being capable of an independent
existence, (under the circumstances, if at all,) it appears in the form
of hydrogen and ammonia N H,-+ H. We do not pretend to follow
out the cases in which one or more of the equivalents of the hydrogen
of the N H, are replaced by some other elements which experience has
shown can be introduced instead of them. The mode of reasoning
and the consequences will be similar.

It will not be difficult, by carrying out the same theory of the com-
position of salts to explain the electrolysis of the phosphates and
arseniates, noticed in a subsequent part of this report.

Daniell’s views, then, are correct, as far as they go, in showing the
manner in which salts are broken up in eleltrolysis, but they are in
error in considering that the two parts into which the salt is broken
are two distinct swostances which are capable of independent existence.
Hence the failure of Daniell in his attempts to isolate his ‘‘ Oxysul-
phion,’’ S O,, a compound incapable of independent existence.

The difference between these two theories of the constitution of
salts, beyond the important fact that one is far more general than the
other, may by some be considered as trivial; but this is not the case,
for at least one valuable result is obtained, that chemists are relieved
from the opprobrium of describing and descanting upon the important
properties of certain compounds which they cannot produce and which
the most intelligent among them do not deem capable of production
or of independent existence.

In commencing this note the intention was simply to announce that
the hypothesis of Daniell, as to the constitution of salts, was not in.
accordance with the commonly received opinion of chemists of the
present day, and to follow out the latter, with reference to the phe-
nomena of electrolysis, to what were deemed their inevitable results.
But, upon examination, it does not appear that any formal announce-
ment of the concordance of the present views of chemists with the laws
of electrolysis has been made, though doubtless every intelligent man
has followed up this concordance, for it is inevitable. This reflects
greater credit upon those who have, in a more advanced state of the
science, announced correct purely chemical theories, and upon Davy,
who, at a much earlier period, gave the hint of, possibly, a far higher
generalization, while still much credit is due to Daniell for leading
back the scientific world to sounder views.—G. C. 8. ]

§ 172. Deposits upon diaphragms.—In the memoir just discussed
Daniell also describes some very interesting phenomena, the considera-

+
380 RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS.

tion of which, to avoid interruptions, we have deferred, viz: the
deposits upon the diaphragms and the accumulation of the fluid at the
negative pole.

Faraday had already found by placing the positive pole in a con-

Fig. 187. centrated solution of sulphate of magnesia
oly and the negative in water floating upon that
wi solution, (the experiment being most con-
veniently made in the manner indicated by
“igure 157,) that by the passage of a very
powerful current magnesia was deposited
at the surface of contact of the two fluids. In
,. the water oxygen passes toward the + pole
and in the solution of sulphate of magnesia
magnesium toward the — pole; and when
they meet each other at the dividing surface of the two fluids they
combine to form magnesia, which is precipitated. Similar observa-
tions are noticed by Daniell, in the above mentioned memoir.

He filled a glass cylinder, closed at the bottom by means of a piece of
bladder, with a dilute solution of caustic potassa, and suspended it so
that it just dipped below the surface of a concentrated neutral solution
of sulphate of copper in a wider glass vessel. He then placed the
negative pole of a battery of twenty cells in the solution of potassa
and the positive in that of the sulphate of copper. At the negative
pole hydrogen was evolved, at the positive oxygen, while the bladder,
from which also some gas arose, was copiously coated with metallic
copper interspersed with oxide of copper and blue hydrated oxide.
This action is thus explained. The sulphate of copper is decomposed
into S O, and Cu.; the former passes to the positive pole, the latter to the
bladder, where it is arrested, and gives up its charge to the hydrogen
of the other electrolyte, the solution of potassa, which then passes on
to the negative pole and is evolved. On the other hand, the oxygen of
the solution of potassa on its way towards the positive pole is arrested
by the bladder, transfers its charge to the 8 O, passing in the same
direction, and combines with the copper it meets at the bladder.
But this action is too rapid for this combination to be complete, a
part of the copper is precipitated in the metallic state upon the blad-
der, while a part of the oxygen escapes as gas.

In fact, the metallic copper diminishes in quantity as the force of
current decreases. With feebler currents the bladder was covered with
a thick coating of oxide of copper, in which only a few spangles of
metallic copper were visible.

From nitrate of silver much metallic silver was deposited upon the
membrane, mixed with oxide of silver. Gas, too, was disengaged
from the diaphragm. The whole of the oxygen was not evolved at
the positive pole, but a part of it combined by secondary action with
the oxide of silver in the solution to form a peroxide.

Nitrate of lead gave similar results. Proto-nitrate of mercury
exhibited the most remarkable phenomenon. Not only were globules
of mercury formed upon the membrane, but a shower of small globules
fell from the diaphragm throughout the experiment.

$173. Accumulation of fluid at the negative pole.—Porret first ob-

RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 381

served that fluids are transferred without any decomposition from one
electrode to the other.—(Ann. of Philos., Jul., 1816; Pogg. Ann. XII.,
618.) He divided a glass vessel by a diaphragm of bladder into two
cells, filled them with water, and suspended in each a platinum plate
connected with the poles of a battery of 80 pairs. In this way nearly
the whole of the fluid was transferred to the negative cell. This effect
did not take place when the conducting power of the water was
improved by the addition of sulphuric acid. Daniell used distilled
water in his decomposing cell. On connecting it with a battery of 30
cells, a few bubbles only appeared at the electrodes, but none was
disengaged, (in this case again the insertion of a tangent compass
would have been very desirable;) but after 40 minutes the fluid at the
negative pole was § inch higher than at the positive. When a little
freshly pr ecipitated alumina was diffused in the water at the positive
pole, a portion of this finely divided solid matter evidently passed
with the water to the negative pole. When the cell was filled with
a mixture of 8 parts of water and one of sulphuric acid, no change of
level took place. But nevertheless this phenomenon does not depend
upon the conducting power, for it frequently appears with saline solu-
tions, which conduct well, even in a higher degree than with pure
water.

When the cell with the porous diaphragm contained sulphate of
soda, the fluid in the negative cell rose 14 inch, while nine cubic
inches of oxygen were liberated there; with phosphate of soda the
difference in height was 2 inches. Nitrate of potasa produced this
transfer in a much less degree.

In order to ascertain whether in this process of transfer the entire
fluid was carried overt or only the salt, or the water, Daniell examined
the specific gravity before and after the experiment without finding
any perceptible difference.

Whatever may be the immediate cause of this phenomenon, it appears
to have some analogy with the translation of good conducting sub-
stances, which in the formation of the luminous Voltaic arc serve as
a continuous connexion between the two poles, Daniell believes that
this process has no relation to endosmosis.

§174. Electrolysis of polybasic salts.—-Daniell in connexion with Miller
extended his researches on electrolysis to still more complicated cases.
(Philos. Transact., f. 1844, pt. I; Pogg. Ann. LXIV, 18.) Of these
we shall now consider more in detail the electrolysis of the different
modifications of the phosphates. But to make these interesting phe-
nomena intelligible to those not familiar with the constitution of the
phosphates, I shall briefly explain the most important part of the
theory, referring for an exceedingly clear exposition of the subject to
Otto & Greham’s Lehrbuch der Chemie, 2d edition, second volume, page
380.

The common phosphoric acid PO, forms, with soda, three different
salts, viz:

SNE Oe POyysavncess alate 1)
DN CEO PBOL koddith nets. on.
Wi MO2EIOs Bo: mesacsesdoeretetts ics 3)

the second of which is the common officinal phosphate of soda; it was
382 RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS.

formerly called the neutral, while the first was designated as the basic,
and the last as the acid salt. |

In No. 2, HO, and in No. 3, 2HO are essential constituents of the
salt, HO takes the place of one equivalent of base, and thus in all
ee cases one equivalent of acid is combined with three equivalents
of base.

If a solution of acetate of lead is added to that of No. 2, a precipi-
tate of phosphate of lead is produced, which also contains three equiva-
lents of base to one of acid, and therefore consists of 3 PCO, PO,.

A solution of nitrate of silver precipitates from a solution of No. 2
the tri-basic phosphate of silver 3 A,O, PO,, which is distinguished
by its yellow color.

This modification of phosphoric acid, which is characterized by
always saturating three equivalents of bases, is therefore called tribasic
phosphoric acid, and is also designated as c phosphoric acid. If three
equivalents of bases are replaced by three equivalents of water, this
combination gives the ¢ hydrate, the ter-hydrate, or the tri-basic hy-
drate of phosphoric acid.

When the common phosphate of soda 2 N,OHO, PO, is ignited its
nature is entirely changed. After being re-dissolved it gives crystals of
an entirely different salt, which was formerly denominated pyro-phos-
phate of soda. By ignition, the equivalent of basic water has been
expelled, and thereby a salt obtained which has only two equivalents
of soda for one equivalent of PO,, or is 2 N,O, PO..

On adding acetate of lead bi-basic phosphate of lead is precipitated
2 PCO, PO,, which, when decomposed by sulphuretted hydrogen, gives
the solution of the bi-basic or b phosphoric acid.

Graham considers this dilute acid as the solution of the hydrate
2 HO, PO,, which he denominates deuto-hydrate of phosphoric acid.

When this acid is saturated with bases two equivalents of the base
always combine with one equivalent of acid. The 6 phosphate of soda
gives by the addition of nitrate of silver a white precipitate of 6 phos-
phate of silver, while the tri-basic silver salt has, as already men-
tioned, a yellow color.

By igniting the salt, formerly known by the name of acid phosphate
of soda, N,O.2HO, PO,, the two equivalents of water are expelled,
and the mono-basic phosphate or a phosphate of soda remains N,O,
PO,. By adding acetate of lead or nitrate of silver the corresponding
lead and silver salts are obtained PCO, PO,, and A,O, PO,. ‘Lhese
salts are distinguished by their gelatinous character.

The hydrate of the mono-basic, or a phosphoric acid, or the proto-
hydrate of phosphoric acid is also distinguished from the other hydrates
of the same acid by producing a white precipitate in a solution of
albumen.

The a and } hydrates of phosphoric acid are converted into common
phosphoric acid by heating their solutions.

We will now proceed to Daniell’s and Miller’s experiments on the
electrolysis of the phosphates. A strong solution of tri-basic phos-
phate of soda and water 2 N, OHO, PO, was poured into the negative
side of the double cell, and a dilute solution of soda into the other.
On passing the current from a constant battery of 20 cups, oxygen was

4
'
4

/

!
RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 383

evolved at the positive, hydrogen at the negative pole. The current
was interrupted after 48 cubic inches of hydrogen had been obtained.
The fluid in the cell at the positive pole, carefully saturated with
nitrid acid, gave with nitrate of silver a copious yellow precipitate, c
phosphoric acid had, therefore, evidently been carried to the positive
cell.

A like result was obtained, when instead of the salt 2 NOHO, PO,
a solution of 3 N.O, PO, was put into the negative cell; in this case,
too, after the termination of the electrolysis tri-basic phosphoric acid
was found in the negative cells. But when, on the other hand, a
solution of the bi-basic phosphate of soda 2 N,O, PO, was used on the
side of the negative pole, after the termination of the electrolysis it
was found that 6 phosphoric acid had been transferred to the solution
of soda of the positive cell, for the fluid, when neutralized with nitric
acid, gave, on the addition of nitrate of silver, a white precipitate.

Finally, a solution of the mono-basic phosphate of soda N,O, PO,
was electrolized under the same circumstances, and the fiuid of the
positive pole yielded with nitrate of silver, after the termination of
the electrolysis, a white gelatinous precipitate, thereby proving that
a phosphoric acid had been transferred to the positive cell.

Here we have the remarkable phenomenon that the same body PO,
with equal composition occurs in different modifications, conditions
usually ascribed to an allotropic state; PO, saturates, according to
circumstances, one or two or three equivalents of base. In the elec-
trolysis of phosphates the phosphoric acid always appears at the posi-
tive electrode in the same modification in which it was present in the
salt of the negative cell. From a tri-basic salt ¢ phosphoric acid is
transferred to the positive electrode, from a bi-basic salt ¢ phosphoric
acid, and from a mono-basic salt a phosphoric acid.

The view of the constitution of the salts to which Daniell was led
by his experiments on electrolysis, and which has been explained in
§ 171, isin perfect agreement with the electrolytic relations of the
phosphates when considered in connexion with the above described pe-
culiarities of these salts.

According to this theory we must consider

3 Na O, P O, as Na,+P O,, Tritoxyphosphion of Sodium,
2 Na O, PO, as Na,4 P O,, Deutoxyphosphion of Sodium,
Na O, PO, as Na+P O,, Protoxyphosphion of Sodium.

In the electrolysis of Tritoxyphosphion of Sodium, Na, is liberated
at the negative pole, while P QO, passes to the positive. By the oxy-
dation of the three equivalents of Na, three equivalents of H are
evolved at the negative pole, while at the other pole three equivalents
H combine with P O, to form H,+P O,, that is the Zer- or Trito-hy-
drate, so that three equivalents of oxygen must necessarily escape at
the positive pole.

In the electrolysis of the Deutoxyphosphion of Sodium, P O. passes
to the positive pole and evolves two equivalents of oxygen, by com-
bining with H, to form H,+P O,, that is Deutohydrate, while at the
other pole two equivalents of Sodium are formed and two equivalents
of hydrogen evolved.
384 RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS,

In the electrolysis of the monobasic salt, PO, goes to the positive
pole and forms the protohydrate H+ P O,.

§ 175. Electrolysis of arsenites and sulphites.—The English physi-
cists next directed their attention to the electrolysis of salts whose
acids had a lower degree of oxygenation than those already examined.

The negative cell was charged with a solution of arsenite of potassa,
(K O-+As O,,) the positive with a solution of potassa. At the positive
pole oxygen was evolved, but no hydrogen appeared at the negative
pole, the electrode being covered with metallic arsenic. According to
Daniell’s view, K was liberated in the negative cell by electrolysis,
and by its oxydation enabled the corresponding H to reduce the arse-
nious acid ; As O, was transferred to the positive cell, one equivalent of
oxygen liberated and the remaining arsenious acid formed with the
potassa present arsenite of potassa.

Sulphite of potassa (K O+8 O,) in both the cells gave hydrogen at
the negative, but no oxygen at the positive pole ; sulphuric acid was
produced in the positive cell, which by acting upon the sulphite evolved
some sulphurous acid, K was liberated by the current at one pole and
hydrogen evolved by its oxydation ; SO,+-O, designated by Daniell
as Suboxysulphion, was transferred to the other and appeared there as

Hyposulphite of Soda (Na O-+8, O, gave similar results. Hydrogen
was evolved at the negative pole, and no gas at the positive pole, but
a strong smell of sulphurous acid was perceived there, accompanied by
a gradual deposit of sulphur. 8, O,4+-O passes to the positive pole, is
decomposed into 8+8S0.,, and by the action of the sulphuric acid upon
the surrounding salt sulphurous acid is evolved.

The experiments on the electrolysis of the yellow and red prussiate
of potash we cannot discuss in this place.

§ 176. Transfer of the bases.—In the electrolysis of the phosphates
the acid was carried into the positive cell filled with a solution of soda.
Daniell next endeavored, inversely, to transfer the bases of the posi-
tive cell into the negative one filled with acid. With a solution of
sulphate of copper and potassa Cu O.$O,+Kh 0.8 O, only traces of
copper were carried to the negative cell and deposited at the negative
pole, but it was found that, compared with the gases evolved, } equiv.
of potassa had been transferred to the negative cell.

A solution of sulphate of alumina and potassa (ulum, Al, O,, 35 O,
+ K0O.S80O,) gave similar results; potassa was transferred to the
negative cell in the same proportion as in the previous experiment,
but no alumina.

From a solution of sulphate of magnesia and potassa (Mg O. 8 0,
K O. 8 O,) in like manner only potassa was carried over with a minute
quantity of magnesia.

Instead of the double-salts a series of solutions of sesquisulphate of
alumina (Al, O,.88O,,) of sesquisulphate of iron (Fe, 0,3. 8 O,) and
sulphate of copper (Cu O. 8 O,) were next introduced into the positive
cell and the negative charged with diluted sulphuric acid. Neither
alumina nor oxide of iron or copper passed in perceptible quantities
into the negative cell. Both the cells were then filled with a solution
of sulphate of copper. The metal precipitated at the negative pole,
RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 85

Go

the solution was deprived of copper ; one equivalent of sulphuric acid
had passed into the other cell, but the quantity of copper contained
in it remained unchanged ; no copper, therefore, had been transferred
from the positive to the negative cell.

Sulphate of zinc acted in the same manner.

But these results are not to be attributed to the influence of the dia-
phragm. When a long syphon tube reversed was filled with a solu-
tion of sulphate of copper and at the ends two strips of the same metal
were immersed as electrodes, the color of the fluid became lighter at
the negative and darker at the positive pole.

‘« By this it appears demonstrated,’’ says Daniell, ‘‘ that the metals,
which are capable of decomposing water at ordinary temperatures, or
whose oxides are largely soluble in water, are susceptible of transfer-
ence in the Voltaic circuit from the zincode (positive) to the planti-
node (negative pole,) while those which are not marked by this strong
affinity for oxygen remain stationary.”’

On impartially considering the circumstance that some bases, by the
electrolysis of the solutions of their salts, do not pass to the negative
pole, the idea occurs that, in this case, the salt is not directly electro-
lized, and does not conduct the current, but that its decomposition is
only a secondary phenomenon. When metallic copper is precipitated
from a solution of sulphate of copper at the negative pole, while no
copper is coming from, but one equivalent of sulphuric acid is passing
to the positive pole, it can scarcely be otherwise explained than by
supposing that SO,H is directly electrolized ; H goes to the negative
pole and reduces one equivalent of copper there, SO, to the positive and
evolves one equivalent O, leaving one equivalent SO, behind. This, it
is true, is not in agreement with Duniell’s views as explained in § 171,
which, however, apply to all those cases where the bases of the de-
composed salt also suffers a transfer, as, for instance, in the electrolysis
of KO + SO,.

§177. Becquerel’s researches on the laws of electro-chemical decomposi-
tion.—The younger Becquerel has also instituted interesting researches
on the laws of electrolysis, (Ann. de Chim. et de Phys. Ser. UI, T. XI,
pp. 162 and 257; an abstract in Pogg. Ann. LXV, 461.) Faraday
had stated, as a principle, that of the different combinations which
may take place between two elements only those are decomposed by
the current which consist of an equal number of equivalents of either.

Matteucci had already demonstrated the probability that this prin-
ciple was not generally applicable, (Bibl. Univers. Ser. nouv., T. X XI,
p. 153,) and Becquerel has by numerous experiments removed all
remaining doubts upon the subject.

Becquerel first examined several chlorides of metals in the state of
fusion as well as in saturated aqueous solutions. In using the fused
chlorides the accuracy of the result was disturbed by the circumstance
that the chlorine evolved at the positive pole, becoming diffused
through the fluid, in part re-dissolved the metal precipitated at the
negative pole, thereby making the quantity obtained always too small.
For this reason Becquerel mostly employed the metallic chlorides
dissolved in suitable fluids, after having satisfied himself that as much
metal is precipitated from the solutions as from the fused chlorides,

25
386 RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS.

and also that in these solutions the chloride of the metal only is electro:
lized and not the water, for chlorine was always evolved at the posi-
tive pole and not oxygen, as would have been the case if the water,
even in part only, had been electrolized.

The solution to be examined was contained in two vessels connected
by a syphon, each of which received an electrode. The negative
electrode was usually of platinum, while for the positive electrode
either this or other metals were used. |

If the solution was liable to be decomposed by the air it was covered
with a bell-glass, which could either be exhausted or filled with an
indifferent gas.

Besides this decomposition apparatus a voltameter was inserted into
the circuit; the battery usually consisted of 30 feebly charged elements.

The following table gives the results of a series of experiments :

PRECIPITATED METAL.
Dissolved in | Water decom-
posed.

Computed. Found.

Milligrammes. | Milligrammes. | Milligrammes.
3 25

‘Chioride/of tin, Sn@l- 22-25-2522 Water.....- -81
silver; AgClonoocoee Ammonia- .- 1. 29 11595 4) 16.5
iron, eClESa) seeree Waterseesee ed 4.6 5.0
Chloride of copper, Cu,Cl------- Muriatic acid 1.93 6.78 Ne BE:
antimony, Sb,Cl, -.-|----- do. sees 11.0 78.8 51.5
The same, second experiment ~--]----- dosaie 1. 29 OZ 6.06

—

The 3d column gives the quantity of water decomposed in the vol-
tameter; the 4th, that of the metal which should have been pre-
cipitated at the negative electrode if for every equivalent of water
decomposed 1 equivalent of metal were deposited; the 5th column
shows the quantity actually precipitated.

In the first three cases 1 equivalent of metal, in fact, was precipi-
tated at the negative pole of the decomposing apparatus for 1 equiva-
lent of water decomposed in the voltameter; but in all these cases
the electrolized chlorides consisted of 1 equivalent of metal and one
of chlorine.

The chloride of copper contains 2 equivalents of metal to one of
chlorine, and in this case for one equivalent of water decomposed in
the voltameter 2 equivalents of copper were precipitated in the decom-
posing apparatus.

From the chloride of antimony only 2 equivalent of antimony were
obtained, and, in fact, it is a combination of only 2 equivalent of metal
for 1 equivalent of chlorine.

By computing the quantity of chlorine carried to the positive pole
of the decomposing apparatus, it appears that for each equivalent of
water decomposed there was one equivalent of chlorine evolved.

This law was also confirmed by another series of experiments, in
RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 387

which the precipitated metal was not determined, but the amount of
evolved chlorine ascertained by the loss of weight of the electrode,
which was of copper. In this manner experiments were made—

Withiehloride of; copper: acca: iiivissceces see Can iC:
chionidejof mMotiaiwicstien. eee fuss: bus shin Ogi@le
Chloridejof fast se.: sigs indacebige Leics sais Sn Cl,.
chloride of antimony......... eartuens wb sCly

The chlorine computed as equivalent with the water agreed in all
these cases with that observed, though only one of the combinations,
viz, Cu Cl, has equal constituents of the constituent parts.

Todides and Bromides gave similar results.

Becquerel also instituted experiments with oxides. Hé dissolved
sub-oxide Cu, O and oxide of copper Cu O, each separately, in liquid
ammonia, and closed the flask air-tight by means of a cork, through
which the wires of the electrodes passed. Simultaneously with either
of these solutions a solution of nitrate of copper, serving as a volta-
meter, was inserted into the circuit of a single constant zinc-copper ele-
ment. These experiments, each of which was continued for several
hours, demonstrated that for 1 equivalent of copper, precipitated at
the negative pole of the voltameter, charged with nitrate of copper,
there were deposited—

2 equivalents of copper from the solution of Cu, O.
1 equivalent of copper from the solution of Cu O.

The last binary combination examined by Becquere] was oxygenated
water H O,. For every equivalent of water decomposed in the in-
serted voltameter two equivalents of oxygen were liberated from the
oxygenated water at the positive pole.

The researches on the electrolysis of solutions of different salts lead
to results similar to those which we have seen were obtained by Daniell.

Faraday’s proposition, therefore, that binary combinations are only
electrolytes when they are composed of equal equivalents of both con-
stituent parts proves to be untenable, since many bodies can directly
be decomposed by the current which do not fulfil this condition.

In reference to the quantity of decomposition, the result of Becque-
rel’s researches may be best expressed in the words of Poggendorff :
that with an equal force of current for every equivalent of water there
is also an equivalent of any combination decomposed, provided that
it can be decomposed at all.

§ 178. Formation of chloride of nitrogen by electrolysis.—When a
saturated solution of sal ammoniac, between platinum electrodes, is
exposed to the galvanic current hydrogen is evolved at the negative
pole, but no chlorine at the positive, and, if the solution is sufficiently
concentrated, no oxygen either, but the positive platinum plate be-
comes covered with small, yellowish, oily drops of chloride of nitrogen.

When spirit of turpentine is poured upon the solution, the rising
drops detonate as soon as they come in contact with the turpentine.
It is better to place the positive pole not vertically but in an inclined
position in the fluid. This interesting phenomenon was discovered
nearly at the same time, without the knowledge of each other, by
388 RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS.

Kolbe, then sojourning in England, and by Béttger, in Francfort.
Kolbe describes the formation of chloride of nitrogen by the electro-
lysis of a saturated solution of sal ammoniac in Phil. Mag. XXX, p.
336. Bottgen has, as far as I know, never published anything on this
subject, but showed the experiment in the laboratory at Giessen.

The formation of the chloride of nitrogen is evidently a secondary
effect. If we consider the sal ammoniac as chloride of ammonium H,
N Cl, then, by the decomposition, Cl. goes to the positive and H, N
to the negative pole. From H, N one equivalent of hydrogen is evolved
which escapes, leaving H, N, while the nascent chlorine at the posi-
tive pole decomposes the chloride of ammonium, producing chloride
of nitrogen and muriatic acid. When to chloride of ammonium H,
N Cl 6 equivalents of chlorine are added, 6 Cl, 4 H Cl, (4 equivalents
of muriatic acid,) and N Cl, chloride of nitrogen are produced.

§ 179. Oxydizing effects of the oxygen evolved at the positive pole of
the batiery.—The oxygen evolved by the galvanic current at the posi-
tive pole has, in its nascent state, strong oxydizing properties, so that
it forms combinations into which the free oxygen, under other circum-
stances, would not directly enter. Kolbe has instituted interesting
and important experiments on this subject.

A saturated aqueous solution of chloride of potassium is decomposed
between platinum electrodes, by the current from a battery of four
Bunsen’s cups, in such manner that at first chlorine is evolved at the
positive, hydrogen at the negative pole, and free potassa formed, which
gives the fluid an alcaline reaction. In proportion as, by the progress-
ing decomposition, the fluid is deprived of chloride of potassium the
electrolysis acts also upon the water, liberating at the positive pole, be-
sides the chlorine, also oxygen, which partly escapes, and partly com-
bines chemically with the chlorine, forming at first hypo-chlorous acid,
(Cl. O,) and then chlorie acid, (Cl. O;,) which are found in alcaline
solution in combination with the potassa.

The formation of chlorate of potassa must certainly, under these
circumstances, be considered as the result of the action of the chlorine
upon the free potassa. But the same process of decomposition also
takes place if to the solution of the chloride of potassium even more
sulphuric acid is added than corresponds to the equivalent of the
potassium, so that no free alkali can occur, with the single difference
that in this case hyperchlorate of potassa (KO Cl O,) is formed,
which usually crystalizes when the fluid, which becomes hot, has
cooled again.

Finally, also, from pure muriatic acid, especially when a few drops
of sulphuric acid are added, a mixture of free chloric and hyperchloric
acid is obtained; while, at the same time, free chlorine escapes at the
-+ pole and hydrogen at the — pole. Hence it appears that chlorine
and oxygen, in the nascent state, combine directly, without the pres-
ence of any free alkali, while heretofore the so-called predisposing
affinity was considered an essential condition to this combination, (as
on passing chlorine through a solution of caustic potassa.)

A solution of cyanide of potassium is easily oxydized under similar
conditions, and cyanate of potassa (KO. Cy O) is formed. Kolbe
could not obtain a higher oxygen compound of cyanogen, corresponding
RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 389

to the chloric or hyperchloric acid, by the long continued electrolysis
of cyanate of potassa; neither did a solution of fluoride of potassium.
yield an oxygen compound of fluorine.

Kolbe also succeeded in obtaining products of oxydation from
sesquichloro-carbohypo-sulphuric acid, "HO + C,Cl, 8, O,, by means of
the current, (Liebig’s Ann., vol. 54, p. 157 ; Philos, Magaz., XXX,

334,) while this acid, under other circumstances, resists the most
powerful oxydizing agents, so that it may be boiled with Agia or
nitric acid, &c. , without undergoing any change.

When a "concentrated solution of sesquichloro-carbohy po- Hep of
potassa is exposed between platinum electrodes to the current from a
battery of 4 Bunsen’s cups, at first no hydrogen is evolved at the:
negative pole, while chlorine, carbonic acid, and, afterwards, oxygen,
are evolved at the positive pole.

As soon as the decomposition commences, an acid reaction of the
solution is perceptible, owing to the formation of free muriatic and
sulphuric acids. In a later stage of the process, these acids increasing
in quantity, hydrogen appears at the negative pole, until, finally,
after all the muriatic acid has been decomposed, and the evolution of
chlorine has ceased, smal] octahedral crystals of per-chlorate of potassa
are deposited from ‘the solution, which now contains free sulphuric
acid and bi-sulphate of potassa.

These results may be explained in the following manner: The
oxygen, liberated at the positive pole in consequence of the decompo-
sition of water, acts upon the acid, and causes its separation into
different compounds. The oxydation of the acid is complete when it
has taken up 12 equivalents of oxygen; the decomposition may then be
represented as follows :

KO CCl, 8,

There are formed, therefore, per-chlorate of potassa, sulphuric and
carbonic acid, and free chlorine; but the formation of per-chloric acid
does not take place in the first instance, for in the beginning of the
process chloric acid is produced. If the fluid is evaporated in the
earlier stage of the decomposition before the crystalization of the per-
chlorate of potassa commences, the well known rhombic plates of
chlorate of potassa are obtained.

While the oxygen evolved at the positive pole produces these
oxydizing effects, no gas escapes at the negative, since the hydrogen
there liberated also enters into several combinations. One part of
this hydrogen replaces one or two equivalents of chlorine, and forms

acids HO + ee cl) ®: O,, Chloro-formyl-hypo-sulphuric acid, and

HO + Wee cr): O,, Chloro-elayl-hypo-sulphuric acid—two acids

which are described by Kolbe in vol. 54 of Liebig’s Annals. Another
part of the hydrogen combines with the liberated chlorine and pro-
390 RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS.

duces muriatic acid. But these acids are also oxydized at the positive
pole, and thus this process of oxydation is continued until the whole
of the chlorine in the solution is either changed into per-chloric acid
or evolved in the gaseous form.

These phenomena of decomposition may be explained by supposing
the decomposition of water to be the primary, the oxydation of the
acid the secondary, effect. Daniell’s theory of the electrolysis of solu-
tions of salts is here entirely inapplicable. According to this theory,
the salt should be considered as K + (C, Cl.) 8, O,; the acid combi-
nation at the positive pole ought to be separated into two equivalents
of sulphuric acid and the insoluble sesqui-chloride of carbon C, Cl,.

The oxydation of the chlorine absolutely requires the supposition
of a primary decomposition of water.

§ 180. Electrolysis of valerianic and acetic acid.—Kolbe, by subjecting
organic substances to electrolysis, and accurately observing the course of
their decompositions, has initiated a method which promises to become
of great importance to science. We shall here follow Kolbe’s researches
as far as is necessary for the comprehension of the electrolytic part of
the phenomena, without entering upon the discussions of the consti-
tution of the organic substances examined.

Kolbe’s memoir on the electrolysis of organic compounds is to be
found in full in the Annalen der Chemie und Pharmacie, vol. LXIX,
page 257.

Fig. 158.

As free valerianic acid is a bad
conductor of the galvanic current,
Kolbe used for the electrolytic de-
composition a concentrated aque-
ous solution of its potassa salt.
Thedecomposition-apparatus was
arranged, as shown in fig. 158.
The glass-cylinder was about 11
inches high and 23 inches wide.
The exterior metallic cylinder
was of copper, the interior of
platinum foil. The copper cyl-
inder was connected with the
negative, the platinum cylinder
with the positive pole of a bat-
tery, consisting of four Bunsen’s
cups.

When this apparatus was filled with a solution of valerianate of
potassa KO + (C, H,) C, Oz, and the current passed, as indicated,
through the fluid, a brisk evolution of gas took place at both the poles,
and at the same time light oily drops of a slightly yellow tinge, and
an agreeable etheric odor appeared upon the surface of the fluid. The
very odoriferous gases escaping contained (after all atmospheric air had
been expelled from the apparatus) not a trace of oxygen. The mixture
of gases consisted of hydrogen, carbonic acid, and a third gas, burning
with a brilliant flame, and which gave to the mixture its peculiar odor.

After the action of the current had continued for several hours, the
RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 391

stratum of oil collected upon the fluid had reached a height of several
lines, and the greatest part of the valerianate of potassa had been
changed into carbonate and bi-carbonate of potassa, the latter of
which usually partly crystalized at the end of the process. In order
to ascertain at which pole each of these products appeared, Kolbe
placed the platinum plate in a porous clay cell, which was closed air-
tight at the top and provided with a tube for conducting off the gas
evolved. This cell, filled with valerianate of potassa, was set in a
glass vessel also containing a solution of this salt, and in which the
copper cylinder serving as the negative pole was placed. With this
arrangement it was found that of the above mentioned products of
decomposition, besides free potassa, only hydrogen occurred at the
negative pole, while all the others, the essential oil, the carbonic acid,
and the odorous gas, accompanied by free acid, (the arrangement of
the apparatus prevented the formation of carbonate of potassa,) ap-
peared at the positive pole.

Kolbe then proceeded to an accurate examination of the individual
products of decomposition. At first he investigated the oily fluid.
It soon appeared that the crnde oil was not a single substance. By a
process which cannot here be described in detail, he found the crude
oil to be a mixture of two different substances. After purification,
the volume was reduced to about one-half, and the fluid thus obtained
was limpid and colorless, of a very agreeable ether-like odor, and of
a flat and afterwards burning taste. It is soluble in alcohol and ether,
but notin water, boils at 108°, is very inflammable, and of remarkably
low specific gravity, viz: 0.694.

The chemical formula of this body, which Kolbe calls valyl, is C,
H,, 2. €., it consists of 8 equivalents of carbon, and 9 equivalents of
hydrogen.

The crude oil is valyl mixed with C, H, O + (C, H,) C, O,, viz:
with valerianate of oxide of valyl. The odorous gas which escapes
with the carbonic acid, is also a hydro-carbon, viz: OC, H,, and there-
fore of the same composition as olefiant gas, to which it is also analo-
gous in its relation to chlorine, but its specific gravity is twice as
great.

The whole course of these decompositions is now easily compre-
hended. By the oxygen evolved in consequence of the electrolysis at
the positive pole, the valerianic acid (C, H,) C,; O, is oxydized and
broken up into valyl O, H, and carbonic acid, or rather the valy] itself
undergoes again a partial oxidation, and forms oxide of valy] C, H, O;
which combines with valerianic acid and produces with the remaining
valyl the crude oil. Besides this, a secondary oxidation of the valyl
occurs by reason of the nascent oxygen abstracting from it 1 equiv. of
hydrogen to form water, whereby the substance C, H, homologous
with olefiant gas is produced, which, with the carbonic acid, escapes at
the + pole.

Acetic acid undergoes similar decompositions by the influence of the
galvanic current. Acetic acid being too poor a conductor, Kolbe
also used its potash salt for his experiments. Acetic acid (C, H,)
C, O,, like valeric acid is oxidized at the + pole, and thereby sepa-
rated into methyl C, H, and carbonic acid C, Oj or rather 2C O,,
392 RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS.

which both escape as gases at the + pole, while the equivalent of
hydrogen corresponding to the oxidizing oxygen at the positive pole
is evolved at the — pole. If we consider the pure acetic acid to be
combined with 1 equiv. of water, the, process is simply explained by
the electrolysis of the equivalent of water, and the oxidation of the
acid resulting therefrom in the following manner:

5 Ma ci dirs, gun 2 vol;
Oe (eel). Co eta tls -acarecetones 2 vol.
7 App lo Pace areosae ets 4 vol.

The examination of the gasses evolved shows, however, that, in pro-
portion to the methyl, more hydrogen and carbonic acid are contained
in the gaseous mixture. But this discrepancy is also easily explained.
The process would be as indicated in the above equation if only one
equivalent of water was electrolized ; but the electrolysis also extends
to another part of the water of the solution, and thereby, on the one
hand, the quantity of hydrogen is increased, and on the other, a part
of the methyl] is oxidized to carbonic acid and water, and in this way
a greater proportion of carbonic acid is produced. Besides the methyl
always contains a small quantity of oxide of methyl.

§ 181. Hlectrotype.-—After de la Rive already in September, 1836,
(Philos. Magazine, Dingler, Poly. Jour., 105 vol.) had directed atten-
tion to thefact, that in a Daniell’s battery the precipitated copper can be
scaled off from that of the battery, presenting a microscopically accurate
copy of its surface, it occurred to Jacobi and Spencer, almost simul-
taneously as it seems, to make a practical application of this fact. In
this they were decidedly successful, as is generally known.

Jacobi first made, in 1839, a Daniell’s battery, in which an engraved
copper-plate was employed, but he also made at the same time, experi-
ments in a separate decomposing cell, where another copper-plate was
placed as the anode opposite to the engraved plate, and thus he kept
the solution of the sulphate of copper always saturated.* He also
soon found out that an acidulated solution of sulphate of copper is
more effective, and that the copper precipitated is pulverulent when
the current is two powerful ; he observed that generally not more than
fifty to sixty grains of copper per square inch can be reduced during
twenty-four hours, when it is required to be compact. In order to de-
. termine more exactly the force of current he used a common compass.
Jacobi soon after published a memoir on this subject, entitled ‘‘ Die
Galvanoplastik,’’ Petersburg, 1840. Spencer’s experiments (Din-
gler’s Journal, 75 vol., 1840, and Mechanics’ Magazine, No. 846)
were, according to him, commenced as far back as 1837; he did not
use a separate decomposing cell, but a Daniell’s battery, like Jacobi’s,
with a diaphragm of plaster of Paris, (instead of which unglazed
earthenware may also be used,) and common salt with the zinc. The
diaphragm was placed vertically in a trough of corresponding dimen-
sions and thus formed the two cells. That the zinc ought not to be
amalgamated, and that its thickness should be in a certain, but not

* The phenomenon mentioned in § 176, that the copper does not pass to the negative
pole, has here no disturbing influence since the distance of the plates is always very small,
and the ancde is usually placed above the kathode,

‘
RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS, 393

given, proportion to that required for the layer of copper, as Spencer
at first stated, has in no respect been confirmed by subsequent experi-
ence. Spencer originally intended to fill the traces drawn in a plate
thickly coated with varnish, expecting that the galvanic precipitate
would adhere firmly to the copper below, and thus serve for printing
after the manner of a wood cut; but he never obtained in this way
results of any practical value. The reduced copper would not adhere
to the plate until the latter had been acted upon by nitric acid. He
had already experimented extensively when he first published his re-
searches on the subject. He copied engraved copper-plates by gal-
vanism, or pressed them into lead and used the impressions as moulds,
covering the engraved plate while warm with wax, which was after-
wards carefully wiped off, for the purpose of preventing the adhesion of
the deposit; he also made moulds of plaster of Paris and clay, which
were coated with boiled linseed oil, and when this was dry, with mastic
varnish, and afterwards covered with bronze powder or gold leaf;
these moulds were connected with the zinc plate by a copper wire
coated with varnish or sealing-wax.

The original idea of Spencer, to produce types in relief for printing,
was afterwards modified by Von Kobell, in Munich.—(Patent of 1841,
Dingler’s Journal, vol. 95.) He covered a copper-plate thickly with
engraver’s varnish, which was made to conduct by means of finely
powdered and elutriated graphite ; larger places, which were not in-
tended to print, (lights,) were separately covered with wax, by means
of a brush, and covered with a conducting substance. The entire
plate was then covered with copper under the action of the battery.
To facilitate the separation, Von Kobell, in previous experiments,
already had slightly silvered engraved plates by immersing them in a
solution of chloride of silver and common salt. But the same method
has been described by Palmer, under the name of Glyphography, in
volume 95 of Dingler.

Afterwards the apparatus, when no separate decomposing cell was
used, was, according to Jacobi’s direction, arranged in the following
manner: ‘I'he zinc was placed horizontally upon pieces of wood or
glass, in a wooden or glass vessel, the bottom of which was formed in
the smaller ones of bladder, and in the larger ones of stronger animal
membrane, or even of tanned calf skin. This vessel was set in
another larger one, and suitably supported at a distance of one to
four inches from its bottom ; upon a copper-plate in the larger vessel
the plate to be covered was laid, after it had been carefully greased,
and wiped off, or silvered. The edge of the lower plate, so far as not
covered by that serving as a mould, was coated with wax. ‘To it were
soldered, according to its size, one or more copper wires covered with
wax, dipping into mercury cups, into which were led an equal number
of wires connected with the zinc. In this way the apparatus could
easily be taken apart for inspection when required. The zine was
immersed in very dilute sulphuric acid, as in Daniell’s battery, and
the mould in a solution of sulphate of copper, kept saturated by pow-
dered crystals suspended in a bag. Into moulds of plaster of Paris, or
clay, wires were fastened, which were covered with wax to prevent
394 RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS.

the deposit of copper, to obviate difficulty in the subsequent separa-
tion of the plate.

In order to séparate the copper-plates they were put into a vice
and filed around their edges, and when a cleft was observed a horn
spatula or other similar tool was introduced to produce the separation,
which was assisted sometimes by a gentle heat. The plate first obtained
serves again as a mould, but the separation from this is accomplished
without difficulty.

Sometimes an apparatus, similar to the one just described, is used,
in which several smaller objects are placed at the same time upon the
lower copper-plate. When the process is continued for several days,
the apparatus has to be taken apart every day in order to remove pro-
jections upon the precipitated copper by the file, to renew the acid-
ulated water at the zinc, and also to remove impurities deposited from
the solution of the sulphate of copper and from the zine itself.

But the electric copying of copper-plates was attended by several
difficulties. Gerlach, for instance, (Dingler’s Journal, vol. 82, and
Journal fir Practische Chemie, September, 1841,) observed that the
galvanic copper-plates are very brittle, and that although this pro-
perty could be removed by the application of heat, yet in this case the
linear expansion amounts to 3's, which, when unequal, might even pro-
duce distortions. Gerlach, from some of his experiments, seems to
think that raising the temperature of the plates only to the heat of
melting tin might remedy the brittleness without producing the
objectionable expansion, but gives no exact information on this point.
It was also found that the copy sometimes firmly adhered to the
original, or caught in lines which were undercut, and Elsner, there-
fore, (Dingler’s Journal, vol. 80, and Journal fir Practische Chemie,
1841, vol. 22,) considered it hazardous to subject very valuable plates
to this process. The contractions which take place in the moulds,
especially when of plaster of Paris, the risk of bending the precipi-
tated deposit on removing it from the mould, or in filling up the
back, &c., do not admit of applying the electrotype for copying scales
or other measuring instruments. Besides, according to De la Rive,
(Dingler’s Journal, vol. 99,) such plates stand but few impressions,
and especially the lines of wood cuts copied by means of galvanism
are said to be frequently hollow, because in deep traces the solution
of the sulphate of copper is not properly renewed as it is decomposed,
and therefore becomes exhausted, and the deposition ceases until the
line overgrows laterally; it is also said that vermilion cannot be used
for printing from these plates, because mercury separates, which is
not the case with ordinary engraved plates. Vogel, of Francfort, on
this account, (Dingler’s Journal, 110 vol.,) made impressions, espe-
cially of steel plates, in wax, powdered over with graphit, which pro-
ceeding was repeated after the impression was made, and removed the
excess with a bellows.

An original idea of Vogel was to cover the etched plate after remov-
ing the varnish, (an engraved one had previously to be treated with
dilute nitric acid,) entirely with the precipitate, then to grind it off
again to the original surface of the plate in order to obtain all the
traces filled in the manner of inlaid work, (Dingler’s Journal, 106
RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 395

vol.) How far this idea has been practically successful, for instance,
by precipitating silver upon iron, I do not know. Knoblauch proposed,
(Dingler’s Journal, 105 vol.,) by deposition upon a well made copper
plate, to produce plates for engravers; because they would be without
any defective places and already formed with a plane and polished
surface. Stereotype plates may be immediately deposited upon im-
pressions made on wax covered with lead foil. Such plates, as well as
electrotype copies of wood-cuts are always made very thin and after-
wards tinned on the back by the aid of chloride of zinc, and then
filled up with type metal. From wood-cuts, the mould is made either
by an electrotype, the surface of the wood having been made to con-
duct by graphite, or else by impression in wax, &c. But when wood
has to be immersed in a fluid, the parts not to be covered should be
doubly protected—first, by a coating of sheet lead, and over this again
by another of wax. Von Kobell made a peculiar application of the
galvanic production of copper plates, under the name of galvan-
ography.—(Presented to the academy at Munich, May 4, 1840.) He
painted, after the manner used with India ink, with a solution of
damar resin in spirits of turpentine, with the addition of oxide of iron,
upon a polished copper plate, and had it galvanically covered with
copper without previously making it conducting. The plate thus
obtained is immediately ready for printing; the brightest lights are
the places where no varnish has been applied. The overgrowing of
the varnished places proceeds in part from points of the copper un-
derneath acting through the varnish, but also in part from the uncov-
ered places. But since these plates do not allow of many impressions,
they may be multiplied by the electrotype method. Von Kobell has
alias this process in a separate treatise.-—(Munich, published by
otita.)

For electrotype copies of other objects than copper plates, moulds
usually must be made first. They are obtained either by impressions
made in soft lead plates or from clichés in a fusible alloy, or by casts
of plaster and wax, or of plaster alone, or else of wax alone, or of a
mixture of equal parts of wax and rosin.

As to the metallic moulds no metal can be used which is acted upon
by the solution of sulphate of copper, as iron, tin, zinc ; these require
a previous electro-plating with silver. Bittger, inthe Frankfort Gew-
erbefreund of 1840, (Dingler’s Journal, vol. 78,) recommends an alloy
of 8 bismuth, 8 lead, 3 tin, (melting at 86°R.,) and advises the use
of metallic moulds wherever they are applicable. He pours the fused
metal into a paper box, stirs it with an iron wire until it begins to
thicken, and then presses the object to be moulded upon it until it
cools. Impressions in thin lead which has been cleaned with ley, are
also recommended by Bittger ; they are taken in a press or vise upon
moistened pasteboard. Very fragile objects may be covered with lead
foil, (tin foil is not applicable,) rubbing it carefully with a little pad
of cotton; before taking it off, a mixture of wax and rosin must be
poured over it; but for such objects casts are preferable.

For casting moulds with melted wax combined with plaster or with
plaster alone, or with a mixture of wax and rosin, it is only necessary
that the object to be copied should be surrounded by a strip of paper
396 RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS.

and the fluid mass, free from air bubbles, poured upon it; when the mass
is cooled and haydened it can be taken off without difficulty. Moulds
of plaster of Paris must afterwards be soaked in melted wax to make
them water-proof. Gutta percha is also used for moulds ; it is slowly
heated in water, and when dried exposed to a moderate pressure in
a vise in contact with the object to be moulded. ‘To render these or
wooden moulds conducting, Spencer, (Dingler’s Journal, vol. 77, p.
343,) after finding gilding with gold leaf or dusting with graphite
either too expensive or unsatisfactory, took 39 of phosphorus, dis-
solved it in one part of strong alcohol in a water bath, immersed the
mould for some seconds in a weak solution of nitrate of silver, and
exposed it to the vapors evolved from the solution of phosphorus
heated in a watch glass on a sand bath. Instead of this last process,
Bottger proposed to place the mould, when soaked in nitrate of silver,
in a vessel into which non-inflammable phosphuretted hydrogen is con-
ducted. The latter is obtained by gently heating in a retort a few
small pieces of phosphorus with alcohol and caustic potassa. At
present such moulds are commonly powdered over with finely elutriated
graphite or finely divided silver, and the excess removed with a soft
brush.

The reproduction of round forms by the electrotype offers consid-
erable difficulties ; a separate decomposing cell has generally to be
used, and the surface of the element must be nearly equal to or larger
than that to be coated. Jacobi proceeded in thefollowing manner:
He made a conducting surface on a bust, in alio relievo, moulded in
wax, covered it very thinly by means of galvanism, removed the wax
by melting, cleaned the mould thus obtained with spirits of turpen-
tine, and then precipitated upon the inside a thicker layer of copper,
from which he attempted to scale off the exterior thin cover, (Ding-
ler’s Journal, vol. 78,) but did not succeed without injuring the copy
obtained. A Mr. Soyer, in Paris, (Dingler’s Journal, vol. 78,) repro-
duced, in this way, a bust tolerably free from imperfections, and im-
mediately offered to make, for the sum of 200,000 francs, an electro-
type copy of the well known great elephant. Fortunately for him,
nobody accepted the offer. The Duke Max Von Leuchtenberg fol-
lowed asimilar method, (Dingler’s Journal, vol. 80.) His electrotype
operations are conducted on the grandest scale, as may be seen from
the fact that the black powder deposited on the copper anodes, from
impurities in the copper and sulphuric acid employed, and which had
to be removed every twelve hours, amounted in a period of about two
years to forty ‘‘ puds,’’ (about 1,444 pounds.)

In the laboratory of Stiglemeyer they were not more successful in
reproducing statues on a large scale. A Mr. Moyle, (Dingler’s Jour-
nal, vol. 80, Sturgeon’s Annals of Electricity,) says that he produced
such figures over moulds of wax, which he afterwards melted out, but
alleges that he has also obtained with silver results of the greatest
perfection. The Society for Encouraging Industry, in Prussia, offered
a premium for the electrotype production of a larger statue, which
was awarded to Mr. Von Hackewitz, (Dingler’s Journal, vol. 108;
Transactions of the Society of 1848.) He made, over the model, a
mould in pieces, of two parts wax, two turpentine, one rosin, and five
RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 397

graphite; rendered first the lower pieces and their joints conducting,
and suspended zinc in dilute sulphuric acid in bags of animal mem-
brane so that it was nowhere in contact with the mould. He then
added the solution of the sulphate of copper and connected the zine
with the conducting mould. When the first thin coating was formed
in two successive pieces of the mould, they were placed together, and
the zinc in the bag put in conducting connexion with the joint ; more
copper was then precipitated, and in this way the separate thin pieces
were united into one. In this manner all the parts of the statue were
connected, with the exception of the arms, which were made separately
in a similar way. As no bags with zinc could be introduced into the
very narrow parts, separate batteries had to be used in such cases for
the first coating. Such a procedure may be adopted for the sake of
obtaining a premium, but it certainly proves that so far no really
practical results have been obtained. A method similar to that used
in this case for uniting the separate pieces has been employed for
soldering copper rings by means of galvanism; the rings are protected
by varnish, but the surfaces to be joined are left bright, and the
copper is deposited until the whole space is filled.

A peculiar application of the electrotype was made by Mallet and
Meillet, in covering glass and porcelain vessels with a thin copper
coating on the parts to be exposed to fire. Mallet covered the vessels
with Canada balsam and graphite, but Meillet used gum and nitrate
of silver dried in a flame ; intense heat, however, destroys this con-
ducting coating between the vessel and the copper deposited upon it,
which latter becomes loose. M. Simson, in 1843, proposed (Dingler’s
Journal, vols. 89 and 91) to act upon the places to be covered by a de-
posit of copper with hydrofluoric acid to remove the polished surface,
and then to rub them over with graphite by means of a cork. Mohr
saw such vessels in the Paris exhibition of 1844 ; reported on them as
quite new in Dingler’s Journal, vol. 103, and tried to imitate them.
But he used copal varnish and bronze powder, and therefore his coating
was only firm where it could embrace the vessel, as in retorts, but not
in evaporating dishes. Afterwards experiments were again made on
this subject by Elsner.—(Dingler’s Journal, vol. 108.) He again
made use of varnish and graphite, and also applied the etching pro-
cess ; when the places had been covered with a mixture of flour-spar
and sulphuric acid for twenty-four hours, and then, after washing,
rubbed over with graphite, the deposit adhered firmly even upon
evaporating dishes, exactly as stated by Simson years before, though
Elsner does not mention this. it has been attempted by Mallet to
connect glass tubes in this manner; their ends were ground even, and
for a distance of one-half to one inch rendered conducting by means of
varnish and graphite. But the joining of the ends as well as the im-
mersion of the tubes present peculiar difficulties. For the latter
purpose the vessel must be perforated, and the openings closed with
clay after the introduction of the tubes, before pouring in the solution
of sulphate of copper.

Talbot, Steinheil, and also Wheatstone have experimented in re-pro-
ducing metallic mirrors by the electrotype process. Talbot endeavored
to make the copper mirrors white by exposing them to the vapor of
398 RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS.

hydrosulphuret of ammonia, but Steinheil gilded them. The original
metallic mirrors can be used as moulds without any special prepara-
tion. Steinheil took great care to obtain the first deposit perfectly
pure; for this purpose he made use of a separate decomposing cell, and
immersed a proof-plate first to ascertain whether the action was regular
and the precipitate even and rose-colored. Afterwards he placed the
mould in an ordinary, simple apparatus, and continued the operation
until the mirror was one inch thick. Projections, &c., he removed
every day with a file. As yet this process seems to have led to no
practical results.—(Dingler’s Journal, vol. 99.)

Electrotype copies of daguerreotypes, which had been previously.
gilded, (Dingler’s Journal, vol. 91, Philos. Magazine, September,
1843,) were proposed by Draper; but they appear to have led to no
result, or at least not to that desired. Still less practically successful
was Napier’s process; he deposited copper upon linen cloth in order
to make it water-proof. The weight of this coating was intended to
to be only 12 ounces per square yard.—(Dingler’s Journal, vol. 91.)

In order to procure the solution of sulphate of copper required for
such purposes at a less price, Schubert advises (Dingler’s Journal, vol.
81; Erdmann & Marchand’s Journal fir Practische Chemie, 1841, No.
11,) to buy from coppersmiths the copper ashes (scale,) to mix them
with sulphuric acid of 15-20° Baume to the consistency of paste, and
let them remain thus for twenty-four hours upon plates of stone ware,
and then wash them with sulphuric acid of the same strength. This
last process is to be repeated until either the copper ashes are exhausted '
or the acid is saturated. The former is the case when the ashes on
being moistened no longer become red, and the latter is seen from the
saturated color and the cessation of the acid reaction. Instead of fresh
sulphuric acid in the after washings, the fluid may be used which has
been partially exhausted in the electrotype process.

§ 182. Gilding, silvering, &c., by means of galvanism.—It had already
been observed for some time that in certain cases metals precipitated
in a compact state and adhered firmly to pole wires immersed in
metallic solutions, and it had also been suggested that in this way an
entire coating of one metal upon another might be obtained; but De
la Rive first made a distinct application of this by showing how a solu-
tion of gold must be decomposed by means of galvanic currents, in
order to coat an object, when forming the negative pole, uniformly with
a thin layer of gold.

De la Rive (Dingler’s Journal,vol. 76; Comptes Rendus, 1840, p. 578,)
used a solution of chloride of gold—40 to 80 grains metallic gold to 1
pound of water—in a bladder, and suspended it in water, acidulated
with ‘‘a few drops’’ of sulphuric acid, in which the zine was placed;
the object to be gilded was connected with the zinc by means of a copper
wire, and immersed in the solution of gold; after a short time he took
it out, washed it, rubbed it well with a clean linen cloth and immersed
it again, and he repeated this several times. After a few immersions
he considered that the object was sufficiently gilded, and that a longer
continuation of the operation was of no use. Among the reasons
which led him to this process he mentions the following: ‘‘3. The
property of the electric current of passing the more readily from a fluid

RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS, 399

to a metal, and vice versa the more readily this metal is acted upon by
the fluid. In the case given the metal immersed in the solution of
gold is more easily attacked than the gold itself; as long, therefore, as
the immersed part is not entirely gilded, the current will seek the
points in the metal to be gilded which are still uncovered, and will
deposit gold upon them, whatever may be the length of the path it has
to traverse through the liquid, ¢. e., however irregular the form of the
object to be coated.’’ The objects to be gilded had a clean metallic
surface given to them, and remained after the gilding either malt or
polished, as they had been before. The gilding thus produced by De
la Rive was therefore in all cases only thin; he gave no quantitative
indications either of the force of current or of the weight of the gold
precipitated. At first De la Rive gilded directly only silver and brass;
iron had to be previously coated with copper. Béttger repeated these
experiments with a solution of gold as nearly neutral as possible, and
thought that he observed a reddening of the object when the conducting
copper wire was immersed in the solution of gold. He says that copper
cannot be gilded at all when the solution of gold contains even but
traces of copper; then copper only can be precipitated, and De la Rive,
according to him, must be mistaken in his statement of the necessity
of previously coppering iron objects; he succeeded very well in gilding
steel pens, &c., without the use of copper.—(Dingler’s Journal, vol.
78; Frankfurter Gewerbefreund ftir 1840, No. 10.) With chloride of
peru objects can in the same manner be thinly platinized.

ottger considers 5 to 6 immersions of one minute each sufficient for
a strong gilding.

Iron can certainly be lightly gilded with chloride of gold without
previously being coated with copper, and Arago laid before the academy
a watch-spring gilded by Dent (Dingler’s Journal, vol. 80, p. 399,
Compt. Rend., vol. 12, 1841, p. 779,) and stated that a Mr. Perrot, at
Rouen, had previously already done the same thing, but would not
present it to the academy before he had gilded an entire watch while
it was going! But the gilding and silvering process only became prac-
tically useful after the employment of the cyanogen compounds. Elk-
ington hada manufactory of jewelry at Birmingham, where the gilding
and silvering were done by immersion, and where also experiments
were made in gilding with chloride of gold by means of galvanism.
But when John Wright, a surgeon, had made use of the compounds
of cyanogen, Elkington at once understood the great importance of the
matter, and bought the right of this invention to incorporate it in the
specification of his process of gilding, for which he had just applied
for a patent. In France, also, he procured a patent, and there had to
compete with Von Ruolz, whose patent was of an earlier date by some
days. Afterwards they formed a partnership.

Elkington always employed a separate decomposing cell, and used
for gilding either three pounds cyanide of potassium, ten pounds of
water, and five ounces of oxide of gold, or two pounds cyanide of
potassium, ten pounds of water, and two ounces of oxide of gold;
thick coatings in this process became matt, and had to be scoured with
a wire brush. Iron had to be coppered ; for this purpose it was placed
400 RECENT PROGRESS IN PIIYSICS.

in contact with zinc in sulphuric acid diluted to one-half until it was
perfectly clean, and then in an acidulated saturated solution of sul-
phate of copper in a brass vessel, with which the iron was brought in
contact. V. Ruolz used either cyanide of gold dissolved in cyanide
of potassium, or cyanide of gold in prussiate of potash, (yellow or
red,) or else sulphuret of gold in neutral sulphuret of potassium ;
and though the latter is reported as the best by the commission which
examined the subject, (Dingler’s Journal, vol. 83, Comptes Rendus,
November, 1841,) their experiments were all made with the cyanogen
compounds only. In one of these experiments one gramme of dry
chloride of gold was dissolved in 100 grammes of water with ten
grammes of yellow prussiate of potash, and the battery used con-
sisted of six Daniell’s elements, each plate of which was two decimetres
square. The precipitate was found to be proportional to the time,
and amounted, on a brass plate of fifty square centimetres, to 0.063
grammes of gold per minute when the fluid was heated to 60° C.,
0.0296 grammes when heated to 35°, and 0.0126 grammes with a
temperature of 15°; while, according to the comparative experiments
of Dumas, with fire gilding upon a like surface, 0.1297 grammes were
deposited as a maximum, and 0.0214 grammes as a minimum, and by
the wet way only 0.0137—0.0211 grammes.

Similar results were obtained by the commission with solutions of
one part of cyanide of silver in 100 of water and ten of yellow prus-
siate of potash. But with cyanide of platinum the coating was one
hundred times slower; with the double chloride of platinum and
potassium dissolved in caustic potassa, the commission of the Academy
states that the results were equal to those obtained with gold. The
experiments in coating with copper, tin, cobalt, and nickel, are very
superficially reported ; of nickel, its easy precipitation upon iron is
only mentioned, and in coating iron with zinc its favorable electrical
action in protecting the iron is pointed out, while V. Ruolz after-
wards alleges (Dingler’s Journal, vol. 86, Comptes Rendus, August,
1842, No. 6) that iron covered with zinc is more easily rusted at bare
spots than that coated with lead or tin ; which experience is also con-
firmed by Elsner, (Dingler’s Journal, vol. 88.)

The circumstances which were concerned in producing these con-
tradictory experiments are not to be ascertained from the respective
memoirs. But when the commission adds, ‘‘ We are convinced that,
by this process, iron can be coated with brass; it needs only that
copper and zinc should be precipitated upon it, and then the object,
surrounded by coal dust, is to be heated to redness, whereby brass
will be produced,”’ it appears very much like a conviction obtained at
the desk, and may be considered as that additional part of the new
invention which every such commission thinks it a matter of duty to
contribute.

The new process met with general favor, and it was soon found
that equally good results were obtained with a solution four to six
times more dilute, and that the use of one element only, or of the
simple battery in which the zinc was placed in a solution of table salt,
was more convenient. But with large quantities of the solution, and
RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. AOL

a long continued operation, the odor of prussic acid proved injurious,*
and the prussiate of potash frequently produced a bluish green sedi-
ment, (Elsner, Dingler’s Journal, vol. 88,) while the cyanide of
potassium was too expensive, before Liebig had made known his new
method of preparing it. At first, also, the gilding was not made
heavy enough, singular notions of saving gold being then prevalent,
and in this way the process fell into disrepute with the public, and,
in fact, fire gilding can never be made so poor as that done by means
of g calvanism. At first, too, especial importance was attributed to
the fact that the articles could be entirely finished before exposing
them to the process of gilding, and only after some experience it was
ascertained that heavy. gilding was always without polish (matt ;)
that by the use of varnish or wax certain places could be protected
against the deposit of gold was immediately observed by Ruolz, and
it was also soon known that a reddish hue might be given to the
gilding by the addition of cyanide of copper.—(lsner, Dingler’s
Journal, vol. 88.)

At the present time the cyanide of potassium usually employed is
that prepared after Liebig’s method, as any one can make it for him-
self, although it is still rather expensive, as the product is small for
the quantity of material employed. The following is Liebig’s direc-
tion, (Dingler’s Journal, vol. 84, from the Annalen der Chemie und
Pharmacie, Marz, 1842 :) Hight parts of prussiate of potash are to be
thoroughly dried by gentle calcination upon a hot iron plate; then
powdered and intimately mixed with three parts of dry carbonate of
potassa ; put at once into a Hessian crucible previously raised to a
dull red heat, and which has to be kept at this temperature; the
mixture melts to a brown magma, with a lively evolution of gas;
after some minutes, when the fluid mass becomes red hot, the color
grows lighter, and ‘after prolonged fusion the contents of the crucible
appear limpid and amber yellow. If, from time to time, a hot glass
rod is immersed and then withdrawn, the adhering substance, when
cooled, at first is brown, after a while it is yellow, and at last, when
the operation is finished, the drop on the glass rod is limpid and
colorless like water, and congeals toa perfectly white crystalline mass.

During the fusion brownish flakes are seen floating about in the
fluid, which unite at last into a sponge-hke mass, and assume a light
gray color. If the crucible is then taken from the fire and somewhat
cooled, in most cases the whole of this gray powder settles at the bot-
tom ; - by stirring once or twice with the glass rod this deposition is
facilitated. The supernatant fused mass can now easily be poured
out into a heated porcelain dish, so that, with a little care, not a par-
ticle of the sediment passes over.

This mass is then broken to pieces and preserved in well-closed
vessels, as it readily deliquesces and decomposes when liquified.

The solution of gold is prepared in the following manner: The
gold is rolled thin, cut up, and then heated in a porcelain dish, on
a water bath with seven times its weight of muriatic acid, to which

= In this case ventilation is the only applicable remedy ; but, in addition, the cyanogen
eompounds produce all the symptoms of poisoning with prussic acid when brought into
contact with sore hands, &c., and the greatest precaution is certainly advisable.

26
402 RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS.

nitric acid is added, from time to time, until all the gold is dissolved,
or ten to twelve times its weight of aqua regia may at once be taken ;
the solution is then evaporated to dryness. The chloride of gold thus
obtained is dissolved in water, and the yellow protechloride separated
by filtration ; carbonate of soda is then added until a feeble alkaline
reaction is observed, and at last the solution of cyanide of potassium
(one part of salt to ten to twenty of water) is stirred in. When all
is well dissolved, and the solution, which at first appeared turbid, is
again clear, it is boiled for half an hour. When the color of the.
gilding becomes impure, carbonate of soda is again to be added, and
the boiling repeated, or more cyanide of potassium may be used,
especially if the gold at the anode is no longer perfectly dissolved.—
(Ryhiner, Dingler’s Journal, vol. 110.) A fine red color is obtained
when the process is carried on at a moderately elevated temperature.
The silver solution consists of one part crystallized nitrate of silver in
thirty-two distilled water, to which solution of cyanide of potassium
is added until the precipitate which at first appears 1s again dis-
solved.—(Elsner, Dingler’s Journal, vol. 88.) Freshly precipitated
and well washed chloride of silver is also used; as much of this is
stirred at intervals into a solution of one-tenth cyanide of potassium
in one of water as can be dissolved, and then as much more cyanide of
potassium and water is added. This solution may also be used for
electrotype silver work. For the copper solution, one part of sulphate
of copper in twelve of water are used, and the process conducted as
with the silver. But coppering does not succeed well with a single
pair; a battery of at least two or three elements should be used.

I omit here a number of suggestions in reference to the use of other
compounds, because they never came into practice, and I shall only
mention that the addition of a minute quantity of sulphuret of carbon
is especially favorable to the precipitation.—(Millward and Lyons,
Dingler’s Journal, vol. 108, from the Repertory of Patent Inventions,
February, 1848.) Five ounces of sulphuret of carbon are mixed with
six quarts of the gilding fluid, and of this mixture two ounces are
daily added to every ten quarts of the solution of metallic cyanide.
This is confirmed by Elkington, at least for silver.—(Dingler’s
Journal, vol. 114, from the Practical Mechanic’s Journal, October,
1849.) Peculiar difficulties occurred in the platinizing process as
well as in that of coating with nickel, and so far all the progress
made seems not to have rendered the processes practically applicable.
According to Fehling (Dingler’s Journal, vol, 86) and Béttger (from
Annaden der Chemie und Pharmacie, September, 1843, vol. 90,) the
best results are obtained by adding a little ammonia to the chloride
of platinum and ammonia. Bdéttger also recommends a similar pro-
cess for nickel; but the preparatory purification of the commercial
metal is very troublesome.

In coating iron with zine by means of galvanism (Pelatt, Dingler’s
Journal, vol. 95, from Technologiste, February, 1845,) an acid solu-
tion of sulphate of zinc, with a large anode of this metal, must be
used in order to obtain a durable deposit.

The different plans for gilding iron and steel without previous cop-
pering are omitted here, and I refer for those of Desbordeaux to Ding-
RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 403

ler’s Journal of 1845 and 1846. So far they have had little or no
practical success.

The idea of precipitating alloys, mentioned in the report of the
academy, though it there is represented as already confirmed by
experiment, was afterwards carried out by Von Ruolz. He actually
succeeded in depositing bronze upon iron, specimens of which he pre-
sented to the academy, but found that the proportion of the metals
in the solutions should be different from that in the alloys required.
Von Ruolz dissolved, in 500 parts of water, a sufficient quantity of
cyanide of potassium to produce a solution of 4° Beaumé, and added,
at a temperature of 40°—48° R., first, 80 parts of cyanide of copper
and then 10 of oxide of tin; from this deposits with 10 to 20 per cent.
of tin were obtained. Afterwards Jacobi also took up this subject
(Dingler’s Journal, vol. 93, from Bulletin de St. Petersbourg) and
prepared a brass solution by using, in a solution of cyanide of potas-
sium, an anode of copper and a kathode of platinum, until the latter
became covered with copper; he then used an anode of zinc until the
precipitate assumed the desired color; after this he was able, by using
an anode of brass, to coat iron with brass. Although I made many
trials I could never succeed in precipitating brass in this manner, the
color of the deposit soon changed and the brass anode became black ;
from some remarks it seems that Jacobi had a similar experience.
But I have obtained strong and adherent coatings of brass upon iron
by using, instead of a brass anode, one of copper and zinc together,
each of which metals could be immersed to a greater or less depth,
until the desired color was obtained. This is in accordance with the
experience of Von Ruolz.

That gold can be precipitated, alloyed with copper, has already been
mentioned ; but it is considered better to deposit at first a layer of
pure gold before adding the cyanide of copper to the solution of gold.

When the metallic solutions become exhausted by use, either the
force of the current has to be increased or some of the concentrated
solution must be added. But at present the anodes are usually made
of the metal to be precipitated, and by these the solution is kept at
the required state of concentration; formerly the anodes were always
made of platinum. This expedient has already been mentioned by
Petzhold, in his memoir, ‘‘ Die galvanische Vergoldung, Versilberung
und Verkupferung, Dresden und Leipzig, 1842 ;”’ and Jacobi, in his
treatise on coating with brass, remarks that it is not at all necessary
to make metallic solutions in a chemical way; that the solution may
be obtained by using, in a solution of cyanide of potassium, an anode
of the required metai and kathode of platinum, until the metal de-
posits upon the latter. Such anodes are made of thinly rolled sheets
of the metal soldered to a platinum wire. In silvering, anodes of
silver are only applicable with strong currents, or cyanide of potas-
sium in excess; because, according to Napier, (Dingler’s Journal,
vol. 95, from Philosophical Magazine, November, 1844,) cyanide of
silver is formed which is insoluble in water, as well as in neutral
cyanide of silver and potassium. According to Napier’s researches,
the cyanide of potassium is not decomposed while silver is in the
solution,
404 RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS.

In this same way gold, &c., may also be removed from objects when
used as anodes. This may be done with advantage when an object,
by improper management of the gilding, assumes a blackish color.
But cyanide of potassium is also a solvent for gold without the gal-
vanic current.

As to the strength of the current, experience has taught that it
must be very small, so that no bubbles of gas, or scarcely perceptible
ones, should appear on the metal to be coated. Deposits slowly formed
are more compact and adhere more firmly to the surface beneath
them.* The durability of the galvanic coating was at first doubted,
and Becquerel even proposed (Dingler’s Journal, vol. 89, from Comptes
Rendus, July, 1843) to first amalgamate the piece to be gilt with ni-
trate of mercury, to gild it and then subject it to the common coloring
process, which requires a degree of heat sufficient to expel the mer-
cury. The want of durability in galvanic gildings seems, at first, not
to have been attributed to its true cause, viz: the thinness of the de-
posit. Baral (Dingler’s Journal, vol. 105, from Comptes Rendus,
May, 1847,) dissolved objects which had been subjected to the process
of fire gilding, and also such as had been gilded by means of gal-
vanism, in order to examine in both cases the film of gold, and found
the galvanic coating to have more continuity, but believes that it is
less adherent, because in fire gilding a double amalgam is formed,
and after the expulsion of the mercury a part of one metal is left
intermixed with the other. But if we take into consideration that
the coating produced by fire gilding is more porous and consequently
more readily worn away, we shall feel inclined to trust in the dura-
bility of the galvanic precipitate. But, besides, experience has shown
that galvanic gilding is as durable as that produced by the old process,
provided it is of the same thickness. Objects silvered by means of
galvanism often turn yellow after a while, but this may be prevented’
by soaking and washing them carefully in warm water, when taken
out of the silvering solution, (Dr. Philipp, Dingler’s Journal, vol. 92,
from the Berliner Gewerb-Industrie und Handelsblatt, 1844, No. 2.)
Objects that have become yellow can be made white again by coating
them with a paste of charred cream of tartar and water, and when
this is dried by heat, boiling them in an aqueous solution of cream of
tartar ; they must then be well washed and dried.—(Hlsner, Dingler’s
Journal, vol. 93.) Mourey recommends coating the objects with borax,
and heating to a temperature just sufficient to fuse the borax.—(Ding-
ler’s Journal, vol. 97; from the Technologiste, June, 1845.)

With reference to the means of supplying the electric current, we
must take into consideration not only their constancy, but also the.
expense and the inconvenience produced ; for instance, by the nitrous
fumes of Bunsen’s or Grove’s elements. For small objects a simple
apparatus is commonly used with an animal membrane as a diaphragm,
and with a solution of chloride of sodium or cyanide of potassium at
the zinc pole; the object to be coated is then used as the other pole ;

*] have precipitated gold with violent evolution of gas to the amount of | milligramme
per square centimetre, and afterwards rubbed it with the finger with a piece of linen cloth,
and lastly, with a wire-brush, without taking off more than #, of the deposited gold. Of
2 milligrammes per square centimetre, 4 of the gold was removed by a similar precedure.

RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 405

but in general a separate decomposing cell is preferable, in which the
anode is of gold, &c., connected with a common Daniell’s battery.
The Duke Max Von Leuchtenberg, whose laboratory for galvanic
gilding is not surpassed by any other, (the Elkington’s operate prin-
cipally with silver,) uses plates of iron and coke charged with
sulphuric acid, and the sulphate of iron produced covers the expense of
maintaining the battery.—(Dingler’s Journal, vol. 97, from Technolo-
giste, August, 1845.) These batteriesare only charged on Mondays, and
then used, with occasional additions, day and night until Saturday, being
employed at night to decompose the exhausted gold solutions, as gold
anodes are not employed, they being considered dead capital and a
temptation to the workmen. The gold solutions, are prepared in the
laboratory in the following manner: One part of gold is dissolved in
aqua regia and evaporated to dryness, a solution of one part of caustic
potassa is added, the mixture heated and then filtered. The Duke
considers those solutions best which contain per decilitre 1 to 0.25
grammes of gold. The extent of this establishment may be imagined
when we learn that (Dingler’s Journal, vol. 105, from Bulletin’s de
lV Academié de St. Petersbourg, No. 130 ,) three wooden vessels lined
with India-rubber held 5,500 litres of gold solution containing about
80 pounds of gold, and that sometimes in one month 60 pounds were
precipitated, as when 204 pairs of copper anaes and bases for St.
tsaac’s church were gilded; the total weight of these was 7,200 ‘‘ pud,”’
of 16 kilogrammes, and the surface to be ‘gilded was about 1,300 square
metres. During three years 280 kilogrammes of gold were used ; eight
elements were usually employed as a single pair, but when the solu-
tions were nearly exhausted they were combined as a double-paired
battery, or the size of the anode was increased. If the current was
too strong, so that gas appeared at the kathode, or the object became
dark colored, the surface to be gilded was sometimes increased by
adding other objects. As soon as the precipitate appeared ‘‘ matt,’
the articles were taken out and rubbed with the wire-brush, and this
was repeated three times in order to obtain a sufficient gilding.

The application of magneto-electrical raachines appears to offer con-
siderable advantages for operations on a large scale. It seems that
Sturgeon was the first to use ps but Woolrich first secured a patent
for their application to manufac turing purposes, which was afterwards
bought by the Elkingtons. —(Dingler s Journal, vol. 105, from Bul-
letin de St. Petersbourg, No. 130.) The latter ‘had a machine con-
structed for their manufactory of German silver ware, which daily
precipitated seven. Russian pounds of silver. It consisted of eight
horse-shoe magnets, each of twelve steel plates, two and a half inches
wide, and together four inches thick. ‘Their length from the pole to
the vertex of the arch was two and a half feet, and the arms were six
inches apart. ‘The iron cores of the armatures were six inches long,
two and a half inches thick, and placed radially upon a wheel of two
and a half feet in diameter, towards which the magnets were also ra-
dially directed. The wheel made 700 revolutions in a minute, and the
current deposited sixteen to twenty ounces of silver in an hour.*

{*The use of this machine has been discontinued, ‘ as it was not found as ae ageous
as was originally supposed. OSes Hal
406 RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS.

In the heavy work of the Duke of Leuchtenberg the quantity of
gold precipitated was determined by chemical analysis. One decilitre
of the liquor was taken out of the gauged vessel before and after the
gilding, and examined ; very convenient methods of analysis were
contrived and an account of them published.—(Dingler’s Journal,
vol. 99, from Bulletin Scient. Figur. de St. Petersbourg.) It is evi-
dent that, in this case, only platinum anodes could be used. Small
objects were weighed before and after the gilding. Both methods are
unsuitable for the common gilder, and he can only judge of the strength
of the gilding by the commencement of a ‘‘ matt’’ appearance on the
polished places. A compass inserted in the circuit would enable any
one, after a few trials, to determine approximately the quantity of
gold precipitated in a minute, even if it were not a tangent compass.
At any rate this would always reliably indicate the state of the current,
while the workman now has no means whatever of ascertaining when
it is growing weaker, and only knows by the evolution of gas and the
darkening of the color when it is too strong.

Frankenstein introduced a new method of gilding, by which the
piece to be gilded is immersed in contact with zinc. The zinc is also
gilded or silvered, and the quantity of the precipitate is, according to
Fehling, (Dingler’s Journal, vol. 78,) nearly proportional to the time.
The temperature is raised to 60° R., and the object must be taken out
and cleaned every ten or twenty minutes. Frankenstein recommends
for the gold solution six parts of prussiate of potash, four of carbonate
of potassa, ten of water, and one of chloride of gold; and for silver
five parts of prussiate of potash, five carbonate of potassa, two com-
mon salt, five aqua ammonia, aud one chloride of silver. The liquid
should be boiled for a half to three-quarters of an hour and then de-
canted. This method has been frequently adopted by manufacturers ;
they use, however, the common solution of gold in cyanide of potas-
sium, adding a small quantity of caustic potassa or soda and wind
annealed brass wire loosely around small objects, such as spoons, &c.
In this manner Frankenstein (Dingler’s Journal, vol. 90) gilded the
cross and ball of a steeple in parts, and precipitated twenty-five ducats
upon a surface of fifty square feet, each piece being immersed three or
four times for five to ten minutes. The film of gold obtained by this
treatment was matt, which is always the case when as much as half a
ducat is precipitated upon a square foot. Such a gilding may, accord-
ing to the above mentioned experiments of Dumas, be considered equal
to a good fire gilding.*

Becquerel (Dingler’s Journal, vol. 92, Comptes Rendus, March,
1844, No. 2) has made numerous experiments on the precipitation of
metals from their solutions upon other metals, even upon zinc, in
which latter case he ascribed the precipitation to the galvanic currents
produced by the impurities in commercial zinc. He could only, as a
general rule, obtain adherent metallic deposits by contact with zinc,
and when the metallic salt to be precipitated was combined with an
alkali to form a double salt as nearly as possible neutral. In acid

* By the use of brass wire with a piece of zinc at the end the gilding becomes reddish
in color, probably from the copper dissolved out from the brass. I have gilded iron in this
way without previous coppering.
RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 407

liquids no adherent deposits could be produced even with the use of
separate decomposing cells.

In conclusion, it may also be mentioned that the attempt has been
made to gild silken threads and tissues without diminishing the flexi-
bility and strength of the goods; the Prussian Gewerbe Verein has
offered a premium for such a process, but, as far as I know, no one has
yet been successful.

§$ 183. Ltching by galvanism.—It seems that Spencer first took up
this idea; he procured a patent for his process in August, 1840. The
plate to be etched served as the anode, and was placed in a cell sepa-
rated by a porous diaphragm from the opposite copper plate. With
the copper plate acting as the kathode, sulphate of copper was always
used, but with the plate to be etched different liquids were employed
according to the nature of the metal.—(Dingler’s Journal, vol. 80.)
For copper dilute sulphuric acid was employed, but it does not seem
that this process was ever found practically useful, since, according to
Hasse, (Dingler’s Journal, vol. 84, from the Verhandlungen des Ve-
reins fiir Beforderung des Gewerbfleisses in Preussen, 1841, 5,) the
etching always proceeds more rapidly towards the border than in the
middle, and the same difficulty also occurs around such places as had
been stopped out after having been etched deep enough. Grove
(Dingler’s Journal, vol. 82, from Philosophical Magazine, September,
1841) etched daguerreotype plates in the following manner: He used
one of his elements with plates of the same size as that to be etched,
placed the latter in a wooden frame, at a distance of 0.2 inches from a
Smee’s platinized platinum plate, and immersed it for 20 to 30 seconds
in dilute muriatic acid, the connection with the element having been.
previously made. The daguerreotype plate was previously varnished
with shellac around its border and on the back, and after the etching
was carefully washed with agua ammonia by means of a little pad of
cotton, then well rinsed in pure water and dried. Although the finest
lines had disappeared, still the plate gave good impressions. Grove
thinks it especially adapted for taking electrotype copies which may
be used for printing.

About the same time Steinheil, in Munich, and Fizeau, in Paris, also
made attempts to etch daguerreotype plates. Fizeau’s plates bore 30
to 40 impressions.

§ 184. Nobili’s rings. —Nobili’s experiments are older than the period
to which my report is limited, and some of them date back as far as
the year 1826. He experimented with many liquids, and upon plates
of very different metals at the positive as well as at the negative pole.
An account of these experiments is to be found in Pogg. Ann., vol.
10, and also in Dingler’s Journal, vol. 94. «

Nobili obtained the most brilliant colors from acetate of lead by
placing the metallic plate at the positive pole and immersing the
negative pole in liquid liquid. It is said that he also succeeded in pro-
ducing mono-chromatic coatings, but that he never communicated the
process to any one. Béttger obtained such coatings upon platinum from
different proto salts of manganese (hippurates, acetates, succinates.)
The platinum plate connected with the positive pole was laid in the
solution, and the negative pole, which was also a circular plate, was
408 RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS,

placed opposite to it. But it is not necessary that the negative pole
should end in a plate. With a simple platinum wire the same salts
furnish nomo-chromatic tints, which successively change, so that the ex-
periment may be interrupted with any color desired. Only chloride of
manganese gave colored rings like those obtained with acetate of lead.
Bottger used solutions of 1 part of the salt in 12 to 16 parts of water,
and employed a battery of 4 elements. He gives the following as the
best mode of performing the experiment: a short platinum wire is to
be soldered to the centre of a circular platinum plate, a glass dish is:
perforated in the middle, and the plate placed in it, so that the wire
passes through a cork in the hole, and projects a little from the bot-
tom of the dish. The glass dish is then placed upon a board in which
a mercury cup is inserted, and into this dips the wire from the dish,
while another wire passing through the board connects the mercury
with the positive pole.

Elsner (Gewerbeblatt fiir Sachsen, 1842, No. 29; Dingler’s Jour-
nal, vol. 85) applied Fechner’s simple process to produce Nobili’s
rings upon steel plates. He poured acid acetate of copper (solution
of verdigris in vinegar) over the plates, touched them in different:
places with a zinc rod, dried them and heated’ them over a spirit lamp,
when different colors are successively developed, and the operation
may be interrupted as soon as the desired tint is obtained. The theo-
retical reflections appended to the memoir do not appear to be based
upon quite clear ideas, and are therefore better omitted in this place.

Becquerel (Comptes Rendus, February, 1844, No. 6; Dingler’s:
Journal, vol. 91) repeated the experiments of Nobili in various ways,
and obtained particularly beautiful colors upon different metals when
used as positive poles in a solution of litharge in caustic potassa, while
the negative pole was a platinum wire or plate. Lead is precipitated
on the platinum, and on the positive pole peroxide of lead, by which
these splendid colors are produced. Becquerel boiled finely powdered
litharge for a long time in a solution of caustic potassa of 20° to 22°
Beaumé, and used six Daniell’s elements for his battery. But the
colors are readily developed with much weaker solutions and with
fewer elements when small platinum plates are employed. It is only
with very fine platinum wires, covered with glass except at the points,
that more elements are necessary, but the rings thus obtained are
more perfect in form.

Becquerel is said to have produced uniform shades by employing
many wires projecting from the glass tube and radiating toward the
positive metallic plate. These colors resist very well when rubbed with
the finer polishing powders, such as English rouge, but are changed
by being exposed to the action of acid or ammoniacal vapors. As a pro-
tection against this action, Becquerel recommends the application of two
coatings of a varnish, made as follows: 4 litre linseed oil, 4 to 8 gram-
mes finely powdered litharge, and 2 grammes sulphate of zinc, are mod-
erately heated for several hours and then filtered. But Becquerel him-
self admits that some of the colors are injured by this treatment. This
is also the case with shellac varnish. Becquerel has experimented with
gold, copper, silver, (which gave no fine colors,) platinum, German
silver, and steel ; even bell-metal gave good results, but tin required
RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 409

a previous, although very thin, gilding. The younger Becquerel
(Ann. de Chim.and de Phys., March, 1845: Dingler’s Journal, vol. 96)
directed attention to the fact that the order of the colors thus obtained
corresponds to that obtained with transmitted light, and also main-
tained that the thickness of the layers decreases from the centre of the
rings in the inverse ratio of the radii. Zur Nedden (Dingler’s Jour-
nal, vol. 94) attempted to refute the opinion that the colors were pro-
duced by ‘‘ thin plates’ at all, and thinks that they arise from the
colors of the precipitated combinations and of the metals themselves,
But without disputing the influence of these two causes upon the shade
of individual colors, there cannot be the least doubt that their order,
as obtained, for instance, upon German silver is exactly the same as
that obtained from a wedge-shaped plate of gypsum when the mirrors
of the polarizing apparatus reflect the light in planes at right angles
to each other.

The above mentioned assertion of Edmund Becquerel, that the thick-
ness of the layers is in the inverse ratio of the radii of the rings, based
upon theoretical consideretions and confirmed by measurement on two
selected plates, was opposed by Du Bois, Reymond and Benz, (Pogg.
Ann., vol. 71.) The former deduced, from accurate theoretical inves-
tigations, the law that the thickness of the stratum precipitated by
galvanic currents at different distances from the negative point must
be inversely as the cubes of the radii, and Benz proved by experiments
that this actually is the case. The discrepancy between these contra-
dictory experiments is not yet explained.

The splendid colors obtained in the manner indicated are already
used in the arts for covering table bells, cups,and other small ware of
brass plate. The solutions of oxide of lead used for this purpose is
prepared in the following manner: One part of caustic potassa is
dissolved in 5-6 water, and boiled with finely ground litharge in
excess for half an hour in an earthenware vessel, being well stirred
all the time. The solution is then filtered and preserved in a well
closed vessel. Tor use, the liquid is poured into a vessel of lead or
brass large enough to hold conveniently the object to be coated, which
is connected with the positive pole of a Daniell’s battery of 3 pairs,
and immersed in the lead solution, when the negative pole is con-
nected with the outside of the vessel. The strength of the current
must be regulated experimentally by means of the charging fluids,
so that the formation of the rings, of which usually only the first two
systems are well developed, proceeds somewhat slowly, by which
means the current may with more precision be interrupted just when
the desired shade is obtained. Brass requires some modifications in
the process, as Becquerel had previously noticed; objects of this metal
must be gradually immersed into the solution with the sharp edge
foremost, the circuit having been previously closed. All the objects
must be well cleaned with Tripoli or English rouge, and should not
afterwards be touched with the fingers; varnish is not usually em-
ployed.

§ 185. Obtaining metals from their ores by means of galvanism.—Bec-
querel devoted especial attention to the solution of this problem ; but
notwithstanding the promise of his first reports, and the considerable
410 RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS.

amount of aid he seems to have received, no really important result
has been obtained. A report in the Comptes Rendus of 1840 (Ding-
ler’s Journal, vol. 77) sets forth in brilliant colors the advantages
of the new process, but, though a great many electrical reactions are
described, very little information can be found on the subject in ques-
tion, except that the method has to be modified according to the nature
of the ores, and that a slight previous roasting is required if the ores
do not contain metallic silver or sulphuret of silver ; for it was to the
ores of this metal that his first experiments were confined, although
he intended to take up the other metals in their turn. Becquerel, by
irrelevant digressions, makes it very difficult to understand his dis-
cussions, and taxes the patience of the reader.

In a later report in the Comptes Rendus of 1842, No. 4, (Dingler’s
Journal, vol. 84,) Becquerel gives an account of his experiments in
separating gold. His process is as follows: The ore is dissolved in
muriatic acid, and another muriatic solution is prepared containing
all the other metals in the same proportion in which they are con-
tained in the ore. These two solutions are brought to the same den-
sity, and these serve as the exciting liquids of a simple battery, that
containing the gold being placed with a platinum plate in the inner
vessel, which has a clay stopper in its bottom, and the other in the
outer vessel with a copper plate. The circuit must be kept closed
until all the gold is deposited upon the platinum, whose increase of
weight indicates the quantity of gold precipitated. But it seems that
in the use of this process on a large scale the subsequent separation
of the gold from the platinum might present new difficulties, in addi-
tion to those which would be incurred by an imperfect exhaustion of
the solution of gold.

A similar proposition had before been made by a Mr. Byer, (Ding-
ler’s Journal, vol. 80; from Mechanic’s Magazine, No. 911,) and its
priority disputed by Martin Roberts, but rather with the view of ob-
taining a quantitative determination of ores after their qualitative
analysis. ‘The ore properly prepared was to be dissolved, and the
solution used in asimple battery as one of the liquids, diluted muriatic
or sulphuric acid being used for the other. The metals to be employed
should be two which are nearest alike in affinity, and the metal used
as the negative pole should be the same as the one to be precipitated.
If, for instance, iron is contained in the solution, iron and zinc must
be taken, a known portion of the dissolved ore put in contact with the
weighed iron plate and the circuit kept closed until the exhaustion
of the solution of iron, which metal only, it is said, will be deposited
upon the iron plate. If there is copper in the solution, copper and
iron should be used ; and in this manner different metals may succes-
sively be separated, and their quantity determined by the increase of
weight of the negative metals.

In the Comptes Rendus of May, 1846, (Dingler’s Journal, vol. 101,)
Becquerel indicates a process for decomposing silver ores which are
insoluble in water. They are placed with a solution of common salt
in a glass, with the indispensable clay stopper in its bottom, and this
is set in another glass also containing the same solution, into which
zinc is immersed connected with the ore by means of a silver wire.
RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. Ail

The sodium, liberated by the decomposition of the chloride of sodium,
combines with the chlorine of the chloride of silver, and thus the
silver is reduced and obtained in a more or less porous condition. It
is the more compact as the current is weaker, 7. e., as the solution of
salt is more dilute, and as the aperture closed with the clay stopper is
smaller. But the action had, in all cases, to be continued for several
weeks, in order to reduce only a moderate quantity of silver. But
here, too, Becquerel was not the first to describe this, or, at least, a
very similar methcd. The instrument maker and assayer, Oechsle,
in Pfarzheim, had, in 1842, already published in Dingler’s Journal,
vol. 86, the following method of reducing chloride of silver: The
chloride is worked into a thick paste with a saturated solution of
common salt, and then put into a porous cell, which is set in a vessel
containing sulphuric acid diluted to ,)5; the zinc is placed in this ves-
sel, while platinum or silver is used with the chloride of silver, and
the circuit is kept closed until the grayish sediment of silver, when
stirred no longer, shows any milky streaks; it is then well washed
and dried. A similar process is again described in Poggendort’s
Annals, 1848, No. 11.

James Napier (Dingler’s Journal, vol. 97, from Repertory of Patent
Inventions, July, 1845,) proposes to reduce the metals in a fused
state, and this he does by putting the roasted metallic sulphurets
together with the proper flux in a black lead crucible, which, with
the exception of the bottom, had been coated inside with clay. When
all is fused he places upon the mass an iron plate riveted to a rod of
the same metal, another iron rod is to be placed in contact with the
outer surface of the crucible, and both rods connected with the proper
poles of a battery.

William Ritchie, in 1844, patented a process for obtaining metallic
copper, which is very similar to that described by Dechaud and
Gautier de Claubry in the Comptes Rendus of 1845, (Dingler’s Jour-
nal, vol. 97.) It consists essentially in changing the sulphuret into
sulphate of copper, which is then decomposed by galvanism. The
apparatus for this purpose consists of a number of large troughs with
several divisions, each of which is again divided into two parts by a
pasteboard diaphragm. One of these parts contains sulphate of copper
and a plate of lead, or rather of sheet iron coated with lead ; the other
contains sulphate of iron and a cast iron plate, which, tégether, form
a simple battery. The inventors think that they will be able for
every square metre of plate to reduce 1 kilogramme of copper in
twenty-four hours, and that of the whole quantity of copper in the
solution they can obtain 50 per cent. in plates, 25 per cent. granu-
lated, and the remainder in a finely divided state. The apparatus is
supplied from large reservoirs containing the liquids in the proper
state of concentration, while the exhausted solution of sulphate of
copper, as well as the saturated solution of the sulphate of iron, are,
at the same time, carried off. Accurate statements as to the advan-
tages of this process are still wanting.

[Since the date of the publication of Miiller’s report the art of elec-
trotyping has been greatly developed. The general principles of this
art, so well shown by our author, are so universally applicable that
412 RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS.

a full quotation of later authors, which we had at one time intended,
would be in most cases but a repetition of what has already been said.
The reproduction of works of art by this method has been amply
illustrated in the late European industrial exhibitions. The simplest
and lowest application which has, however, had the widest employ-
ment is the following: Small figures, generally intended for parlor
ornaments, are cast in zinc, and coated externally with copper or
some alloy of copper. In this process the electrotype is not properly
applied to the reproduction of the figure, but simply to the formation |
of a copper surface upon a cast already made. Another plan is to
precipitate a copper shell upon a fusible metal cast, which is afterwards
partly melted out, leaving a very light but sufficiently solid figure.
By these methods the now common ‘‘bronze’’ ornaments are made.

Fine works are actual reproductions of the surface of a mould by
methods already explained, but those requiring more care and atten-
tion bear a correspondingly higher value.

But it is in its applications to printing that this art has had the
greatest influence. Detailed descriptions of the mode of operation are
wanting, but as to their extent we may form some idea from the state-
ment ot Lieutenant H. B. Hunt, U.S. A., (inthe Report of Professor
A. D. Bache, the Superintendent of the United States Coast Survey,
for 1854, p. 208, Appendix,) who, in speaking of the capacity of
printing from relief, says that ‘‘is well illustrated by the 135,000
impressions regularly worked from the pages of Harper’s Magazine.
Each page of this publication is electrotyped, a copper film coating
type and wood-cuts alike, and type metal is melted into the back of
the copper shell to give it the required thickness; thus both type
and wood-cuts are converted intc a relief copper plate, from which the
prints are worked off.’’

The perfect and certain reproduction on the large scale of the finest
specimens of the engraver’s art is the most remarkable extension of
the electrotype. Of this we have the best account in the anual reports
of the United States Coast Survey.

Llectrotype operations of the United States Coast Survey, Mathiot’s
Improvements.—Although fine copper plate engravings have been
multiplied in this manner by the English ordnance survey, by the
French ‘‘ Dépot de la Guerre,’’ by the royal establishment at Vienna
and elsewhefe, that we are authorized in dwelling upon the methods
of our own national establishment is shown by the passage from a
letter of Colonel Blondell, director of the ‘‘ Dépdt de la Guerre,’’ who
says of the account of the operations of the United States Coast
Survey: ‘‘ The perusal of the memoir has convinced me at once of the
superiority of the electrotype methods which are used in the United
States. The reproduction in less than three days of a plate of large
size is an improvement of the highest importance.”’

We have drawn our information from the annual reports of the
Coast Survey, but have also verified this by personal inspection, under
the favor of Professor A. D. Bache, the Superintendent, and of Mr.
George Mathiot, who has charge of the electrotype department.

It should be premised that the maps of this establishment are
engraved in the highest style of art attainable under a minute division
RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 413

of labor in each kind of work. The fineness of the work at once ren-
dered necessary some economical reproduction of the plates, in order
that the maps might be sold at a low price, which would have been
impossible if a new engraving had to be made when each plate wore
out. The first attempts brought to light a most serious difficulty,
the copper deposit was liable to adhere, involving the partial destruc-
tion of the costly original.

By an ingenious process of reasoning Mr. Mathiot was led to the
employment of iodine to prevent the adhesion of the deposit to the
“matrix. It was, however, found difficult to apply the iodine uniformly.
The plates were next, previously silvered, and then washed with an
alcoholic solution of iodine, which effectually produced the desired
result. It was soon found that when the iodized plate had been ex-
posed to the action of light the separation was most easy and certain,
and this is the plan now uniformly adopted with unfailing success.
For the largest plates a solution of one grain of iodine in twenty
thousand grains of strong alcohol is used.

‘¢'To test the effect of the chemical method of preventing adhesion
on the sharpness of the engraved lines an engraving was seven times
successively transferred from plate to plate, when the closest inspec-
tion failed to show any inferiority of impressions from the last plate
as compared with those from the first.’’—(Coast Survey Report for
1851, p. 544.)

The next matter of importance was to diminish the time and conse-
quently the expense of depositing large plates without impairing the
ductility of the metal. Previously the best results attained had been
the deposit of one pound of copper in twenty-four hours on a plate of
eight square feet, and this only under extraordinary precautions.

The desired end was attained by a succession of improvements. In
the first place the platinized silver plates of Smee’s battery, the one
which Mr. Mathiot seems to prefer, were liable to a coating of impu-
rities derived from the zinc, (zinc itself deposited upon them?) this was
found to be removed readily by immersion in a solution of chloride of
iron. In the next place, in order to bring the plates of the battery
nearer together, to reduce the resistance, it was found necessary to
have silver more flat and true than could be made by hammering.
Such plates were finally made by electrotype deposits, by means which
we cannot now stop to describe, but which insured certainty and uni-
formity in their manufacture. After these improvements Mr. Mathiot
was able so to proportion the size and number of the elements of the
battery as to attain the required rapidity of deposit without sacrifice
of the ductility of the metal. Finally, by a simple contrivance for
maintaining a constant temperature above 100° Fahr. in the decom-
posing cell, the rapidity of the deposit and the quality of the metal
were still more improved, with the further advantage of keeping the
saturation of the copper fluid more uniform throughout its mass.

In order to maintain the exceedingly fine surface required by the
delicate_work on these plates, it was tound necessary to make the first,
immersion in a vertical position, so that impurities in the solution
could not rest upon the plate upon which the deposit was forming.
To save the trouble and time required for drawing off the fluid and
A414 RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS:

filtering off these impurities, the following simple and efficient plan
was devised: A bag of fine cotton is placed over a light wooden frame
which keeps it distended, this is gradually immersed in the solution
in the vat, and when it reaches the bottom it is found to contain a
clear filtered solution into which the plates may at once be immersed.

After the first day the plates are placed in another vat in a hori-
zontal position which is more favorable than a vertical one. The
opposed plate when loaded with impurities is removed and a fresh one
substituted, the increase of the deposits being estimated from the loss
of the opposed plates.

The attentive reader of this work will have seen the importance of
a galvanometer of some kind for ascertaining with precision the manner
in which the work is proceeding in the decomposing cell. It is not
always convenient to place such an instrument in the main circuit, and
Mr. Mathiot has arranged for this purpose what he calls a ‘‘ branch
circuit galvanometer,’’ which isin fact a galvanometer placed in a por-
tion of the current led off by a smaller wire so that the instrument may
have any desired position, an arrangement similar to that already
noticed in the first part of this report. If the portion of the whole
current thus diverted through the side conductor be small, the increase
of resistance due to the greater length of the wire will be but a small
matter when compared with the whole. It is an easy thing to deter-
mine by a few weighings the rate of deposition due to any particular
angle of deviation in the needle.—(Coast Survey Report tor 1855.)

By these well contrived arrangements electrotype copies of the most
delicate engravings are literally manufactured with undeviating cer-
tainty. The routine is so well established that an ordinary workman
can, when once well instructed, proceed without risk in the performance
of delicate operations, which at one time might be attended with hazard
in the hands of the most skilful. It must of course be understood that
we have not entered into all of the minutiz of the operations, for which
we must refer to the reports of the Coast Survey. The object has
been to show what we consider a notable instance of the influence ofa
thorough organization in carrying out in practice the most refined de-
tails. The application of this art to quite different objects would
necessarily involve a departure from the precise methods just described.
But the scientific basis, as laid down in the report of Miiller, will in all
cases be applicable. Many ingenious devices for attaining special
ends may be requisite, but they must all be in obedience to the known
laws of electricity.

Before concluding we must refer to one or two additional improve-
ments in the reproduction of copies of engraved maps which have
originated in the same quarter.

At an early period it was found a very desirable matter to add
together several detached maps or to correct or improve certain portions
of a finished engraving. It is obvious that this could be accomplished
by the nice adjustment of the parts which were to be the components
ot the new map. But this required very accurate and skilful mechani-
cal manipulation, not without some risk to the engraved surface. The
plan devised by Mr. Mathiot for overcoming these difficulties consists
in ‘taking from the plates to be joined electrotype casts weighing not
RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 415

more than three or four ounces to the square foot. These being cut in
any required form with a pair of scissors, require merely to be cemented,
each in its proper place, on a blank plate coated thinly with shoe-
makers’ wax.’’ The facility of combination thus introduced has
greatly abridged the time and labor expended upon this species of
work.—(Coast Survey Report of 1855.)

A still further extension of this idea is noticed in the Coast Survey
Report of 1857, p. 189. ‘‘It is now practically ascertained that thin
electrotypes are all that is necessary; the stiffness requisite to print
‘from being given by stretching them on steel plates having a smooth
surface and cut to the proper size.’? Mr. Mathiot also adds as follows :
“The working of the thin electrotypes has suggested to me the idea
of using these plates on a circular bed or roller, and gaining thereby
the great advantage of cylinder printing for flat plates.’? The im-
provement of copper plate printing by steam machinery is thus sug-
gested as highly probable.—G. C. 8. |
A16 METEOROLOGY.

METEOROLOGY,

ESTIMATE OF THE COST OF ESTABLISHING METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS IN
THE DIFFERENT STATES.

Estimate of cost per station for preparing and publishing the abstracis
in the form adopted by the Smithsonian Institution, not including the
velocity of the wind.

Preparation of the abstracts per station* .......00...ssessecseeeeee $8 00
Publishing the same on the supposition that there are 500
stations in the whole, and allowing $2 50 per page 8vo., of
the form of the Smithsonian tables for 1855, for composition,
50 cents per token for press work, $7 50 per ream for paper,
and a suitable amount for contingencies..........2cesc0cc0-- 6 00

The following statement shows the number of stations required for
each State to carry out the above scheme, (see page 33,) and the
estimated cost :

Main@reca= Semeeseims 10 $360 00 || Delaware--. .as-.---- 1 $36 00
New Hampshire...--. 2 (2°00 | Maryland 222 (some. 3 108 00
Vermont see aeoeeee ee 2 2 OOM Varoania ee cee 17 612 00
Massachusetts - ------ 2 72 00 || North Carolina. _.--- 3 468 00
Rhode Island and Con- | South Carolina-..--- 8 288 00
MeClICUL = oan eeeeias 2 72. 00) |\ Georgia — soo-esseeer 16 576 00
INeweviGnks=seeee aces 3 468° 00)|\"blorida 22 "sceteo-e= 16 576 00
New Jersey ---------- 2 2) 100))| "Alabama ose cesses 14 504 00
Pennsylvania --.----- 13 468 00 || Minnesota - -....--- 39 1,404 00
MISSISSID Pl wos econ oes 13 468: OOEMMemasiesmace aces ee 90 3,240 00
THOUISIANA ce tecen ese il 39.6)10. 0in Aman sasiser cee —stetet 15 540 00
Mennessee caneeececce 12 432) 00" | (Califormarets yoo 5228 52 1,872 00
Kentuckyre si saste 2) 10 360 00 |} Indian Territory..--. 52 1,872 00
QHIQSE eA eee sc ceases 11 396 00)| Kansastaeeece- aac 35 1,260 60
Michigans ss sseacs==—- 16 576 00 || Nebraska------.-2-- 101 3,636 00
Indianaececne-ases5 9°) 324° 00) |) NewsMexico S220 59 2,124 00
TilinoiseeG Se 15 54000: 1) Oregons ge 2 Uo. Lee 53 1,908 00
Missourteve se eetee is 18 648 00 | Uitahwe oes 52 1,872 00
Wisconsin'- 22 se aeee= 16 576 00 || Washington Territory 33 1,188 00
Towa 225 wes case 14 504 00 | Seesicnecisoecaceaecme| 2s one ee ee
| ——— | ————.
TotaleJsesen AS Ree is) ec a ee (hel $1 4 Ln ep 860 | 24,360 00

=About 70 per cent. of this work may be done by the observers, and if correctly this
item of cost will be proportionally reduced. The estimate is some 18 per cent. below the
actual cost, the advantage of having the work done under the direction of the Smithsonian
Institution being supposed to be sufficient to make up for the deficiency.
METEOROLOGY. 417

METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS CONNECTED WITH THE SENIOR COUNTY
GRAMMAR SCHOOLS.

{From the Annual School Report for 1858. |

1. Circular to the county councils and to the boards of senior county
grammar schools in Upper Canada.

GENTLEMEN: I have the honor to inform you that the necessary
instruments for making meteorological observations at each of the
senior county grammar schools in Upper Canada have been procured
by the chief superintendent of education, and are now ready for dis-
tribution by this department.

The section of the grammar school law authorizing the establish-
ment of these meteorological stations in connexion with the senior
county grammar schools of Upper Canada is as follows :

‘‘ Whereas it is desirable at seminaries and places of education
to direct attention to natural phenomena, and to encourage habits of
observation; and whereas a better knowledge of the climate and
meteorology of Canada will be serviceable to agriculture and other
pursuits, and be of value to scientific inquirers:

“‘Be it therefore enacted, That it shall be part of the duty of the
master of every senior county grammar school to make the requisite
observations for keeping, and to keep, a meteorological journal, em-
bracing such observations, and kept according to such form, as shall
from time to time be directed by the Council of Public Instruction ;
and all such journals or abstracts of them shall be presented annually
by the chief superintendent of schools to the governor with his annual
report.

‘¢ Hvery senior county grammar school shall, on or before the last
day of November, one thousand eight hundred and fifty-four, be pro-
vided, at the expense of the county municipality, with the following
instruments :

‘¢One barometer ; one thermometer for the temperature of the air ;
one Daniels’ hygrometer, or other instrument for showing the dew-
point ; one rain-gauge and measure ; one wind-vane.

*¢ And it shall be the duty of the chief superintendent of schools to
procure these instruments at the request and expense of the municipal
council of any county, and to furnish the master of the senior county
grammar school with a book for registering observations, and with .
sorms for abstract thereof, to be transmitted to the chief superintendent
by such master, who shall certify that the observations required have
been made with due care and regularity.”’

The delay which has occurred in providing these instruments has
been unavoidable, Those first selected in the United States were found
to be unsuitable ; and upon consultation with Colonel Lefroy, so long
and favorably known in connexion with this department, improve-
ments, which experience in this climate had suggested, were adopted,
and a range as low as 35° and 40° below zero was given to the ther-
mometers.

The instruments, when ready, were all tested by James Glaisher,
esq., and their variations recorded. They were also examined and
approved by Colonel Lefroy. In addition, the chief superintendent

27
418 METEOROLOGY.

considered it important to subject them to a winter’s test at the Pro-
vincial Magnetical Observatory, Toronto, before sending them out,
and to compare and note any variations ‘which might be caused by
exposure to extreme cold.

The various instruments and books which are now ready for distri-
bution are as follows:

One barometer, either standard or one of a second quality.

A self-registering maximum thermometer.

A self-registering minimum thermometer.

A wet and dry bulb thermometer.

A rain-gauge and graduated measuring glass.

A copy of the Official Instructions and Directions for making and
recording Observations.

Daily ‘Tegister book, containing printed forms, and adapted for the
observations of one complete year.

Monthly and annual abstract book, containing printed forms, and
adapted for the observations of one complete year.

Blank book for extraordinary records.

Map of the Stars, four tables, and synopsis, reprinted from the
Instructions and mounted for convenient reference.

A copy of Drew’s’ Practical Meteorology.

A copy of Coffin’s |Smithsonian] Hygrometrical Tables, bound up
with the Instructions.

(A wind-vane is not sent. It can easily be constructed at the
station. )

The cost of these instruments and books, including packing, &c.,
will be $140, one-half of which will be borne by this department and
the other half by the county to which the instruments are sent.
Where desirable, an officer will be despatched from the department
with the instruments to insure safety in their carriage and to assist
in fitting them up at the proposed station. Should you desire the
instruments to be sent to your grammar school, I will thank you to
notify me at your earliest convenience, so that the necessary arrange-
-ments for that purpose may be made, and transmit the required
amount ($70) with the enclosed form duly filled up. Where, instead
of the standard barometer, a barometer of the second quality is
selected, the price of the set of instruments, &c., is $110, only one-
half of which ($55) need be sent.

- The instructions for taking and recording observations, which have
been approved by the Council of Public Instruction, have been care-
fully prepared by the director of the Provincial Observatory, and
are sufficiently minute and explicit to enable the head master of the
grammar school to make the necessary observations without much
trouble. Attention and patience will be indispensable at first, but
time and practice will soon insure regularity and accuracy in the
observer.

In order to afford time for practice, it is suggested that no observa-
tions be recorded in the books sent until the Ist of January next. A
sufficient supply of unbound sheets will accompany each set of instru-
ments to enable the head master to record his observations on them
until that time. A form of monthly returns will also be sent by
mail, in which can be recorded each month’s observations. These
METEOROLOGY. A19

monthly reports should be regularly transmitted to the chief super-
intendent, as required by law.

Of the great practical importaice, to a new and but partially settled
country, of establishing (thus early in its history, and before its
physical condition is materially changed). a complete and compre-
hensive system of meteorological observations, I need scarcely remark,
as the subject will no doubt receive your attentive consideration. The
department will rely upon your cordial co-operation in the matter.

Every enlightened country in Europe is now more or less engaged
in prosecuting Inquiries in this particular branch of science. In the
other parts of her Majesty’s dominions, and in the United States,
meteorological stations have been long since established. Although
the science is yet comparatively in its infancy, yet from the aggregate
of facts which have already been collected at various points ‘and in
different countries, truths of highest value and importance in scientific
research have been unfolded, unsettled theories have been tested, and
questions relating to physical phenomena, which had long remained
among the sealed mysteries of nature, have been satisfactorily solved.

I have the honor to be, gentlemen, your very obedient servant,

J. GEORGE HODGINS,
Deputy Super intendent.
Epucation Orrice, Toronto, Seplember 25, 18517.

2. Meteorological Stations Established.

During the present year the following meteorological stations have
been established at the senior county grammar schools in Upper
Canada:

1, Port Sarnia; 2, Chatham; 3, gent: 4, Hamilton; 5, Ni-
agara; 6, Milton; 7, Barrie ; 8, "Whitby; 9 , Belleville : 10, age :
11, Perth; 12, Cornwall ; 13, bib Original, ’ (instruments purchased
but not yet sent for.)

Hach of these twelve stations has been visited by an officer of this
department who, in addition to fixing the locality, position of instru-
ments, &c., has given practical instructions in the use of the instru-
ments with which the stations have been provided. It was not thought
necessary to supply wind-vanes, as they are easily constructed at the
stations. Instructions, however, were given for making SEpronieate
observations of the direction and velocity of the wind.

Each of the stations has also been supplied with a sutioiont quan-
tity of sheets of the various forms and abstracts for practice, previous
to making entries in the registers.

The daily register contains a sufficient number of the two forms, A
and B, for a year’s observation, as follows:

Form A contains on each of its pages the following headings, viz:
‘* Barometer corrected at 32° Fah.; Gaseous pressure ; ; Temperature
of air corrected; Wet bulb thermometer corrected ; : Difference of dry
and wet bulb; Elasticity or tension of vapor; [iumidity; Direction
and velocity of wind; Appearance of sky ; Class and arrangement of
clouds ; Amount of cloudiness ; Clouds in motion—Class, Elevation,
Direction, Form, and Velocity ; Aurora; General remarks,’ These
observations are required to be made three times a day, viz: at 7 a. m.,
1p. m., and 9 p. m.
420 METEOROLOGY.

Form B contains blanks for one month’s observations on one page,
the columns for which are, ‘‘ Day of the month; Self-registering
maximum and minimum thermometers; Daily range of temperature ;
Rain, Began at, Ended at, Total duration ; Cubic inches in gauge;
Depth in inches ; Snow, Began at, Ended at, Total duration ; Depth
in inches; Total depth of rain and melted snow ; Remarks.’’

Full instructions having been given, the observers, after a little
practice, were required, in accordance with the act and regulations,
to transmit monthly abstracts of their observations to the educational
department, two forms for which were supplied as follows:

Form C, which is a condensation of forms A and B, contains columns
for the corrected observations, and the daily as well as monthly means.

Form D inciudes the ‘‘ highest, lowest, and monthly range of
barometer; also, the great ranges within twenty-four hours; the dates
and total number of rainy days, snowy days, foggy days, storms of
wind, frosts; columns fer four classes of auroras: sky unfavorable,
observations doubtful; sky unfavorable, observations impossible; sky
favorable, none seen; the highest, lowest, and monthly range of tem-
perature; the greatest and least daily range; the mean temperature of
the warmest and coldest days; lightning, thunder, hail, or rain;
meteors and optical phenomena; general remarks.”’

These abstracts are required to be certified as true copies of the
originals, and the observations as having been made with due regu-
larity, as required by law.

The annexed table will show how far the observers have succeeded
in accomplishing the objects contemplated by the act:

CHARACTER OF ABSTRACTS RECEIVED.
Meteorological station. | When estab- | No. monthly
lished in 1858. | abstracts re-
ceivedated- | Well pre- |Middlingly.|Imperfectly.
itor’s office. pared.
#1, Niagara ..---....| January...-.. | 2 aA Vises es eee Vg ee oc
9) Pamilton.2.. 0222 Sadouss Sa akes STN es See er Shwe Soesesoses
3: Belleville. -----:- lew aodold Auta 10 ts 2 SEU ees
die BATRILG SEE ise os Sle Pease we eS 8 go PPT, jens ~
HS Geii ene asa ese HHICW 5. foSh2 CN eee eee ee aoe 4
6. Port/Sarmia 2225—- yen Ome ae antes 7 0 Gf mm (Re seme (EPs tae =
TUN bOme ease | February- ---- BS iii ed ese sete ies aR Lh Be RO A 3
+8. Cornwall -------- B Sah Sosa apg Wo leo oahas oOo see See eee =
Gav Guelpia—osee ase September .s< 3] cen soee a S| Beene on Sit ee ee ee eee
LOS Wihttbygeeee = 5 s<1- ose Dees. seit Bees See ae eee eer SRE
1 SPerth) ees seo = = October .Uso esse Se. Sa 2 certo ee here ee | ee
12h Pictouy. aa2 saeees BE oe che Be ee a ee a8) eee ee in SEE lo ad
Potalse seca eee <= aed 37 23 7 7
|

* No reports have been received from Niagara for several months, nor from Hamilton or
Milton for some time ; but the omission at these two stations was owing to a change of
masters. :

The master at Cornwall having tendered his resignation, the instructions were not
given till October.

{Names of observers from whom well prepared abstracts have been received: At
Belleville, Alexander Burdon; at Barrie, Rev. W. F. Checkley, A. B.; and at Port Sarnia,
Rev. G. J. R. Salter, B. A. The observations taken at Barrie have been regularly pub-

lished in the local papers.
METEOROLOGY. ADT

[Correspondence. |

THE EARTHQUAKE OF 1811 AT NEW MADRID, MISSOURI.
(From the narrative of an eye-witness. )
BY TIMOTHY DUDLEY, OF JACKSONVILLE, ILLINOIS.

Iam indebted to James Ritchie, esq., of Jerseyville, [linois, for
the facts embodied in this article, who was living with his family at
the time of this earthquake in the vicinity of its most violent commo-
tions, and those scenes were so vividly impressed upon his mind that,
after a half century has nearly passed away, they are as fresh and vivid
as though they transpired yesterday :

On the west bank of the Mississippi river, sixty-five miles below the
mouth of the Ohio, by the windings of the river, and about twenty
miles in a direct line, stands an old Spanish town called New Madrid.
The southern boundary line of Kentucky is the famous political
line of 36° 30’ north latitude, constituting also the southern boundary
line of Missouri, crossing the Mississippi river a short distance
below New Madrid. Thirty miles below was an old French village
called Little Prairie, and south and west of this village is a long
cypress swamp extending north and south a distance of one hundred
and twenty miles, and in breadth east and west twenty-five or thirty
miles, which was ealled fifty years since the St. Francis swamps.

I have been thus particular in locating these old towns and lowlands
from the fact that evidence is.continually accumulating which goes to
prove that all the commotions which have disturbed the earth’s surface
tor the last half century in the western States have had their origin
in the St. Francis swamps.

On the 16th day of December, 1811, at two o’clock in the morning,
the inhabitants of New Madrid were aroused from their slumbers by
a deep rumbling noise like many thunders in the distance, accom-
panied with a violent vibratory or oscillating movement of the earth
from the southwest to the northeast, so violent at times that men,
women, and children caught hold of the nearest objects to prevent
falling to the ground.

It was dangerous to stay in their dwellings, for fear they might
fall and bury them in their ruins; it was dangerous to be out in the
open air, for large trees would be breaking off their tops by the vio-
lence of the shocks, and continually falling to the earth, or the earth
itself opening in dark, yawning chasms, or fissures, and belching forth
muddy water, large lumps of blue clay, coal, and sand, and when the
violence of the shocks were over, moaned and slept, again gathering
power for a more violent commotion. :

On this day twenty-eight distinct shocks were counted, all coming
from the southwest and passing to the northeast, while the fissures
would run in an opposite direction, or from the northwest to the
southeast.

- On a small river called the Pemiseo at that time stood a mill owned
by a Mr. Riddle. This river ran a southeast course, and probably
423 METEOROLOGY.

was either a tributary of the St. Francis or lost itself in those swamps.
This river blew up* for a distance of nearly fifty miles, the bed en-
tirely destroyed, the mill swallowed up in the ruins, and an orchard
of ten acres of bearing apple trees, also belonging to Mr. Riddle,
nearly ruined. The earth, in these explosions, would open in fissures
from forty to eighty rods in length and from three to five feet in
width; their depth none knew, as no one had strength of nerve suffi-
cient to fathom them, and the sand and earth would slide in, or water
run in, and soon partially fill them up.

After the earthquake had subsided there was not a perfect row of
trees left in this orchard—one-half destroyed, some leaning in one di-
rection, others directly contrary; some covered to the limbs in these
chasms as they filled up, and others with their roots turned entirely
out of the earth.

Large forest trees which stood in the track of these chasms would
be split from root to branch, the courses of streams changed, the bot-
toms of lakes be pushed up from beneath and form dry land, dry land
blow up, settle down, and form lakes of dark, muddy water.

Where the travelled, beaten road ran one day, on the next might
be found some large fissure crossing it, half filled with muddy, torpid
water. It was dangerous to travel after dark, for no one knew the
changes which an hour might effect in the face of the country, and
yet so general was the terror that men, women, and children fled to
the highlands to avoid being engulphed in one common grave. One
family, in their efforts to reach the highlands by a road they all were
well acquainted with, unexpectedly came to the borders of an exten-
sive lake; the land had sunk, and water had flowed over it or gushed
up out of the earth and formed a new lake. The opposite shore they
felt confident could not be far distant, and they travelled on in tepid
water, from twelve to forty inches in depth, of a temperature of 100
degress, or over blood heat, at times of a warmth to be uncomfortable,
for the distance of four or five miles, and reached the highlands in
safety.

On the 8th of February, 1812, the day on which the severest shocks
took place, the shocks seemed to go in waves, like the waves of the
sea, throwing down brick chimnies level with the ground and two
brick dwellings in New Madrid, and yet, with all its desolating
effects, but one person was thought to have been lost in these commo-
tions.

A family of the name of Curran were moving from New Madrid to
an old French town on the Arkansas river, called the Port; had
passed the St. Francis swamps and found some of their cattle missing;
Le Roy, the youngest son, took an Indian poney, rode back to hunt
them, and was in the swamp when the first shock took place, was
never seen afterwards, and was supposed to have been lost in some of
those fearful chasms.

The Port was about one hundred miles below what is now called
Little Rock, and claims its settlement as far back as the settlement of

** IT have used this expression because it was so given by the narrator, and used by the
people, as conveying the appearance of these scenes as they passed before them.
METEOROLOGY. 423

Philadelphia. It was about one hundred and fifty miles southwest of
the swamps, and the people heard the first shocks on the 16th of De-
cember, and at the same time as the citizens of New Madrid, but the
sounds and shocks came from the northeast.*

I will briefly notice some of the phenomena connected with these
earthquakes, the state of the weather at the time, and the opinions
which the people held in regard to their origin, or the great cause of
them.

The weather was warm and smoky, and had been so for some days,
not a breath of air stirring, and so thick and smoky that the Kentucky
shore, one mile distant, could not be seen at all. They were in a
balmy Indian summer. The morning after the first shock, as some
men were crossing the Mississippi, they saw a black substance floating
on the river, in strips four or five rods in breadth by twelve or tour-
teen rods in length, resembling soot from some immense chimney, or
the cinders from some gigantic stove-pipe. It was so thick that the
water could not be seen under it. On the Kentucky side of the river
there empties into the Mississippi river two small streams, one
called the Obine, the other the Forked Deer. Lieutenant Robinson,
a recruiting officer in the United States army, visited that part of
Kentucky lying between those two rivers in 1812, and states that he
found numberless little mounds thrown up in the earth, and where a
stick or a broken limb of a tree lay across these mounds they were all
burnt in two pieces, which went to prove to the people that these com-
motions were caused by some internal action of fire.

In the Mississippi river, about five miles above what was then called
the first Chickasaw Bluffs, but in later times Plum Point, was an island
about three miles long, covered with a heavy growth of timber, which
sank in one of these shocks to the tops of the trees, which made the
navigation extremely dangerous in a low stage of the river.

About four miles above Paducah, on the Ohio river, on the Dlinois
side, on a post-oak flat, a large circular basin was formed, more than
one hundred feet in diameter, by the sinking of the earth, how deep
no one can tell, as the tall stately post-oaks sank below the tops of
the tallest trees. The sink filled with water, and continues so to this
time,

The general appearance of the country where the most violent
shocks took place was fearfully changed. So many farms were ruined
that our government gave to each janded proprietor a title to a sec-
tion (640 acres) of land in what was then known as the Boon Lick
country, on condition of proving their loss, and by relinquishing their
rights in the injured lands to government.

In all grants of land to private individuals, although the laws regu-
lating such grants may be very stringent, cunning men can be found
who will find opportunity to evade these laws, and such was the case

come from the south or southwest. In point of fact, seldom a year passes when these shocks
are not felt. Slight, indeed, they may be, as the inhabitants are so accustomed to them they
pay no regard to them, and it is only when the more violent are felt, and extend beyond these
earthquake regions, that any notice is taken of them.
424 METEOROLOGY.

relieved, even if some few individuls were benefitted at the expense of
the general government.

This country was first settled under the Spanish government, ceded
by that government to France, and by the French government, under
the Emperor Napoleon, to the United States in 1803.

The Spanish government pursued a most liberal policy towards
settlers to encourage emigration, every man who settled in this new
country being allowed one hundred arpents, a married man and wife
two hundred arpents, each male child also one hundred, each female
child fifty, and twenty arpents to each slave, but in no case to exceed
six hundred arpents to each family, or one square mile, an arpent
being about seven-eighths of an English acre, and no single claim to
be more than eighty rods in breadth fronting on the river.

The purchase took place in April, 1803, was ratified by the Ameri-
can Congress in December following, and all settlers from the time of
the purchase in April to the ratification of the treaty were allowed
the same privilege as those which were taken under the Spanish
government.

The face of the country had been so much changed by the terrific
explosions and commotions of these earthquakes, so many fields,
dwellings, and other kinds of property destroyed, that Congress passed
the law for their relief before alluded to, but the remembrance of those
awful scenes still remains in the memory of the few survivors who
witnessed them, and will probably linger around the memory of the
past until their eyelids close in ‘‘ the sleep that knows no waking.”’
METEOROLOGY. 425

DISPERSION OF A CLOUD BY AN ELECTRICAL DISCHARGE.

FROM D. W. NAILL, OF SAM’S CREEK, MARYLAND,

The accompanying diagram is intended to illustrate an unusual
occurrence, so far as I am informed, an account of which is submitted
for your consideration.

On the 30th July, 1856, a heavy
storm cf rain, with some hail and sharp
thunder and lightning, occurred at 6
o’clock p. m.

A second storm of rain came up at 7
p.m. from the southwest, before which :
a white cloud of the form represented |
in fig. 1 was scudding. It was of beau-
tiful whiteness as it appeared between —
the observer and the dark face of the
first cloud. It was a conspicuous ob- -
ject, and I had observed its progress -
along the face of the Parr Ridge for |
some two miles, and I should suppose SSS
it to have been a mile distant, when a discharge of lightning passed
down through it, when it was dis- ;
persed or thrown into fragments, as zee oe
shown in fig. 2.

Regarding the occurrence as very
unusual, I looked at the slight remains
of the cloud from different positions, to
satisfy myseif that I was not deceived.

Having never observed or heard of
such an occurrence before, it has
awakened many reflections in my mind
in relation to the production of elec-
tricity in the clouds, and the offices it
performs there, in.its amazing power.

426 CORRESPONDENCE.

CORRESPONDENCE.

COMMUNICATION FROM DR. ROBERT HARE, ON A METHOD OF FORMING
SMALL WEIGHTS.*

Avaust 29, 1856.

I submit, in writing, the proposition respecting the production of
small weights which I made to the American Association for the
Advancement of Science, at a recent meeting,

In chemical analysis, and in the assay of the precious metals, the
accuracy of the extremely minute weights employed is of the utmost
importance. '

As the government has undertaken to furnish standard weights
and measures for the larger operations or transactions of commerce
and the arts, without which accuracy and uniformity could not be
secured to the country at large, so it would seem consistent that to
the minute processes of the arts and sciences a help should be given
which otherwise seems not to be attainable.

The usual process of making weights, by reducing them till they
exactly counterpoise a standard weight, cannot be pursued advan-
tageously when they are less each than a tenth of a grain. For
the making of weights below that size, measurement and division are
preferably employed.

An instrument constructed by an ingenious and skilful machinist
(Tyler) is capable of dividing an inch into 1,400 parts by the action
of a ratchet and wheel, which may be so restricted in its motion as
only to move one tooth ata stroke, causing a platform to advance
only the fraction of an inch above mentioned.

For producing by means of this instrument tenths and hundredths
of a grain, a convenient length of very fine palladium wire may be
employed. This being reduced in length very cautiously till it weighs
some equimultiple of a grain, a distance commensurate with the
length of this wire is marked upon a suitable narrow brass plate by a
knife. The number of the ratchet strokes which must be made in
order to measure this distance must be ascertained.

Dividing this number by the number of grains will give ihe num-
ber of ratchet movements in a length of the wire equal in weight to
a grain; again dividing this by ten will give the number of such
movements in a length equal to a tenth of a grain; and, in like man-
ner, if divided by one hundred will give the number of the movements
in question requisite to designate the length equal to =,.45 of a
grain. The length equal to as much of the wire as would weigh a
tenth of a grain being thus found, this distance is to be marked on
the brass plate with a sharp edge.

A strip of steel is in thé next place sharpened at each end to
a fine edge, and bent so as to resemble a long narrow staple, is
to be furnished midway with a screv, by which the ends can be _

* Accidentally omitted in the last report.
CORRESPONDENCE. 427

made nearer or farther apart, like the points of spring compasses.
By these means, with the aid of a lens, the edges of the tool thus
constructed are to be made to coincide exactly with the marks desig-
nating the length of wire equal to the tenth of a grain.

Having made this adjustment by the action of the tool, ten pieces
of the wire being cut and afterwards weighed against a standard
grain weight, if found too light or too heavy, the screw regulating
the distance must be touched so as to cause the distance to be increased
or diminished, rendering the cuts larger or smaller. When they are
brought to the weight required, they should, by a delicate assay
balance, be tried against each other to ascertain that they are equal
in weight to each other.

Having thus obtained tenths of a grain in weight equal to each
other, fifths may be made by the same process and tried against the
tenths, two to one, and against each other; hundredths may be ob-
tained by a like process ; for each a tool being requisite like that used
for cutting tenths, excepting that it should be smaller in proportion
as the lengths required to be cut are shorter.

The instrument by which these results were obtained has a peculiar
capability of reducing the size of the graduations to the limits requi-
site to include a greater or less number within any necessary length.

Suppose it desirable to have as much of a rod as would be equivalent
in bulk to a cubic inch of water divided into such degrees as would
increase hundredths of a cubic inch. Let a tube sufficiently large to
receive the whole length of the rod be at one end recurved at right
angles, and terminated in a point with a capillary orifice. Let the
other end be furnished with a stuffing-box to receive the rod, making
a water-tight juncture. The tube is to be replete with water, the rod
entering so as to reach a little beyond the stuffing-box. A mark is
then to be made on the rod as close to the box as possible. A light
cup being counterpoised on an accurate balance, and a weight equal
to a cubic inch of water being placed in the opposite scale, the apex
of the rod is to be introduced into the cup while the rod is shoved in,
until as much water has been forced into it from the tube as will
balance the weight employed as above mentioned. Another mark is
now to be cut into the rod close to the box as before. Thus a length
of the rod equivalent to the water excluded, and of course equal to a
cubic inch of that fluid, is thus indicated to exist between the knife
marks.

The number of ratchet strokes requisite to measure this distance is
in the next place to be ascertained and divided by the number of
graduations required, The quotient will be the number necessary to
make a degree.

Should the number of the ratchet strokes, when decided as above
mentioned, leave a fraction, it is to be gotten rid of by means of the
contrivance already alluded to for reducing each degree proportionally
to any reduction in the whole length necessary to a degree.

I am willing to put the instrument in question into the possession
of the government or of the Smithsonian Institution, on condition that
it shall be kept in good order for the purpose of furnishing accurate
weights, graduations, or measures of liquids or gases, for the purposes
of science and the arts.
428 CORRESPONDENCE.

e PLAN OF A BIBLIOGRAPHY.
BY DR. JULIUS FRIEDLANDER.

The daily increase in every department of the sciences by the con-
stant labors of learned men in all parts of the world, resulting in an
extensive amount of new researches and speculations has become so
large, as to make it impossible for any student of science to keep
progress with it. Annual reports on each department have been ac-
cordingly felt for many years as an indispensable necessity. The
reperts onchemistry by Berzeliusand Kopp ; on botany by Wikstrém ;
on zoology by Froschel and others; and those famous ones by the
British Association for the Advancement of Science are specimens of
such annual reviews. Still these reports but incompletely satisfy the
want that is felt. If a philosopher who is about to undertake a new
investigation, to study new phenomena, to establish a new hypothesis,
or to contrive a new apparatus, wishes to know what has been pre-
viously done in the same direction, he has a very laborious undertak-
ing before him, and is obliged to rely upon manuals and encyclopedias
merely, unless he has a very extensive library. If he has the latter,
he is still in want of a general index. Every man engaged in learned
pursuits is constantly appealed to for information as to where this dis-
covery may be found or that experiment detailed.

Many researches are commenced in different parts of the world,
and experiments instituted, which have been already pursued and
tried many years before, and consequently much valuable time is
lost from ignorance of the sources of information whence a knowl-
edge of what has been previously done might have been acquired.
The want of a general encyclopedic account of all that has been pub-
lished on the natural sciences has been long felt, and attempts would
have been made to supply this want, could the heavy expense of such
a work been covered by private individuals. The literature of natural
science 18 so extensive and diffused through so many periodicals,
transactions of academies and learned societies, encyclopedias, and
other publications, that when we desire to have access to it we cannot
find it in one place, but must visit Berlin, Vienna, London, and Paris,
besides various private libraries, and moreover be a bibliographer as
well as versed in the sciences.

It certainly seemsin character with the objects of the Smithsonian
Institution to promote the publication of such a work as is required,
and nowhere is its necessity so much felt as in America, and in this
Institution, to which such frequent reference is made for the informa-
tion such a publication would furnish.

In accordance with the expressed desire of Professor Henry, the
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, I will now proceed to trace out
the plan of such a work:

In the first place, I should prepare a general complete bibliograph-
ical index of all the memoirs, periodicals, society transactions, ency-
clopedias, and other collected publications which treat of physics,
chemistry, mathematics, and astronomy, as far as I should be enabled
CORRESPONDENCE. 429

to do so from the bibliographical researches afforded by the public
and private libraries of Berlin. Having first published such an index,
I would send it to all the iarge libraries and the eminent scientific
men of the world, asking for additional information, while I myself
would subsequently compare it with the contents of the different
foreign libraries I should visit. By these means, I should be enabled
to find out what may remain to be done and to complete the work.
A scientific account would then be given of the contents of every publi-
cation, and recorded together with its perfect title. The place of pub-
lication of each would be given in addition to the title and contents. I
should trace out the sources of all extracts and translations together
with the original publications, but distinguish them carefully, mark
especially where the full description and illustration of apparatus and
machines may be found, &c. In this way the titles and contents of
about forty or fifty thousand publications would probably have to
be recorded and arranged in a systematic order to be afterwards ex-
plained. Memoirs which have been translated or republished in
different periodicals should be brought under one title, and every source
where they can be found noticed, and information given as to where
the original was published, and whether the translation or republica-
tion be complete or not,

It will be necessary to devote the greatest care and attention to the
systematic arrangement of the work. I would certainly not pursue the
method of arranging according to authors’ names. My classification
would be according to the scientific systems, with their various and
most extensive subdivisions. This would evidently be by no means the
least laborious part of the task.

After the systematic arrangement of the whole, the printing of the
work can be commenced in several departments at once. very title
of a publication should have a particular number, and an index of
authors’ names be added at the end. I may here remark, that it is
not intended to embrace the departments of mere technical inventions
and machinery, but of all scientific, theoretical and analytical memoirs.

Having thus given a general outline of the proposed work, I will
now state to the Smithsonian Institution the conditions under which
I offer to undertake it. The sum which I ask from the Smithsonian
Institution jor the execution of the whole work is $5,000. $2,500 to be
paid in eight instalments during the progress of the undertaking, and
$2,500 on its completion, ¢. e., after the printing. 400 well printed
copies of the work are to be delivered gratis to the Smithsonian Insti-
tution. I will commence with the publication of the preparatory index,
the expense of which I shall defray myself. This volume will be the
euide to the whole work, and I shall proceed to make all the necessary
abstracts from the works mentioned in this first publication and those
met with subsequentiy. By means of the preliminary volume, |
shall be enabled to state when the one-eighth of the whole publication
will be completed. Baron Alexander de Humboldt, Professor Dove,
Professor Magnus, and Professor Poggendorf, with whom I have the
honor to be acquainted, are all anxious for the publication of such a
work and will undoubtedly be willing to assist its execution. IL
430 CORRESPONDENCE.

would propose also, that it should be submitted to the American
ambassador resident in Berlin. 'To provide for the event of death, I
shall assign the work to the latter. When one-eighth of the work
shall be completed, I propose that the Smithsonian Institution pay over
to me, through the American ambassador, one-eighth of $2,500. I
will submit the manuscript to the American ambassador, who will
return it to me for the systematic classification.

The manuscript will be completed after a thorough investigation of
the libraries of Berlin, Munich, Vienna, London, Paris, Stockholm,
the Hague, Brussels, Geneva, Milan and the United States. I shall
be allowed the privilege, if desirable, toemploy a competent person
for the purpose of consulting and making abstracts from the various
American publications. The work will be printed on good paper in
one of the first German establishments, and be inscribed as a publi-
cation of the Smithsonian Institution. Every two months a report of
the progress of the work will be made to the Institution, by means of
which a proper judgment may be formed of its proceeding. The sale
of copies in Europe will cover the expense of printing.

It is only by means of such a work that a scientitic person would
be able to execute a complete encyclopedia, such as Leibnitz proposed
to the academies. Access to such a publication can alone enable a
man to discover whether he has all the materia! of his particular
department.

[The Royal Society of London has undertaken to make a general
index of all the transactions of learned societies, which will consist of
about 250,000 separate titles. It will afford one of the most important
means of facilitating the advance of science which has been produced
during the present century, and it is to be hoped that provision will be
made for a distribution of copies of this work at a small cost to every
part of the civilized world. gy, he eel

ACCOUNT OF ANTIQUITIES FROM KENTUCKY.
BY §. 8. LYON.

I have in my collection a few articles of antiquity, which may be of
general interest ; should they be deemed of suflicient importance by
you, and should you signify your desire, I will pack them up, and
send them to the Smithsonian Institution as a donation.* That you
may be able to understand what I propose to contribute, I shall give
you such an account of them, and a few of the facts in relation thereto,
as will! fall into the compass of a page or two.

Three miles south of Raleigh, Union county, Kentucky, is the place

y

* These articles are now in the Smithsonian museum.
CORRESPONDENCE. 431

from which these objects were procured ; from this point to the line of
high water of the Ohio there are a great number of mounds and
burial places of the original inhabitants of the country, as well as
other mounds erected by these people, in which no bodies are found.

The mound from which the remains in my possession were taken is
about two or three feet high above the surrounding earth, eighteen
feet in its shorter and twenty-one feet in its longer diameter. It is
situated at the north end of a flat point or ridge of land. The mate-
rial taken to cover the bodies which it contains is a fine silicious
earth of a recent deposit of this country. (For geological position see
map of Union county, Sec. 31, T. 1 8., R. 2 W., near the location of
Mr. Leonard Robinson.)

The bodies were laid upon the left side, the heads toward the centre
of a circle, and the feet outward. At the head of each was placed one
of the earthen vessels, of which there are a great variety of forms and
sizes; the largest vessels always being placed at the heads of the
adults, smaller ones at those of the younger persons, and the smallest
at the heads of the children. Judging trom the size of the bodies and
condition of the teeth, this burial place contained infants of a very
tender age, from six to ten months, and persons of various ages, from.
childrens to adults of fifty or sixty years of age.

In all cases, without exception, the bodies were laid on the left side,
the heads toward the centre of the circle. In some of the vases was
found a blackened carbonaceous (?) matter, probably the remains of
food, or an offering to the gods of the dead. Inaddition to the vase,
many of the bodies had one vaive of one of the unios of the Ohio
river placed upon the forehead, the internal side of the shell turned
toward the head. In a few cases the larger vases contained a valve of
an unio, and all the small vases had a shell within or upon them.
Many of the shells accompanying the small vases and those found on
the foreheads of the children were carved and ornamented.

The bodies appear to have been laid upon the original surface and
covered to the depth of two feet or more ; at the heads of some of them
the earth is now from twenty-eight to thirty-four inches deep. In all
cases where there are bodies in these mounds the surface of the earth
has been discolored by fire. The heads of many of the adults appear
to have been compressed artificially.

The following is a list of the articles.

Ist. Two specimens of extreme cases of compression of the skuil.

2d. One round pot with four arms, 44 inches across the mouth, 42
inches deep.

3d. One round pot, 33 inches across the mouth and 34 inches deep.
This is rudely ornamented around the top of the swelled part below
the rim.

4th. One bowl, 5 inches wide, 23 deep, with four prominent points
at right angles around the rim. :

5th. One bowl, quite well formed, rudely notched around the rim,
64 inches across the top, 34 inches deep.
432 CORRESPONDENCE.

6th. One small deep cup with a handle resembling a bird’s head,
31 inches across the top, 34 inches deep, 43 inches to top of handle.

7th. One small cup, found at the head of a child, 24 inches wide,
12 inches deep.

8th. Five shells from the forcheads of the skulls ; three species of
unio.

All tne articles being quite fragile they were cleaned when first
procured and received a light coat of copal varnish, except the shells.
The ornamented shells before mentioned fell to pieces.

In the neighborhood of the locality where these mounds were found
are graves differing from those from which these objects were taken.
These graves are 29 by 34 inches square, from 7 to 9 inches deep ; the
bottom and sides lined with black bituminous shale, and contain bones
broken into short pieces, as if the bodies had been forcibly thrust in
doubled up. '

Many additional facts tending to illustrate some of the habits of the
aboriginal inhabitants could be procured if desirable.

NOTES ON BAROMETER, RAIN AND SNOW GAGES, &c.
BY R. H. GARDINER.

My experience does not confirm the observation in the 33d page of
the pamphlet Directions for Meteorological Observations upon the fall
of the barometer preceding a storm, and its vise during the storm.
On the contrary, when the barometer rises considerably above the
mean I consider it as an indication that a storm will occur within
31 hours; and when it has not, and I have had an opportunity to
learn the state of the ocean on our coast, I have generally learned that
it was throwing a heavy sea upon the shore, showing that the storm
was not very distant. As. soon as the storm commences with us I
expect to see the barometer begin to fall and continue to fall till the
time when it is about to cease. Professer Cleaveland remarked to
me, many years since, that during a storm, as soon as he saw the
mercury in the barometer become convex he knew that the storm was
about over, and that fair weather might be expected immediately.
My experience fully confirms this observation. I consider it a general
rule, though I have known exceptions when, in a violent NE. storm,
the barometer has risen during the whole continuance.

There are two kinds of clouds proverbially with sailors precursors
of stormy weather, mackerel clouds and mare’s tails, which are scarcely
sufficiently designated by cirro cumulus and cirro stratus, under
which I suppose that they must be classed.

In our cold climate, where we have frequently in the winter rain
with the thermometer below 32°, I consider that the rain gage I use
is superior to any I have ever seen. It consists of a funnel with
an upright copper edge, the superficies of which are exactly a foot
CORRESPONDENCE. 433

square. The funnel restsin apail. I have a weight which exactly
balances the gage, and every ounce of the water is equal to 0.012 of
an inch.

The advantages of this gage are that in the winter season, when
we have frozen rain or snow, the amount of rain is ascertained at once,
without the labor of melting and without the loss sustained thereby.
After it is weighed, a little hot water poured into the gage at once
melts the ice or snow. The size of the gage also makes it less liable
to error. Ido not know how the depth of snow can be measured in a
violent storm by any gage. I have a wood of deciduous trees near my
house, and after every snow storm I have the snow carefully measured
in several places. It rarely varies more than one-half an inch. I
take the mean of the different measurements. I consider a foot of dry
snow equal to an inch of rain. If the snow is moist I make an al-
lowance.

The aurora is of much more frequent occurrence here than in lower
latitudes,

SNOW GAGE.
BY W. E. GUEST, OF OGDENSBURG, NEW YORK.

I beg leave to remark that, during an experience of six years, no
better way has occurred to me to get at the true amount of precipita-
tion in the winter season, in this latitude, than the one pursued by
myself. Asa proof of this, let me give you a description of the weather
yesterday: 7 a.m., wind NE.; 2 snow; mild. 11a.m., wind SE.;3
hail and rain. Noon, heavy rain. 5 p. m., wind S.; 4 squally, with
rain. 6 p.m., wind W., a gale; cold, freezing. This a. m., all
froze up.

Had I followed the instructions, viz: to insert the zinc vessel in the
snow, sliding under it a tin plate, and then reversing it, very little,
if any, could have been obtained. The rain fallen was all ice; the
snow was scattered in various piles. But with my tin tube, just the
diameter of the rain gage, and two feet in depth, so that what snow
gets in is not blown out, and, when the storm is over, bring the vessel
into the house, melting gradually and measuring. The tin vessel
obtained by myself has a two-inch flange on the bottom to keep it from
blowing over, and sometimes it requires props to protect it. Our snow
storms are more or less accompanied by wind; and, from the middle
of November to the first of April, our rains, which are infrequent,
invariably freeze in the falling. The tube you speak of is too small to
receive the snow; it would get clogged; and I cannot see the object of
placing it below frost; it would be arrested by frost in its passage; and
the only way to obviate the difficulty known to me is the one above
proposed.

28
434 CORRESPONDENCE.

OBSERVATIONS ON THE OPENING AND CLOSING OF KEN-
NEBEC RIVER, MAINE.

BY R. H. GARDINER.

My rule for noting the river as closed is when the ice has remained
stationary for one ebb tide; as, in that case, I have never known. it to
move again till there has been rain to raise the river. I have noted
the river as open when the ice has come down from above and gone
out of sight,several miles below. Previous to the erection of the dam
at Augusta the river closed from one to two days later at this place
and below than above it, and opened proportionably earlier in the
spring. Now there is much less difference; the dam, by converting a
succession of rapids into a large pond, causes the ice to become much
thicker than formerly and the water beneath to be nearer the tem-
perature of the earth. It has also prevented, to a great degree,
the breaking up of the ice in the winter. Thesubjoined account from
1785 to 1803 was taken from minutes made by General Dearborn and
continued by Major William Swan.

Opening.

Closing.
DiS5 ep April 24... ....cceescecddysccinbenias
1786) March: 21, »vnnoen ieee nae: Nov. 18
WTS ig Ppt le 17 saisapertoe Beale eels « sigs
A BOT RM LAA Marts iis égaiaaie cess 56s Jan. 5, 1790
ANIA eth AYN chek aces voSenducboe ts beats s Dec. 10
AA, IS: ck. dein topiag ar eared he Nov. 23, Dec. 10, [opened after first
closing. |
PELOSI 55, Wyte s cs subltdloted Savio Miseeet 515.
TASTER at ee RR Sen se Ale a Jan.4,1795, [river opened to within
two miles of Nehumgeag. |
UBSG) rm |) FRSA RR Le aiatc wee souk lane es Nov. 28
eC WARE) Ale alu cide, sleek so wate $6, BD
OA 5 thf LAilon ne opiates ie blaatyd 565 Be 2S
"EAE EL SNAg) FREE SE Ry OA 6c 24 ,
PSO): SSM) Me aetunn dokaseesws sues ‘¢ 28, and Jan. 2, 1801, [opened
Dec. 13; ploughing at Christmas. |
$801) March, 28....c.scccees. satpalessees Dec. 10
BOOZ vAaveihsy 16.25 SBA tee eS. 1016
PROS MATE W 22... dsensosk Geeeceeetts Noy. 16 and Dec. 22, [vessels come

up to Gardiner Dec. 2; whole
river opened Dec. 13; closed Dec.

22. |
TSCA April 12. cc ahs. exci ccvaeestls Nov. 19
BOOB: 8 CDE eetek. os ebbavcegaethe Jan. —, 1806.
HS06/; March 15... cesuenns +s ssscr aun
TSO] Aprale eT. aps os teacgioes «030 spat Bo Dec. 18
1808 March 29...... Be: sidatah = sis nel ‘« 6, [vessels come up to Gard-

iner March 27. |
1809
18106
1811
1812
1813

1814
1815
1816

1817

1818

1819
1820

. 1821

1822
1823
1824
1825

1826
1827

1828

1829
1830

1831
1832
1833
1834
1835
1836
1837
1838

1839
1840
1841
1842

CORRESPONDENCE. 435

Opening. Closing.
PN OEN EE Mpc ores: vssccetectectsees Nov. 23
OT UG eases sacs teaee esata Dec. 9
REATCH 24. cetaceadesssadecastteeitd (eon! LA
190191 IO he RAO ope EP a a0
PE ca os oan ta keep vases satoee ‘¢ 13 and 21, [vessels come up
to Gardiner Dec. 15. |
ADEM eB iscct i cadesy spSe ees otaidee Dec. 4
a TES. S5cGit suede eh ldeTs cet 02
Ba dh ssless tweaks ede Nov. 29, [vessels come to Gardiner
April 17.]
BAGOY Tig) Mgt ot. deo obi adaevsas Oe Nov. 25 and Dec. 7, [river broke

up from Gardiner Nov, 30; ves-
sels come up to Gardiner Dec. 3;
whole river broke up Dec. 7, and
closed same day. |

A Par ih wl De. x8... Aevh wee taciase ee Dec. 4 and 10, [river broke up Dec.
6 and closed Dec. 10. ]
API Bl Aerts teread ated sabisgiets Ges Dec. 5
Pe Oe tons. catesisciraives tesear Nov. 16 and 29, [river opened Nov.
17 from Gardiner; Nov. 20 whole
river opened. |
de VU te le a ee Dec.
JORG] On ee CoEENG
34) (141)! TLS) Bee Se nS aaa Nov. 16
JL ONG? 3 SA a ee Dec. 1 and 9, [opened Dec. 3.]
APTIN ss ieesienss detibtadno aay Nov. 23 and Dec. 12, [opened Nov.
2871"
22) UL ole ass A ae Se oie Pe Dec. 4 and 20, [opened Dec. 10. ]
PARE 29), ren scnceee severe sce ves Noy. 24 and Dec. 6, [opened Noy.
30.
(Miner 20 eke, Acs ssetdes tere! Dec. 3, [vessels come to Gardiner
March 23. ]
PVT NM ae cin wide sidducencereees: Dec. 3
Be acdc sodestsecncaeat carer Dec. 13and"19;"Jan- 1.” 1Sar.
[opened Dee. 25 and 27; two ves-
sels arrived from Boston Jan, 1.]
LU CNINCY, dete seceedasts onesies Dec. 2
251 150 oo Ee bance Marae A Se pasha ge i
Os Siciclats ci dio weeme Meseaes «14
MR OR de on te a oe actaleing pe
af 6 Fe pation cadbone eee Nov. 23
J) 8) wea cr Orbe ree eee oF on
gl esas eR scrhnstete EaRe eae
RS Persians camis'es eeiacee “¢ 24, [very great winter freshet
Jan. 28, 1839. ]
EATER Oineune dene cere ton sete cs ee Dec. 18
INNPRTENA aa eha ers oeictains wana san veep Nov. 28
PRPEMY. Gasavngescatagsscemmtart om Dec 1, 7, and 17, [opened 4 and 11. ]
RAR CLO AU saree aecccats dees as'snst Nov. 28, [vessels come up to Gard-

iner March 18.]
436 CORRESPONDENCE.

Opening. Closing.
1943 April O19. 2 2. cceet. soe ceeee seers NORIO,
1644) Es OS ose te des ae ee 5) oe
1845) Mareh* 3PS 3. oie c.e0chdorieet ce Dec. 7%
DSAGE 066 PRLS jctaccec vase tints nabees a
TS4'Et April Boy. seit. tecdemesdaecttas neath
FOtoy” ce NG itt aca owtickecthentn-ckc oa Boe
EQAGp MAECH OO tb cemsioescessesaneseeed cS
NERO WATE, Peet, sowed oor niehnc Benetbes Cees.
Nis Sa eg Bios eveceawadeauatec steno eet ip
PSL deel U2 . uictordehlesteetthaat Loe sme O
ep ouieatelt 20... Load enenaeeterandeess Nov. 27 and Dee. 4, [river opened
Nov. 30.}

MERA ATE 5 21. y sscahe seasoned sere. DEC. INS

1855“ D sicswdvcnesrsesespeesesss NOV. 25,800 Dec. 31, fopened Dee.
10, and vessels come up. |

TSG Rath 6 fDi c dciew ede h a demeniehesinceles Dec. 1

ESBEh ui of is Diaeake tacicees ween cet we yee

March 26, 1826, the river broke up from a rain that occurred two
days previously; the ice struck the roof of a store on the long wharf,
which was 214 feet above high water mark, in some places it piled up
much higher; a fishing schooner was crushed to pieces, and the dam-
age done here was estimated at $3,000, and at Hallowell $10,000.
The whole river did not break up.

January 28, 1839, river broke up as far as the point below the
sands. Cooper’s ship-house and ship that was building within it were
carried away, as was also the frame of another vessel. A store on long
wharf was carried down and lodged on the flats three miles below.
Tea and other goods in the store chamber were taken out uninjured,
but much damage was done here and in the towns above.

The above record shows that the river opened 17 years im March and
51 years in April; and that the first closing was 26 yearsm November
and 36 years in December.

The mean opening is April 6, and the mean first closing December 2.

The earliest closing is November 16, and the earliest opening is
March 15. The latest opening was April 24, 1785, and the next
latest April 21, 1854.
437

CORRESPONDENCE.

OyeO
“HNN
‘N
WN'N

eo ee BILUCITS

--- uper LARP
eaeats snqnumy
7-7" = 48v0I0AQ

7777 snynuimng

“AMAS'S [ ~ $4.1}8-O.119

“MS'S
“HN 'U

‘N
“AALNCN
*a]}UaS ‘gy
“mV

“mye

"PULA

“7 snyviqys OLD
“snyuddNd-O1i1f
‘a: Boy UST

==" FO}. MOT

eo" agBaI0AQ,

“--=* 98B0I2AQ

‘£¥8 Jo qoodsy

see eww ee ew eee
ewen eee ewe ween
ee

ee

rs

So te ae ween
"MS'S‘ AN'N

ee

‘MS'S “AN'N

a | es |

MOTPOIIIT

0 0
“uONe|TI9
0
0 0
0 0
0 4 0
0 0
0 0
"7" popRpPSY | SoTZOUTIT[IUL g
“7 pozypsy 0
“77 poy sy 0
> eat arf) SOAFOMAIPIIULL 7,
"> poyeysy 0
ma? va to Oe ‘SoIPIMMT[ [TU F
“pagrsasap a)9.)
“OITA ‘SOIJOUL CFZC “ES
[erids @ WIA jo wany[np
unpnNpuag -ued Bjo UOTOPY

‘SVGANVO “VY AQ

~--Zu01ys Ioyyey j[- ~~ 77> Surpquiny

-80 yqSys AoA [77 "SuoIys Joyyey [--- 7-7-7 Suyquny

“9USS | 77> Barquing

j

j

Se a a= Sa ere oN 2

g

camara ts fe) 0 AIDA oe ee eae eg ee on

= STIs AIDA i Sh ee ooys

-oTqisues AJI01vOg
--"Zu01js Ioq4Ry
TORE SEAN

ee Te SONS
“TOSS “UE FTOF S1OTIO
Suljquini pue y9oyg

Sar" 67 p08

ee NS | Ss - a ai

~o[qIsuos Apao.1B0g ~ eee on oe

soem “= 800198 TON@i= =e = Sosa Surpqurnyy

*Ajsuoqzuy

‘O3ION

“MOTRIN

” €1 9
” FF €
” te a &
” 49
” GI OT
” 0 It
” 9F OT
» 4ysed TT
” 0€ L
” 0 9
” TE7g
” 0 2
‘SUIUIOU QT Z
uy
*gINO

'BSBL pun Log, w vynwawny fo huvunuag aynibayoy ay? 70 qaf sayonbyjsva fo p.looaay

yt

91

91

¥1

FI

e ‘ue
"8981

L

L

9

g ‘AON

FL °30

91 “3dag

ct Arne

€ oung
“LOST.
‘shed
438 CORRESPONDENCE.

METHOD OF OBTAINING THE AMOUNT OF WATER IN
RIVERS.

Information in regard to the amount of water which passes through
rivers at different times is an important element in the improvement
of internal navigation in the application of hydraulic power, and in the
solution of various questions relative to meteorology. The following
letter from Captain A. A. Humphreys, of the Topographical Engi-
neers, who has had much experience in gaging rivers, will be of in-
terest to all who are disposed to co-operate in investigations of this
character:

Dear Sir: In reply to your request to give suggestions as to the
best method of ascertaining the velocity and depth of rivers adapted
to amateur observers, I must first observe that any such plan must be
rough, as accurate measurements are very expensive.

The.most feasible plan for ascertaining the cross section of the river
will be to employ a civil engineer to fix the position of a boat by tri-
angulation, while soundings are made from it directly across the river
from bank to bank, with a common chain and lead. A time of low
water and gentle current should be selected in order to insure accu-
racy. The contour of the bed between the water surfaceand high water
level must be ascertained by a spirit level. The area of cross section on
any day corresponding to any stage can then be readily computed from
the reading of a gage-rod when reference to high water is known. —,

Accurate velocity observations are too delicate and expensive for
amateur observers, but fair results may be obtained by the following
plan: A base line, say 200 feet in length, is measured parallel to the
current. ‘I'wo range posts are placed at each end. Their lines of
direction being perpendicular to the base, and of course parallel to
each other, and perpendicular to the current, an observer is placed at
each range and a man with a skiff directed to throw over a block of
wood in the swiftest part of the current, entirely above the upper range.
As this floats past the upper range, the observer shouts to his assistant
at the lower, who notes the exact time of its passing the lower range,
which he can see for himself. The difference of these times gives the
means of computing the velocity, which is equal to 200 divided by it.
This velocity is the maximum velocity of the river. The mean velocity
is about 0.8 of it. The discharge is, therefore, equal to the area of
cross section corresponding to the reading of the gage-rod, multi-
plied by the observed velocity, multiplied by 0.8.

This method, although rough, will give fair results, if properly
carried out. No instruments are required, except a watch and the
transit and level used by the civil engineers to assist at the soundings.

Your obedient servant,
3 A, A. HUMPHREYS,
aptain Topographical Engineers.

Prof. Jos. Henry, f, at of ‘

Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C.
CONTENTS.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Letter from the Secretary to Congress.......----22---ceneceucccnceccccncsce
Letter from the Chancellor and Secretary
Opicersiand, Regents,of the; Institution #222 e ce toast a oot oe oe See
Members ex officio and Honorary Members of the Institution
Rrectamme of Oreanizationu: 4.44. sostad lsc aie 3 teckel ewe gees eee
Report of Prof. Henry for 1858
Report ofbror, poaindas. s4G5s. 760 Sessa he ee mt eaten alll eee) Bese
List of Meteorological Stations and Observers

wee eR eH He em mmm ew ee ee ee me ee ee eee
See eee ee |
ee ee ee |

emer e em mm ee ee me ee ee meee ee eee eee

Report of the Executive Committee

Journal of the Board of Regents, from January 19, 1859, to February 15, 1859.

+

APPENDIX.

:
Lcroresjon-Astronomy, by Prof.) Atexis Caswrnn <0 0/2. l0e.eccces- deceoad
Memoir of Prizsttey by M. Covisr, translated by C. A. ALEXANDER......------
Iysrructions in reference to collecting nests and naas of Norra AMERICAN Brrps.-.
Hox CoLmmeTING InsEcrs= _ 2Lsetek|. 23. Jase EE ee es Sas

Corzorrerna; | by Dri Joun Lm Conta i. .52s52, .2sit2. 2825-5.

LI VMENOPTER AMAL = SROs S2ht 7. SH IES Ts See Salt See Soe Se

OnrHORrER ALS. .ccee PESOS S05 SBS TESS ee

PEMIPIM A). Aiottalse tate oS Cond bane am Sat ae te ho ete

EUROPTER AD | jo) to2 Se ce tenes occ tot eee done te cece oe

IDTRTERA, Dy Pls OSTENISACKEND ety oan aoe sem seer ales aaa sain

SEE MORTERAMIDY: D2) CLEMENS = cinema miorse aime cle ategin ats aia telatalarm ian

An account of the Grassnorrers and Locusrs of America, condensed from an arti-
cle by Arex. S. TayLor.-.-- St on apige's aceenteie ace a< 2905 aninsa~aawinaic=
On the means of destroying the Grassnoprrer, by V. Morscnunsky. ‘Translated
from the Russian by Prof. W. W. Turner...------------------------------
VEGETABLE CoLonizaTion of the Britisn Istes of Suertanp, Faror, and IceLanp,
by Cr. MARTINS..2- 20-6560 - 2-2 - anne ne eee nn anna n- anne e+ se ne
On the Causes wuicn Lisnrr VEGETABLE SPECIES TOWARDS Tux Norra in Europe, and
similar regions, by ApoLpuy DE CANDOLLE...--.----------------~---------
On the Distrisution of the Forests and Treks of Norra America, with Nores on
its Puystcan Grocrapuy, by J.G.Coormr, M. D....------------+----------
List of Bimps of Nova Scorra. Compiled from notes by Lieut, Braxiston, R. A.,
and Lieut. Buanp, R. E., made in 1852—'55; by Prof. J. R. Wits, of Halifax.
List of Brrps of Bermupa, by Lieut. Brann, R. E. Communicated by Joun R.
VDI ee eo ee ee eee ae a ea siaam a ooo ce cerca enanecesmacwe =

280

286
440 CONTENTS.

Page.
Report on ArmospHeric ELecrricity, by M. F. Duprez. Translated by Dr. L, D.
GU AeA Seb eSroasoone Soacoaeoncupesdosdeosddsaecondbossses i 290
Part I.
The means used to judge of the electrical phenomena which take place in
ERE ATMOS pMeTe sete eee eae ee meter alee eesti alente ta let te ae ete ns 290
Chapter I. Electro-Atmospheric apparatus....-. -.----------------.--- 290
II. Use of Electro-Atmospheric apparatus......-.........-.-.-- 302
Part II.
Chapter I. Origin of Atmospheric Electricity.......-.----------------- 312 .
II. Variations of Atmospheric Electricity in clear weather._.-.---- 322
III. Atmospheric electricity in overcast, foggy, and cloudy weather- 337
IV. Atmospheric electricity during rain, snow, and storms -.----.- 349
Parr III.
Summary of our knowledge of lightning.-.. .....--..----------------- 358
Chapter eo Blashes of lightning 222652620) Sooo = | omc enna aie a 358
JU Ey Matis Aaa eR SOR OR eceee eet ne bs Hao soba ecoseeaacse 363

III. Principal effects produced by lightning at the surface of the earth 36g
REPORT OF RECENT PROGRESS IN PHysIcs, by Dr. Joun Muraer. Translated by Pro-

fessor Grorcr C. SCHAEFFER..-..--------------- tails SL CS tute 372
Execrriciry. Fifth section. The chemical effects of the current......---- 372
°
MISCELLANY.
ESTIMATE OF THE COST OF ESTABLISHING METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS IN THE. DIFFERENT
SS eee ee ee eee Go So oe apoE nob SUSE OUaSHebASoeketsee 416
METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS CONNECTED WITH THE SENIOR COUNTY GRAMMAR SCHOOLS
IN UPPER OANADAG o ooncre soterenaes atetetmta crear alata aiavatetetalatate totale stittes ai etn tone 417
EARTHQUAKE or 1811 ar New Manriv, Missours, from the narrative of an eye-
witness. By Timoruy Duptey, of Jacksonville, Hlinois....-.---.-.-.---. 42h
DISPERSION OF A CLOUD BY AN EUECTRICAL DISCHARGE. From D. W. Nau, of
Sams) Cree x= viene y Learn rg ra pa ot estonia ar esther ar treet : 425
ComMUNICATION FROM Dr. Ropert HARE ON A METHOD OF FORMING SMALL WEIGHTS -- 426
PLAN OF A BIBLIOGRAPHY, By Juiius FRIEDLANDER_---.-...--.------2----~-- 425
ACCOUNT OF ANTIQUITIES FROM Kentucky. By §. 8S. Lyon --------.-..-------- +» 430
Nores ON BAROMETER, RAIN AND sNow Gaags, &c. By R. H. Garpiner.....---- 432
Snow-GaGen By W.. H: GuEsniee. oo oie) diam ene te ames so ka eee mee eaataes 438
OBSERVATIONS ON THE OPENING AND CLOSING OF KENNEBEC RIVER, Marne. By R.
F. GARDINER So. (2s Ss oaaseaeanicine see cet ee ea ane ee one eeeem ete maettees 434
RECORD OF EARTHQUAKES FELT AT THE COLLEGIATE SEMINARY OF GUATEMALA IN 1857
AND 1858.0) ‘By |A\ CANUDAS: - 3 Soe ~ capa omen a aiarereeiors octet et A43T
METHOD OF OBTAINING THE AMOUNT OF WATER IN RIVERS. By Captain A. A. Hum-

PHRE VSS tee ectcin neo RRR SIEE E Bicls 2/8 di Beals 1, SNE SPIO ee 3 438
INDEX.

Page,
Acknowledgments for transportation and other facilities --..-..-------------- 4]
Alexander, C. A., Memoir of Priestley, translated by.----------------------- 138
American Association for the Advancement of Science, Meteorological plan of
COMMILeG APPOINLE ey aa seaaase ss se aes seme a a = seem em seem = sce 32
AMuiguitiesirom Kentucky, Account of=22---.. .<s22-22 502-5 -—scccneaccnsan 43
FAIDPeudixwtovRepontye sees assteeee seer sae sso emacs e as oe cata een se cman 83
Arctic) Mapnetic Observations, by Dr..Kianey-<--22.2s2-225ec5 occ cee so ocese oe 18,19
ATrOyO, b-wHeline, Mutsnn,.Vocabularyceicscs-cncscccnculconccsececeuseacses 39
Art, Resolution of Regents relative to obtaining works of__--....-..---.------ 80
Astronomical Expedition to Peru, by Lieutenant Gilliss -...-...----- shire» 52
Mswronomyswuectures.on, by, Prof. A. Caswell-22oc2a2e2ofscce eee ccom sees <a 85
Atmospheric Electricity, by Duprez, translated by Dr. Gale..--.---------..--- 290
Bache Prot. Ae Ds re-elected) Regent <.-sclsscea cece s coetec seer ecccccses ae 79
Remarks on Dr. Kane and his observations _-------------- 18
BadzernGeorve we re-elected ReGent.oictinc cose week coe e me eee emcccee a= 79
Baird, 8. F., Report relative to Publications, Exchanges, and Museum --.---.--- 44
Relative to salary. es el Al A 80
Barometer, Notes ou, aby BR. Hi. Gardinerii2 22s S252 220. 25-55- -ceseesce OS 432
Beale migentenanio. -BexxplOoravOne = ooei- << <5 a < oniale mina aainiae ni anican icine = asain ae 50
Berlandiexsaeteorological obsenvationss< 5.2. 2552. 22eseses-- 3 sacceee se 21
IBEMIMNUGATEIBU Gf DITOR) 5a 55,6 ep ate stele eye ein imieiepsiysi csi ini) ie 286
Bibliography, blanhot.. byrd..i ricdlander {25S 26 Sameie - Seine oon one ns ee 428
Bindsanests and.eroR, Howto collect. oo sasadae sos aee eases ston cee 153
BITS OL benmuga whistt Ofe. Same - teeta aaa - tace eae ee e eeeta ma aes 286
Bras ot Nova, scotia, Waist Of2 co 325 (ee sa meraininiiewincjm\caenase meee eee eens 280
Blakiston, Lieutenant, List of birds of Nova Scotia.............-.----.------- 280
Bland, Lienténant, List of birds of, Bermuda js32a—. 225222285 ~~. na lBaesosa4 286
‘ List of birds of/Novat Scotia; 222 asce.s S285 sees sea on 280
Brewer's OOlOcy eS aes ease seat ee ose eae Bn ee ee See 153
BMbish Isles; Vegetable colonization Of .- | - cj _aejarace mane e eee seme — aitea sae 229
iDrilishemacmetic ODSeRVALIONS ==. 2222502. 55_Saeesen Sas. Seas 2 22. 19
British+Paciic Steamship Company, .Chanks to. ....-s22s.0--205---=82e see 80
Brooke Chances. Marneticuinetrumentsyan. ccs s2 tes et oe a8 a S058 SSE SSS 35
Gil in eR COAITS OCC = te in mei so lapis amciminimimteeeciemae Se cin uae ee semmee 16
Campbell -Avenibald, Exploration’ byccawe ss. sce= su eeee- oss. ccs. bs ese 8 50
Canadian mevcOroloz ical BYStCM) = amie oe -Spaeiminmitine e eieim ieeinim miei maint in lmfao 417
Candolle, Adolphe de, On the causes which limit vegetable species -..-.--.---- 237
Canudas, A., Record of earthquakes in Guatemala............------«0-«----- 437
CaswellwAl , hectures On ASIONOMYM pinie mainaelecinan onnccaccenncnenenaeeceme 43,85
Catalosnerohomithsonian Library: ..-see meecte a caam aio one cnier ea anesaccece~ = = 37

Catalogue of native trees of United Statesian.-.< coc enwccweuccicemccecenannn= 250
442 INDEX,

Causes which limit vegetable species towards the north, in Europe and similar
TEPTONS SESS SNe Ee erates Satare © ane ena eee eee

Chowell, Dr. R., Meteorological observations
Clemens, B., How to collect Lepidoptera

Closing and opening of river Kennebec
Cloud dispersed by Electricity
Clouds: Hlectricity: of oss soos a rasceasoeeten ee besa e cs eee
Coast Survey, Alccount.of ©2432 225 oJa-ueeacces a=a6e5
Coffin, Prof. J. H., Meteorological reductions, by,

Meteorological plan
Coleoptera, ‘Catalogue Of... -cec sc -- ce sce aac eM eee. Bee ee cre pees
Coleoptera, How to COMCCH acres ae Sees sens ey ee oe ee eee ere as See Ee
Collections now in Smithsonian museum

Constants:on maturevand artosoees os oo en eee eee weavers ois wrens Se hehe
Conventions held in lecture room
Cooper, Dr. J. G., Forest map

On the distribution of forests and trees in America
Copyright law changed. 2 ace 28 oo Pee euler
Correspondence: — SE aa meee ne a eae te evant yg Sse Sue ae eee
Cotheal, Alexander’ J:, ‘Mutsun vocabulary-.cs-- - 4ocenos teeta ate ate
Couch, D. N., Connexion with Berlandier collections
Craig, ir Bh. Taboratonpaccs oon cee ene el aes ae 2c oe ee eee
Craven, Taeutenant,, Lixploravione esses ecee = ne eceeieet eaten enero ee eee eee
Cuvier NM... Memoirofseriesieysns sacs sans ee ae saeee SESE OSHOES SEBS
Cycloidesraph. Ors Robert vEaAre By ioe a chs sel a es eee
Deane, Dr; James, POssll 1O0UpriNts 5. --2esee ens onto oan oe eee nies
De Candolle, A., On the causes which limit vegetable species towards the north~
Me Saussure,-H., On hymenopteraic oes sa<- eases ec ae Oem ee eae eee
Directions for meteorological observations
Diptera; -Catalogue of, by, KiOsten Sacken 2 eee sca cicky ee oe a en
How to collect, by R. Osten Sacken
Dispersion of cloud by electricalidischarve 2... .200-b<-S-c~see eee eee
Distribution of forests and trees of North America, by Dr. J. G. Cooper
Wudleyimothy, Accountiot earthquake of 18) lee 2sas sane eee sa eee oe
Wuprez, Merk. Reportvon the electricity,/ot: thevalnne-sessete a= sees eee eeeeoe
Durand, G. J., Letter from, relative to Smithsonian publications, &c-...--- ae
Earthquakes in Guatemala, List of, in 1857 and 1858
Harthquakerof 1811, at New Madrid, Missouria2 322322 cseeen acc eees so eee
Eclipse of sun, September 7, 1858, Gilliss’ observations of, and expedition to
DEY ep 5s ag eS es NEON SES Seo nose -ecee-
Eclipse, March 15, 1858, Map of, by Rev. T. Hill
Eggs, Desiderata

~- eee

Hees andiests of birds, Howto collect-.csaexto2 + -<saccmtee area aa ae
Electrical discharge, Dispersion of a cloud by.-..-2 =. -<caqos-928--0=-o hee
Mectricity; Muller’sireport-cess5-5 = so cece sees loa ae ee
Chemical eifects of@ine current -- Jase ese ces ee aie alee ee
§ 171. Daniells’ researches on electrolysis.-...------.----------------
§ 172. Deposits upon diaphragms -....---.-.-----------------+------

Page,
237
22
173
434

425
339

160

246

372

29, 30
INDEX.

Electricity, Muller's report—Continued.

§ 173. Accumulation of fluid at the negative pole- sg ips le Soda ada
§ 174. Electrolysis of polybasic salts .....---.----.------------------
§ 175. Electrolysis of arsenites and sulphites ee kl hee See eee
Rai. aramsien Of DASOS oo 5s qn sncn clea sise en een teens oma ainda & 45
§ 177. Becquerel’s researches on the laws of electro-chemical decomposition.
§ 178. Formation of cloride of nitrogen by electrolysis ----------------
§ 179. Oxydizing effects of the oxygen evolved at the positive pole of the

DOUG G Yemen sate eters i ottawa Sais oie Sie ares oat ees dyer cry lta

§ 180. Electrolysis of valerianic and ascetic acid ......-.-...----------
S 11D li dD] exergy ng 0 ee ae a ae ae ee Soo sos Soe
§ 182. Gilding, silvering, &c., by means of galvanism--.-...--.-.------
Celecs itching? Dy, CalVaANIsSM. meee ae 3 —- ea hele oe aioe
SRhOts WODUE S MDPS cas c cane ac tec ca coceeea conn dk wempeanen shina
§ 185. Obtaining metals from their ores by means of galvanism.--------
Electrotype operations of the United States Coast Survey.--------------
Mathiot samprovements. oc cemcsee wei n — - ociiefalei ae wie ininisicinmioss
BRECUICILY Ol, the airs Dy Mi. Hy, DUpTeZ so. oa5 ste s cme a ci ao seman oe ae

Means used to judge of the electrical phenomena which take place in the

Cini (Bs 0 ECST CS) oa apa ach eke beeen en gain ae oe ee
Mlectrasytmospieric: Apparatus toss sus foes s- See emo anieee ae
STAIONALY AD PALaUsae oan ance aon ete sea ai ates a alo aiata nian tele ahaa iet
SCIICRMU TE ee ee atmos ccc ccw aces cc ake cee ae aie pt Rape ee as
HleCtroscopes 2-22 a 2 oo a sos a awe een 2 oe 2 nen ens -o-- 30-5
lettrometers.+ cass os owacnae ee Nos seee Sc Soe cwo Stacie sces cee tsoe
FHECOMCUCIS= 2 cae = coe ocala Semana eats ee aa aie ei cit ieee

Use: of Hlectro-atmospheric apparatus: ..-2-soss—o-a 23 Sea eee eee ,

State of our knowledge of the electricity of the air .......-...---------
Origin of atmospheric CleGtriclty, ---- 6-54 Semmes see eee ene
Variations of atmospheric electricity in clear weather..-.--------------
Influence of local causes and of height on atmospheric electricity in
PRC CRU ACER aia ata iancicicl ares raat tnisialewic wa ae eee ee ee ae
Diurnal and annual variations of atmospheric electricity in clear weather-
Observations, Dy SCHUDIER ss iiesa homeo ac coi ccicnecicce sujo cease
ODSELVALONS: ~DY De SAUSSULC (sae vives ae cichiceaaesemaceaso ease
Obsenvations; by Ms Araco—S Jose alee isinisiw= cin alan aieia inane
Probable causes of the periodical variations of atmospheric electricity in
iNET NEIL ETE age Ree et 8 ee SEES CU no Comoe enooes
Atmospheric electricity in overcast, foggy, and cloudy weather_-.-..----
Mlectricity,im cloudy weather and! tors... soe soe wiaia ee oma wie
RE CUMGILYs Ol UCT CLOWNS I oma 2 ste simpaa sin mi ntni sae tai Siw a on mt lie
HONMaALION, OMe leCLTIC CLOUDS: csacqncamaciccocce me ninanea <5 aaeme ae cee
Distribution: of electricityein the Clouds << =. cesaeic wees -c- cone eaemsee=
Atmospheric electricity during rain and snow.....--...-----=-----.<5=
During StOWUSt- ame desisn sane cece cane ae emeni co

Lightning, Summary of our knowledge of......---...- dt a DOR eee ak
lashes (Oltssaetsie = <iajce na ae as oma ae Osea eee

MnUndGL,, CAUSE Oli. = ase aoe tas eee an wma aniine a acm <<a eine
Lightning, Effects of, at the surface of the earth -....-...........-..--
444 INDEX.

Page

Entomology, Proposed worksiowes= sese2 see ces seme see ame oe oe ee eee eee 30
Estimate of cost of establishing Meteorological Stations in the United States... 416
Retmmatestor L859 22S sae ees saeco ae eae me ees eee Sa ele eae al 76
HHixchanpes,} Horeigns nas. 225s ete coos e oe eee ee ee ee ee 36,46
Domesticnsasscessencescsceco esses SEE Aemoe cao fame ae 36,48
Generalttablesmun os - 222 cae antes orem iee ae oe arte meee eee ae 45

De SX ay Vi ea ea A oh Pe a a 40
bx penditures durin Soe" s so ee aeeee eae cease sae = ease en ne comme eee meee 75
ipsplorationssundermbae Wal Departments see tac ceet acne meee ae eee 50
UnderstheStatesDepartment eeeer ee cetee st ocean ee. aoe eee eee 50
Undenithe+NavyeDepartmentii ress saat eeneame oe sme e eee nee eee 50
Underthesinterior-Departmentwattee tame ee eee ee ee ae ee ee 50

Under Smithsonian Institution see eee ee ere rere 51
OnsthewWiestkCoasths ia ssi Se hee ee ae aac oes eee ee eee 51
California esses ie RS A me Renee oe tae 51
RockyMountainse.32ce2 Se Se es Soe eee 51
RedsRiver ofthe Northys=s4 Samet eee ee eee occ ee ecccce 51
Sandwichlslandsscc ee ee ee sce coo coe dae cnee seme ot
Panama ioe aee ee acne Reece 6 See ote. & Ske esses 51

POtWorc aretrere edlderctemre en CBee oe tO Ja SE EO SOE SS eee 52
Exploring Expedition, Reports relative to .--..--2. 220-2 -ccceesennconee Wisk 52
Articles from, deposited in Smithsonian Museum.....-_.------.------- 52
Paroe, Vegetable: colonizationsol sacsecacone cela seie sesso Sate e eee 229
ian CesiOflnstiLUtiOn meteor ee etal See alo a occa a eee ae aerate ates 16
Horests Map my er Cooperate eee ee aiae ioe mae el lel ele ee ate atte et 35
Forests and trees, Distribution of, in North America__-_--.----------------.- 246
Bossil‘footprintsys ss 208 Sciteaaateseeks fase sa taleeclee s sethe Sra erate eretonees 26
HossilsofSouth Carolina 2 <a Spa erscsee ania = orale eter tate ap a craton tate oracles 29
French Academy of Sciences, Eloges --.--.----------- A Sr ee ME ESE SS ‘138
Hriedlander,. J. Plan ofia, Bibliography, es 222 Sh. eee see eee eee ton 4 428
Gagés, rain and snow,. Notes. on, by R. Hi. 'Gardiner Jo-sso2s0e2 Uti ese ccc ce 432
Smo was bya iva iiin QUCR by seas a acral orale o era chal taetaer alate ete teeter te Sees a 433
Gale, Dr. L. D., Translation of Duprez on Atmospheric Electricity ---.-------- 290
Oe eles y, cota a 5 os Se ae a ia ee ee 41
Gardiner, R H., Notes on Barometer, Rain, and Snow Gauges, &c.-.-.---.---- 432
Opening and Closing of Kennebec river -..... ---.---------- 434

Gilliss, Lieutenant J. M., Solar Eclipse Expedition to Peru ~..---.-.-. --------- 22, 80 .
Facilities extended to, by Steamship Companies. -..----...- 80

Grasshopper, Means of destroying, by Motschulsky .--..-------------------- 214
Grasshoppers and Locusts of America, by A. 8. Taylor ---.------------------- 200
Grounds) Improvement ol <2... tose once 65 nce eed ches to Beene 17
Guano, Wxamined in laboratory 25-48. an a eee ease = eee ee te 36
Guatemala, Harthquakesiin) joe - 52 occ ec. = oe cee eee == oie sain ie ee 437
Guest, William E., on the Snow Gauge .~..---5- 2. ---22s5-s---3------~5--= < 433
Guyot, A., Meteorological and Physical tables -.....------------------------ 28
Magen, Dr:* On Nettoptemy: SS2 2 ance os 5 Stree eae ane eee ee eee ae 30
Hare, -Dr..Rebert, ‘Cycloidegraph= 22-22 522225022 2205.30.22 se 22
On a method of forming small weights.........------ =Ja538 426
Hemiptera, Catalogue wheetwarrer he cok ee cate coca c te cee ee s 30
. INDEX. 445

Page
Pen ete OWE TO CCOUCES on tee Locman s ancackies <> Secbeenewcin endian atinee 165
Hill, Reyz-thoamas; Map of Solar Wiclipses =f. 2015. e ce wee nw ccmenecs 28
_ “Hodgins, J. George, Report on Canadian Meteorological System......---..---- 417
ETOlMNes hie S', 8 Ossils Of South Caroling). .2scee oc naeceecennsccnacwoseanad 29
Emneraty mem bers, Of the lnstitutiOn: coacac~ che caen coca seeennigeawdeceemene 6
pimeeortp hsb. Metegrological DIAN «oa .scncwacmmaecamnnec~ mcm pmjaiaa nin mene 33
Humphreys, Capt. A. A., Method of obtaining the amount of water in rivers_--. 438
BEER CTIODCCIAD CATAIO SIO, Ol nn ciais bs wmabinindwaeamecnaucautactapmpeaa deck aka 30
. ETO WaAtOCOMCCb ec ainiacincctnen acinic oppems ene eee on Ae 164
Teeland, Weretablescolonization \Ofcin.cmnaecacncac kad aaacenceeePeeee a asaeke 229
Meinecisy HO wetONnCOlleCteeijec Ge sai a cee S Ls socmac ot wen atk ese eees goed 158
HUE POL tS! ONS =e tate’ eos raytaiaiala mate la el aa oo cleo i opachetaiatae aoc gare Se 158
SUAGW ONE 2a SPS OSes ea cncicniin ewccdepegumneeh Gates ee 30
Instructions for collecting nests and eggs of North American birds...........-- 153
aestruments, Meteorological isi. .o sc eacna ne aces ned d-eunuapne eens eae 35
fives:; ineut.. kxploration by sos. 226 2 hei tee en. . pce ee cee ae eee 50
Journal of Board of Regents............. Pitan eetara arse ace a tech ae 13
Kane, Dr. EK. K., Explorations and Observations of.....-.-.-.-------.--- see 18
Prot. bache’s remarks one 222 tee ome mete eeaeee eee a 18
Kendall, Amos, Letter presented to Board of Regents -.....---.-.---.-0-.--+ 80
Mennebecmiver, Opening and closing of... 22 ae es eet. a eee 34
Kentucky,, Account of antiquities froma. ss <.sase2828 -c\-batecdce-cees-etses 430

Bea OL UO SAY elec alee mayen sia cs ln min a) fel ymin aml lt a rm ot te es 3
Hachlan- Major, Meteorological’: plan was c% sin nine on cin occ coecee 5 Sat eee 32
ie Contes Dr ohn Ih!, ‘On 'Coleopterase- a s— -/ e ate ae Se 30
How to collectiColeopteracei st Sescaestness eee see 160
igectnresiana lecturers*during 1858=.59 en. ean amennoue aan see 42
MRECCUTES a. ninimnia ain UHR eee Roe ee oer eh ae aoe. A 85
OnAstronomy,, by.Prot. A. Caswell: n= Sa. Bees. See ts Jae 85
The Higure and Magnitude of the Earthwcsiesie2% 4.22 22555-5222. 85
Objects and Operations of the U. 8. Coast Survey......-- ae sone ae 95
A WeOMOTAVIUALION <= -.<.0.<:05 05,0 515,5.4,<\950 a5 ape ete oa ae alter 104
Solar Parallax and Planetary Distances ...25 j--usseecescecoecas a 114
Hidereals AstronOMy.-< sa saae aoe na cae atipnere a delalelela terete Maer 125
Lepidoptera, Catalogue of.....-----..-------------------- eee nen eee een ee 30
How torecollectaasaasosecccae sas sone elena a ape ate sala (cise aa 173
Letter from the Chancellor and Secretary to Congress. - Oe seo jae as sate tees 4
Metter irom the Secretary to Congress2os -- 25 Sees ses seco es. oo n= en 8
DDIAIN, Saas ata i dsaale ssa cn accede-2sssae= Seen ele atta ete ataine eiai= = aiaiaiolain See 36
Hnghthingesseasss05ss00505 Bos acs ee sea. ca 20's Sneed saciacoocace seme 358, 368
Lightning, "dispersion of a cloud by... ...0c0-s---saceecnsensnnnn eee neenas-e 425
Locusts of America, by A. S. Taylor. ...-.-cceccdocssenncen-aneesecenncsase 200
ioew, Hi; How to collect Diptera. << 2scosoccs6 case csseesc--- oss - ae cwscesnn 167
Lyon, 8S. 8., Account of Antiquities from Kentucky...-....-.---------------- 430
Magtietic Obsetwations-of Dr: Kane-:225s290- Soc 32.0 ese eens aon San 18
Magnetic Observations by British Government.......----- Mt le eee ocean ae 80
hettemirotion «Sabine relative tO: sseeeestecec->-c--c2-c--stcecanss-- 80

Magnetic Opseryatory < 225 dacsec cones scene cenemecenccens ana Selatataiaaa ole oe 35
AAG INDEX. ‘

Magraw, William M., Exploration ..:-..<:-.se¢aewesds =saeeeeeee eee ee ae
Map of Distribution of Forests and Trees. -..--...-22 sseeeccmeceoecccaseeue é 267
Of Solar Eclipses=-=6s22 52 sces ce = See see eRe ae ae ee eS 28

Of Face of Sky, &cecscicecucssurescxecessber ck. te ae ee 31 |
Martins, Charles, On the Vegetable Colonization of the British Isles......... ete 229
Mathematical Monthly, . 22... 0.<<..<<enscisececaectelcck een ann eee eee eee 29
Meade, Captain, Meteorological System on Lakes.....+..--.--.----------<--- 34
MicchaniCs sh ClkCelOn ein sacs = miata esa ene tet Re ere ese es 29
Meech, L. W., Investigations -.-.-.-- sn jsSipnws ie cighaua ans estas eR is 25
Membersiex-ofiicioromthe Institution... 222 ose ecnebe eee aoe see ese 6
Memoir of Priestley, by M. Cuvier; translated by C. A. Alexander......-..... 138
Méthod of obtaining the amount of water in rivers.......--------.---------- 438
Meteorology, general operations of system...-.-.----2----25-5--------+--2-5 SI
Sny MissOUnis Ses eae ae tao ase ee een eal 34
Hho WKed4? Sige OR OC OO SSIS OOC NTO SSE eee os conse Sest os tecels 34
Meteorologicalidixections Jo. -.22-----ehen-oneeaee-—- abe san hesessind 28
observers, List of --...-..----- Foccadewcsn sb thaweseeeso ene - 63
meduchlONns = os see ee eee eee es eee Seer E eee aerate 34
stations, Mist of ‘Smithsonian ( - 2-5. )5 =. sieia alae tee a atte ietetatl 63
stations, Estimate for establishing. _ 4. =3- -ejjn\55 3 5-seceeeaeos— 416
system of Canada... oJ Mok oes see eeieaes emanate, Ad
system on the lakes... 2.220000 ---~-eennnsocen-snens--2-5- 34
tables sacs aes sao eine ae = Ss ane alet as i= ala tate ates ees 28
Michler, Lieutenant, Exploration -..-.-...-------------------------------- 50
Morris, Dr. J. G., on lepidoptera.-------------------------------+--------- 30
Morse, Professor 8. F. B., Letter presented to Board of Regents...-.-----.---- 80
Motschulsky, V., Means of destroying grasshopper...----------------------- 214
Miller, Dr. John, Report of recent progress in physics. Electricity...---.--.-- Byer4
Museum, General account of..--...-------------------------------------- 40
Additionsito © 2 oe sees ee oe eee ee ee meta arse rei atoe 49
Present, condition! Ofe sais seis simon cists aim ain alee epee ene eee 52
Work Cone. inja sae eka = > eisai ele Se ham lei ei teste a alma ‘56
Distribution of duplicates in. -...---.---------------------------- 59
PUISt Of | AONAL ONS LO wee es ace epee ete th she ol hh ell 59
Patent © fice ee sete a oie ee ome oe eee inte Eatin 13
Mutsun vocabulary .....--------.-------------------- eee enn ner eeees 39
Naill, D. W., Account of the dispersion of a cloud by lichtning == ose oeeeee mon 425
Nests and eggs of birds, How to collect....-.------------------------------ 153
Neuroptera, Catalogue of ....-----------------------20- 2r reer er nner renee 30
' How to collect. sce vetukes <1 ates 9 sea aaa nee eee
North German Lloyd, Liberality of--.----.- Pe aa Soe pe orp eee nic oon 3S 79
Resolution of thanks to..--......------------------ ae 79
Nova Scotia, List of birds of ------. .---------------------- 2-7-0 eee err eee 280
Odonata, Dr. Hagen’s remarks relative to ------.------------------+--------- oa
Officers of the Institution...--.----------------------- asec RE StS 5
Opening and closing of river Kennebec, Maine-----------------------+-----+- 434
Orthoptera, How to collect.-...-.-----------------0---- 2-20 ----- 22220207 164
Osten Sacken, Baron, Diptera-.---------- ae appa Nes, SE Lie eRe ie Se Sse et)
How to collect diptera . --..-.- anes wiatosee A Rf 167

>
INDEX. 447

Page.
Pacific Mail Steamship Company, Thanks to ....--.-.---------2-e--cceeneeee 80
Ranama Railroad i Company, Thanks toniccenus sess seek oot eee enn cteccocce 80
Patent Office, Meteorological arrangement with...............-.------------ 31
omeesvanaly tice mechanicsc..eece cose neeces ee os ced eeek cee Sal eS 29
Physical geography of North America, by Dr. J. G. Cooper.........---------- 246
POY SICA ELA DIES ain Soci cieterebecintcme- trina ee eeeEttteehs oe wee Seca Meee 28
Physics: Report. of recent. progress in,-by -Muller--...22..-cc2c020-22---0-225% 372
Priestley, Joseph, Memoir of ------. Woteumessecsaseeseese ses eee ee 8 138
iprogramme.of Organization ..~ . 2... n0niaccoseseeceectivcce Stn sees is 2e5 a
Wublications of Institutions .<2 ecucacccenteuseacatoosscoaee ne meee ose ees 17
blicationssdnrins 1858: asks. 4.5 Rose, SE 44.
Rain dnd snow gauges, Notes on, by, Ralls Gardiners. 42 2S3ee se eee 432
Haymond, C. E.;,,.aclinse: expeditioncc.tcsccaceeaess Sas eewees se gee sake 23,25
Receipts and expenditures -..-...------ Wie DeteeeEnews ewe eee ees Bae eSs 74
me cents ofthe; Institution ce wcmaccealiceeeh cece ek eee cet ee ee a os i)
Journal).of. proceedings. ....2.2ccsscdcc fen teskess 2, DU SSS 78
Report of the Secretary, 1858.....- Mewinieidene aesanes JL ee See i Se 13
HORM B Otic ck eeeniceeem eet teem ee nee eee ee ie 27
Ofslxecutive, Committee .sacctewe=s Soe ee ee ee ns as 74
On. atmospheric electricity, by M. F. Daprezi:.....-.2--201-2222-2-.-<-- 290
Of recent progress in physics, by Dri eMillers:4 ew? th elie 372
Resolution sto print) thedReport<2=22s2.ssedscenes ck ee Oe es ee 3
Ritchie, James, account of earthquake of 1811 -....-.---.-------- eetecte areata 421
River Kennebec, opening and closing of.....-..--.- Sue see Set sass. eee 434
Rivers, method of obtaining the amount of water in, by Captain A. A. Hum-

PUTCY Speco cee en al SI a Ph OS ee URES 438
Royal, Society; Index-to-Lransactions 2-7 aes Ses ee se eek es ee 38
Runkle: des... Mathematical monthly s22e8 24 222 ee Se oo ee he soca ce 29
Sabine; General... Maoneticistationssic+<s2242<>-5 cc ste cece os LSS Te poe 35

Letter relative to magnetic observations...--.-..---..----<-- 80

penile, An wecorse:O.. Maboratory, -+22255.6.2t8setteeteeet ees cease ee leek 36
Translation of Muller’s report on electricity...-.-----. 372

Schleiden, R., Letter from, relative to transportation -.....-.....------------ 79
Schott, C. A., Reduction of Kane’s observations, by. ae Re eae ee = a aioe oe 18
phetland.«Vepetanlercoloni zation Of set eee. us Soe eee eee oe acco ee eee 229
Shumard, Dr., Meteorology -...-..--.--. ete ne a RE Ae aye SS See oe 34
Sunthsonian contributions, “VOle Xs. tose cese eee cee coon ece eee eee tees 17
Pao Ween OCamNOtesrOn + DY WW. bn Gglest Sc leche se ewice esa cccehenssclec sees 433
INGLES Ong. Uy Re Et Gardiner ocean cemaom tetera ate cae scsemo cates 432
PUIMICCLIDRG OL Sopleniler em GOG cate: cee = oe ee ee as tie ae 22
Wr March" 15) T858es--- aot eo ote aie ee a aio aon me nema dd

SEE OR tine Scheer ERIS ae BC SSE ep ats ls a = 2 | re 25
Dlameyseallenyvot; Indian names: —feees. eee tome eee ee lk ew eee 41
Dratious, sumuhsonian meteorological <*.- i: 206. Oona de eccac es cnende ee eee ola 63
Telegraphic Seu ne kA es trades bibs: 06 bas AIRE TS!) 1 YT 73
Estimate of establishing meteorological ..........----.------- aS 416
MWallowsnror, + MetCOIOlOny mee ann ee - cee = cadoenbeccaccacaasccee 34

Tables, Guyot’ s meteorological and physical.......-.------.. Mea aaiminie ata ae 28
448

Taylor, Alexander §., Mutsun vocabulary -... .cosnscececacceasntsscese 2

Telegraphic stations, Reporting the weather daily
eran, General, Meteorological observations

Thunder, Cause of -
Titles of memoirs in
Transfer of governm
Transportation facili
Trees of North Ame’
Tuomey, Prof., Foss’
Turner, Prof. W. W

Uhler, P. R., On hei
United States Mail §
Vegetable colonizatic
Vegetable species, C:
Vivarium, How to c
Warren, Lieutenant,
Water, Introduced in
Water in rivers, Met
Weights, On a meth
Willis, John R., Lis'
Willis, Prof. J. R., I
Wynn estate -...-..
Xantus, John, Expl
Yoruba grammar, by

INDEX.

Onygrasshoppers andilocusty=2 2245-44-42 aome Seen
Telegraphic weather report

ee eee eee eee

swam ene nw et eet ene ee wee ee ee ee eee

meen ewww ew eee

SxITHSONIAN. 9

THSTE TULL ON ee

ee
-e ewe ean ee eee
pew wee mee emcee
pee eee eee een
eww ew en eee ee
ee
ee a)
=m meee eww nee
ee
eee)

WASHINGTON
a) 408°
a wi a tal
Ve

fhe ee We
7 ‘ 7

ed
iets ‘+

aaa aM eu
“Rk ea PReR
wn
uw
c
<z
es
ow
=
=
e
‘t=
5 2
-
=
w”
EE
m=
B=
a=
ce)
os
PS
Ee
=
w”

|

l

6170

|
|

ILIA

iii

|

: =
ree

ie

nee,

ee

> ‘ = ad > in =
" ¥ > ’ 5 i = :
, x ws = 4 f
x 3 i ® x
a ae : . ; ; } s ‘ > 7 ,
: 8 7 ay : .
ay P P =
. “ ’ » - ‘ . f = 4
vais ' > “
= 2 K : é 5
a, neem > y : -
7 : . = " : z rs s .
ses .
‘ - : . . : ¥! :
. ‘ > b > mas.
- = 4 ad
* ~ ma
Goes “es ith ? ‘
. gies > . < a ‘ ‘ ‘
. \ x = 3 .
ieee : } >
_ * M . it, a
~s . + . he . =
a “+35 x
s
- . * oe
- - —_
Sn 7) *
’ <
= .
+ 4 ~, =the, ™
=
x, Ge ay ’ ‘
* Fr
. "
* oe a a4
* 4,
: "i
‘
4
7 \ .
. x.
. .
4 3 ~ rt te

wit ns

ok

“a

ed

bt

,

