ee a

iS iT : :

ry: ave cee a
p) Ds

a
‘

4
i

i ’
j

-
“
1
! ; at)

=

Ate ‘
ety
Da ih |

i"

i,
f

mt
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE

“l| BOARD OF REGENTS OF

4 THE SMITHSONIAN
A INSTITUTION

OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND |
~ CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION
: FOR THE YEAR ENDING HUME 30

21933:

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
WASHINGTON

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF REGENTS OF

THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION

SHOWING THE

OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND
CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION
FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30

1933

(Publication 3260)

UNITED STATES
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
WASHINGTON : 1935

For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D.C. - - - - - - - - - - Price 70 cents
Cs

Spy ee

eee ae TT

LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL

SMITHSONIAN INstITUTION,
Washington, July 1, 1934.
To the Congress of the United States:

In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, I have the honor, in behalf of the Board of Regents,
to submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expendi-
tures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year
ended June 30, 1933. I have the honor to be,

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,

C. G. Asgor, Secretary.

It
CONTENTS

Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution__-__-_________-
Part 1. Report on the Smithsonian Institution and all the pureans
under its direction except the National Museum __——-~--_______-_~-
Summary of the year’s activitieg__________-_______--_-___---_-
The ee ee ere ee Nn ee ee

Minances=.=- 2-2 Fe tc Mi BI a a a ee
Matters, of general interesi= 2 _ =" 22 “==2222 2 se a
Johnson-Smithsonian Deep-Sea Hxpedition _____--_____--___~
Removal of Gellatly Collection to Washington_—__--_-_-__-__
Martin Gustav and Caroline Runice Hanson fund___ ~~~ ~~~
Second Arthur Wectures ===. =-=2-2 = ee pee
Walter Rathbone Bacon traveling scholarship___----__-_-_~
Smithsonian exhibit at the Century of Progress Exposition,
CB a ez Ve ea era ON lp a a es
C211 0, nena ae ee Sate a ae ee ee,
Mxplorations; and tield “works S25) = 282 _ Se
BUD CAtlON Sine ee ee ee 2 ne
Ta yes Vee ee _ eee ee a
Appendix 1. Report on the National Gallery of Art____-------~-
2. Report on the Freer Gallery of Art--_----_--_--_-----
3. Report on the Bureau of American Hthnology_—--~~
. Report on the International Exchange Service__-—_
. Report on the National Zoological Park____--_~-_~
. Report on the Astrophysical Observatory_—~—~~~--~
. Report on the Division of Radiation and Orgauisms_
. Report on the International Catalogue of Scientific
WWitera hile ees = ae ween ee, 28d ee ea
9. Report on the Library____________-_____--_- ==
10. Report on publications._.________-___=__._-=--=-=
Part 2. Report on the United States National Muscum-__—__________
Financial report of the executive committee of the Board of Regentis___~

aA or

GENERAL APPENDIX

How the sun warms the earth, by C. G. Abbot____- ear

Gravitation in the solar system, by Ernest W. Brown eee

The structure and rotation of the galaxy, by J. 8. Plaskett_____- see

The contents of interstellar space, by C. G. Abbot____-~------

Some points in the philosophy of physics: Time, evolution, and creation, by
RAS Vine wh RS 22 2. ones Soe ees a

Stands science where she did?, by Ivor Thomas Parmar

High voltage, by Karl T. Compton____----------- ianeni ae 2 ee

The battle of the alchemists, by Karl T. Compton_---------- ae

DAAnDOD sy, PH H

ie)

co

eo)

10
VI CONTENTS

Page
Romancevor sciencer, by Paul R. Heyl 22.2 eae ee 283
Origin‘of foldedimountains; by W.. Eh. Erouty= 3222222 eee 293
Meteorite craters as topographical features on the earth’s surface, by Dr.

ii: J-;ppencer, (PW eRs S24 2s oan ee eee eee eee ee 307
A-ceologist/siparadise, by Kujo. Dasslet- te. 22a ewes eee ee eee 327
Nature’s:own seaplanes, by Carl): 7etubbs# 328 ees 22 2 eee 333
The microscopic plant and animal world in ultraviolet light, by Florence E.

DAA 0 (eae i Oe yes ap AN eR en a ae 349
The history of an insect’s stomach, by R. E. Snodgrass-__-_--------------- 363
Ticks and the role they play in the transmission of diseases, by F. C.

Bish oppress ea ae ea a i a are ec 389
The forela ea iby eAe Swedish ve Kc saa 407
The historical significance of Tepe Gawra, by E. 8S. Speiser___-----~---- 415
Indian manuscripts of southern Mexico, by Herbert J. Spinden__-_---_--- 429

Archeology of the Bering Sea region, by Henry B. Collins, Jr__-__-_-_-- 453
LIST OF PLATES

How the sun warms the earth (Abbot) : Page

YY ye a ee de SOE Sr a 180
Gravitation (Brown) :

ST eS il arene rue eee ee ere ee 188
Interstellar space (Abbot) :

12) gs psy FA RS 3 ap PR ec REP ae renee ae ee eee ere 218
High voltage (Compton) :

TES) ES ia ye lap ge cc Pe ee 266
Battle of the alchemists (Compton) :

TF ea chore epee Oe VION 5 ates ee BAS oe 282
Meteorite craters (Spencer) :

TAG CS eee oe ere sk een Wer OR ae ee ee 326
Geologist’s paradise (Bassler) :

DRT SG tap bene ee i res ea he i OR eee 332
Ultraviolet light (Meier) :

elation aelipseees eee 3 cee ee = So Le ee 360
Ticks (Bishop) :

PT ATCC pO eee ee ee eer ee ene ae SS. ee Pee 406
Tepe Gawra (Speiser) :

SC ae — 6 eee re ee eee ene ae iin ate Me 2 428
Indian manuscripts (Spinden) :

121 Ky Cero DEAS Se eR ee ee i Pete es en Pane regs ee ee 452
Bering Sea archeology (Collins) :

ec mee — le geen ee ree ee ee ee ee eee ea ee 468
ANNUAL REPORT OF ‘THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDING
JUNE 30, 1933

SUBJECTS

1. Annual report of the Secretary, giving an account of the opera-
tions and conditions of the Institution for the year ending June 30,
1933, with statistics of exchanges, etc.

2. Report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents,
exhibting the financial affairs of the Institution, including a state-
ment of the Smithsonian fund, and receipts and expenditures for
the year ending June 30, 1933.

3. Proceedings of the Board of Regents for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1933.

4. General appendix, comprising a selection of miscellaneous
memoirs of interest to collaborators and correspondents of the Insti-
tution, teachers, and others engaged in the promotion of knowledge.
These memoirs relate chiefly to the calendar year 1933.
wer nt) ee many UPAOU ART HO ene i
ACYL AL eT ater AOE ELIEAD Leg ads

eer tari

binge ve | Sa Bern Baas vanitrioll eaty bo: it
i anh aries ae coke yok worn lliced ad tome
ol4 omutadone ta patie e

gotten to: Banat ofl to Gala. pier yet Yo
site a gothysal apie ah att en UR:
=) aortnhibiioaisem, lores: deplanaer ladid (Leash §
ak

eidine HA bpotii wild 407 aie ty Regt Slt 9 be 2M

Prone: avollal os
| sia Fm Aeieehied

7 “reeurit di
.

sinvanahhwenn.: Tp, ae mM qinagahy.

-i-geeil auld, De Stato locgabennheedagy ibe ease

aebobnay ir aeiboateg HAW itt ahaa
BEA ee abitores aL) td”
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
June 30, 1933

Presiding officer ex officio —FRANKLIN D. RoosEvELtT, President of the
United States.
Chancellor.—CuarLes Evans Hucues, Chief Justice of the United States.
Members of the Institution:
FRANKLIN D. RoosrEveE tt, President of the United States.
Joun N. Garner, Vice President of the United States.
Cuar.tes Evans Huauess, Chief Justice of the United States.
CorpELL Hutt, Secretary of State.
Wituram H. Woonin, Secretary of the Treasury.
GrorGceE H. DErn, Secretary of War.
Homer 8S. Cumminas, Attorney General.
JAMES A. FaruEy, Postmaster General.
CiaupE A. Swanson, Secretary of the Navy.
Haroup L. Icknus, Secretary of the Interior.
Henry A. WALLACE, Secretary of Agriculture.
Danie&L C. Roprr, Secretary of Commerce.
FraNcrEs Perkins, Secretary of Labor.
Regents of the Institution:
Cuarues Evans Huaues, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor.
Joun N. Garner, Vice President of the United States.
Josepu T. Ropinson, Member of the Senate.
M. M. Locan, Member of the Senate.
Davip A. Rrep, Member of the Senate.
T. ALan GoutpsporouGcH, Member of the House of Representatives.
Epwarp H. Crump, Member of the House of Representatives.
Cuarues L. Grrrorp, Member of the House of Representatives.
Irwin B. LavuGuuin, citizen of Pennsylvania.
Freperic A. DELANO, citizen of Washington, D.C.
Joan C. Merriam, citizen of Washington, D.C.
R. Watton Moors, citizen of Virginia.
Rosert W. BincuaM, citizen of Kentucky.
Avaustus P. Lorine, citizen of Massachusetts.

Executive commitlee—FrepERIc A. DELANO, JoHN C. Merriam, R. WALTON

Moore.
Secretary.—CuHARLES G. ABBOT.
Assistant Secretary.—ALEXANDER WETMORE.
Chief clerk and administrative assistant to the Secretary— Harry W. Dorsey.
Treasurer and disbursing agent.—NicHoLtas W. Dorsey.
Editor.—WeEBSTER P. TRUE.
Librarian.—Wi.1u1aM L. CorsBin.
Personnel officer —H®mLEN A. OLMSTED.
Property clerk.—James H. Hit.

XT
XII ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

Keeper ex officio —CuHar_es G. ABBOT.
Assistant Secretary (in charge).—ALEXANDER WETMORE.
Associate Director—Joun E. GRar.

SCIENTIFIC STAFF

DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY:
Walter Hough, head curator; W. H. Egberts, chief preparator.

Division of Ethnology: Walter Hough, curator; H. W. Krieger, curator;
H. B. Collins, Jr., assistant curator; Arthur P. Rice, collaborator.

Section of Musical Instruments: Hugo Worch, custodian.
Section of Ceramics: Samuel W. Woodhouse, collaborator.

Division of Archeology: Neil M. Judd, curator; F. M. Setzler, assistant
curator; R. G. Paine, aide; J. Townsend Russell, honorary assistant
curator of Old World archeology.

Division of Physical Anthropology: AleS Hrdlitka, curator; Thomas D.
Stewart, assistant curator.

Collaborator in anthropology: George Grant MacCurdy; D. I. Bushnell, Jr.

Associate in historic archeology: Cyrus Adler.

DEPARTMENT OF BrouoGy:
Leonhard Stejneger, head curator; W. L. Brown, chief taxidermist.

Division of Mammals: Gerrit S. Miller, Jr., curator; Remington Kellogg,
assistant curator; A. J. Poole, scientific aide; A. Brazier Howell, collabo-
rator.

Division of Birds: Herbert Friedmann, curator; J. H. Riley, associate
curator; Alexander Wetmore, custodian of alcoholic and skeleton collec-
tions; Edward J. Brown, collaborator; Casey A. Wood, collaborator;
Arthur C. Bent, collaborator.

Division of Reptiles and Batrachians: Leonhard Stejneger, curator; Doris
M. Cochran, assistant curator.

Division of Fishes: George 8S. Myers, assistant curator; E. D. Reid, aide.

Division of Insects: LL. O. Howard, honorary curator; J. M. Aldrich, asso
ciate curator; William Schaus, honorary assistant curator; B. Preston
Clark, collaborator.

Section of Hymenoptera: 8S. A. Rohwer, custodian; W. M. Mann,
assistant custodian; Robert A. Cushman, assistant custodian.

Section of Myriapoda: O. F. Cook, custodian.

Section of Diptera: J. M. Aldrich, in charge; Charles T. Greene,
assistant custodian.

Section of Coleoptera: L. L. Buchanan, specialist for Casey collection.

Section of Lepidoptera: J. T. Barnes, collaborator.

Section of Orthoptera: A. N. Caudell, custodian.

Section of Hemiptera: W. L. McAtee, acting custodian.

Section of Forest Tree Beetles: A. D. Hopkins, custodian.

Division of Marine Invertebrates: Waldo L. Schmitt, curator; C. R. Shoe-
maker, assistant curator; James O. Maloney, aide; Mrs. Harriet Richard-
son Searle, collaborator; Max M. Ellis, collaborator; William H. Longley,
collaborator; Maynard M. Metcalf, collaborator; Joseph A. Cushman,
collaborator in foraminifera; Charles Branch Wilson, collaborator in
Copepoda.

Division of Mollusks: Paul Bartsch, curator; William B. Marshall, assist-
ant curator; Harald A. Rehder, aide; Mary Breen, collaborator.

Section of Helminthological Collections: Maurice C. Hall, custodian.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION XII

DEPARTMENT OF BroLoagy—Continued.

Division of Echinoderms: Austin H. Clark, curator.

Division of Plants (National Herbarium): Frederick V. Coville, honorary
curator; W. R. Maxon, associate curator; Ellsworth P. Killip, associate
curator; Emery C. Leonard, assistant curator; Conrad V. Morton, aide;
Egbert H. Walker, aide; John A. Stevenson, custodian of C. G. Lloyd
mycological collection.

Section of Grasses: Albert 8S. Hitchcock, custodian.

Section of Cryptogamie Collections: O. F. Cook, assistant curator.
Section of Higher Algae: W. T. Swingle, custodian.

Section of Lower Fungi: D. G. Fairchild, custodian.

Section of Diatoms: Albert Mann, custodian.

Associates in Zoology: C. Hart Merriam, W. L. Abbott, Mary J. Rathbun,
C. W. Stiles, Edward W. Nelson.

Associate Curator in Zoology: Hugh M. Smith.

Associate in Marine Sediments: T. Wayland Vaughan.

Collaborator in Zoology: Robert Sterling Clark.

Collaborators in Biology: A. K. Fisher, David C. Graham.

DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY:
R. 8. Bassler, head curator.

Division of Physical and Chemical Geology (systematic and applied): W. F.
Foshag, curator; Edward P. Henderson, assistant curator.

Division of Mineralogy and Petrology: W. F. Foshag, curator; Frank L.
Hess, custodian of rare metals and rare earths.

Division of Stratigraphic Paleontology: Charles E. Resser, curator; Gustav
A. Cooper, assistant curator; Jessie G. Beach, aide; Margaret W. Moodey,
aide for Springer collection.

Section of Invertebrate Paleontology: T. W. Stanton, custodian of
Mesozoic collection; Paul Bartsch, curator of Cenozoic collection.
Section of Paleobotany: David White, associate curator.

Division of Vertebrate Paleontology: Charles W. Gilmore, curator; Charles
L. Gazin, assistant curator; Norman H. Boss, chief preparator.

Associate in Mineralogy: W. T. Schaller.

Associates in Paleontology: E. O. Ulrich, August F. Foerste.

Associate in Petrology: Whitman Cross.

DEPARTMENT OF ARTS AND INDUSTRIES:
Carl W. Mitman, head curator.

Division of Engineering: Frank A. Taylor, curator.

Section of Mechanical Technology: Frank A. Taylor, in charge; Fred
C. Reed, scientific aide.

Section of Aeronautics: Paul E. Garber, assistant curator.

Section of Mineral Technology: Carl W. Mitman, in charge; Chester
G. Gilbert, honorary curator.

Division of Textiles: Frederick L. Lewton, curator; Mrs. E. W. Rosson, aide.
Section of Wood Technology: William N. Watkins, assistant curator.
Section of Organic Chemistry: Aida M. Doyle, aide.

Division of Medicine: Charles Whitebread, assistant curator.

Division of Graphic Arts: R. P. Tolman, curator.

Section of Photography: A. J. Olmsted, assistant curator.

Loeb Collection of Chemical Types: Aida M. Doyle, in charge.

Division oF History: T. T. Belote, curator; Charles Carey, assistant curator;
Mrs. C. L. Manning, philatelist,
XIV ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF

Chief of correspondence and documents.—H. 8S. Bryant.

Assistant chief of correspondence and documents.—L. E. ComMMeERForD.
Superintendent of buildings and labor.—J. 8. GoupsMITH.

Assistant superintendent of buildings and labor.—R. H. TREMBLY.
Editor —Pavuu H. OEHSER.

Engineer.—C. R. DENMARK.

Disbursing agent—N. W. Dorsey.

Photographer.—A. J. OLMSTED.

Property clerk—W. A. KNOWLEs.

Assistant librarian.—Luiuta G. ForsBEs.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART
Acting director.—RueE.t P. TouMan.

FREER GALLERY OF ART

Curator.—JOHN ELLERTON LODGE.
Associate curator.—CarL WHITING BISHOP.
Assistant curator.—GRaAcE DUNHAM GUEST.
Associate.—KATHARINE NasH RHOADES.
Assistant.—ARCHIBALD G. WENLEY.
Superintendent JoHN Bunpy.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

Chief —MattHew W. STIRLING.

Ethnologists—JoHn P. Harrineton, JoHn N. B. Hewitt, Truman Micueson,
Joun R. Swanton, WILLIAM D. STRONG.

Archeologist —FRANK H. H. Roserrts, Jr.

Associate Anthropologist —WI1NsLow M. WALKER.

Editor —STANLEY SEARLES.

Librarian.—E.uua LEARY.

Illustrator.—Epwin G. CassEpy.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES

Secretary (in charge).—CHARLES G. ABBOT.
Chief clerk—CoatrEs W. SHOEMAKER.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Director.—WIiLL1aAM M. Mann.
Assistant director.—ERNEST P. WALKER.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Director.—CHARLES G. ABBOT.

Assistant director.—Loyau B. ALDRICH.

Research assistant.—FREDERICK E. Fow.e, JR.
Associate research assistant.— WILLIAM H. Hoover.

DIVISION OF RADIATION AND ORGANISMS

Director —CHARLES G. ABBOT.

Assistant director.—Haru S. JOHNSTON.

Research and consulting physicist—FREDERICK S. BRACKETT.
Associate research assistant —_Epwarp D. McALiIsTER.
Assistant in radiation research—LELAND B. CuaRK.

Research associate.—FLORENCE EK. MEIER.

REGIONAL BUREAU FOR THE UNITED STATES, INTERNATIONAL
CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE

Assistant in charge.-—LEONARD C. GUNNELL.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

C. G. ABBOT
FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1933

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution.

GENTLEMEN: I have the honor to submit herewith my report
showing the activities and condition of the Smithsonian Institution
and the Government bureaus under its administrative charge during
the fiscal year ended June 30, 1933. In part 1 the first 11 pages
contain a summary account of the affairs of the Institution, and
appendixes 1 to 10 give more detailed reports of the operations of the
National Gallery of Art, the Freer Gallery of Art, the Bureau of
American Ethnology, the International Exchanges, the National
Zoological Park, the Astrophysical Observatory, the Division of
Radiation and Organisms, the United States Regional Bureau of
the International Catalogue of Scientific Literature, the Smithsonian
Library, and of the publications issued under the direction of the
Institution; part 2 contains the report of the United States National
Museum, hitherto a separate document. On page 188 is the financial
report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents, hitherto a
separate document.

PART 1. REPORT ON THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
AND ALL THE BUREAUS UNDER ITS DIRECTION EX-
CEPT THE NATIONAL MUSEUM

SUMMARY OF THE YEAR’S ACTIVITIES

Outstanding events —Mr. Eldridge R. Johnson placed his yacht and
a considerable sum of money at the disposal of the Institution for the
first of a series of scientific cruises in the interests of oceanography.
The first cruise, covering the Puerto Rican deep, returned in March
1933, with highly gratifying results, which will later be described in
Smithsonian publications. The Gellatly collection of art objects,
valued at $4,000,000, given to the Institution by John Gellatly, was
safely transferred from New York to Washington and is now on
public exhibition in the National Gallery of Art. Through the
generous aid of Mr. John A. Roebling, a new astrophysical observing

i
2 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

station is being equipped on Mount St. Katherine, Sinai Peninsula.
Among the year’s publications were several of special interest from
the plant researches of the Division of Radiation and Organisms, and
the first of the new series, Oriental Studies, issued by the Freer
Gallery of Art, entitled ‘‘The Story of Kalaka”, by W. Norman
Brown.

National Museum.—Available appropriations for the past year
totaled $701,456, or $133,634 less than for the previous year. Addi-
tions to the collections numbered 348,012 specimens. Important
anthropological material came from Philippine and South American
Indian tribes and from village sites in Alaska, Texas, Virginia, and
Puerto Rico. Noteworthy biological material received consisted of
mammals from Siam, Java, and British Columbia; birds from Alaska,
Siam, and the southwestern United States; reptiles and amphibians
from the Tennessee and Cumberland Rivers and from Puerto Rico
and French Indo China; fishes, mollusks, and marine invertebrates
collected on the Johnson-Smithsonian and Hancock expeditions; the
Owen collection of Lepidoptera (about 40,000 specimens); and 3,600
plants from the historic Mutis Herbarium. In geology many
valuable examples of minerals, gems, ores, and meteorites were
received, and representative lots of fossil plants and animals, including
the most perfect bird skeleton yet collected from the Oligocene of
North America. The industrial collections were augmented by
many generous gifts from commercial firms and individuals, and many
objects of historic interest were received. The number of visitors
for the year totaled 1,427,358.

National Gallery of Art—Dr. William H. Holmes, director of the
Gallery since its creation as a separate unit of the Institution in 1920,
was retired on June 30, 1932, and his death occurred on April 20, 1933.
During the year the Gallery has been under the direction of Ruel P.
Tolman, acting director. Early in the year, a large part of the
Gallery was occupied by exhibits of the National Society of Mural
Painters, the National Sculpture Society, and the alumni of the
American Academy in Rome, in connection with the George Wash-
ington Bicentennial celebration. An exhibition of paintings of
Gaucho life in Argentina, by Sefior Don Cesareo Bernaldo de Quiros,
was held from January 13 to March 13, 1933. The Gellatly collection
was transferred from New York and installed in the Gallery, a special
opening view being held on June 22, 1933. A number of art works
were accessioned by the Institution subject to transfer to tae Gallery
if approved by the National Gallery of Art Commission.

Freer Gallery of Art.—Additions to the collection include a Chinese
bronze vessel from the Chou dynasty; Chinese pottery, porcelain, and
jades; Japanese, Persian, and Arabic illuminated manuscripts; and
Japanese, Persian, and Arabic paintings. Curatorial work has been
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 3

devoted to the critical study of Armenian, Chinese, and Japanese
texts associated with acquisitions, and to the translation of Arabic
and Persian manuscript texts. Visitors totaled 120,732. The
gallery issued “The Story of Kalaka’”’, by W. Norman Brown, the
first volume in its series of Oriental Studies. In spite of disturbed
conditions in China, the field staff of the Gallery conducted archeo-
logical explorations throughout a large part of Shansi Province.

Bureau of American Ethnology—The Bureau continued its studies
of the American Indians, the members of its staff being occupied both
in field work and in preparing for publication the results of their
investigations. Attention was given particularly to the ethnology
of the southeastern Indians, the Cheyenne and Arapaho of the West,
the Foxes of Lowa, the Indians of southern California, and the Iroquois
of New York State and Canada, and to archeological investigations in
Arizona, in Nebraska, and in the mound area of the Mississippi
Valley. In the study of Indian music many songs were recorded
among the tribes in the Gulf States.

International exchanges.—The number of packages handled during
the year, in the official exchange with other countries of parliamentary
and departmental documents and scientific and literary publications,
was 720,209, with a total weight of 634,707 pounds.

National Zoological Park.—A total of 1,330 animals were added
during the year, and 1,136 were removed through various causes,
bringing the collection on June 30, 1933, to 2,496 animals. The
attendance was 2,463,350, including classes from 628 different schools
in various parts of the country. Although no new construction of
buildings was undertaken, a number of needed improvements were
completed, including the laying of a larger water main from the
Connecticut Avenue main, providing a more adequate supply of
water to the west side of the park and greater fire protection.

Astrophysical Observatory.—Progress was made on the dependence
of terrestrial temperature departures on the variation of the sun;
studies were begun on the dependence of terrestrial temperature
departures on the ozone content of the atmosphere; and solar-radiation
observations were continued at Table Mountain, Calif., and Monte-
zuma, Chile. Financed by Mr. John A. Roebling, a new observing
station is being equipped on Mount St. Katherine, near Mount Sinai
in Egypt, under the charge of Harlan H. Zodtner, assisted by Frederick
A. Greeley. A new radiation-measuring instrument, called the
kampometer, has been devised by Dr. Abbot and used with success in
preliminary measurements of the extreme infrared solar spectrum.

Division of Radiation and Organisms.— In March 1933 the Secretary
undertook the general charge of the division, succeeding the former
director, Dr. F. S. Brackett, who continued with the division on a
part-time basis as consulting physicist. Dr. E. S. Johnston was

T2774— 35 2

4 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

appointed assistant director. During the year the following lines of
study have been pursued by the scientific staff of the division: The
growth of wheat under measured concentrations of water vapor and
carbonic acid with fixed temperature and illuminated by measured
quantities of light from helium discharge tubes; the improvement in
methods of producing substantially monochromatic light of any
desired wave length for use in plant growth experiments; the propa-
gation of unicellular algae under 12 different varieties of light; the
growth of wheat under outdoor conditions with different concentra-
tions of carbon dioxide; and investigations with the quartz and the
rock salt spectrographs of the absorption energy spectra of organic
substances including the extreme infrared spectrum.

International Catalogue of Scientific Literature —The work of the
United States Bureau in recording current scientific literature of
this country was continued, so that the necessary data may be avail-
able for indexing when it is found possible to resume publication of
the catalogue. Efforts to refinance the organization were unsuccess-
ful, and as Congress failed to provide funds for the continuation of
the United States Bureau, work was suspended at the close of the
fiscal year. It is hoped, however, that the enterprise may eventually
be resumed, as there is nothing to take its place in providing not
only an index, but also a condensed digest, of the world’s scientific
literature.

THE ESTABLISHMENT

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in
1846, according to the terms of the will of James Smithson, of England,
who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United States of America
“to found at Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of knowledge
among men.” In receiving the property and accepting the trust,
Congress determined that the Federal Government was without
authority to administer the trust directly and, therefore, constituted
an ‘‘establishment’’ whose statutory members are “‘the President, the
Vice President, the Chief Justice, and the heads of the executive
departments.”

THE BOARD OF REGENTS

The affairs of the Institution are administered by a Board of
Regents whose membership consists of ‘‘the Vice President, the Chief
Justice, three Members of the Senate, and three Members of the
House of Representatives, together with six other persons other than
Members of Congress, two of whom shall be resident in the city of
Washington and the other four shall be inhabitants of some State,
but no two of them of the same State.” One of the regents is elected
chancellor of the board. In the past the selection has fallen upon the
Vice President or the Chief Justice, and a suitable person is chosen
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 5

by the regents as Secretary of the Institution, who is also secretary
of the Board of Regents, and the executive officer directly in charge
of the Institution’s activities.

A number of changes in the personnel of the Board occurred during
the year. The Hon. John N. Garner, as Vice President, became on
March 4, 1933, a regent of the Institution ex officio. On May 31,
1933, Senator M. M. Logan, of Kentucky, was appointed a regent to
succeed Senator Reed Smoot, whose term as a Senator expired March
3, 1933, and on May 31, 1933, also, Senator David A. Reed, of Penn-
sylvania, was appointed a regent to succeed Senator Claude A.
Swanson, of Virginia, on the latter’s resignation from the Senate.
On March 27, 1933, the Speaker appointed Representative Charles
L. Gifford, of Massachusetts, a regent to succeed Representative
Albert Johnson, of Washington.

The roll of regents at the close of the year was as follows: Charles
Evans Hughes, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor; John
N. Garner, Vice President of the United States; members from the
Senate—Joseph T. Robinson, M. M. Logan, David A. Reed; mem-
bers from the House of Representatives—T. Alan Goldsborough,
Edward H. Crump, Charles L. Gifford; citizen members—Irwin B.
Laughlin, Pennsylvania; Frederic A. Delano, Washington, D.C.; John
C. Merriam, Washington, D.C.; R. Walton Moore, Virginia; Robert
W. Bingham, Kentucky; Augustus P. Loring, Massachusetts.

Proceedings.— Only one meeting of the Board was held during the
year— the annual meeting on December 8, 1932. The regents present
were Chief Justice Charles Evans Hughes, Chancellor, Senator Joseph
T. Robinson, Senator Claude A. Swanson, Representative T. Alan
Goldsborough, Representative Edward H. Crump, Mr. Frederic A.
Delano, Dr. John C. Merriam, Hon. R. Walton Moore, and the
Secretary, Dr. Charles G. Abbot.

The Secretary announced the changes in the personnel of the
Board, noted above, and stated that Mr. Moore had been given an
ad interim appointment as a member of the executive committee,
which the Board, by resolution, made permanent.

The Secretary then presented his annual report, calling particular
attention to the publications issued by the Institution during the year.
Mr. Delano presented the report of the executive committee, a com-
pilation of the financial statistics of the Institution, and the Secretary
then submitted the annual report of the National Gallery of Art
Commission.

The Secretary presented a special report, reviewing the oustanding
~ events of the year, following which Dr. Wetmore, Assistant Secretary,
gave an account of recent exploring and collecting expeditions of the
National Museum.
6 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

The Board adopted a resolution recording its appreciation of the
bequest to the Institution of $100,000 received through the will of
the late Hon. Dwight W. Morrow. The meeting then adjourned, and
the regents viewed the special exhibit in the Secretary’s office illus-
trating various phases of the Institution’s activities.

FINANCES

A statement will be found in the report of the executive committee,
page 188.
MATTERS OF GENERAL INTEREST
JOHNSON-SMITHSONIAN DEEP-SEA EXPEDITION

One of the most extensive programs of oceanographic investigation
ever entered into by the Institution was initiated during the year
under the name ‘‘Johnson-Smithsonian Deep-Sea Expedition.”
Mr. Eldridge R. Johnson, of Philadelphia, offered the use of his
yacht Caroline, to be completely equipped at his expense with the
most modern devices for oceanographic work. It is expected to
make cruises in several following years. The work is under the direc-
tion of Dr. Paul Bartsch, curator of the division of mollusks in the
National Museum, and the personnel of the first cruise included
T. T. Brown, Naval Research Laboratory, physicist; E. W. Price,
Bureau of Animal Industry, United States Department of Agricul-
ture, zoologist; Charles Weber, student at George Washington Univer-
sity, assistant zoologist; Elie Cheverlange, artist; G. R. Goergens,
United States Department of Agriculture, photographer; and A. W.
Wilding, Bureau of American Ethnology, secretary. The Institution
was materially assisted in preparation for the cruise by the Navy
Department, the Department of Agriculture, the Carnegie Institution
of Washington, George Washington University, the Zoological Society
and the Oceanographic Institution of Woods Hole.

The first cruise began at New York, January 21, 1933, and ended
at the navy yard dock in Washington, March 14, most of the nearly
two months being spent in exploring the Puerto Rican deep. The
results of the cruise came fully up to expectations. Dr. Bartsch
reports that the work was concentrated upon the rim of the deep and
that marvelous catches were made, representing all the various
groups of marine organisms from vertebrates down to protozoa, as
well as aquatic plants. About four truckloads of specimens were
carried to the museum.

In addition to actual specimens gathered, three lines of soundings,
235 miles long, were made through the long axis of the deep 20 miles
apart with a sounding station at every 5-mile interval. Some of the
former depths reported were slightly in excess of those which the
Caroline obtained in the same location. It is possible that-the dis-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 7

crepancy may be due to the bending and deflecting of the wire for-
merly used in sounding. All the work in this direction was accom-
plished by means of the echo sounding device installed through the
courtesy of the Navy Department. In using the sonic sounding
machine a vibrant note is sent out by an oscillator, which, upon
reaching the bottom, is reflected therefrom and caught by micro-
phones installed on the ship and then carried to the observer. The
interval between sending out the note and the arrival of the echo
gives data easily translated into the desired depth. By this means
it is easy within a limited number of seconds to determine even the
greatest depth found, which was 4,400 fathoms, that is, about 5
miles. Then, also, the expedition gathered samples of water from
various depths and temperature readings by thermometers specially
designed for the purpose.

Dr. Bartsch states that ‘this expedition has been the finest in which
I have had the opportunity to take part. Mr. Johnson and his son
and the invited guests, Mr. Douglass and family, the members of the
staff, and every individual from the captain to the cabin stewards
did everything in their power to help and thus bent each moment to a
purpose. Aside from the splendid surroundings in which the work
was done, their esprit de corps made the expedition a memorable one.
It will take weeks before all of the elements will have been separated
into the component groups, after which they will be turned over to
specialists for report. Mr. Johnson deserves great credit for spon-
soring this enterprise.”

The preliminary results of this first cruise, particularly the descrip-
tions of the many new forms found, are now being written up and will
be published in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections.

REMOVAL OF GELLATLY COLLECTION TO WASHINGTON

Four years after its presentation to the American people through
the Smithsonian Institution, the Gellatly collection of paintings and
art objects was transferred from New York to Washington on April
30, 1933, and opened to the public in the National Gallery of Art on
June 23. Ralph Seymour, curator of the collection for many years
while it was in the possession of Mr. Gellatly, came to Washington
to assist in its unpacking, classification, and preparation for exhibition.

The assembling of this collection, valued at more than $4,000,000,
formed the lifework of Mr. John Gellatly. It comprises more than
1,600 separate pieces, including 145 American paintings in oil, water
color, and pastel; a notable collection of paintings by European
masters; and many interesting and valuable examples of various types
of art objects, including ancient glass, jewelry, period furniture,
sculpture, and tapestries.
8 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

MARTIN GUSTAV AND CAROLINE RUNICE HANSON FUND

On March 13, 1933, Dr. Adolph M. Hanson, of Faribault, Minn.,
executed a legal assignment to the Smithsonian Institution of all
royalties accruing to him under a patent on his discovery, the isolation
of the parathyroid hormone (extract of parathyroid gland and process
of preparing the same). In making this offer, Dr. Hanson, a lieu-
tenant colonel in the Medical Reserve Corps, United States Army,
stated that he wished the gift to appear as a memorial to his father,
Martin Gustav Hanson, and his mother, Caroline Runice Hanson,
and that he wished the income to be applied ‘‘to some scientific
purpose, preferably in chemistry or medicine.”” He added, “‘I hope
that my example may serve as an inspiration for others in the future
and add to the interest in our National Institution.”

The Institution accepted the gift, and already considerable sums
have been received from royalties. These will be applied to the
scientific work of the Institution, giving preference wherever practi-
cable to researches in chemistry or medicine, in accordance with the
wishes of the donor.

SECOND ARTHUR LECTURE

In 1931 a bequest was received from James Arthur for the promo-
tion of a series of lectures at the Institution dealing with various
aspects of the relation of the sun to the planets, the stars, the weather,
and human life. The second Arthur lecture was delivered by Dr.
Ernest Wiliam Brown, professor of mathematics at Yale University,
on January 25, 1933, under the title ‘‘ Gravitation in the Solar System.”
The lecture will appear later in one of the Institution’s series of
publications.

WALTER RATHBONE BACON TRAVELING SCHOLARSHIP

Mr. Alan Mozley, of the department of zoology of Johns Hopkins
University, was awarded the Walter Rathbone Bacon scholarship for
1932 and 1933, and later this award was extended to cover 1934 also.
Mr. Mozley is pursuing a faunistic study of the Siberian nonmarine
mollusks. Regarding the importance of this work, Mr. Mozley says:

“The study of this problem is especially important, since in the
sub-Arctic we have the unique opportunity of investigating a fauna
in the making. The whole of this region has only recently become
habitable for mollusks, so that we are dealing, as it were, with an
experiment in zoogeography, and there is an absolutely unparalleled
opportunity for studying geographic distribution without the host of
unknown geologic and geographic factors which often result in specu-
lations which belong more in the realm of nature study or natural
mythology than in science.”

At the close of the year Mr. Mozley was still engaged in field work
in Siberia.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 9

SMITHSONIAN EXHIBIT AT THE CENTURY OF PROGRESS EXPOSITION,
CHICAGO

The general theme of the Federal exhibits at the Century of Progress
Exposition was the portrayal of the contributions made by govern-
mental agencies toward the advancement of science and the progress
of civilization during the past 100 years. To be in unison with this
theme the exhibit of the Smithsonian Institution was made up of two
parts; first, a brief pictorial account of the Institution’s founding and
of some of its outstanding achievements in the past, and second, a
representation with original material of some of the current activities
of the Institution and its seven branches.

The first or pictorial part of the exhibit consists of nine oil paintings,
40 by 30 inches in size. The first of these entitled ‘‘ President Jackson
Notifies Congress of the Smithsonian Bequest, December 17, 1835”
shows President Jackson sitting at his desk in the White House in the
act of writing a letter while his secretary and nephew, Andrew Jackson
Donelson, stands in the background waiting to receive the missive.
The second shows the building of the Smithsonian Institution as
completed in 1851, and the third is an air view of the portion of the
Mall in Washington containing the original buildings and the four
additional ones composing the Smithsonian group today. The six
remaining paintings, arranged chronologically, depict a few of the
many activities undertaken “‘for the increase and diffusion of knowl-
edge among men.” The titles of these are: ‘‘ Professor Henry Posts
Daily Weather Map in the Smithsonian, 1858”, ‘‘Major Powell
Descends the Colorado River Through the Grand Canyon, 1869”’,
‘Secretary Langley Tries Out Aerodrome No. 5, 1895”, “President
Roosevelt Leads Smithsonian African Expedition, 1909-10”’, ‘‘Astro-
physical Observatory Established at Montezuma, Chile, 1918”, ‘ Divi-
sion of Radiation and Organisms Established, 1929.”

The second part of the exhibit on the Institution’s current activities
includes seven exhibition cases, an exhibit booth, and an automatic
lantern slide projector, distributed over the floor. Five of the exhibi-
tion cases contain a group of original specimens indicative of some
current research work in biology, geology, anthropology, ethnology,
and radiation. The biology exhibit, for example, tells the story of the
progressive experiments in evolution with the land mollusk, Cerion,
begun in 1912, while the exhibit on anthropology, consisting of carved
ivory artifacts, gives an indication of current archeological investiga-
tions of the prehistoric Eskimo cultures of northern Alaska and around
Bering Strait. The sixth case indicates very briefly the scope of the
National Gallery of Art, and the seventh represents the National
Zoological Park. For this latter exhibit the interior of the case was
modeled to represent a desert with real sand floor, growing cactuses,
10 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

and a painted scenic background, and during the whole period of the
fair a large variety of live lizards is to be displayed.

The exhibition booth contains three separate exhibits as follows:
Part of the apparatus used in the Division of Radiation and Organisms
in researches on plant growth; a light spectrum with filters to screen
different rays such as are used in radiation researches; a group of
fluorescent minerals subjected to ultraviolet light with their resultant
beautiful coloring. Lastly, the automatic lantern slide projector with
two series of 70 lantern slides, changed twice a week, reveals present-
day scenes in the many workrooms and laboratories of the Institution.

GRANTS

Blue Hill Meteorological Observatory—A grant of $500 from the
Hodgkins fund was made to the Blue Hill Meteorological Observatory
of Harvard University for the purchase of solar radiation instruments,
balloons, and hydrogen for use in making a continuous daily record of
solar and sky radiation at Blue Hill Observatory. This research, in
charge of Dr. Charles F. Brooks, director of the observatory, was
undertaken in connection with the International Polar Year.

Davis and Elkins College-—Two researches under way in the depart-
ment of chemistry of Davis and Elkins College were aided by a grant
of $100 for the purchase of equipment. Under the direction of Prof.
R. B. Purdum, it was proposed to investigate (1) the solubility of lead
sulphate in the presence of sodium sulphate and other electrolytes,
and (2) the solubility of benzidine sulphate and of benzidine hydro-
chloride in various solvents.

Barro Colorado Island Biological Laboratory—The Institution con-
tinued its annual subscription of $300 for a table at the Barro Colorado
Laboratory. This laboratory offers unusually favorable opportunity
for studies of the fauna and flora of tropical America, and its facilities
are used by members of the Institution’s staff or associates.

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD WORK

In addition to the Johnson-Smithsonian Deep-Sea Expedition
already described, the Institution sent out or took part in 24 expedi-
tions to gather specimens and data essential to the scientific investi-
gations in progress. Smithsonian field parties worked not only in
an unusually large number of States of the United States—29—but
also in Alaska, Canada, Cuba, Puerto Rico, Yucatan, Panama,
Ecuador, and Siam. All these expeditions are briefly described in
the illustrated pamphlet entitled “Explorations and Field Work of
the Smithsonian Institution During 1932”, Smithsonian publication
no. 3213, but to illustrate the aim of Smithsonian field expeditions
I may here mention one or two. In Alaska Dr. Ale’ Hrdlitka carried
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 11

on anthropological and archeological research on Kodiak Island,
excavating sites at Uyak Bay, Chief’s Point, and other localities,
making an archeological survey of the whole island, and taking
measurements and photographs of the few remaining fullbloods on
the island; and James A. Ford conducted archeological work in the
vicinity of Barrow, furnishing a basis for a cultural chronology of
the north Alaska coast. In the West Indies, where in recent years
the Institution has centered intensive anthropological and biological
researches, H. W. Krieger visited Cuba with a view to determining
the northern and southern affiliations of early Cuban cultures, and
Gerrit S. Miller, Jr., searched in the caves of Puerto Rico for evidence
that some of the members of the ancient fauna of the Antillean Islands
continued to exist until the time when the Indians made their
settlements.
PUBLICATIONS

The Institution’s various series of publications constitute the chief
means of carrying out one half of its stated purpose, ‘‘the increase
and diffusion of knowledge among men.” Since the reorganization
of the editorial department 2 years ago, all the series—Smithsonian
proper, National Museum, Bureau of American Ethnology, Astro-
physical Observatory, and Freer Gallery of Art—have been issued
from one central office under the general supervision of the editor of
the Smithsonian Institution, with the joint aims of greater accuracy
and promptness, more uniformity in editorial style, and greater
efficiency in administration.

During the year 100 volumes and pamphlets were published, 43 by
the Institution proper, 48 by the National Museum, 8 by the Bureau
of American Ethnology, and 1 by the Freer Gallery of Art. Details
regarding these publications will be found in the report of the editor,
appendix 10. The number of publications distributed was 177,572.

LIBRARY

The Smithsonian library accessioned during the year 6,319 volumes
and 4,625 pamphlets and charts, most of them coming as exchanges
for Smithsonian publications, although, as usual, many gifts also
were received. In addition to the routine work of the staff, consider-
able progress was made on the union catalog, the order department
of the library was reorganized, the file of exchange relations showed
marked progress, and a start was made on the dictionary index to
all publications of the Institution and its branches.

Respectfully submitted.
C. G. Asport, Secretary.
| | ey te. inp ot aol ASR
. sutd 4 Sh fis a dart

' 2 + i re Leth ete) bone hi ic

; F “BAD ey + a: 4
7. PAN ie: ~ ogerttnale
/ : re ; ne i} a ea) fed i iar i
4 4 Pitt : af i eee vt
a : m oe iy Bihetlapi re.

“ ety / 7 Ape oe R ?
i Mf tee
j ‘7 + “ie
{ t} if
j4 ? he
} ie AX 10 cy he
: -~ = eh
he 42 ary pWLlte ‘eerie
: x ey | a "tah ve! beh
i | 1) * ;

r sty 4 =i
: oo id ;
7 Se:

i

7 ' . -
, ‘

{ - ae a ie Bite - a

ad ae Mare yibsrinn t.
oe = atasde 7
the Y
ix

a i bitte —
- a
* alata es

isla ka bbe

7

APPENDIX 1
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report on the
activities of the National Gallery of Art for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1933.

The retirement on June 30, 1932, of Dr. William H. Holmes,
director of the gallery since its creation as a separate unit under
the Institution in 1920, was a severe loss and his place will be difficult
to fill. His retirement came through an act of Congress which
separated from the Government service many others of the retire-
ment age. His death occurred on April 20, 1933, at Royal Oak,
Mich.

On July 1, 1932, a large percentage of the gallery space was occu-
pied by exhibits of the National Society of Mural Painters, the
National Sculpture Society and by the alumni of the American
Academy in Rome, in connection with the George Washington
Bicentennial Celebration; they continued officially until Thanks-
giving Day, but were extended a few weeks. The removal of the
statuary and the American Academy in Rome exhibits made possible
the installation of a part of the permanent collections. Certain
partitions which the Mural Painters had removed were not replaced
and reduced the wall space, already much too small, by about 180
running feet.

Early in January the large mural paintings were taken down. The
large central gallery was then used for the special exhibition of
29 colorful paintings of Gaucho life of the Argentine by Sefior Don
Cesareo Bernaldo de Quiros. It was sponsored by the Argentine
Ambassador, Sefior Dr. Felipe A. Espil, and the opening on Friday
afternoon, January 13, was attended by many notables headed by Mrs.
Herbert Hoover. It continued through March 12, 1933, and, judg-
ing by the attendance, it was a great success. Later in the spring
the Gellatly collection was removed from New York, arriving in
Washington May 1. The private opening was held on the evening
of June 22, and the collection was thrown open to the public on

June 23.
APPROPRIATIONS

For the administration of the National Gallery of Art, including
compensation of necessary employees, purchase of books of reference
and periodicals, traveling expenses, uniforms for guards, and neces-
sary incidental expenses, $38,220 was appropriated. This was

13
14 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

$7,180 less than the preceding year, and the amount was further
reduced by $1,260 through the impounding of the salary of one
laborer, who was retired. Some $16,500 of this appropriation goes
for the upkeep of the Freer Gallery of Art.

THE NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART COMMISSION

The twelfth annual meeting of the National Gallery of Art Com-
mission was held at the Smithsonian Institution on December 6,
1932. The members present were Dr. Charles G. Abbot, ex officio,
Herbert Adams, Charles L. Borie, Jr., James E. Fraser, Joseph
H. Gest, John E. Lodge, Paul Manship, George B. McClellan,
Charles Moore, and Edward W. Redfield. Ruel P. Tolman, curator
of the division of graphic arts, and acting director of the National
Gallery of Art, was also present. Owing to the death of Mr. Gari
Melchers, chairman, Mr. Gest was elected temporary chairman,
and Dr. Abbot was made temporary secretary in the absence of Dr.
W. H. Holmes. Resolutions upon the death of Mr. Parmelee,
Mr. French, and Mr. Bixby were adopted. The death of Mr. Gari
Melchers, chairman of the Commission, on November 30, 1932,
was announced. The temporary chairman appointed Mr. Moore,
Mr. Lodge, and Dr. Abbot as a committee to draft suitable resolu-
tions. The resignation of Mr. Herbert L. Pratt was accepted with
regret, making three vacancies in the membership, and it was
resolved that the National Gallery of Art Commission recommend
to the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution the election
to membership on the Commission of Mr. Andrew W. Mellon, Mr.
Frederick P. Keppel, and Mr. Gifford Beal.

The Commission also recommended to the Board of Regents
the reelection for the succeeding term of 4 years of the following
members: Messrs. John K. Lodge, E. W. Redfield, and Paul Man-
ship. The following officers were elected for the ensuing year:
Mr. Joseph H. Gest, chairman; Mr. Frank Jewett Mather, Jr.,
vice chairman (reelected), and Dr. Charles G. Abbot, secretary.
The following were elected members of the executive committee for
the ensuing year: Messrs. Charles Moore, Herbert Adams, and
George B. McClellan. Mr. Joseph H. Gest, as chairman of the
Commission, and Dr. Charles G. Abbot, as secretary of the Com-
mission, are ex-officio members.

The subject of stained glass was discussed, and Mr. Charles L.
Borie, Jr., was appointed chairman of a new committee on stained
glass, to report at the next meeting. The Commission, acting
as the advisory committee, accepted the full-length portrait of
John Gellatly, by Irving R. Wiles, N.A., and the portrait of William
H. Holmes, by E. Hodgson Smart. Dr. Moore called attention
to the fact that Dr. W. H. Holmes had retired on June 30, 1932,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 15

and suggested that a written expression of appreciation of his long
and faithful service to the National Gallery of Art and its Com-
mission be recorded.

THE JOHN GELLATLY ART COLLECTION

The John Gellatly collection of paintings, carvings, jewelry,
enamels, glass, statues, and miscellaneous art objects, offered early
in 1929, and accepted June 13 of that year, was transferred from
New York City to the National Gallery of Art, May 1, 1933. Its
installation was begun immediately and the collection was thrown
open to the public on June 23, 1933. The collection consists of
over 1,600 specimens. The fixtures, pedestals, and cases, are also
a part of the gift.

This collection fills 1 large gallery and 2 smaller galleries adjoining.
Mr. Gellatly was catholic in his taste and collected many rare and
beautiful specimens of the work of the goldsmiths, the ivory carvers,
the makers of statues in wood, bronze, marble, silver, and gold;
ancient glass from many countries; fifteenth and sixteenth century
stained glass; furniture, and paintings.

There are 142 American pictures, of which 104 are oils, 22 water
colors, 12 pastels, and 4 in miscellaneous mediums such as silverpoint,
pencil, and charcoal. Five American artists are represented by 84
examples: T. W. Dewing (17), Abbott H. Thayer (23), Childe Has-
sam (15), J. H. Twachtman (12), Albert P. Ryder (17). Other Amer-
ican artists who are represented by more than one picture are: Henry
Golden Dearth (2), John La Farge (3), J. A. MeN. Whistler (2),
John Singer Sargent (2), Irving R. Wiles (2), Max Bohm (3), Gari
Melchers (3), John Noble (2), Lucia Fairchild Fuller (2 miniatures),
J. J. Shannon (2), F.S. Church (7). A few of the American painters
represented by but one painting are: John Singleton Copley, Frank
W. Benson, Frank Duveneck, George De Forest Brush, Edward G.
Malbone (miniature), Robert Reid, George Fuller, Paul Dougherty,
R. A. Blakelock, George Inness. In all, there are 44 American artists.
European paintings are very poorly represented, there being only 22
paintings by 19 artists, 7 of whom are unknown.

On the walls of the large gallery are shown exactly 100 American
oil paintings, while around the walls and the floor space are cases con-
taining glass, jewels, oriental specimens, enamels; ancient and modern
sculpture in wax, silver, wood and terra cotta; antique furniture,
chairs, settees, tables, and much other valuable and interesting
material.

A second gallery is filled to overflowing with a great variety of
material from Europe and Asia, tapestries, textiles, furniture, rare
stained glass, religious crucifixes and charms, sculpture in wood,
terra cotta, ivory, jade, emerald, bronze, and marble. Unique items
16 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

among these are: The Christian necklace of the sixth century consist-
ing of 15 golden disks inlaid with glass mosaic, each disk portraying
one of the twelve disciples with the name inscribed in Greek, the
central disk being reserved for the Christ and the two end ones each
bearing the Constantinean cross; and an emerald cup, a marvel of
size and workmanship. There are many objects of unusual interest
and value, also paintings, European and oriental.

In a third gallery are displayed 36 water colors, pastels, and draw-
ings by American artists, and 16 fragments of Chinese frescoes from
Turfan; 1 bronze and 1 terra-cotta by Augustus St. Gaudens; 1
marble by George Grey Barnard, and miscellaneous furniture, a
grandfather clock, a desk, a harp, tables, chairs, etc. One large
model of a seventeenth century warship will be found surrounded by
many other objects not listed here. One important painting, a 15-
foot circular decoration called ‘“‘Dawn”, by T. W. Dewing, which
had been rolled for 19 years, was mounted and hung in the rotunda.

The Gellatly collection is undoubtedly the most important gift to
the National Gallery since the Freer collection was received. It has
great variety and in itself is an art museum.

THE HENRY WARD RANGER FUND PURCHASES

The 12 paintings purchased during the year by the Council of the
National Academy of Design from the fund provided by the Henry
Ward Ranger bequest, which under certain conditions are prospective
additions to the National Gallery collections, are as follows, including
the names of the institutions to which they have been assigned:

Date of
Title Artist purchase, Assignment
1932
100. Rhododendron------- H. nates, Murphy, | December-
INE
101, Gast: Snow -22--2"- Theodore Van Soelen_-_--|_--do_.-.__-| Everhart Museum of Natural His-
LORY: Science, and Art, Scranton,
a.
102. Return from the | Elliott Daingerfield, N.A. |.---do__-__-- Smith College Museum of Art
(1859-1932). Northampton, Mass.
103. ittnglee: “Moonlight- =| TobnsNobles Neat ss. ss-2 eee do. Bree peemerts Art Galiery, Mem-
phis, Tenn.
104. Snow and Haze__-_--- Walter L. Palmer, N.A. |_--do_---_-- Clemson College Library, The Clem-
(1854-1932). son Agricultural College, Clemson
College, South Carolina.
105. Pale Light of Dawn_-| Spencer Nichols, A.N.A- -|_--do_---_-- Society of Liberal prt Joslyn Me-
morial, Omaha, Ne
106. Path of Light__.....- Malcolm Humphreys. ----|--.do_------ Fine Aris tap of pair Little
oe T
107; Che Blue Jars=222_- Cullen Yates, N.A-.--.--- Bet {0 (oye Portland Art Association, Portland,
reg.
108. Room in Arlington | Charles Bittinger, A.N.A-|.--do---.--- Montgomery Museum of Fine Arts,
Where Lee was Montgomery, Ala.
Married. aes
109 SelfPortrait=--- 2-2 Mae Lowe, N.A. (1853- | February - ora Esute of History and Art,
any, N.Y.
110 Heavy Sea-s=---2=2- 2 Paul Dougherty, N.A-----|.--do------- William Rockhill Nelson Gallery of
Art, Kansas City, Mo. :
De DhesViase: = 2-222. Francis C. Jones, N.A. | April_.---- Kansas State College of Agriculture

(1857-1932). and Applied Science, Manhattan,
Kans.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 17
ART WORKS RECEIVED DURING THE YEAR

Accessions of art works by the Smithsonian Institution are as
follows:

Portrait of Richard Mansfield as Beau Brummel, by Orlando
Rouland (1871-). Gift of Henry Harkness Flagler, Esq., New
York City, ‘‘for the collection of portraits of eminent Americans.”’

Two bronze statuettes, The End of Day, and Man of Steel, by
Max Kalish. Gift of the sculptor.

Bronze statuette, Faun, by Alice Morgan Wright. Gift of the
sculptor.

Bronze statuette of a goat, Nancy Lee (Sag Mal Haroun al Raschid
of Kayenne). Gift of the sculptor, Gertrude K. Lathrop.

Eight oil paintings, 4 water colors, and one tapestry, part of ‘The
Adelaide M. Noble collection” presented to the Institution by the
Mrs. James S. Harlan estate through Mrs. Cornelia Hand Baird,
Yonkers, N.Y.:

Oils, artists undetermined unless specified:

Portrait of Mrs. Adelaide M. Noble, by Francois Flameng (1856-).
The Christ Child.

The Old Spinning Woman.

Saint John.

The Finding of Moses.

Madonna with halo of stars.

Shepherd and Shepherdesses. Signed: Albert Cuyp, 1644.
Sketch of Child with Cross and Torch.

Water colors:

Landscape, by E. Landseer Harris.
Landscape, by an artist not known.
Landscape, by John L. Bennett, 1884.
Landscape, by E. Wachtel.

One tapestry, subject from The Siege of Troy, Hector Carrying
Anchises on His Back.

Six paintings, mostly portrait sketches in oil, one alabaster Ma-
donna, and furniture, part of the collection presented to the Institu-
tion by the daughters of Mrs. Alice Pike Barney in memory of their
mother, through Mrs. Dreyfus-Barney, of Paris, France. The
paintings are:

Marguerite in Prison, by T. Grund, 1863-67.
Alice Barney with Jabot, by Alice Barney.
Infanta, by Alice Barney.

Laura in Yellows, by Alice Barney.
Peachbloom, by Alice Barney.

Marianne Girard, by Alice Barney.

Twenty-seven unframed water-color sketches by Ernest Griset
(1844-1907), part of the bequest of Miss Lucy Hunter Baird received
18 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

in 1914 and assigned to the United States National Museum, were
transferred to the Gallery.

LOANS ACCEPTED BY THE GALLERY

Four early American family portraits: Joseph Turner, and Eliza-
beth Oswald Chew, by John Wollaston (middle eighteenth century),
John Crathorne Montgomery, and Mrs. John Crathorne Mont-
gomery, by Thomas Sully (1783-1872); lent by Mrs. H. H. Norton
(Mrs. Mary Montgomery Norton).

A standing portrait of Abraham Lincoln, painted in London, by
Charles Snead Williams in 1931-32; lent by the artist. Returned
to his agents, November 21, 1932.

Two portraits in pastel by James Sharples (1751-1811), of Gen.
James Miles Hughes, original member of the Society of the Cincin-
nati, and Mrs. James Miles Hughes, his wife; lent by Madame Florian
Vurpillot, through Mrs. R. G. Hoes.

Marble bust of Gen. John J. Pershing, by the late Moses Wainer
Dykaar.

Life-size portrait bust in Carrara marble of Col. Charles Hoyt
March, Chairman of the Federal Trade Commission, by Louise
Kidder Sparrow (with rectangular base); lent by Mrs. Charles
Hoyt March.

GALLERY LOANS RETURNED

Mrs. Herbert Hoover returned two paintings borrowed by her
from the National Gallery in 1929 for exhibition in the White House.
They are Love and Life, by George Frederick Watts (returned
Sept. 8, 1932), and Castle Creek Canyon, South Dakota, by Frank
De Haven (returned Mar. 1, 1933).

Two portraits, one of George Washington by Charles Willson
Peale, the property of John S. Beck, and the other of Dr. William
Shippen, Jr., by Gilbert Stuart, the property of Dr. L. P. Shippen,
were returned by the Corcoran Gallery of Art at the request of their
owners, where they had formed part of the Bicentennial exhibition
of portraits of George Washington and his associates, March 5 to
November 24, 1932 (returned Nov. 28 and 29, 1932).

The original working model in plaster of the bronze equestrian
statue of Lafayette erected in the square of the Louvre, Paris, by
the school children of the United States in 1900, which was lent to
Mrs. Bartlett in October 1931 for a memorial exhibition of the life
work of her husband, Paul W. Bartlett (1865-1925), held in New
York City, was returned by Mrs. Bartlett on December 20, 1932.

Four paintings and four busts, exhibited for a number of years at
the Cosmos Club, Washington, D.C., were recalled on March 1, 1933.
The paintings: Indian Summer Day, by Max Weyl, A Pool in the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 19

Forest, by Benjamin Rutherford Fitz, Fired On, by Frederic Rem-
ington, and Interior of Levardin Church, Florence, Italy, by S.
Jerome Uhl (property of R. P. Tolman); the busts: Alfred Tennyson,
by Partridge, Joseph Henry, by C. V. Burton, Voltaire, by J. A.
Houdon, and Elisha Kent Kane, by Saunders.

LOANS BY THE GALLERY

The painting entitled “At Nature’s Mirror”, by Ralph Albert
Blakelock (1847-1919), belonging to the William T. Evans collection,
was lent to the Museum of Modern Art, New York City, for an
exhibition of American painting of the last 70 years, from November
1, 1932, to February 1, 1933. The painting was returned to the
Gallery at the close of the exhibition.

The painting by Francesco Guardi (1712-1783) entitled ‘Ruins
and Figures,” part of the Ralph Cross Johnson collection, was lent
to the Art Institute of Chicago to form part of its art exhibit at the
Century of Progress Exhibition in Chicago, from June to Novem-
ber, 1933.

Twelve water-color sketches and one oil painting were lent to the
Corcoran Gallery of Art for a memorial exhibition of the work of the
late Dr. William H. Holmes, first director of the National Gallery of
Art, from June 15 to July 5,1933. These were returned at the close
of the exhibition.

Three early American paintings were lent to the White House in
September 1932, at the request of Mrs. Herbert Hoover: Portrait of
Mary Hopkinson, by Benjamin West, A Lady, and Joseph Head,
by Gilbert Stuart. These were returned to the Gallery in March 1933.

SPECIAL EXHIBITIONS

The exhibition of paintings, sculpture, plans of Washington City,
etc., which opened on March 26, 1932, in honor of the bicentennial
of the birth of George Washington, mentioned in the last report,
closed on November 24, Thanksgiving Day.

An exhibition of 29 large paintings of Gaucho life in Argentina,
Province of Entre Rios, 1850-70, by Sefior Don Cesareo Bernaldo de
Quiros, opened with a private view on January 13, 1933, under the
patronage of His Excellency the Argentine Ambassador, Sefior Dr.
Felipe A. Espil, and continued for the general public through March
12, 1933. Cards for the opening view were issued by the Gallery,
and a catalog was supplied through the artist.

The regents and Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution issued
~ cards for the opening view on the evening of June 22, 1933, of the
Gellatly art collection, presented to the nation by John Gellatly,
Esq. A catalog of the 164 American and European paintings in this
collection was issued by the Institution.

T277T4— 35

Yd
vo
20 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

THE NATIONAL GALLERY LIBRARY

Much-needed space was provided for the library by the installation
in room 382 of steel book stacks, giving about 250 feet of additional
shelving. On May 1, 1933, Miss Ruth Wenger, library assistant, was
detailed from the Smithsonian Library, and the organization of the
library was begun. At the close of the year considerable progress had
been made in rearrangement and shelf-listing of the material and the
inauguration of a standardized card catalog. The checking of missing
parts of the gallery’s serial publications progressed, and the recording
of much material was accomplished. During the year 499 volumes
and pamphlets were added by gift, exchange, and purchase.

CARE OF COLLECTIONS

The portraits and most of the sculpture which were in the lobby,
the northern entrance to the Natural History Building, have been
moved to the halls around the rotunda, where both the sculpture and
paintings appear to good advantage. Ten statues still remain in the
lobby and 10 paintings have been selected from the permanent
collection for exhibition there.

CHANGES IN PERSONNEL

Dr. William H. Holmes, Director, was retired June 30, 1932, and
Ruel P. Tolman was appointed Acting Director on July 1, 1932.

Ralph Seymour was given a temporary appointment as expert in
charge of the Gellatly art collection, May 1 to June 30, 1933.

Miss Ruth Wenger was assigned to the library of the National
Gallery of Art, May 1, 1933.

PUBLICATIONS

Houmes, W. H. Report on the National Gallery of Art for the year ending
June 30, 1932. Appendix 2, Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution for the year ending June 30, 1932, pp. 29-33.

Lopasr, J. E. Report on the Freer Gallery of Art for the year ending June 30,
1932. Appendix 3, Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution for
the year ending June 30, 1932, pp. 34-38.

Touman, R. P. Catalogue of American and European Paintings in the Gellatly
Collection. Smithsonian Institution, National Gallery of Art, pp. 1-19, 7
illustrations.

Catalogue of an Exhibition of Paintings by Cesareo Bernaldo de Quiros. Gaucho
Life in Argentina (Province of Entre Rios) 1850-70. Washington, D. C.
Smithsonian Institution. National Gallery of Art (January 13-March 12,
1933). Pamphlet; privately printed.

Cesareo Bernaldo de Quiros, by Christian Brinton. An Exhibition of Paintings
of Gaucho Life in the Province of Entre Rios, Argentina, 1850-70. The Na-
tional Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C. Exhibition of Paintings by Cesareo
Bernaldo de Quiros, January 18-March 12, 1933. (Printed by order of the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY P|

trustees of the Hispanic Society of America, New York, 1932, and cover
revised for National Gallery of Art distribution), pp. 1-23, 22 illustrations.
Respectfully submitted.

R. P. Touman, Acting Director.
Dr. C..G. ApBort,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 2
REPORT ON THE FREER GALLERY OF ART

Sir: I have the honor to submit the Thirteenth Annual Report on
the Freer Gallery of Art for the year ending June 30, 1933:

THE COLLECTIONS
Additions to the collections by purchase are as follows:

BRONZE

33.2. Chinese, Chou dynasty. A ceremonial vessel of the type huo, with attached
cover. Decorations incised and in low relief. Smooth gray-green
patina. Inside the cover, an inscription of 50 characters; 4 characters
on the outside.

CERAMICS
Pottery:

32.58. Chinese, twelfth—thirteenth century. Sung dynasty. Koyao. A bowl
with flaring sides and a six-notched rim, on a small basal ring. Grayish
green glaze with an irregular brown crackle.

33.1. Chinese, twelfth—-thirteenth century. Sung dynasty. Tu ting type? A
wine cup with flaring sides on a small basal ring; luminous deep cream-
colored glaze.

Porcelain:
32.63. Chinese, early eighteenth century. Yung Chéng period. Ku Yieh
a-b MHsiian. A small bowl decorated on the outside with a landscape design
in blue enamels over glaze. Ivory stand.

JADE

Chinese, Han dynasty. A group of ornamental jades apparently from
one source. The substance is for the most part of a translucent greenish
gray, with areas of cream-white surface alteration and brown fleckings.
The forms are as follows:

32.38. Crescent-shaped pendant (huang), with a decoration of tiger heads and
the ‘‘grain pattern”? of small nodules, carved in relief on both sides.

32.39. Pendant of double bird design, with open work carving and the ‘‘grain
pattern” in relief on both sides.

32.40. Pendant in bird form, with open-work carving and incised details on both
sides.

32.41. A small disk (pz), with the ‘‘grain pattern” in relief on both sides.

32.42. Oblong pendant with the ‘‘grain pattern” in relief on both sides.

32.43. Plaque of animal form, with details of the design carved on both sides.

32.44. Plaque of animal form, similar to the preceding one.

99
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY Za

MANUSCRIPTS

32.27. Japanese, sixteenth-seventeenth century. An album of 30 poems from
the Genji Monogatari, written in hiragana. Each poem is accompanied
by a miniature painting. (See below under Paintings, 32.27a—dd.)

32.29. Persian, early fifteenth century. Mongol (Djala‘ir) period. Poems of
Sultan Ahmad ibn ‘Uways i-Djala‘ir. A book of 337 leaves, bound in
brown leather. ‘Text written in nasta‘liq script. [Illuminated title page
and eight pages with border decorations. (See below under Paintings,
32.30—-32.37.)

32.45. Persian, early sixteenth century. Herat school. Sultan Mahmud Nar,
calligraphist. Selected poems (from the Diwdn) of Hafiz, with ex-
tracts from the works of Ibn Yamin, Omar Khayyam, and Nizgami
written on the margins. A volume of 75 leaves, in a seventeenth
century Indian binding of red leather with gold tooling; text in delicate
nasta‘liq script. Two illuminated pages, many illuminated head and
tail pieces, and seven minature paintings. (See below under Paintings,
32.48-32.54.)

32.55-32.57. Persian, tenth century. Three leaves from a parchment Qur‘an.

Text written in ornamental kaft script; 1 illuminated chapter
heading and 5 gold lection marks.

32.59-32.61. Arabic (Egypt), fifteenth century. Three illuminated pages from

a book of selections from the Qur‘én. Text written in a hand-
some THulTH script; illuminations in gold and blue, on paper.

32.62. Arabic (Egypt), eighth century. A leaf from a parchment Qur‘dn.
Recto: a page ornament in gold and slight color; verso: seven lines of
text in kaft script in brown ink.

PAINTINGS

32.27. Japanese, sixteenth-seventeenth century. By Tosa Mitsunori. Thirty

a-dd miniature paintings executed in ink, slight color and gold, illustrating
scenes from the Genji Monogatari; bound in an album. Each painting
is accompanied by a poem from the same work. (See above under
Manuscripts, 32.27.)

32.28. Persian, sixteenth century. Herat school. Portrait of a painter in
Turkish dress, painted in opaque colors and slight gold on paper.

Persian, early fifteenth century. Mongol (Djali‘ir) period. A series of
eight border illustrations, executed for the most part in ink drawing in
the Chinese taste, from the MS. book, Poems of Sultan Ahmad psala‘ir
(see above under Manuscripts, 32.29):

32.30. A scene of country life in Central Asia.

32.31. A spring scene including the figures of two lovers.

32.32. An autumn scene: philosophers in discourse.

32.33. Angels descending in streams of golden flame. Executed in gold and tints
of rose and blue.

32.34-32.35. A nomad encampment in Central Asia, designed, apparently, as one

composition on two facing pages.
32.36. Ducks.
32.37. A stream, wild ducks and cranes.

Persian, sixteenth century, Herat school. A series of 9 illuminations and
illustrations from the manuscript book, the Diwdn of Hafiz (see above
under Manuscripts 32.45), painted, with one exception, in opaque colors
and gold on paper:
24 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

32.46-32.47. Two illuminated pages (‘unwan).

32.48. A prince holding a feast on a garden terrace in spring.

32.49. A polo game.

32.50. A prince with women of his household in a garden.

32.51. A prince holding an audience.

32.52. A lion with collar and bell chained to a post. Ink, color and gold.

32.53. A scene of wine drinking in a garden.

32.54. Men dancing on a terrace.

32.64. Persian, sixteenth century. Bukhara school. A young woman with a
spray of lilies. Opaque colors and gold on paper.

33.3. Arabic (Egypt), fourteenth century. An ornamental rosette, designed as
a frontispiece for a Qur‘an (without inscription). Colors and gold on
paper.

33.4. Persian, sixteenth—-seventeenth century. A women inan orange coat rolling
a thread between her palms. Opaque colors and gold on paper.

STONE SCULPTURE

East Indian, early second century, B.C. Sunga period. Two blocks of a
hard reddish sandstone, which formed two faces of a fence rail of the
Stipa of Bharhut. The designs carved in high relief are as follows:
32.25. King Prasenajit visits the Buddha (Great Miracle of Sravasti). Inserip-
tion.
32.26. Worship of a Stupa (parinirvdna).

Curatorial work within the collection has been devoted to the
critical study of Armenian, Chinese, and Japanese texts associated
with recent acquisitions; to the translation and identification of frag-
ments of Arabic and Persian texts on manuscript leaves; and to the
preparation of gallery books, containing descriptive notes for the
information of visitors. At the time of this writing, those for galleries
I-III have been completed; that for gallery IV is in preparation.
Other work includes that ordinarily associated with the study, cata-
loging, and exhibition of recent acquisitions in the field of oriental
fine arts. During the past year 979 objects and 325 photographs of
objects were submitted to the curator by other institutions, or by
private persons, for expert opinion as to their identity, provenance,
or historical or esthetic value. ‘Twelve oriental inscriptions were
submitted for translation. Reports on these things were made to
owners or senders.

Changes in exhibition have involved the rearrangement of seven
galleries, as follows:

Gallerysleoee sess Near Eastern art: Christian and Islamic Illuminated
Manuscripts.

Gallerywihoesesesee Near Eastern Art: Arabic and Persian, tenth—fifteenth
century.

Gallery Ill Se esse Near Eastern Art: Persian, thirteenth—seventeenth century.

Galleryol Viewed eS East Indian Art.

Gallery VIII_.__--- American paintings, by Brush, Dewing, Melchers, Metcalf,

Thayer, Tryon.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 25

Gallery IX... -= = Whistler oil paintings: landscapes and figures.
Gallery Ao 2. eee Water colors by Whistler and W. Homer.
In all, 450 changes in exhibition were made during the year, dis-

tributed as follows:

American paintings and prints, 126.

Biblical manuscripts and paintings, 5.

Chinese ceramics, 8.

Chinese jade, 24.

Chinese sculpture, 2.

East Indian manuscripts and paintings, 49.

East Indian scuplture, 6.

Japanese paintings, 35.

Near Eastern book-bindings, 11.

Near Eastern ceramics and glass, 40.

Near Eastern manuscripts and paintings, 144.

PUBLICATIONS

Brown, W. Norman. The story of Kalaka, Smithsonian Institution, Freer
Gallery of Art, Oriental Studies, No. 1, 1933.

BisHop, C. W. (ed.), with K. Huang, W. J. Chang, K. Z. Tung (joint authors).
Excavations of a West Han Dynasty site, Shanghai, 1932.

ATTENDANCE

The Gallery has been open every day from 9 until 4:30 o’clock,
with the exception of Mondays, Christmas Day, and New Year’s
Day.

The total attendance of visitors coming in at the main entrance
was 120,707; the total attendance for week days 78,247; the total
Sunday attendance, 38,990. The usual ratio between Sunday and
week-day attendance of 3 to 1, was maintained—the Sunday attend-
ance averaging 750, the week-day attendance, 251. The highest
monthly total attendances were reached in April (18,822) and August
(14,542); the lowest attendance was in December (4,929).

The total attendance of visitors on Mondays was 25, making a
grand total attendance of 120,732.

There were 2,082 visitors to the offices during the year. Of these,
118 came for general information, 280 to see objects in storage, 36 to
examine the building and installation, 185 to study in the library, 122
to see the facsimiles of the Washington Manuscripts, 36 to make
tracings and sketches from library books, 29 to get permission to make
photographs and sketches, 250 to examine or purchase photographs,
126 to submit objects for examination, 375 to see members of the staff.
_ Seventy-four groups, ranging from 1 to 80 persons (total, 329) were
given docent service upon request, and 18 groups, ranging from 6 to
13 persons (total, 171) were given instruction in the study rooms.
26 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

FIELD WORK

Owing to the disturbed conditions in China, the conduct of field
work has been greatly limited. However, during the past spring it
has been possible to explore a large part of the province of Shansi.
It is thought that the data assembled during these explorations will
prove to be of value in the making of a preliminary distribution map
of culture sites of various ages in that Province.

PERSONNEL

On August 5, 1932, the Freer Gallery suffered a loss in the death of
Herbert E. Thompson, of Boston. Mr. Thompson had been asso-
ciated with the Gallery since 1921 in the work of the preservation of
oil paintings.

William Acker, student assistant, was at the Gallery from July 19,
1932, until January 21, 1933, when he was sent to Japan for further
study.

Y. Kinoshita, mounter, was granted a 4 months’ leave of absence,
from June 11, in order to visit his home in Japan.

Respectfully submitted.

J. EK. Lopes, Curator.

Dr. C. G. ABBort,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 3
REPORT ON THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report on the field
researches, office work, and other operations of the Bureau of Ameri-
can Ethnology during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1933, conducted
in accordance with the act of Congress approved June 30, 1932.
The act referred to contains the following item:

American ethnology: For continuing ethnological researches among the
American Indians and the natives of Hawaii, the excavation and preservation
of archexologic remains under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution,
including necessary employees, the preparation of manuscripts, drawings, and
illustrations, the purchase of books and periodicals, and traveling expenses,
$66,640,

SYSTEMATIC RESEARCHES

M. W. Stirling, chief, devoted most of his time during the year to
office routine and to the preparation of manuscript accumulated
from past researches. Several sections of his report on the ethnology
of the Jivaro Indians of eastern Ecuador were completed, and con-
siderable progress was made in the preparation of a manuscript
describing and illustrating the important finds made by F. H. Cush-
ing, former ethnologist of the Bureau, during excavations in a muck
deposit at Key Marco, Fla. A set of excellent photographs illus-
trating this work was discovered in the Bureau archives, where they
had been deposited, unindexed, by Mr. Cushing, whose death took
place shortly after the completion of his Florida field work.

Mr. Stirling also gathered a large quantity of unpublished material
relating to the career of Sitting Bull, including a new and heretofore
unknown hieroglyphic autobiography drawn by Sitting Bull himself,
a more important specimen than the famous copy of a Sitting Bull
autobiography in the Bureau archives made by Four Horns.

Dr. John R. Swanton, ethnologist, devoted the greater part of
his time, beyond that used in answering correspondents, to an exten-
sive paper on the ethnology of the southeastern Indians, mentioned
in previous reports. A great volume of material has been added.
Progress has also been made in the preparation of a bulletin to include
all the linguistic material rescued from the now extinct Coahuiltecan
and Karankawan dialects.

Dr. Swanton took part in the “Conference on Southern Pre-
History” held at Birmingham, Ala., December 18-20, under the
auspices of the Division of Anthropology and Psychology of the

27
28 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

National Research Council, through its committee on State archeo-
logical surveys, of which Dr. Carl E. Guthe is chairman. To this he
contributed two papers, one entitled ‘‘The Southeastern Indians of
History”’ and the other ‘‘The Relation of the Southeast to General
Culture Problems of American Pre-History.’”’ He presided as presi-
dent of the American Anthropological Association over the sessions
of that body at its meeting at Atlantic City, N.J., December 28-30.

Bulletin 108, entitled ‘‘A Dictionary of the Atakapa Language’’,
consisting largely of material collected by the late Albert S. Gatschet
but systematized and edited by Dr. Swanton, appeared during
the year.

Dr. Truman Michelson, ethnologist, was at work among the
Cheyenne and Arapaho at the beginning of the year. Among the
Cheyenne the prime object was to get an insight into their mythol-
ogy, though their sociology was not neglected. Among the Arapaho,
work was linguistic and sociological. He secured the personal narra-
tive of an aged southern Arapaho woman. An analysis shows clearly
that this is almost entirely institutional, closely following the tribal
pattern. With but few changes it might be the autobiography of
any aged Arapaho woman. On July 22 Dr. Michelson left for Tama,
Iowa, to renew researches among the Foxes in that vicinity. New
data on ceremonials were obtained and some older data verified. He
left Tama on August 8, stopping at Chicago to consult with some
anthropologists of that city and to inspect certain collections.

While in the office Dr. Michelson prepared for publication by the
Bureau a manuscript entitled ‘‘When the War Chiefs Worship the
Wolf’’, which is to be combined with a paper entitled ‘“‘Fox Miscel-
lany”’, which was prepared last year. Dr. Michelson worked out a
long series of phonetic shifts in Arapaho, which will ultimately be
published. He succeeded in finding Algonquian etymologies for a
host of Blackfoot words and stems; which contradicts the usual
assumption that Blackfoot vocabulary must be largely from outside
sources. A grant was made to Dr. Michelson by the National
Research Council whereby he could employ a technical assistant to
bring the late Dr. Jones’ Fox and Ojibwa material into shape for
publication, and Mrs. Margaret Welpley, a former student of
Dr. Michelson’s, was selected for this purpose. At the close of the
fiscal year all the Fox ethnological material was virtually ready for
publication.

J. P. Harrington, ethnologist, spent the year in an endeavor to
rescue before it is too late what can still be learned of the culture of
the Indians of southern California and adjacent regions to the north
and east. Attention in this field naturally centered about the classic
work of Boscana published by Alfred Robinson in 1846, as Boscana’s
work has never been thoroughly checked with modern Indians.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 29

Father St. John O’Sullivan of San Juan Mission gave invaluable
collaboration in a renewed study of the San Juan Indians.

The Fred H. Bixby ranch near Long Beach was identified as the
birthplace of the Indian prophet Chinigchinich. All obscure passages
in Boscana were completely cleared up as a result of this work and
much new ethnological data was secured.

Searcely a source of information that could be thought of was
left untried. Information was gathered by correspondence from
universities and professors in this country, Spain, Italy and Mexico.
The manuscript, comprising some 800 pages, was completed for
publication, and should be a standard source book for the ethnology
of southern California Indians. Thorough linguistic, ethnobotani-
cal, and historical studies were made to support the Boscana.

The beginning of the year found Dr. F. H. H. Roberts, Jr., arche-
ologist, in camp 3} miles south of Allantown, Ariz., engaged in a
series of archeological excavations which had been started in June.
The work as a whole was a continuation of a program of researches
begun during the summer of 1931. In July 1932 a semisubterranean
structure of the Pueblo I pit-dwelling type was cleared of accumu-
lated debris. Eight granaries and two surface shelters accompanying
the pit remains were also uncovered. This group contributed valu-
able data on the habits and customs of the people of that horizon.
Specimens of the arts and industries obtained from the structures
aided materially in determining the culture pattern.

Investigations were shifted to a Pueblo II site late in July, and a
6-room unit house with its adjacent ceremonial chamber or kiva was
excavated. Digging was also carried on in the nearby refuse mound.
Twenty burials were found and interesting information obtained con-
cerning mortuary customs. <A representative collection of artifacts
was also made at this location. The investigations demonstrated that
the typical unit house was present in a region where it hitherto had
not been supposed to exist.

Dr. Roberts returned to Washington in September and spent the
winter preparing plans, diagrams, and a report on the summer’s
activities.

Dr. Roberts left Washington at the end of May 1933 for Arizona.
En route he stopped at Norton, Kans., to inspect purported Indian
mounds. The formations proved to be entirely natural.

In Arizona investigations were resumed at the site south of Allan-
town. The work consisted largely of checking notes made in previous
seasons and making preparations to abandon the site, the latter move
being necessitated by the lack of funds required to carry the researches
to a proper conclusion.

From July 1 to 16, 1932, Dr. W. D. Strong, anthropologist,
continued his stratigraphic researches at Signal Butte in western
30 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

Nebraska. From July 16 to September 2 archeological research was
carried on in historic and prehistoric Arikara and Mandan sites in
South Dakota. Some ethnological work was also accomplished
among the former people. From September 16, 1932, to January 28,
1933, he was in Washington, where the collections were unpacked,
classified, and the writing of reports commenced.

On January 28, 1933, Dr. Strong left Washington for 6 months’
anthropological research in northeastern Honduras. This included a
6 weeks’ expedition up the Patuca River, where archeological sites
were mapped, some excavating was carried on, and the Sumu and
Miskito Indians were briefly studied. An accident occurring on this
trip caused a delay of several weeks at Puerto Castilla for hospital
treatment. From April 24 to May 24 an archeological survey of the
Bay Islands was accomplished. This yielded unusually valuable
results. On June 4 the party made a muleback trip across the moun-
tains to the interior town of Juticalpa. From here they flew to
Tegucigalpa to interview officials. On July 1 the party was return-
ing by mule to the coast. Many new archeological sites, some of
very large size, were discovered on this trip. Valuable contacts were
also made with the Paya Indians in the interior.

Winslow M. Walker, associate anthropologist, resumed investiga-
tions in the mound area of the Mississippi Valley from the middle of
August to the middle of November 1932. Excavations made on the
site of the former great mound at Jonesville, La., revealed evidences
of more than one period of occupancy, the earliest containing pottery
of a type similar to that found in the Hopewell mounds of Ohio
Other interesting features discovered include portions of a log palisade,
a kind of stairway of logs, a lone human skuil, minus the lower jaw,
lying in the mud beneath the lowest step, and great sheets of cane laid
down with careful regularity throughout the mound. Other mounds
in this group, formerly known as the Troyville group, were examined,
and the conclusion was reached that they probably stand on the site
of the great Indian town of Anilco visited by De Soto in 1542. A
report on this work has been prepared entitled ‘‘The Troyville
Mounds, Catahoula Parish, La.’”’ Mr. Walker also spent some time
while in Arkansas endeavoring to locate the sites of the Quapaw
villages shown on the Ross map of 1765, but changes in the river
course have obliterated all trace of them. A start has also been made
on a card catalog listing the locations of early historic Indian villages,
to serve as a guide for further profitable archeological work in the
Southeast.

J. N. B. Hewitt, ethnologist, devoted considerable time to a study
of the probable date of the formation and organization of the League
of the Five Iroquois Tribes. This required especial research in the
early writings of the first explorers in the valley of the St. Lawrence
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 31

River. This study confirmed Mr. Hewitt’s earlier estimate that the
approximate period was 1559-70.

A study of the Jesuit Relations shows that the organic units of the
federal structure of the historical League of the Five Iroquois Tribes
differed from those of the Huron in nonessentials only. Mr. Hewitt
also established the fact that the Iroquois had not been expelled from
the north by Algonquins in prehistoric times.

A new translation with interpretative notes of the Fifth Ritual of
the Federal Ceremony of Condolence and Installation, ‘‘The Requick-
ening Address”’, consisting of 8,385 native terms, was made.

Mr. Hewitt represented the Smithsonian Institution on the United
States Geographic Board, as a member of its executive committee.

As custodian of manuscripts, Mr. Hewitt has been assisted by Miss
Mae Tucker, who has also continued the task of cataloging the
thousands of negatives and photographs accumulated since the
establishment of the Bureau.

SPECIAL RESEARCHES

The study of Indian music was continued during the past year by
Miss Frances Densmore, a collaborator of the Bureau. Seven manu-
scripts were submitted, with the following titles: ‘‘Winnebago, Iro-
quois, Pueblo, and British Columbian Songs’’; “‘Seminole Songs Con-
nected with Legends and Dances”; ‘‘Dance Songs of the Seminole
Indians’”’; ‘“‘Choctaw Songs of Dances and Games”; “Songs of the
Alibamu Indians”; ‘‘Alibamu Songs of the Buffalo and Other
Dances”; and ‘‘Chitimacha, Choctaw, and Seminole Music, with a
Comparative Survey of Indian Music in the Gulf States.’”’ Seven
manuscripts previously submitted on the music of British Columbian
Indians have been combined and retyped.

An extended field trip in the Gulf States was begun in December
1932 and concluded in February 1933. The first tribe visited was the
Alibamu in Polk County, Tex., more than 60 songs being recorded.
The Chitimacha at Charenton, La., were next studied. About 80
songs were recorded from the Choctaw near Philadelphia, Miss. The
Seminole in Florida were revisited and about 70 songs were recorded.

EDITORIAL WORK AND PUBLICATIONS

The editing of the publications of the Bureau was continued through
the year by Stanley Searles, editor. The status of the publications
is presented in the following summary.

PUBLICATIONS ISSUED

Forty-ninth Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology to the Sec-
retary of the Smithsonian Institution, 1931-32. vi-+8 pp.

Bulletin 99. The Swimmer manuscript: Cherokee sacred formulas and medic-
inal prescriptions (Mooney and Olbrechts). xvii+319 pp., 138 pls.
on ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

Bulletin 106. Ethnographical survey of the Miskito and Sumu Indians of
Honduras and Nicaragua (Conzemius). vii+191 pp., 10 pls., 1 fig.

Bulletin 108. A dictionary of the Atakapa language, accompanied by text
material (Gatschet and Swanton). v-+181 pp., 1 pl.

Bulletin 109. <A dictionary of the Osage language (La Flesche). v-—+406 pp.

Bulletin 110. Yuman and Yaqui music (Densmore). xviii+216 pp., 31 pls.,
7 figs.

Bulletin 111. The village of the great kivas on the Zufii Reservation, New
Mexico (Roberts). ix-+197 pp., 64 pls., 34 figs.

List of publications of the Bureau of American Ethnology, with index to authors
and titles. iv+55 pp.

PUBLICATION IN PRESS

Forty-eighth Annual Report. General index, annual reports of the Bureau of
American Ethnology, vols. 1-48 (Bonnerjea). v-—+1220 pp.

The number of publications distributed was 29,889.

LIBRARY

The reference library has continued under the care of Miss Ella
Leary, librarian. The library consists of 30,391 volumes, about
16,993 pamphlets, and several thousand unbound periodicals. Dur-
ing the year 320 books were accessioned. There were also received
126 pamphlets and 3,440 serials, chiefly the publications of learned
societies. Books loaned during the year numbered 960 volumes.
In the work of cataloging 4,840 cards were added to the catalog. A
considerable amount of reference work was done in the usual course
of the library’s service to investigators and students, both those in
the Smithsonian Institution and others.

ILLUSTRATIONS

Following is a summary of work accomplished by E. G. Cassedy,
illustrator for the Bureau.

Mapsi(colored) sve. csc yee een a Mee eae eee Sele pera 9
TACIT ere Cpe ey ee EN ae eae me NICSE ot reel tie eee 12
Mechanical ‘drawing 22224 SSO eS ahs 2S ee ee aes 1
Preliminary <drawingsl 6 Huet Seite: eg ee, oak eee ees 50
Tine drawing ee ate ee EN, Leake ode Be la 54
Sketches) (Color) ome a ba eee ees i ee ee 6
Photographs retouched. 2222-2 sccne. nae eee eee 33

Accession COLLECTIONS

number

114181. Archeological material from various sites between the Rio Salado and
the Rio Dulce, known as Mesapotonua Santiaguena, Argentine, and
presented to the Bureau by E.R. Wagner, Museo Arcaico Provin-
cial, Santiago del Estero, Argentine.

120252. Collection of human skeletal material found by Dr. F. H. H. Roberts,
Jr., while conducting archeological researches for the Bureau at a
site on the Zuni Indian Reservation, N.Mex., in the summer of 1930.

121548. Two boxes of mammalian and bird remains from a stratified archeo-
logical site at Signal Butte, Nebr., collected during the summer of
1932 by Dr. W. D. Strong.
Accession
number

121824.

122561.

122696.

122697.

122701.

122704.

122705.

122979.

124507.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 33

Seventeen daguerreotypes, thirteen ambrotypes, and one tintype of
Indian subjects which had accumulated in DeLancey Gill’s office.
One lot of turkey bones (Meleagris gallapavo), nymph of bug of family
Reduviidae, and two fragments of swamp cane collected by W. M.

Walker from the Jonesville mound, La.

Decorated potsherd from Weeden Island mound, Tampa Bay., Fla.,
presented to the Bureau by D. I. Bushnell, Jr.

Coiled pottery jar and several decorated potsherds from Keams Can-
yon, Ariz., transferred to the Bureau by the Office of Indian Affairs.

Pottery bowl and pottery tobacco pipe made by the Tule Indians of
the village of Mulatupa on San Blas coast of Panama, sent to the
Bureau by A. G. Cleveland.

Collection of ethnological specimens from the Jivaro Indians of the
Upano, Santiago, Chinganasa and Alto Maranon Rivers of eastern
Ecuador; archeological and ethnological objects from the Chama
Indians of the Ucayali River in Peru; two copper and two stone
axes from Mendez, Ecuador, and one stone ax from the Upper Yaupe
River, Ecuador; and a collection of land snail shells from the Upper
Paute River in the vicinity of Mendez, Ecuador, collected by M.
W. Stirling in 1932.

Slab of shell-tempered pottery used as part of a grave lining from an
Indian grave near Nashville, Tenn., sent to the Bureau by P. E.
Cox.

Quirt and beaded bag collected by George R. Cassedy at Pawnee
Junction, Nebr., in 1869 from Buckskin Charlie (a Sioux) and pre-
sented to the Bureau by E. G. Cassedy.

Six projectile points from Yuma County, Colo., sent to the Bureau by
Everett Harte of Wray, Colo.

MISCELLANEOUS

During the course of the year information was furnished by mem-
bers of the Bureau staff in reply to numerous inquiries concerning
the North American Indians, both past and present, and the Mexican
peoples of the prehistoric and early historic periods. Various speci-
mens sent to the Bureau were identified and data on them furnished
for their owners.

Personnel.—E. G. Cassedy was appointed illustrator on November
25, 1932.

Respectfully submitted.

M. W. Stiruine, Chief.

Dr. C. G. Aszor,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 4
REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera-
tions of the International Exchange Service during the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1933.

The appropriation granted by Congress for the system of interna-
tional exchanges during the year was $47,529, a decrease of $6,531
from the appropriation for the preceding year. Of this decrease,
$1,250 was on account of certain savings in forwarding shipments to
Great Britain, and the remainder, $5,281, was to meet the 10 percent
reduction made by Congress in its economy program. The repay-
ments from departmental and other establishments aggregated
$5,228.29, making the total available resources for conducting the
service during 1933 $52,757.29.

The total number of packages handled was 720,209, a decrease of
38,826. The weight of these packages was 634,707 pounds, a falling
off of 25,943 pounds.

The following table gives the number and weight of the packages
passing through the service arranged under certain classifications:

Packages Weight

Sent Received Sent Received

Pounds | Pounds
14

United States parliamentary documents sent abroad__---------- 387004) |22 625 -22|5 1485/6777, [p= eee
Publications received in return for parliamentary documents__|_-_------- 98519) | Sawa eae 31, 375
United States departmental documents sent abroadec =e 139638) /)5- 556 2 143 523 ose eee
Publications received in return for departmental documents-_- _|_--------- CO fin) Pee 28, 892
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications sent abroad_} 135,751 |_.-------- 191, 885, [2222422222
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications received from
abroad for distribution in the United States__._-_._-__-------]---------- 40): 280" asa e eee 90, 355
LA Ma afc Vege GUS pet 2 RE is ec aE Sl et spac 662, 393 57,816 | 484, 085 150, 622
(Begs yao by oy re) Re ee ee ea ee te ee ee eee 720,209 634,707

During the year 2,688 boxes were shipped abroad, an increase of
36 over the number for the preceding 12 months. Of the total num-
ber of boxes, 603 contained full sets of United States official docu-
ments for authorized depositories abroad, and the remainder (2,083)
were filled with publications for miscellaneous establishments and
individuals.

The number of packages sent abroad by mail was 79,630, a decrease
of 5,805 from the number mailed the previous year.

34
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 35
FOREIGN DEPOSITORIES OF GOVERNMENTAL DOCUMENTS

The total number of sets of United States official publications sent
to foreign depositories is 112, of which 62 are full and 50 partial.

The depository in Austria has been changed from the Bundeskanz-
leramt to the National-Bibliothek, Wien. A complete list of the
depositories is given in the report for 1931.

INTERPARLIAMENTARY EXCHANGE OF THE OFFICIAL JOURNAL

The number of foreign legislative bodies and other governmental
establishments to which the Congressional Record is forwarded under
the terms of the convention for the immediate exchange of the official
journal is 104. A list of the States taking part in this immediate
exchange, together with the names of the establishments to which the
Record is mailed, will be found in the report for 1931.

FOREIGN EXCHANGE AGENCIES

The Austrian Exchange Service, which has been conducted under
the direction of the Bundeskanzleramt, is now under the National-
Bibliothek and its address is Internationale Austauschstelle, Na-
tional-Bibliothek, I Augustinerbastei 6, Wien.

The Belgian Service of International Exchanges, formerly con-
ducted under the Ministry of Sciences and Arts, is now under the
Royal Library of Belgium and its address is Rue du Musée 4, Bruxelles.

A list of the agencies abroad through which the distribution of ex-
changes is effected is given below. Most of these agencies forward
consignments to the Institution for distribution in the United States.

LIST OF EXCHANGE AGENCIES

ALGERIA, via France.

ANGOLA, via Portugal.

ARGENTINA: Comisién Protectora de Bibliotecas Populares, Calle Callao 1540,
Buenos Aires.

Austria: Internationale Austauschstelle, National-Bibliothek, I Augustiner-
bastei 6, Wien.

Azorgs, via Portugal.

Beuarum: Service Belge des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Royale de
Belgique, Rue du Musée, 4, Bruxelles.

Boutvra: Oficina Nacional de Estadistica, La Paz.

Brazit: Servigo de Permutagées Internacionaes, Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio de
Janeiro.

Britisu Cotonies: Crown Agents for the Colonies, 4 Whitehall Gardens, London.

British Guiana: Royal Agricultural and Commercial Society, Georgetown.

British Honpuras: Colonial Secretary, Belize.

Buuaaria: Institutions Scientifiques de S.M. le Roi de Bulgarie, Sofia.

Canapa: Sent by mail.

Canary ISLANDS, via Spain.

Curie: Servicio de Canjes Internacionales, Biblioteca Nacional, Santiago.

72774354
36 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

Cuina: Bureau of International Exchange, Academia Sinica, Brenan and Yuyuen
Roads, Shanghai.

PeLOMBlA: Oficina de Canjes Internacionales y Reparto, Biblioteca Nacional,

ogo

Costa Rica: Oficina de Depésito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, San
José.

Cusa: Sent by mail.

CzEcHOSLOVAKIA: Service Tchécoslovaque des Echanges Internationaux, Biblio-
théque de l’Assemblée Nationale, Prague 1-79.

Danzie: Amt fir den Internationalen Schriftenaustausch der Freien Stadt
Danzig, Stadtbibliothek, Danzig.

Denmark: Service Danois des Echanges Internationaux, Kongelige Danske
Videnskabernes Selskab, Dantes Plads 35, Copenhagen V.

Durca Guiana: Surinaamsche Koloniale Bibliotheek, Paramaribo.

Ecuapor: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Quito.

Keyrt: Government Press, Publications Office, Bulag, Cairo.

Kstonia: Riigiraamatukogu (State Library), Tallinn (Reval).

Finuanp: Delegation of the Scientific Societies of Finland, Kasirngatan 24,
Helsingfors.

France: Service Francais des Echanges Internationaux, 110 Rue de Grenelle,
Paris.

Germany: Amerika-Institut, Universitaitstrasse 8, Berlin, NW. 7.

GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND: Messrs. Wheldon & Wesley, 2, 3, and 4 Arthur
Street, New Oxford Street, London W.C. 2.

GREECE: Bibliothéque Nationale, Athens.

GREENLAND, via Denmark.

GUATEMALA: Instituto Nacional de Varones, @hateniaus

Harri: Secrétaire d’Etat des Relations Extérieures, Port-au-Prince.

Honpouras: Biblioteca Nacional, Tegucigalpa.

Huneary: Hungarian Libraries Board, Ferenciektere 5, Budapest, IV.

IcELAND, via Denmark.

Inpia: Superintendent of Government Printing and Stationery, Bombay.

Iravy: R. Ufficio degli Seambi Internazionali, Ministero dell’ Educazione
Nazionale, Viale del Re, Rome.

JaMaAica: Institute of Jamaica, Kingston.

Japan: Imperial Library of Japan, Uyeno Park, Tokyo.

Java, via Netherlands.

Korea: Sent by mail.

Latvia: Service des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque d’Etat de Lettonie,
Riga.

Lisertia: Bureau of Exchanges, Department of State, Monrovia.

LirHuanta: Sent by mail.

Lovurengo Marquez, via Portugal.

LUXEMBURG, via Belgium.

Mapaaascar, via France.

Maperra, via Portugal.

Mexico: Sent by mail.

MozamBiQqugE, via Portugal.

NETHERLANDS: International Exchange Bureau of the Netherlands, Royal
Library, The Hague.

New Soutu Wates: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.

New Zeauanp: Dominion Museum, Wellington.

Nicaraaua: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Managua.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 37

Norway: Service Norvégien des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque de
V Université Royale, Oslo.

PavLEsTINE: Hebrew University Library, Jerusalem.

PANAMA:Sent by mail.

Paraauay: Seccié6n Canje Internacional de Publicaciones del Ministerio de
Relaciones Exteriores, Estrella 563, Asuncién.

Peru: Oficina de Reparto, Depésito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones,
Ministerio de Fomento, Lima.

PouaNnp: Service Polonais des Eechanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Na-
tionale, Ul. Rakowiecka 6, Warsaw.

Portuaau: Seccaéo de Trocas Internacionaes, Biblioteca Nacional, Lisboa.

QUEENSLAND: Bureau of Exchanges of International Publications, Chief Secre-
tary’s Department, Brisbane.

Rumania: Bureau des Echanges Internationaux, Institut Météorologique
Central, Bucharest.

Satvapor: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador.

Stam: Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok.

Soutn Avustrauia: South Australian Government Exchanges Bureau, Govern-
ment Printing and Stationery Office, Adelaide.

Spain: Servicio de Cambio Internacional de Publicaciones, Paseo de Recoletos
20, bajo derecha, Madrid.

Sumatra, via Netherlands.

SwepDEN: Kongliga Svenska Vetenskaps Akademien, Stockholm.

SwitzERLAND: Service Suisse des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque
Centrale Fédérale, Berne.

Syrra: American University of Beirut.

TASMANIA: Secretary to the Premier, Hobart.

TrinipaD: Royal Victoria Institute of Trinidad and Tobago, Port-of-Spain.

Tunis, via France.

Turkey: Robert College, Istanbul.

Union or Socrauist Soviser Repuspiics: Academy of Sciences, Tuchkova 2
Leningrad.

Union or Soutn Arrica: The Government Printer, Box 373, Pretoria, Transvaal.

Urvuauay: Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Ministerio de Rela-
ciones Exteriores, Montevideo.

VENEZUELA: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.

Vicrorta: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

WESTERN AvsTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.

Yuacostavia: Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Belgrade.

Respectfully submitted.

C. W. SHormaker, Chief Clerk.
Dr. C. G. Assor,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 5
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera-
tions of the National Zoological Park for the fiscal year ending June
30, 1933:

The regular appropriation made by Congress for the maintenance
of the Park was $228,880, a decrease of $26,660 from that available
during the fiscal year 1932. The 8% percent reduction on salaries
from July 1, 1932 to March 30, 1933 and the 15 percent reduction on
salaries from April 1 to June 30, 1933 reduced the total expenditures
by $15,403.89. There were further reductions—mainly impoundage
for positions vacant—totaling $10,702.34. The total expenditures
for the year were about $202,760.

ACCESSIONS

Gifts —A number of important gifts during the year have enriched
the collection appreciably. From the United States Bureau of
Fisheries, through Henry O’ Malley, were received 2 northern fur seals
and 16 Aleutian rosy finches. The Pennsylvania Game Commission,
through Vernon Bailey, of the Biological Survey, presented a female
and 3 young American beavers Dr. E. R. Dunn, of Haverford
College, collected in Panama some remarkable frogs, Atelopus varius
zeteki, and presented the Park with two dozen. This is the first time
these frogs have been exhibited. Dr. Charles E. Burt, of Winfield,
Kans., has continued his field work and sent in frequent shipments
of southwestern lizards. An electric catfish from West Africa and 6
Rasbora heteromorpha were purchased through the Frances Brinklé
Zerbee Memorial Fund. From the Frederic D. Barstow Fund, there
were purchased one dozen zebra finches and a shama thrush.

DONORS AND THEIR GIFTS

E. Ross Allen, Silver Springs, Fla, alligator.

W. E. Anderson, Washington, D.C., ocelot.

G. M. Baker, Riverdale, Md., wolf.

Dr. Thomas Barbour, Cambridge, Mass., 5 Cuban turtles, 2 Cuban tree boas.

Ellsworth Barrett, Washington, D.C., mantis.

Frederic D. Barstow Fund, 12 zebra finches, shama thrush.

Dr. Paul Bartsch, United States National Museum, Washington, D.C., 6 hawks-
bill turtles, 150 hermit crabs, 5 collared lizards, rough-scaled green snake.

Miss B. Beard, Washington, D.C., raccoon.

38
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 39

Howard Beckett, Lanham, Md., Cooper’s hawk.

Joseph E. Benjamin, Washington, D.C., fence lizard.

Mrs. John R. Blake, Washington, D.C., hermit crab.

J. 8S. C. Boswell, Alexandria, Va., western bullsnake, 2 chuckwallas, 3 sand
lizards.

M. Kk. Brady, Washington, D.C., Mediterranean gecko, marginated salamander.

Tom Brooks, Dumfries, Va., American merganser.

Messrs. E. J. and 8. K. Brown, Eustis, Fla., coral snake.

James Brown, Washington, D.C., eared grebe.

Dr. J. H. Bullock, Washington, D.C., orange-fronted parrot.

Dr. Charles W. Burt, Winfield, Kans., 2 collared lizards, American bittern.

Mrs. Rebecea Cannon, Silver Spring, Md., double-yellow-head parrot.

V. F. Cannon, Washington, D.C., soft-shelled turtle.

Wayne Carney, Washington, D.C., 2 sparrow hawks.

F. G. Carnochan, New York City, blue goose, white-fronted goose, snow goose,
2 Canada geese, 4 Muhlenberg’s tortoises.

E. W. Clark, Detroit, Mich., 2 massasauga rattlesnakes.

Warren Clements, Washington, D.C., 8 garter snakes.

Charles S. Cole, Washington, D.C., 3 robins.

Mrs. E. 8. Conn, Washington, D.C., Petz’s paroquet.

James Cooke, Athens, Tenn., great horned owl.

F. C. Craighead, Washington, D.C., skink, pilot snake.

Mrs. W. S. Crawford, Washington, D.C., yellow-naped parrot.

Senator Porter H. Dale, Washington, D.C., tree frog.

Mrs. R. W. Daniels, Bethesda, Md., Canada goose.

Mrs. Belle Davis, Washington, D.C., raccoon.

Charles F. Denley, Glenmont, Md., Reeve’s pheasant, Bell’s silver pheasant.

Mrs. W. C. Dexter, Takoma, Md., orange-fronted parrot.

Roy A. Dillon, United States Biological Survey, Washington, D.C., skunk, wood
duck.

Mrs. W. M. Dougherty, Atlantic City, N.J., 2 long-tailed paroquets, quaker
paroquet.

Mrs. Peggy Douglas, Washington, D.C., 3 horned lizards.

Mrs. B. M. Dugdale, Ashland, Va., coatimundi.

E. B. Edelen, Washington, D.C., American barn owl.

Lionel Edwards, Washington, D.C., alligator.

Max Elias, Lawrence, Kans., 10 collared lizards.

Dr. W. O. Emery, Washington, D.C., Triturus montandoni, Triturus cristatus,
Triturus cristatus carnifex, Spanish newt, Salamandra salamandra.

Franklin Park Zoo, Boston, Mass., 4 horned lizards.

Mr. Fuchs, Washington, D.C., alligator.

H. Shephard Fuller, Washington, D.C., hawks-bill turtle.

Mrs. H. C. Garges, Washington, D.C., raccoon.

W. W. Gingell, Bethesda, Md., horseshoe crab.

B. P. Gray, Washington, D.C., red fox.

W. F. Greaves, Washington, D.C., woodchuck.

Lieut. Col. M. R. Gugenheim, Plains, Va., alligator.

R. E. Haym, Washington, D.C., screech owl.

Mrs. J. A. Heath, Elkton, Md., 4 opossums.

Bernard Hewitt, Washington, D.C., alligator.

I. Hoffman, Washington, D.C., loon.

¥. W. Holt, Washington, D.C., banded rattlesnake.

Perry B. Hoover, Silver Spring, Md., capuchin monkey.

Theodore Horydezak, Washington, D.C., Florida gallinule.
40 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

Philip R. Hough, National Park Service, Wakefield, Va., red-bellied cooter, snap-
ping turtle, 4 musk turtles.

Dr. W. H. Hough, Washington, D.C., great blue heron.

J. A. Hyslop, Jr., Silver Spring, Md., 3 pilot snakes.

F. N. Jarvis, United States Biological Survey, Department of Agriculture, Wash-
ington, D.C., 2 Canadian porcupines.

Dr. Howard Kelly, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md., indigo snake,
corn snake, 2 chicken snakes, coachwhip snake, king snake, Cuban tree boa.

O. L. Keys, Alexandria, Va., barred owl.

E. H. Kirkland, Fort Washington, Md., fox squirrel.

Edward Layton, Florence, §8.C., rough-scaled green snake.

Ervin H. Leeth, Chevy Chase, Md., 2 bald eagles.

Albert Lopkoff, Washington, D.C., 3 canaries.

Mrs. Lukes, Washington, D.C., red, blue, and yellow macaw.

Dr. Frank E. Lutz, American Museum Natural History, 12 Panama cockroaches.

J. K. Magee, Silver Spring, Md., pied-billed grebe.

Dr. W. H. Mann, Hopewell, Va., 2 raccoons.

Billy McCann, Washington, D.C., 2 alligators.

EK. A. Mcllhenny, Avery Island, La., pintail duck, 7 ring-necked scaups.

Mrs. Frank McManany, Washington, D.C., screech owl.

Charles K. Meinbert, Washington, D.C., 3 American crows.

William Mitchell, Jr., Middleburg, Va., alligator.

H. B. Mohler, Washington, D.C., ferret.

Robert Montgomery, Takoma Park, D.C., ring-necked snake.

Dr. Terrell Moody, Washington, D.C., 3 Virginia opossums.

Dewey Moore, Bureau of Plant Industry, Indio, Calif., western bullsnake, desert
rattlesnake.

H. C. Moore and A. Snyder, Hayfield, Va., banded rattlesnake.

John R. Morrison, Washington, D.C., coot.

Mrs. R. M. Mullican, Washington, D.C., purple gallinule.

Museum of Comparative Zoology, Cambridge, Mass., tree frog, garter snake,
Anolis porcatus.

R. H. Noack, Oakland, Calif., 6 triangular-spotted pigeons.

Mr. Pear, Washington, D.C., goat.

F. A. Peckham, Washington, D.C., pilot snake.

Pennsylvania Game Commission, through Vernon Bailey, 4 American beavers.

J. H. Pilling, Falls Church, Va., alligator.

C. J. Poiesz, Washington, D.C., diamond-back terrapin.

G. F. Pollock, Skyland, Va., banded rattlesnake.

M. 8. Powers, Athens, Tenn., barred owl.

Miss Nancy Ralls, Chevy Chase, Md., painted turtle.

Mrs. Mary Roberts Rinehart, Washington, D.C., yellow-naped parrot.

President Franklin D. Roosevelt, The White House (deposit) 2 fan-tailed pigeons
2 white rabbits, 2 archangel pigeons, 4 alligators.

Mrs. G. W. Root, Washington, D.C., canary.

Paul G. Rose, Mt. Olive, N.C., 50 small snakes.

Louis Rueger, Richmond, Va., 2 raccoons.

Louis Ruhe, Inc., New York City, 2 grooved-bill toucanettes.

Wm. K. Ryan, Washington, D.C., 2 hooded weavers.

Lieut. F. H. Samuel, Washington, D.C., great horned owl.

Mrs. Garret Sange, Washington, D.C., flicker.

Michael Sanitorios, Washington, D.C., boa constrictor.

Melvin Schaeffer, Washington, D.C., pilot snake.

Mrs. Nellie Schroeder, Washington, D.C., 2 grass paroquets.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 41

Mrs. Shelby, Washington, D.C., 2 prairie dogs, 2 bullsnakes, coachwhip snake,
king snake.

Dr. A. N. Skinner, Washington, D.C., green snake.

W. Smith, Washington, D.C., alligator.

Smithsonian Institution, through Dr. A. Wetmore, Washington, D.C., 2 ferrugi-
nous rough-legged hawks.

A. Snyder and H. C. Moore, Hayfield, Va., banded rattlesnake.

Mr. Sonder, Washington, D.C., great horned owl, diamond-back rattlesnake.

Miss Daisy R. Spradling, Athens, Tenn., bullsnake, hog-nosed snake, timber
rattlesnake.

Storrs Agricultural College, through Walter Landauer, Storrs, Conn., Ancon sheep.

Capt. Parker G. Tenney, United States Army, 4 bean geese.

M. R. Thompson, Chevy Chase, Md., red-bellied terrapin.

F¥. M. Uhler, United States Biological Survey, Washington, D.C., 2 red-bellied
cooters, Carolina box turtle.

United States Biological Survey, Department of Agriculture, whistling swan.

United States Bureau of Fisheries, Department of Commerce, through Henry
O’ Malley, Washington, D.C., 2 northern fur seals, 16 Aleutian rosy finches, 12
large-mouthed bass.

United States National Museum, Washington, D.C., 11 rhinoceros iguanas.

Frank J. Vejtasa, Fairdale, N. Dak., snowy owl.

Dick Walker, Washington Grove, Md., flying squirrel.

Walsh Auto Co., Richmond, Va., coatimundi.

James Washington, Washington, D.C., ring-necked snake.

Mrs. L. Waxter, Washington, D.C., 4 painted turtles, musk turtle, 4 red-bellied
newts, 2 grass paroquets, 2 least parrotlets.

Neal A. Weber, Cambridge, Mass., bald eagle.

Mrs. R. Whitmer, Washington, D.C., raccoon.

Miss Grace O. Wiley, Museum of Public Library, Minneapolis, Minn., 4 fox
snakes.

Samuel B. Wilson, Washington, D.C., snapping turtle.

Frances Brinklé Zerbee Fund, electric catfish, 6 Rasbora heteromor pha.

Donors unknown, muskrat, gray fox.

Exchanges.—Four doves, 2 Malpelo lizards, 2 red-footed boobies,
8 blue-faced boobies, 4 Galapagos penguins, 2 flightless cormorants, 2
Farallon cormorants, collected by the San Diego Zoological Society-
Hancock Expedition, were obtained by exchange from the San Diego
Zoological Society, through Dr. Harry M. Wegeforth. From the
South Australian Acclimatization Society, Adelaide, Australia, were
received a trio of Bennett’s wallabies and 5 laughing jackasses or
kookaburras.

Purchases.—Ross Freeman, formerly an employee of the United
States Rubber Co. in Sumatra, arrived in New York in July and
brought with him a large collection of East Indian species. The
park was able to select specimens desired at prices that made them
practically gifts, and through this source were added to the collection
a pair of orang-utans, 2 Siamang gibbons, a pair of Sumatran tigers,
and several other interesting mammals and birds, as well as some very
rare snakes.
42 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

The Alaska Game Commission, through H. W. Terhune, executive
officer, carried out all details relative to the purchase and shipment to
the park of a young mountain goat.

Births —There were 53 mammals born, 71 birds hatched, and 12
reptiles hatched or born in the park during the year. These include
the following:

MAMMALS
Scientific name Common name No.
ATMIMOtACUS Ae Tvdey se ee eee es ee ANoudaids Seo yee as as eee 1
IASKIS FAAS ee ea Nee Sg alo Yaa ACIS CEG Pit) a5 wee ae ieee ee 2
Bisonybisomey eal Sse te eee ee Nae eae AmmleriGan tb iSOma. 2s ae oe en 4
Callorhinusralascanus!: 2355402 nea ee Northern fur) seales 2220s wae 1
Camis pniibilis. 22 Sos seen ee 2 ee Plains wollte 240" 2 See e es 6
C@apraihireds hou. Pes oh Wek) SER Gee WAmeorangOnt inn aos yam oe 2
Cercocebustuliginosuss= 2555 52 sears Sooty mangabey. 2224) 2 Joie 1
Cervusitellay ise pea ee a ae Re dnd Cerne: wfc an pe ecm ae 4
Choeropsisiiberiensis 2225. 2s Soe swe Pigmy hippopotamus__-__----- 2
Connochaetes taurinus albojubatus__---- White-bearded gnu_.__-------- 1
ITE) s.r ehh ear as Ee ee ae he Hallows deers an 22 27s) -jsN ae a
Polichotis:magellanical. = 3252527 2u te Pataconian caviyos— 2-324 1
Equusiprzewalsiiives. = —— eee eee. eye Mongolian wild horse_-._.----- 1
Bquus.quaccvaichapmant= 2.525 23. aoe Chapmian‘s zebra..cee 2 = ee 1
Helis OMG at cae 1s SE ae ah JSUT UT Sot ee 2 its ae 2
1 WFeH ocr bare kz hin a: Winnen ye eae rare re ee Se pe) Vilammaye SS Rae Tika 28 52 Tiere cle L
Macacanmulatiaae 22 eee ae ee Le Rhesus monkeys. 2-322 eS 1
Ovistcanadensis#2 Sea Sa. San Rocky mountain sheep__-_------ 2
OMISHEUTOPACUSE SA se BAe FR oe Bees Moutlome so. 4o2ea ao eee Be 2
Becari ‘anculatuss 2 ie ee eee ae ee Collared peceary= 24.2255 2
Poephacusorunnicnsses4 2 22 nee Se NG eee eae niet he em apete el Sh 2
IProcyonwlOtore ses Leis) Nae ee ee RBC COO Ee ee Se pte oa eee ee 2
SikawMnip pom ace ee ae oy Seo oe ee Japanese deer oo 25 ee eee oe 4
Paurotracus iomyse 22 ee ee a Blandi coe «2 opty eh das sg eee 1
BIRDS

Anas platyrhynchossaeesee oa ae eee Miallardiduck = 552520) eee 20
Branta canadensis occidentalis.__._...... White-cheeked goose_____------ 12
Chen: caerulescens: 22625425. eae BING; COOSC Lo. oe ee 3
Columba palumbus= 227202 2287 eee Wioodspiteone=: sa. aa saa sma 1
Guara alba= Gerubrate 2 ee ee ibis (aybrid)ie. 2280 Pees eae S 1
Larus novaehollandiae..___._...._-..--- Silverioull sleet. re a eee 10
Nycticorax nycticorax naevius___------- Black-crowned night heron_ ---- 25

REPTILES
Crotalus horridus_ psa. eee alan He Banded rattlesnake____-------- 5
BNE cles MuUnInUs {oN eee Bae cele Anacond am sn ea 00 uve vi

REMOVALS

Deaths.—Okero, the mountain gorilla presented to the Park by
Mr. and Mrs. Martin Johnson, died October 7, 1932, from an intestinal
tumor.

Old Ben, the Bengal tiger, died on June 20, 1933. He had been in
the Park for 19 years 2 months and was probably about 21 years old
at the time of his death.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 43

ANIMALS IN COLLECTION THAT HAD NOT PREVIOUSLY BEEN EXHIBITED

MAMMALS
Scientific name Common name
(olohus CfU0 Rus ce. 65o he eek White-tailed guereza.
BIRDS
Anthracoceros convexus__......-------- Sumatran black and white hornbill.
Centropus sinensis). 2252-542 2-25-26 Sumatran coucal.
Cranorrhinus cassidix..__.._.-.-------- Bare-throated hornbill.
Geophaps smithi_-_________._.__________- Bare-eyed partridge pigeon.
OlistCaing= 22 esos eee ee le eet Denham’s bustard.
Rhytidoceros corrugatus___._._...------- Malay wreathed hornbill.
Spheniscus mendiculus_.___..._..._----- Galapagos penguins.
REPTILES
NCLOCHOTGUS JaVanlCUses 22 Elephant trunk snake.
Dasypeltis scabra_......._._------------ Egg-eating snake.
Diploglossus hancocki............=.=--. Malpelo Island lizard.
MIA PING TARINUIAs 322 22 eee ee we lee Striped rat snake.
Gerrhosaurus validvs.._ 2.22222 2255 Robust plated lizard.
Gonyosoma oxycephala______..._------ Green rat snake.
Homalopsis buccata_................_. Sumatran water snake.
Trimeresurus wagleri_................ Wagler’s viper.
AMPHIBIANS
Atelopus varius zeteki_....._._.__.------ Yellow atelopus.
Bufo superciliaris_.._...._..._._.-___-_- Leaf toad.
Pseudis: paradoxus. 2. 55- coo ee South American green frog.
FISHES
Malopterurus electricus____._________-_- Electric catfish.

Statement of the collection

(Accessions)
Received |
: Pur- On
Presented| Born ae chased | deposit Total
MRI SIS eee ae aa cose ke emcee ee 41 53 4 27 35 160
12} 13s | ns eee eee re ee oe eee 108 7 44 214 1 438
14) 0) 21 ee ee a ee ee 205 12 17 185 6 425
(AID DIDIATIS. 2 222 52 eos oe ee | eee 14: Of) |basceesos: 124
WIRHGGee 4s ee Os A a re ed Tae | Sietesese ae are) ees ts ee | earl One| in 2 12
IPTAGHNIGS ses oes tan ot ees oe ae Ai ae ee | ee See | ee ee 4
Crustaceans__.__-_-_--.--.2-2-..2- nu eacne O25 panera a | ere a eee |e ee 152
IWEGHIISE Sree ooo Ee lo kee ee ee Mle cle eee knee. Cie) ees aa 3
Gat? 2 aE A At a a I a yy Reneaeaaeneas ee ae eee ee 12
ROA seeees occ Santee a ee 547 136 79 526 42 1, 330
Summary

prumals ooshand JUly £10323. Secu ee eee econ ele 2, 302
Accessions during the: year... eso. 6 eek tee ee eee ee dein dn 1, 330
Total animals in collection during year___._.__.._.._-.-.__-___-- 3, 632

Removed from collection by death, exchange, and return of animals on
GODOSIu Seyesen Be cece Shere ey, eres 3h: ee le Fe ur Ss 1, 136

In collection June 30, NOS Sense eee et Sere EL ee ee Ae 2, 496
44. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

Status of collection

Species eee Species individ:
Mammals-2-2252-422 ois 22eo 193 547 ||, Crustaceanses2s252525- 22-22 1 40
Bind ses see ee reese SES 341 25a MMOlUSKSteeee ease eae eee oo 1 4
Reptiles-=2-212--2. 52-22-2525 162 57 InsectS= 32320. ccsee es eee ee 1 12
Ami phibians2222ece. — Ue = ee 32 104 ————_——_|—————_
Bishessetoene aetna sc nebo ST eaa 30 82 otalass se mee ae 763 2, 496
Arachnids!\ 2. -=- 2 2ssi22222252 2 4

Vistiors

itive eh a ae _ Peep 2815 500i Viar chines ee eae ae 167, 825
ANGUS Geo oe a, oe ener ame er So2600s|| Atria. 220 ss Sse ee a 350, 900
Septemberse2" ese eee Dae AO OE WAN eye ae = ee re eee re 285, 300
October e222 es soa 202 250N | Rjunee sso. oe aaa 229, 300
November 222 2542s eee 90, 775 ——_—_—_————_
Decembernsie aes eee ae 43, 220 Total visitors for
January oe es 2 ee 123)250 Vea Rew tee oe 2, 463, 350
Hebruaty =) 20 eee ee eee 84, 030

The attendance of organizations, mainly classes of students, of which
we have definite record was 30,547 from 628 different schools in 21
States and the District of Columbia, as follows:

Num- | Num- Num- | Num-
State ber of | ber of State ber of | ber of
persons| parties persons | parties
(Na GIN Ae a ee ee 2 es 1 || New Jersey 2, 094 36
Connecticut 24332 Se ae 4 || New York 2, 336 35
Delawares= seit 6 || North Carolina a 396 10
District of Columbia. 2045 |KO NMIO See =e ee ee eee 285 6
Georgia eee [S| | (ORES One ee Se oe a eee 31 i
NinGIS= oe Pe Rea eS eae 19)| “Rennsylvania e222 ee ee 5, 940 132
IKGATISAS Se ae eee eee Ia ehoOdewWSlanGs ss ee eee 32 2
INESin @oteee eee eas = hae eee 46 |e Southa@ arolin ase =e ae eee eee 67 2
MiarylanGey! 3.22 at eee 99) Waren area a une eee a 2, 665 67
WiaSsaCchuSeuts:s- 22 oe eer wen cesses 244 On MWieSteVinginig sea ae 98 4
Wilehiganics sean ae ast eee ee nee 201 2
Nebraska. er ee ee eee 38 1 Total=220t sey ee eS 30, 547 628
IMPROVEMENTS

No funds were available for such major improvements as buildings
or large cages, but a large number of minor improvements were made
during the latter part of the year, chiefly through the use of labor
supplied by the Work Planning and Job Assignment Committee, all
labor having been paid for from the emergency relief fund. The
work that was carried out in this manner was of a character which had
been much needed to improve the appearance of the Park, for the
convenience of the public and to facilitate proper care of the animals,
but which had been delayed owing to shortage of funds.

The outstanding major improvement of the year was the laying of
an 8-inch water main from the Connecticut Avenue main to the end
of the 6-inch main near the Japanese deer, the laying of a 3-inch main
from the 8-inch line to the great flight cage, and the laying of a 2}4-
inch main to the bear yards. This installation provides the entire
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 45

west side of the Park with an adequate supply of water under good
pressure and lessens the use through the 6-inch Harvard Street main
to such an extent that the pressure and volume on the east side of the
Park is better than before. This also provides excellent fire protection
and the installation should prove adequate for all future developments
within the Park.

Thirteen thousand two hundred and fifty linear feet of concrete
curd was laid on both sides of 6,625 linear feet of walks, and the walks
resurfaced with 53,000 square feet of bitulithic paving, laid hot.

One of the buffalo yards that had seriously eroded was regraded,
and three low rock walls were laid to produce a terrace effect and pre-
vent further wash. New fences were constructed around both the
buffalo and elk paddocks.

A bank immediately west of the bird house which had been left in
an unfinished state from previous construction work was partially
cut away. When this work is finally finished, additional cages will
be constructed on the site. The earth from the cutting was used to
make needed fills about the Park.

In those portions of the Park adjacent to roads and walks and most
frequented by the public, dead trees likely to fall and endanger life
and property were cut down or the menacing portions removed, and
the grounds were extensively cleaned.

Fifty-one cords of wood were gathered and turned over to the
municipal wood yard in connection with the cleaning of the grounds.
The wood was used by the District committee on employment for
the relief of destitute people of the city. In addition to the crews
working under the immediate supervision of the Park, the municipal
wood yard asssigned a foreman and crew to do certain cutting of
trees and cleaning of the grounds, in order that they might obtain the
wood more rapidly than it was possible for the Park to supply it. In
this manner 127 cords were obtained in addition to that turned over
to them by the Park from crews operating under its own foreman.

Oak, maple, beach, elm, and other valuable shade trees have been
planted in the buffalo yard, the elk yard, near the office, near the
bird house, and other locations. Many banks that had eroded were
repaired and sodded with honeysuckle or myrtle, and other minor
planting work was carried on, including certain plantings adjacent to
the reptile house. A screen of shrubbery has been planted near the
office to hide an unattractive service area.

Much more extensive painting of a maintenance character was
carried out than has heretofore been possible, owing to the plentiful
supply of labor for cleaning surfaces preparatory to painting. Such
painting work included the outside of the lion house and exterior
cages, the cages outside the monkey house, and the bear yards. Also,
about 400 park benches were repaired and painted.
46 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19383

No new construction has been attempted with the exception of the
wiring of three cages that had been started in the previous fiscal year
and left unfinished and the construction of 20 small cages for the
bird house. These are to house a collection of the smaller cage birds.

The blueprints, tracings, and maps of the Park had outgrown the
original system of filing and were suffering seriously from lack of proper
care. With the use of labor supplied by the Work Planning and Job
Assignment Committee, they were sorted, classified, and filed.

No satisfactory map of the Park has been available for several years,
and the developments of recent years have emphasized the need for a
good map. The preparation of a topographic map on the scale of 50
feet to the inch has been undertaken by using the 1906 topographic
base of this scale and bringing it up to date by inserting thereon the
changes in topography and structures that have come about since the
map was prepared.

NEEDS OF THE ZOO

I wish again to call attention to the inadequate police force and
to the need for suitable buildings.
Respectfully submitted.

Dr. C. G. ABBOT,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

W. M. Mann, Director.
APPENDIX 6
REPORT ON THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activ-
ities of the Astrophysical Observatory for the fiscal year ended June
30, 1933:

PLANT AND OBJECTS

This observatory operates regularly the central station at Wash-
ington and two field stations for observing solar radiation on Table
Mountain, Calif., and Mount Montezuma, Chile. The observatory
controls a station on Mount Wilson, Calif., where occasional expedi-
tions are sent for special investigations, one of which is mentioned
below.

The observatory is continuing the measurements of the solar con-
stant of radiation referred to in former reports and forming the
principal theme of volumes IJ, III, IV, and V of its annals.

WORK IN WASHINGTON

With the publication of volume V of the annals there was available
a long series of solar-constant measurements adapted for study of the
variation of the sun and the dependence of terrestrial temperatures
thereon. Seven regular periodicities were discovered in the variation
of the sun, having intervals of approximately 7, 8, 11, 21, 25, 45, and
68 months. The observations reported in volume V of the annals
closed with the year 1930. <A revision of the periodicities based upon
observations from 1924 to 1932 was undertaken by Dr. Abbot. The
periodic terms when summed up represented the fluctuation within
an average departure of less than one tenth of 1 percent. He ven-
tured to forecast the fluctuation of the solar radiation to the end of
the year 1934 as based on this analysis. The observations followed
the prediction as closely as could be expected up to about May 1,
1933, when a divergence of about three fourths of 1 percent began
to disclose itself: The results came higher than expected. Whether
this divergence is due to a slight change of scale of the instruments
at Table Mountain from whence the observations are alone available
at present, to a failure of the empirical method of reduction there on
account of the very unusual humid and hazy summer, or to a real
divergence of solar radiation from the trend indicated by former

47
48 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

observations cannot yet be determined. As soon as the revision of
the method of reduction of observations from Montezuma, Chile,
now in progress, is completed, it will be possible to decide.

Having found the variation of the sun so obviously periodic in
character, Dr. Abbot and Mrs. Bond spent a great deal of time on the
study of the departures from normal temperature of Bismarck, N.Dak.
This station was chosen as one with a long record, published in World
Weather Records, and situated in a region subject to the most direct
influence of the sun without near-by interference of oceanic and moun-
tain climates. The data have been studied for the interval 1875 to
1925 with a view to determining therefrom whatever periodicities
might be contained. It is hoped that, based upon this analysis, a
prediction might be made of the march of departures from normal
temperature at Bismarck for the period 1925 to the present which
could be immediately compared with observation so as to see if such
prediction would be verified. The study is not yet completed but
indicates clearly that the seven periodicities found in solar variation
are of importance in the control of the temperature at Bismarck,
although for reasons not fully understood changes of phase and
amplitude confuse effects. A hopeful line of study of the causes of
these changes of phase and amplitude is in progress.

Mr. Aldrich, besides attending to the routine of the observatory
and the demands of the field stations in California, Chile, and Egypt,
has reconstructed the delicate parts of the double-barreled water-
flow pyrheliometer, has taken part in the preparation of an exhibit
for the Century of Progress Exposition in Chicago, and has under-
taken the revision of the method of reduction of the observations at
Montezuma.

Mr. Fowle’s work has been largely confined to the preparation of
the eighth edition of the Smithsonian Physical Tables.

The instrument maker, Mr. Kramer, has had under construction
apparatus for the continuation of the study of the solar spectrum at
great wave lengths, to be noticed below, as well as the rebuilding of
certain apparatus used by the stations at Table Mountain, Monte-
zuma, and Mount St. Katherine.

MOUNT ST. KATHERINE EXPEDITION

Financed by the generosity of Mr. John A. Roebling, an expedition
under the charge of Harlan H. Zodtner, assisted by Frederick A.
Greeley, was prepared and dispatched to occupy Mount St. Katherine
near Mount Sinai in Egypt. The expedition went forward in March
1933. Arrangements had been made with the Convent of Mount
Sinai to construct trails, protect the springs from pollution, and
prepare the buildings for observing and quarters for the observers
at the summit of Mount St. Katherine. A recent report indicates
that the preparations are far advanced.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 49

MOUNT WILSON EXPEDITION

Messrs. Abbot and Aldrich continued the occupation of the station
at Mount Wilson up to September 1932 for the purpose of attempting
measurements of the solar spectrum for very long wave lengths, from
8 to 30 microns, far down in the infrared. The ultimate object of
these studies is to determine the transparency of the atmosphere for
these long wave lengths and its dependence on the atmospheric
humidity, but more especially on the quantity of atmospheric ozone.
It is believed that the temperature of the earth may probably depend
intimately on the absorption of outgoing earth rays produced by the
ozone of the atmosphere. Measurements made in the ultraviolet
spectrum have indicated that the ozone content of the atmosphere
is variable and that the variations are associated with the sun-spot
numbers. Inasmuch as en important band of absorption by ozone
occurs at exactly the only region of the terrestrial spectrum where the
atmosphere is otherwise highly transparent, it is very probable that
the variation in the atmospheric ozone is an important weather
phenomenon. The difficulties of observing in this region are very
great. The solar spectrum there is extremely feeble compared with
regions of lesser wave length, and a great deal of the shorter wave
length rays are scattered into the long-wave region which must be
studied. Accordingly a double spectroscopic arrangement must be
provided to produce a better spectrum. This not only complicates the
apparatus but requires exceedingly sensitive radiation-measuring
devices to observe the feeble indications of energy. Computation
showed that neither the bolometer, the thermopile, nor the radiom-
eter appeared adequate for the purpose. Dr. Abbot was fortunate
in recalling the special radiation-measuring device which he invented
about 25 years ago, and in very greatly improving its construction so
that it becomes of the very highest sensitiveness. The description of
this instrument which he prepared and used at Mount Wilson was
published in 1932 under the title ‘‘The Kampometer, a New Instru-
ment of Extreme Sensitiveness For Measuring Radiation.”

Considerable time at Mount Wilson was occupied in devising and
constructing and learning to use this instrument, but Messrs. Abbot
and Aldrich before their departure were able to make certain pre-
liminary measurements in the solar spectrum at very long wave
lengths which indicated that sufficient sensitiveness is available.

Attempts are under way to improve the kampometer by the sub-
stitution of bimetallic strips composed of cadmium and molybdenum
_ and by more exact construction. Also the double spectroscope is being
rebuilt, and it is believed that an expedition in 1934, if that be possible,
may add valuable knowledge of the extreme infrared solar spectrum.
50 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

OTHER FIELD STATIONS

The volcanic eruption in southern Chile early in the year 1932
having temporarily spoiled the atmosphere for observing at Monte-
zuma, we took advantage of the break in continuity of observations to
improve the apparatus by substituting pyrheliometers of the newest
type, a new pyranometer with improved sun shade, and have under-
taken to revise the method of computing in accordance with the latest
method developed at Table Mountain. These extensive alterations
in apparatus and procedure prevent the working out of the solar-
constant values until the method is fully complete and tested. When
that occurs the values from the Montezuma station will be available
back to about the middle of the year 1932, leaving a break of only
2 or 3 months when the volcanic ash was at its maximum.

Meanwhile telegraphic observations have been received from the
station at Table Mountain and communicated to interested parties
as heretofore. They are not regarded as of so high a degree of
accuracy as those formerly obtained from Montezuma and are
regarded, furthermore, as provisional values subject to revision when
all the evidence becomes available.

PERSONNEL

M. Keith Baughman was employed as bolometric assistant at
Table Mountain from November 21, 1932, to May 31, 1933. A. F.
Moore returned from detached service to be director at Table Moun-
tain. Harlan H. Zodtner and Frederick A. Greeley were released
from duty at Table Mountain for detached service on the Mount St.

Katherine Expedition.
SUMMARY

Valuable progress has been made on the study of the dependence of
terrestrial temperature departures on the variation of the sun. Inter-
esting studies have begun on the dependence of terrestrial tempera-
ture departures on the ozone content of the atmosphere; solar-
radiation observations have been continued at Table Mountain,
Calif., Montezuma, Chile, and the cooperating private station at
Mount St. Katherine in Sinai Peninsula is being equipped. A new
radiation measuring instrument of highest sensitiveness called the
kampometer has been devised and used with success in preliminary
measurements of the extreme infrared solar spectrum.

Respectfully submitted.
C. G. Assot, Director.
The SECRETARY,

Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 7

REPORT ON THE DIVISION OF RADIATION AND
ORGANISMS

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activities
of the Division of Radiation and Organisms during the year ending
June 30, 1933:

This branch of the operations promoted by private funds has for
its primary purpose the study of the dependence of plant growth on
radiation in various circumstances of temperature, humidity, and
carbon dioxide concentration in the air. The division was started
May 1, 1929, by the assistance of the Research Corporation of New
York, which has furnished an average of about $20,000 a year in
grants to promote its progress. To these sums have been added sums
from the income of the private endowment of the Smithsonian
Institution, so that an average expenditure somewhat exceeding
$25,000 annually has been made.

The investigations proposed required considerable laboratory space
and office space. These were secured by clearing a part of the western
basement of the old Smithsonian Building and equipping it with
water, gas, and electricity, cementing the floor, and finishing and
painting the walls. Office space was obtained by finishing the interior
of the north tower and providing an elevator, whereby eight excellent
though small office rooms were made available.

The earlier years of the investigation were very largely given over
to the invention and construction of special apparatus under the
direction of Dr. F.S. Brackett and Dr. Earl S. Johnston. Much glass
apparatus has been prepared by L. B. Clark, and in the shop equipped
by the funds of the Research Corporation L. A. Fillmen has con-
structed many instruments of special design. Dr. E. D. McAlister
has been engaged in the preparation of thermocouples of high sensi-
tivity, the measurement of the energy distribution of absorption
spectra, and the preparation of spectroscopic apparatus, and has
assisted in the different researches as required.

In addition to the personnel above named, W. H. Hoover has been
assigned to the special work on radiation and plant growth, Dr.
Florence E. Meier, a fellow of the National Research Council, has been
assigned to the study of the life and health of algae under different

12774—35—$§5 51
52 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

conditions of radiation, and R. M. Clagett has assisted with the wood
work of special devices.

During the earlier part of the fiscal year, six pamphlets were pub-
lished under the following titles:

Lethal action of ultra-violet light on a unicellular green alga, by Florence E.

Meier.

A spectrophotometric development for biological and photochemical investiga-
tions, by F. 8. Brackett and E. D. McAlister.

The functions of radiation in the physiology of plants. I.%General methods
and apparatus, by F. S. Brackett and E. S. Johnston.

The functions of radiation in the physiology of plants. II. Some effects of
near infrared radiation on plants, by Earl S. Johnston.

Carbon dioxide assimilation in a higher plant, by W. H. Hoover, Earl 8S.
Johnston, and F. S. Brackett.

Absolute intensities in the visible and ultra-violet spectrum of a quartz mercury
arc, by E. D. McAlister.

An outstanding exhibition was prepared for the Atlantic City
meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science
in December 1932, which attracted wide and favorable notice. Also
an interesting exhibit for the Century of Progress Exposition at
Chicago was prepared in cooperation between the division, the
Astrophysical Observatory, and the Division of Mineralogy of the
National Museum.

In March 1933 a reorganization of the division took place. The
Secretary, Dr. Abbot, who has been engrossed in the preparation of
volume 5 of the Annals of the Astrophysical Observatory and volume
12 of the Smithsonian Scientific Series, having finished these tasks,
undertook the general charge of the division. Dr. F. S. Brackett
received a part-time appointment as consulting physicist with oppor-
tunity to devote himself entirely for the division on the investigation
of absorption spectra of organic substances such as contribute to the
chemical activity of plants. Dr. E. S. Johnston was appointed
assistant director of the division.

Having completed his share of the preparation of the two exhibits,
Mr. Hoover carried through a study of the growth of wheat under
measured concentrations of water vapor and carbonic acid with fixed
temperature and illuminated by measured quantities of light from
helium discharge tubes. This research showed that the helium
discharge produces approximately 30 percent greater assimilation of
carbon dioxide than does equally intense white light. By means of
filters some progress was made by Mr. Hoover in separating the
effects of the several monochromatic rays of which the light of the
helium discharge tube is composed.

Dr. McAlister, at the request of Dr. Abbot, undertook to devise a
better means of producing substantially monochromatic light of any
desired wave length for use in plant-growth experiments. After
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 5S

devising a spectroscopic method which seemed feasible, he made
experiments with the so-called Christiansen filter, which are exceed-
ingly promising. This apparatus consists of a parallel-walled, trans-
parent cell in which some organic liquid, as benzene is almost com-
pletely filled with granulated optical glass. At that wave length
where the index of refraction of the liquid is equal to the index of
refraction of the glass, the rays pass directly through, whereas those of
surrounding wave length are scattered to more or less wide angles.
It is easily possible with this apparatus to secure a nearly pure spec-
trum band not more than 200 angstroms wide. The band may be
moved from one part of the spectrum to another by changing the
temperature of the apparatus. Dr. McAlister, however, by mixing
two liquids, has arranged to alter the wave length of the transmitted
band by varying their relative concentration. With Mr. Hoover he
has developed an excellent method for illuminating with this source of
monochromatic light the wheat experiments and the experiments with
algae such as Dr. Meier is conducting. Quite sufficient intensities of
energy may be obtained by the devices proposed, and it is expected
soon to undertake the growth of wheat and of algae under selected
rays of nearly monochromatic light of suitable and controlled intensity.

Dr. Meier made two series of check experiments on the propagation
of unicellular algae under 12 different varieties of light. These
experiments gave well-according results, but their interpretation as
regards wave-length data is not yet quite complete.

Dr. Johnston is continuing the experiments on phototropism and
has attempted the growing of wheat under outdoor conditions with
different concentrations of carbon dioxide. Considerable difficulties
were encountered in this latter experiment, so that no definitive results
have yet been obtained, but it is believed that the way is now open
to more successful operations next season.

Dr. Brackett has completed the installation of the rock-salt spec-
trograph for investigations of the absorption energy spectra of organic
substances in the extreme infrared, and has obtained some beautiful
preliminary photographic records of certain bands of absorption. He
has also completed the installation of a quartz spectrograph for the
study of absorption spectra through a wide range of wave lengths, and
has obtained beautiful records with it also.

Mr. Clark has undertaken the preparation of suitable bimetallic
strips of cadmium and molybdenum for use in the construction of a
kampometer, that excessively sensitive radiation-measuring instru-
ment invented by Dr. Abbot and used by him on Mount Wilson in
1932.

Respectfully submitted.

C. G. Assort, Director.

The Secrerary,

Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 8

REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF
SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera-
tions of the United States Regional Bureau of the International
Catalogue of Scientific Literature for the fiscal year ending June 30,
1933.

The regular routine work of the Bureau was continued, consisting
mainly of recording necessary data of current scientific literature
published in the United States to be immediately available for
indexing and classifying purposes whenever international conditions
make it possible to resume publication. In addition to this routine
work efforts to reorganize and refinance the organization were con-
tinued but without success as, owing to the long continued financial
depression, it was impossible to obtain from the other cooperating
countries the necessary monetary commitments. Efforts were
also made to obtain, in this country, a capital fund to meet the whole
cost of printing, a plan having been formulated showing that with a
revolving fund of $75,000 available, publication could be resumed
and publishing thereafter become self-supporting. The time, how-
ever, was not ripe for obtaining necessary financial aid from either
private donors or endowed foundations. Therefore, Congress having
failed to provide the usual funds to continue the work of the Bureau,
the work was suspended at the end of the fiscal year. As all the
records and accumulated data are still intact in the Smithsonian
Institution, it is hoped and expected that it will still be found possible
to reorganize this important, unique international enterprise, as
nothing has appeared to take its place and the want of the classified
catalogue to the world’s literature of science is keenly felt alike by
librarians and workers in all fields of science.

Interest in and aid to bibliographies of scientific publications was
one of the first and has always been one of the main interests of the
Smithsonian Institution. Since 1901 these interests have centered in
the International Catalogue of Scientific Literature, which through
international cooperation then began the publication of a complete
catalogue and index of the current scientific literature of the world.
War chaos made it necessary to suspend operations in 1922.

54
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 55

It was through the influence of the Royal Society that the cata-
logue was begun, and it stood financial sponsor for the enterprise
from the beginning. Each country taking part in the work bore
the total cost of indexing and classifying its own publications. This
cost was met, as a rule, by direct governmental grant. The United
States was represented through the Smithsonian Institution, an
appropriation being made each year by Congress for the mainte-
nance of the Bureau. The Central Bureau in London bore the
expense of editing and publishing the data prepared by the regional
bureaus and depended for its support entirely on funds received
from subscribers to the work.

The aim of the International Catalogue was not only to cite the
titles of scientific papers published since 1901, but briefly to supply
an analytical digest of the subject contents of each paper. This
was successfully accomplished in the following manner: To each one
of the sciences was assigned one of the letters of the alphabet, and
to each of the subheadings in these sciences was assigned a number.
In classifying the subject contents of a paper or book, instead of
writing an abstract, a letter and number referring to the classifica-
tion schedules were added to the citation for each important subject
treated, thus not only analyzing but classifying the author’s work.
The printed volumes were arranged first as author catalogues and
second as subject catalogues. In the subject catalogues the classi-
fied references were assembled and grouped under each of the common
heads to which they appertained, and furnished a ready means of
learning at a glance all that had been written on a given subject of
scientific investigation.

The International Catalogue of Scientific Literature was more than
an index; it was a condensed digest of the world’s scientific literature.

No such bibliographical service exists or ever existed until the
International Catalogue appeared, and when it is realized that the
most expensive part of the undertaking was furnished free through the
classified index references supplied by the 30 or more regional bureaus,
it is apparent that no private enterprise could hope to produce such
a catalogue.

Revolutionizing advances in many of the arts, industries, and trades
are often made by means of scientific research, and what today
appears to be an abstract investigation in pure science tomorrow
becomes a stepping stone to some epoch-making invention, which
either entirely changes an old or establishes a new trade or industry.
Hence a knowledge of the world’s scientific literature is not a luxury
but a necessity.

Today the field is only partially covered by other publications,
which, when assembled, are bulky, expensive, lack uniformity in
methods of reference, and in the aggregate leave many branches of
56 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

science unrepresented, all of which came within the scope of the
International Catalogue.

This is the situation today for current literature, and unless reor-
ganization of the International Catalogue can be accomplished, it is
hard to imagine what the future condition will be unless today’s
records are all indexed and classified in some uniform and available
form.

The World War stopped the publication of the catalogue, yet the
backbone of the undertaking, namely, international cooperation of
numerous self-supporting classifying bureaus, is still available. This
indispensable contribution is worth several hundred thousand dollars
a year.

The situation is now far simpler than it was when the organization
was founded in 1900, for then no precedent existed for such an inter-
national cooperative enterprise. Now, the successful publication of
238 volumes aggregating some 140,000 pages of the International
Catalogue is substantial and convincing proof that the original plan
was feasible. War and disorganized international conditions alone
were responsible for the necessity of suspending publication.

It would be difficult to find an object more worthy of endowment
than this unique, international cooperative organization, when worth-
while projects are being considered by individuals or foundations
desiring to aid the advance of knowledge and the welfare of mankind.

It is believed that abeyance of the great service formerly rendered
by the International Catalogue of Scientific Literature is temporary
only and that the work can eventually be resumed when the universal
upheaval now convulsing world affairs has somewhat subsided.

Respectfully submitted.

Lronarp C. GUNNELL,
Assistant in Charge.
Dr. C. G. AxBBot,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 9
REPORT ON THE LIBRARY

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi-
ties of the Smithsonian library for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1933:

THE LIBRARY

The library, or library system, of the Smithsonian Institution com-
prises considerably more than 800,000 volumes, pamphlets, and charts.
These are chiefly in the Smithsonian deposit in the Library of Congress
and the libraries of the United States National Museum and the
Bureau of American Ethnology. The others are in the Smithsonian
office library, Langley aeronautical library, radiation and organisms
library, the libraries of the Astrophysical Observatory, Freer Gallery
of Art, National Gallery of Art, National Zoological Park, and the
various sectional libraries of the National Museum. While the col-
lections have to do with nearly all subjects, they concern themselves
largely with the natural sciences and technology.

EXCHANGE OF PUBLICATIONS

The exchange work of the library showed a falling off from the pre-
vious year, due to the world-wide economic depression and the con-
sequent curtailment of funds of learned institutions and societies for
research and publication. Only 22,821 packages of publications—
21,103 by mail and 1,718 by the International Exchange Service—
were received, as against 24,651 in 1932. A corresponding decrease
was apparent in the number of items in the packages. For instance,
there were 4,592 dissertations, while the year before there were 5,340.
The library obtained 3,664 volumes and parts in response to special
requests from the various Smithsonian libraries—fewer by 469 than
in 1932. The new exchanges were 198, while the year before they
were 280. There was a very noticeable decrease in the want cards
for which favorable responses were received, the number from the
Smithsonian deposit and the Langley aeronautical library being
scarcely more than one half those for which publications were obtained
in 1932. Unusually important sendings came from the Académie des
Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts, Clermont-Ferrand; the Botanical
Society of South Africa, Cape Town; the Dansk Ornithologisk Central,
Viborg; the Landesmuseumsverein fiir Vorarlberg, Bregenz; the

57
58 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

Sodalitas Amicorum Universitatis Reg. Hung. Francisco-Josephinae,
Szeged; and such universities as California, Harvard, Manchester,
Pavia, Pennsylvania, and Yale. Dissertations were received from
the Academy of Freiberg, the Universities of Basel, Berlin, Bern,
Bonn, Braunschweig, Breslau, Budapest, Cornell, Erlangen, Freiberg,
Giessen, Greifswald, Halle, Heidelberg, Helsingfors, Jena, Johns Hop-
kins, Konigsberg, Leipzig, Louvain, Lund, Marburg, Neuchatel,
Pennsylvania, Rostock, Strasbourg, Tiibingen, Utrecht, and Ziirich,
and technical schools at Berlin, Braunschweig, Delft, Dresden,
Karlsruhe, and Ziirich.
GIFTS

There were many gifts, as usual, but only a few can be mentioned
here. From His Excellency, Eamon de Valera, President of the
Irish Free State, came a welcome copy of Hugh Lane and His Pic-
tures, by Thomas Bodkin, accompanied by a letter from the donor.
From Mrs. Frances F. Cleveland Preston came a copy of A True
Story of Some Eventful Years in Grandpa’s Life, by Henry E. Per-
rine—a rare work of botanical interest; from William K. Vanderbilt,
a copy of West Made East with the Loss of a Day, by the donor—a
worthy companion to other books previously presented by Mr. Van-
derbilt; from Mr. and Mrs. Lowell Brentano, a handsome 70-volume
set of Voltaire in the original; and from Mosho Kawabata, a collection
of Gyokusho’s works, in 2 volumes. Other gifts were the Handbook
of Museums (6 copies), issued by the American Association of Mu-
seums, from the association; Reports, in 11 volumes, of the President’s
Conference on Home Building and Home Ownership, from the editors;
Archaeologia Orientalis, volume 2, from the Far Eastern Archaeo™
logical Society ; The New Conquest of Central Asia, by Roy Chapman
Andrews, from the American Museum of Natural History; The Mon-
asteries of the Wadi ’n Natrdan, Part II, by Hugh G. Evelyn White-
from the Metropolitan Museum of Art; The Elephant, in 2 volumes,
by Etsujiro Sunamoto, from the author; An Introduction to Egyptian
Religion, by Alan W. Shorter, from the author; La Fayette, a Bibli-
ography, by Stuart W. Jackson, compiler, from William Edwin
Rudge; Selected Relics of Japanese Art, volumes 1-5, edited by 8.
Tajima, from Mrs. Charles D. Walcott, who also gave the library
many other publications. From Mrs. Isabel Brackenridge Hendry
was received a collection of letters written by John Torrey, Asa Gray,
Charles Pickering, Capt. Charles Wilkes, and others to Wiliam D.
Brackenridge, botanist of the United States Exploring Expedition of
1838-42, which added substantially to the manuscript material on
the expedition already in the library. Still other gifts included 2,000
or more publications, chiefly on ethnology and archeology, which
had belonged to the late Dr. J. Walter Fewkes, former Chief of the
Bureau of American Ethnology, from Mr. and Mrs. E. R. Stabler;
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 59

550 from the Biological Society of Washington; 283 from the Geo-
physical Laboratory; 235 from the American Association for the
Advancement of Science; 195 from the National Institute of Health;
66 from the International Catalogue of Scientific Literature; and 31
from the American Association of Museums. There were also gifts,
as usual, from many members of the Smithsonian staff, notably the
late Dr. Wiliam H. Holmes, who gave the library more than 600

publications.
SMITHSONIAN DEPOSIT

The Institution’s main library of 40,000 was in 1866 deposited in
the Library of Congress. There it has grown, by almost daily addi-
tions from the Smithsonian, to well over 500,000. The collection
relates especially to the natural sciences and technology, being par-
ticularly strong in monographs and journals and in the reports, pro-
ceedings, and transactions of learned institutions and societies.

In the course of the last fiscal year the Institution added to the
deposit 2,744 volumes, 10,202 parts of volumes, 3,117 pamphlets, and
109 charts. Among the items were 3,315 dissertations. Among
them, too, were 2,202 publications which the Smithsonian library
obtained in exchange in response to requests from the Smithsonian,
periodical, and order divisions of the Library of Congress—a decrease
of 243 from the year before. The number of foreign documents re-
ceived by the library and forwarded to the documents division of the
Library of Congress was much smaller than usual, as more of these
government publications, it is gratifying to report, are each year
being sent directly to the Library through the International Exchange
Service and fewer by way of the Smithsonian library. Portraits of
the Founder and five Secretaries of the Institution were presented to
the Library of Congress late in the year, to be hung in the Smithsonian
division with those of other scientists of note.

NATIONAL MUSEUM LIBRARY

The library of the United States National Museum numbers 84,580
volumes and 110,748 pamphlets. The additions in 1933 were 2,436
volumes and 786 pamphlets. The staff entered 10,458 periodicals—
1,433 more than the previous year. These included 1,296 volumes
and parts that they obtained in exchange as the result of checking
sets and writing special request letters. Owing to a reduction in the
allotment for binding, they sent only 895 volumes to the bindery,
although more were prepared. They cataloged 3,077 publications,
and added 20,242 cards to the catalogs and shelf lists. They also
did, as usual, most of the routine work for the library of the National
Gallery of Art. They forwarded to the files of the sectional libraries
5,901 publications, and lent to the curators and their associates 8,344.
60 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

Of the latter, 2,359 were borrowed from the Library of Congress and
535 from 20 other libraries. Publications were likewise lent to many
libraries throughout the United States and Canada. The publica-
tions returned to the Library of Congress numbered 2,527 and to
other libraries 608. The reference work of the staff was extensive
and at times complicated and difficult, much of it being in response
to requests from members of the scientific staff, but more than usual
in answer to questions from visiting scientists and from correspondents.
The sectional libraries to which the staff found time to give special
assistance were those of mammals, botany, ethnology, and physical
anthropology. These libraries, 35 in number, are as follows:

Administration Invertebrate paleontology
Associate director’s office Mammals

Agricultural history Marine invertebrates
Anthropology Medicine

Archeology Minerals

Biology Mollusks

Birds Organic chemistry
Botany Paleobotany
Echinoderms Photography

Editor’s office Physical anthropology
Engineering Property clerk’s office
Ethnology Reptiles and batrachians
Fishes Superintendent’s office
Foods Taxidermy

Geology Textiles

Graphic Arts Vertebrate paleontology
History Wood technology
Insects

OFFICE LIBRARY

The office library contains many standard reference works, the
publications of the Smithsonian and its affiliated bureaus and of some
of the older foreign societies and institutions, and several thousand
volumes of general interest. The library was increased during the
year by 114 volumes, 812 parts of volumes, and 9 pamphlets. The
staff made 809 catalog cards and filed 1,492, answered 241 reference
questions, and loaned 2,091 publications. There were about 3,000
visitors.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY LIBRARY

The library of the Bureau of American Ethnology consists of
30,391 volumes, 16,993 pamphlets, and a large number of unbound
magazines, chiefly on the North American Indian and other early
inhabitants of the Western Hemisphere. It also has some important
manuscripts, Indian vocabularies, and photographs. During the
last fiscal year the library was increased by 320 volumes and 126
pamphlets. The staff entered 3,440 periodicals, added 4,840 cards
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 61

to the catalog, loaned 2,134 publications, and rendered the usual
reference service, especially in connection with the scientific work of
the Bureau.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY LIBRARY

The library of the Astrophysical Observatory has 4,487 volumes
and 3,726 pamphlets, largely on the major subjects of interest to the
Observatory. The additions in 1932 were 130 volumes and 259
pamphlets. The staff entered 1,209 periodicals and prepared 607
cards for the catalog. The loans numbered 117.

RADIATION AND ORGANISMS LIBRARY

The library of radiation and organisms, which is the working
collection of the most recently established division under the Smith-
sonian, numbers 194 volumes, 10 pamphlets, and 6 charts. The
accessions for the year were 4 volumes, 300 parts of volumes, and 1
pamphlet.

LANGLEY AERONAUTICAL LIBRARY

The Langley aeronautical library, the nucleus of which came from
the third Secretary of the Institution and such of his associates as
Alexander Graham Bell, Octave Chanute, and James Means, num-
bers 1,954 volumes, 1,116 pamphlets, and 5 charts. Since 1930 most
of it has been deposited, under its own name and bookplate, in the
Library of Congress. The collection, while small, contains many
rare items, among which are sets of early aeronautical magazines,
It also has files of letters, photographs, and newspaper clippings.
During the last fiscal year the library was increased by 46 volumes,
519 parts of volumes, 30 pamphlets, and 5 charts.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART LIBRARY

The library of the National Gallery of Art was given special atten-
tion late in the year, in connection with the work of reorganizing the
Smithsonian library system that has been going on for some time.
Increased space was provided for it and steel shelving installed, the
collection was sorted and roughly grouped, the sets were checked for
missing numbers and the numbers written for, and other steps were
taken preliminary to the making of a shelf list and catalog. This
will be the chief work of the staff during the coming year, that the
Gallery may have at the earliest possible moment library machinery
adequate to its needs.

The accessions during the year were unusually large, numbering
344 volumes, 428 parts of volumes, and 93 pamphlets. The collection
now has 1,678 volumes and 1,509 pamphlets, chiefly on the art of the
United States and Europe.
62 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

FREER GALLERY OF ART LIBRARY

The library of the Freer Gallery of Art is concerned mainly with the
art and culture of the Far East, India, Persia, and the nearer East.
It has a number of works on American painters, particularly James
MeNeill Whistler, and on the Washington Manuscripts, the well-
known Biblical manuscripts of the fourth and fifth centuries, which
the Gallery owns. The main collection was increased during the
year by 180 volumes and 88 pamphlets and now numbers 4,857
volumes and 3,399 pamphlets. The field collection has about 800
volumes and 500 pamphlets. The staff entered 147 periodicals, sent
31 volumes to the bindery, added 2,730 cards to the catalog and shelf
list, and made many analytical index cards for articles in important

art journals.
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK LIBRARY

The additions to the library of the National Zoological Park were
1 volume and 11 parts of volumes, increasing this collection on
animals and their care to 1,222 eae and 410 pamphlets.

SUMMARY OF ACCESSIONS

The accessions for the year may be summarized as follows:

Library Volumes parpenlets Total

A:strophysicalu@bsenyatorys: ant es ee 2 eee es 130 259 389
BureawowAmeritcany Ethnology. oon ee ee ee ae 320 126 446
Freer} Galleryof Amt=2sesss+s 09. eee 2. Ae eae ee EE Wee 180 88 268
Langleyaseronaticals.os s.2 22 falco Se eo Bae eee es Rae 46 35 81
National GalleryiofsArt: Spee see oie Sere ee eee Ea 344 93 437
National*Zoological'Park= 2222 2o5 So o2 ee a ee eae rd 1 0 :
Radiation: and Organisms- sae he a yd OE Br ie pe iat 4 1
Smithsonian Deposit, Library of Congress____.-.-...-..-.--._-_----- 2, 744 3, 226 5: e70
SmithsonianiOmcess se eee 2 ee ane Sie a ee Sere 114 9
United! States National Miiseumsst ee. Sis ee ae ai eeeeen 2, 436 786 3, rs

Total sca eet AS nae Ba ee en Rae aya nee aa eT 6, 319 4, 623 10, 942

In the library system of the Institution there were on June 30, 1933,
approximately the following:

Woolies i.e oe tees ee ee Rs Rabe aap dag Se WER aha Sacer ae og 591, 183
Pam pilots. Sse nace eure ene Ramee rg, Spe ere tf OMB Og cane at renee 201, 454
Charts2ioe3 (fit Ose. TOL SEE a SOG Ai iD Bis SR eG Eigse 26, 640

Potalens See eS ay, Ve Le 2a ae beget ge 819, 277

There were also a great many aiumrateae unbound, and uncom-

pleted volumes.
SPECIAL ACTIVITIES

The staff arranged and classified the Berlandier manuscripts on the
natural history of Mexico; sorted out hundreds of publications that
had ceased to be useful to the Institution or its bureaus and trans-
ferred them to the Library of Congress, Patent Office, and Howard
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 63

University, or sent them back to the Superintendent of Documents;
checked the University of California publications in the library and
returned about 600 duplicates; sent consignments of Smithsonian
duplicates to Harvard University, Yale University, and the Marine
Biological Laboratory at Woods Hole, in special exchange for recent
publications of these institutions that were needed by the library;
arranged for the return of many publications of the Institution and
its branches from libraries in which they were duplicates, that they
might again become available for exchange; and made notable progress
in reorganizing the technological library, in which 1,134 linear feet of
steel shelving were installed during the year.

FOUR IMPORTANT PROJECTS

The union catalog was advanced considerably, as the following
statistics will indicate:

Volumes cataloged_________ 9D se en Ng ec 4, 297
IRAN ustCAUALO RCC Sees eee ee ee a ee 2, 382
Charts cataloged _-_-_--_- Se ee a es ae eee Ae eae 129
Typed cards added to catalog and shelf list-._._.._._..---_------------ 14, 000
Library of Congress cards added to catalog and shelf list___-___________ 18, 780

The reorganization of the order department of the library was
practically completed, with the result that the accuracy and efficiency
of its procedure were greatly increased.

The file of the library’s exchange relations, begun early in the year,
showed marked progress, thanks to the cooperation of the publica-
tions offices of the Smithsonian and Museum with the library. It is
expected that the file will be well along by the close of the next fiscal
year. It becomes more and more useful, especially as an aid in
determining the value of each exchange to the work of the Institution.

A noteworthy beginning was also made on the dictionary index to
the publications of the Institution and its bureaus referred to in the
report for 1932. Library of Congress cards for the Smithsonian
Annual Report volumes to date and part of the Proceedings of the
National Museum were obtained and most of them filed. The next
Smithsonian series to receive attention will be the Miscellaneous
Collections. It may be added in this connection that the preparation
of a manuscript index to the first 36 volumes of the Proceedings—
which, when the task was undertaken early in the year, were the only
volumes issued by the Institution or its bureaus for which no Library
of Congress cards were available—was finished by the staff and sent
to the Library. Already cards have been printed for half or more
of the volumes in question.

Respectfully submitted.

Wituram L. Corsin, Librarian,
Dr. C. G. Assort,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 10
REPORT ON PUBLICATIONS

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the
publications of the Smithsonian Institution and the Government
bureaus under its administrative charge during the year ending June
30, 1933:

The Institution published during the year 14 papers in the series
of Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, 1 annual report and
pamphlet copies of the 26 articles contained in the report appendix,
and 2 special publications. The United States National Museum
issued 1 annual report, 3 volumes of proceedings, 3 complete bulletins,
2 parts of bulletins, and 39 separates from the proceedings. The
Bureau of American Ethnology published 1 annual report, 6 bulletins,
and 1 special publication. The Freer Gallery of Art issued 1 pub-
lication in the series Oriental Studies.

Of these publications, there were distributed 177,572 copies, which
included 37 volumes and separates of the Smithsonian Contributions
to Knowledge, 25,784 volumes and separates of the Smithsonian
Miscellaneous Collections, 31,034 volumes and separates of the
Smithsonian Annual Reports, 3,161 Smithsonian special publications,
85,550 volumes and separates of the National Museum publications,
29,889 publications of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 56 pub-
lications of the National Gallery of Art, 1,265 publications of the
Freer Gallery of Art, 79 Annals of the Astrophysical Observatory,
34 reports of the Harriman Alaska Expedition, and 683 reports of
the American Historical Association.

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS

Of the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, volume 87, 9 papers
were issued, and of volume 89, 5 papers, making 14 papers in all, as

follows:
VOLUME 87

No. 7. Preliminary classification of prehistoric Southwestern basketry, by
Gene Weltfish. 47 pp., 19 text figs. (Publ. 3169.) July 12, 1932.
No. 10. Lethal action of ultraviolet light on a unicellular green alga, by
Florence E. Meier. 11 pp., 2 pls., 1 text fig. (Publ. 3173.) August 17, 1932.
No. 11. Report on archeological research in the foothills of the Pyrenees, by
J. Townsend Russell. 5 pp., 8 pls. (Publ. 3174.) August 26, 1932.
64
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 65

No. 12. A spectrophotometric development for biological and photochemical
investigations, by F. 8. Brackett and E. D. McAlister. 7 pp., 3 pls., 5 text figs,
(Publ. 3176.) September 26, 1932.

No. 13. The functions of radiation in the physiology of plants. I. General
methods and apparatus, by F. 8S. Brackett and Earl 8. Johnston. 10 pp., 1 pL,
3 text figs. (Publ. 3179.) November 14, 1932.

No. 14. The functions of radiation in the physiology of plants. II. Some
effects of near infrared radiation on plants, by Earl S. Johnston. 15 pp., 4 pls.,
2 text figs. (Publ. 3180.) November 15, 1932.

No. 15. An improved water-flow pyrheliometer and the standard scale of solar
radiation, by C. G. Abbot and L. B. Aldrich. 8 pp., 1 pl. (Publ. 3182.) No-
vember 11, 1932.

No. 16. Carbon dioxide assimilation in a higher plant, by W. H. Hoover
Earl 8S. Johnston, and F. 8. Brackett. 19 pp., 2 pls., 8 text figs. (Publ. 3186.)
January 16, 1933.

No. 17. Absolute intensities in the visible and ultraviolet spectrum of a quartz
mercury arc, by E. D. McAlister. 18 pp., 4 text figs. (Publ. 3187.) January

16, 1933.
VOLUME 89

No. 1. Amphibians and reptiles collected by the Smithsonian Biological
Survey of the Panama Canal Zone, by Karl Patterson Schmidt. 20 pp. (Publ.
3181.) March 16, 1933.

No. 2. The latitude shift of the storm track in the 11-year solar period. Storm
frequency maps of the United States, 1883-1930, by C. J. Kullmer. 34 pp., 6
figs., 49 maps. (Publ. 3188.) March 3, 1933.

No. 3. The kampometer, a new instrument of extreme sensitiveness for meas-
uring radiation, by C.G. Abbot. 5pp.,1 fig. (Publ. 3211.) February 8, 1933.

No. 4. Scouting for a site for a solar-radiation station, by A. F. Moore. 23
pp., 4 pls., 9 text figs. (Publ. 3212.) April 4, 1933.

No. 5. Forecasts of solar radiation, by C. G. Abbot. 5 pp., 2 text figs. (Publ.

3214.) March 27, 1933.
SMITHSONIAN ANNUAL REPORT

Report for 1931.—The complete volume of the Annual Report of
the Board of Regents for 1931 was received from the Public Printer

in October 1932.

Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution showing
operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the year ending
June 30, 1931. xiii+592 pp., 87 pls., 94 text figs. (Publ. 3142.)

The appendix contained the following papers:

Twenty-five years’ study of solar radiation, by C. G. Abbot.

The composition of the sun, by Henry Norris Russell.

Sun spots and radio reception, by Harlan T. Stetson.

An evolving universe, by Sir James Jeans.

The rotation of the galaxy, by A. 8. Eddington.

Stellar laboratories, by Theodore Dunham, Jr.

Present status of theory and experiment as to atomic disintegration and atomic
synthesis, by Robert A. Millikan.

Assault on atoms, by Arthur H. Compton.

Two-way television, by Herbert E. Ives.
66 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

Research Corporation awards to A. E. Douglas and Ernst Antevs for researches
in chronology.

Shaping the earth, by William Bowie.

The earth beneath in the light of modern seismology, by Ernest A. Hodgson.

Coming to grips with the earthquake problem, by N. H. Heck.

Growing plants without soil, by Earl S. Johnston.

Some aspects of the adaptation of living organisms to their environment, by
H.S. Halcro Wardlaw.

The utilization of aquatic plants as aids in mosquito control, by Robert Matheson.

Our friends the insects, by W. V. Balduf.

Evolution of the insect head and the organs of feeding, by R. E. Snodgrass.

The debt of agriculture to tropical America, by O. F. Cook.

Some wild flowers from Swiss meadows and mountains, by Casey A. Wood.

The antiquity of civilized man, by Prof. A. H. Sayce.

The discovery of primitive man in China, by G. Elliot Smith.

The culture of the Shang Dynasty, by James M. Menzies.

Totem poles: A recent native art of the northwest coast of America, by Marius
Barbeau.

Brobdingnagian bridges, by Othmar H. Ammann.

Albert Abraham Michelson, by Forest R. Moulton.

Report for 1932.—The report of the executive committee and
proceedings of the Board of Regents and the report of the Secretary,
both forming parts of the annual report of the Board of Regents to
Congress, were issued in December 1932.

Report of the executive committee and proceedings of the Board of Regents of
the Smithsonian Institution for the year ending June 30, 1932. 12 pp. (Publ.
3184.)

Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution for the year ending
June 30, 1932. 89 pp., 4 text figs. (Publ. 3183.)

The report volume, containing the general appendix, was in press
at the close of the year.

SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS

Explorations and field-work of the Smithsonian Institution in 1932. 96 pp.
98 figs. (Publ. 3213.) May 6, 1933.
Brief guide to the Smithsonian Institution. Second edition. 80 pp. April 17,
1933.
FREER GALLERY OF ART PUBLICATIONS

Oriental Studies, No. 1. The story of Kalaka. Texts, history, legends, and
miniature paintings of the Svetambara Jain hagiographical work. The Kalaka-
caryakathad. By W. Norman Brown. 4°. 149 pp., 15 pls. (Publ. 3137.)
March 29, 1933.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

The editorial work of the National Museum has continued during
the year under the immediate direction of the editor, Paul H. Oehser.
There were issued 1 annual report, 3 volumes of proceedings, 3 com-
plete bulletins, 2 parts of bulletins, and 39 separates from the pro-
ceedings.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 67

The issues of the bulletin were as follows:

Bulletin 39, part N (6th rev.). Directions for preparing specimens of mammals,
by Gerrit S. Miller, Jr.

Bulletin 100, vol. 12. The fishes of the families Banjosidae, Lethrinidae,
Sparidae, Girellidae, Kyphosidae, Oplegnathidae, Garridae, Mullidae, Emmel-
ichthyidae, Sciaenidae, Sillaginidae, Arripidae, and Enoplosidae collected by
the United States Bureau of Fisheries Steamer Albatross, chiefly in Philippine
seas and adjacent waters, by Henry W. Fowler.

Bulletin 158. The Copepods of the Woods Hole Region, Massachusetts, by
Charles Branch Wilson.

Bulletin 163. American and European swords in the historical collections of the
United States National Museum, by Theodore T. Belote.

Bulletin 164. The Canadian and Ordovician formations and fossils of South
Manchuria, by Riuji Endo.

For a list of the proceedings papers, see the report on the National
Museum, part 2 of this report.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

The editorial work of the bureau has continued under the immediate
direction of the editor, Stanley Searles. During the year 1 annual
report and 6 bulletins were issued, as follows:

Forty-ninth Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology to the Secretary
of the Smithsonian Institution, 1931-32. vi+8 pp.

Bulletin 99. The Swimmer manuscript: Cherokee sacred formulas and medici-
nal prescriptions (Mooney and Olbrechts). xvii+319 pp., 13 pls.

Bulletin 106. Ethnographical survey of the Miskito and Sumu Indians of

Honduras and Nicaragua (Conzemius). vii+191 pp., 10 pls., 1 fig.

Bulletin 108. A dictionary of the Atakapa language, accompanied by text
material (Gatschet and Swanton). v-+181 pp., 1 pl.

Bulletin 109. A dictionary of the Osage language (La Flesche). v-+406 pp.

Bulletin 110. Yuman and Yaqui music (Densmore). xviii+216 pp., 31 pls.

Bulletin 111. The village of the great kivas on the Zuni Reservation, New
Mexico (Roberts). ix+197 pp., 64 pls., 34 figs.

There was also issued one special publication:

List of publications of the Bureau of American Ethnology, with index to authors
and titles. iv+55 pp.

REPORT OF THE AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION

The annual reports of the American Historical Association are
transmitted by the association to the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution and are communicated by him to Congress, as provided
by the act of incorporation of the association.

The annual reports for 1930, volume 3, and 1931, volume 1, and
the supplemental volume to the report for 1929 were issued during
the year. The annual reports for 1930, volume 4, and 1932, and the
supplementary volume to the report for 1930 were in press at the
close of the year.

72774—35——8
68 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

REPORT OF THE NATIONAL SOCIETY, DAUGHTERS OF THE AMERICAN
REVOLUTION

The manuscript of the Thirty-fifth Annual Report of the National
Society, Daughters of the American Revolution, was transmitted to
Congress, in accordance with law, December 12, 1932.

ALLOTMENTS FOR PRINTING

The congressional allotments for the printing of the Smithsonian
report to Congress and the various publications of the Government
bureaus under the administration of the Institution were virtually
used up at the close of the year. The appropriation for the coming
year ending June 30, 1934, totals $5,500, allotted as follows:

Smithsonian} nstitutiones sees ere se ae eee ey eee, eee ee $1, 000
National: Museum. 22S. 222 Joes oe eae eee eee eee oe pe ee nye epee ene eee es 4, 500

Respectfully submitted.

Dr. C. G. AxsBot,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

W. P.. True, Editor.
PART 2. REPORT ON THE PROGRESS AND CONDITION
OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM FOR THE
FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1933

By ALEXANDER WETMORE

Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, in Charge of the National Museum

CONTENTS
Page Page

Operations for the year. .-.--.-.------------- 69 | Detailed reports on the collections__--------- 87

AD PYOPMSablONS =. 5—- 22-22-o cece ek esc sos 69 Department of anthropology------------ 87

(ollectionS22 222-3227 a a 71 Department of biology......------------- 94

Explorations and field work__----------- 71 Department of geology. ----------------- 108

Hducational work2-2 22 22252224255. 77 Department of arts and industries__--_-- 118

WASILORS) seen ee ee an waee oe en en 77 Division of history: .----=2--<-222s--2— 130

UD IesblONS-.22252s-secusseene eee eee 78 | List of accessions!

BEY (0) 5 Sener ee a Ee pee 79 | List of publications issued by the National

Photographie laboratory---------- ------ 81 IMUSeUIMe == 42. cscs ao see ee nae 134

Buildings and equipment_-__-_----------- 81

Meetings and receptions___-_-.----------- 83

Changes in organization and staff_.__---- 85

OPERATIONS FOR THE YEAR

APPROPRIATIONS

Provision for the maintenance of the United States National
Museum for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1933, made by appropria-
tions carried in the Executive and Independent Offices Act approved
June 30, 1932, was subsequently affected by the Economy Act
(legislative appropriation act for 1933). Funds available for Museum
operations were as follows:

Preservation of collections__._.......-...---------- $617, 760. 00
Impounded deductions (returned to Treasury)?.. 74, 031. 60
Amount avallablet= e232 ee eee 543, 728. 40
Maintenance and operation___-_-_---------------- 148, 370. 00
Impounded deductions (returned to Treasury)?- - 12, 995. 74
AIMOUNAVAUADIC# saute cee e sea ae 135, 374. 26
Proto ANd PInGiNg snack eee aoc Sae aa 22, 354. 00
Total appropriation available_------ 701, 456. 66

1The complete list of accessions to the collections during the year, which appears in
the pamphlet ‘“ Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, 1933”, pp.
134-1838, is here omitted in the interests of economy.

2 Legislative appropriation act of June 30, 1932.

69
70 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

For the Museum, the appropriations for 1933 were $8,960 less than
those for 1932, the reduction under preservation of collections being
$2,750 and under maintenance and operation $6,210. Under preserva-
tion of collections, the reduction was taken from the amount available
for supplies, and under maintenance and operation from the funds
provided for repairs and replacements to buildings.

Under the Economy Act (pt. 2, legislative appropriation act for
1933), approved June 30, 1932, provision was made for the impound-
ing of certain items connected with the funds allotted for personnel.
Total amounts so impounded during the year under the National
Museum were $87,027.34, of which $74,031.60 came from the appropria-
tion preservation of collections and $12,995.74 from maintenance and
operation. Under preservation of collections, $56,252.54 came from
stipulated salary reductions and was thus made up by the personnel
included under this appropriation. The remaining funds impounded
under this heading totaled $17,769.05 and consisted of salaries of
vacant positions. The latter amount therefore was a direct reduc-
tion in appropriation, since it lowered the amount available for tem-
porary personnel and made impossible the utilization of savings on the
salary roll for the purchase of miscellaneous supplies, the allotment
for which has always been inadequate. Under maintenance and
operation, $8,230.74 was impounded as a result of salary reductions,
while $4,764 resulted from the impounding of salaries of vacant
positions. The latter amount was a direct reduction of the appropria-
tion, since it lowered the amount available for temporary services
and the purchase of supplies and equipment for the mechanics. The
impounding of salaries for vacant positions thus withdrew $22,534.06
from funds usually available.

The sum available for printing and binding was decreased $27,646
below the amount of the previous year. This reduction is a serious
one, since the printing of manuscripts is now greatly in arrears, and
additional funds for this purpose are much needed.

No additions to the personnel of the Museum were made during the
year, and a serious condition resulting from an undermanned force
continued. More help is urgently needed in the clerical service and
the guard and labor forces and also in the scientific personnel. The
Museum is greatly overcrowded, and under present conditions the
proper exhibition and care of the collections with the available
personnel are becoming increasingly difficult.

Arrangements looking toward additional space for the Museum
have been outlined in previous reports. Congress has authorized
appropriations of $6,500,000 for building wings at each end of the
Natural History Building, but this authorization like all others was
reduced 10 percent (legislative act for 1933, 212, sec. 320). Plans for
the additions have been made by the Allied Architects, Inc., of
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY: NATIONAL MUSEUM al

Washington, D.C., under an appropriation of $10,000 in the second
deficiency bill of 1931 and have been approved by the Fine Arts
Commission. The building of these wings has been submitted as the
principal construction project recommended for the Smithsonian
Institution under the National Industrial Recovery Act. If the
required funds are allotted, the first major step in the plan for ade-
quate museums and galleries under the Institution will be under way,
and work can begin on the construction without delay.

COLLECTIONS

Steady addition of excellent material to the collections continued
throughout the year, the new accessions including hundreds of speci-
mens of the most valuable kind. They came in 1,698 separate
accessions, with a total of 348,012 specimens, divided among the
various departments as follows: Anthropology, 4,877 ; biology, 295,782;
geology, 37,555; arts and industries, 4,261; history, 5,537. Statement
regarding some of the important additions will be found in the reports
of the departments that follow, and they are all included in the acces-
sion list. The total increase for the previous year was 157,870 speci-
mens of all kinds.

For examination and report 1,575 lots of material were received,
including much of a botanical and geological nature, and many indi-
vidual specimens. Part was returned by request to the senders,
when it was not consumed during analysis, and part retained for the
collections under arrangement with the donors.

Gifts of specimens to schools and other educational organizations
numbered 5,558 specimens, including collections of mollusks and
fishes, sets to illustrate rock weathering and soils, and illustrative
groups of rocks, ores, and minerals. Exchanges of duplicate materials
with other institutions and individuals totaled 45,872 specimens, and
12 specimens were transferred to other departments. Loans to
workers outside of Washington numbered 24,552 individual specimens.

Following is a summary of specimens now covered in the Museum
catalogs:

MOU OD OLO R Via mee eae ee 672, 022
Biology___-___----_-- re fda, eee eee se LOPS lb oOd
Repaid y se tT eee oe tee rls 2, 127, 718
Arts and industries _- : pC A POE A Se a 115, 467
History _____- ne Pe Vee ee 488, 788

JLo #29 |B age, Sse oe =e eae et ee 14, 219, 302

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD WORK

Investigations in the field covered the usual wide range of interests
connected with man, the lower animals, and plants, both living and
extinct. The work was carried on mainly through grants from the
72 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

general income of the Smithsonian Institution, assisted by contribu-
tions from individuals, while certain projects were financed through
the income of special funds held as endowments by the Smithsonian.
Financial assistance in field expenses from the annual governmental
appropriations for the National Museum was small and concerned only
part of the various projects. Funds to assist in these matters, especi-
ally from private sources, are one of the definite needs of our
organization.

Archeological work in northern Alaska was continued during the
summer of 1932 by James A. Ford under the general direction of
Henry B. Collins, Jr. Mr. Ford arrived at Point Barrow late in
August 1931, when the ground was beginning to freeze. He found ice
conditions in the Arctic the worst in many years, and so remained at
Barrow through the winter in order to allow a full season of excava-
tion in the summer of 1932. He returned to Washington in November
1932. Barrow seems the most promising locality at which to find
dependable evidence of the relationship between the old Bering Sea
culture and the Thule, the dominant prehistoric Eskimo culture of the
eastern Arctic regions. In addition to archeological material Mr.
Ford obtained the skull of a bowhead whale and a series of birds.

From February 18 to June 5, 1933, Frank M. Setzler, assistant
curator of archeology, continued archeological investigations in south-
western Texas, restricting this year’s work to the Pecos River area,
to trace the eastern limits of the cave culture. One large cave over-
looking the Pecos and a medium-sized shelter near Deadmans Canyon
were completely excavated. It is not yet practicable to evaluate the
results of this third season in the Big Bend area, but the cultutal
material recovered obviously belongs to the same horizon as that found
farther west. Though a general relationship to the Basket Maker
culture of the Southwest is apparent in the material collected both in
1932 and 1933, enough distinct characteristics appear in the remains
that Mr. Setzler has exposed in Texas to warrant a temporary desig-
nation as the Big Bend cave culture. Neither pottery nor any other
class of artifact commonly used by archeologists in establishing a
relative chronology has yet been found in association with remains
peculiar to these cave dwellers of ancient Texas, and no bond has been
discovered to connect them definitely with any other primitive group
known in the Rio Grange drainage. One result of the 1932 expedition
was the finding of 27 bones of the California condor (Gymnogyps
californianus) associated with human remains in a cave on the south
tip of Mule Ear Peaks. This is the first indication of the former
existence of this bird in Texas and is the largest collection of bones
recovered outside its present range. In his 1933 investigations, as in
those of previous years, Mr. Setzler was greatly assisted by the staff
of the United States Bureau of Plant Quarantine at San Antonio.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY: NATIONAL MUSEUM 13

On his way to Washington late in May, Mr. Setzler spent a week in
east-central Louisiana investigating mounds and village sites that
available data indicated might be related to the so-called ‘‘ Hopewell
culture” of the northern Mississippi Valley. The results of this brief
examination are such as to warrant more intensive research.

In order to complete the enormous task of reorganizing its collec-
tions and exhibits, the division of Old World archeology deferred
actual field work for the year. Assistant Curator J. Townsend
Russell, however, spent a brief period in France during midsummer
in connection with the cooperative investigations inaugurated in
November 1931 between the University of Toulouse and the Smith-
sonian Institution.

Dr. AleS Hrdliéka conducted an anthropological and archeological
survey of Kodiak Island and made extensive excavations at Uyak
Bay, Alaska. These excavations, which have already yielded much
valuable and new material, are now more than a third finished.

Dr. R.S. Bassler, head curator of geology, spent several weeks in the
Mississippi Valley collecting Silurian and Mississippian echinoderms
for the Springer collection. Several hundred crinoids and blastoids
and many specimens of other classes of fossils were obtained, and some
interesting facts in silicification and related phenomena were checked.

Under the auspices of the Canfield fund, E. P. Henderson spent 4
months collecting minerals, rocks, and ores in the Rocky Mountain
States, assisted by F. A. Gonyer, of Harvard University. Among the
districts visited were the geode region about Keokuk, Iowa; the Black
Hills of South Dakota; Butte and Helena, Mont.; Coeur d’Alene,
Idaho; Park City, Bingham, Thomas Range, and other localities in
Utah; the carnotite fields of Colorado and Utah; and Leadville,
Breckenridge, Alma, and Cripple Creek, Colo. Among the material
obtained were a huge quartz geode, numerous well-crystallized copper
minerals, and rare vanadium minerals.

Dr. W. F. Foshag, accompanied by James Benn, visited the mica and
gem mines about Amelia, Va., and collected a number of rare minerals.
Mr. Benn also explored a newly discovered cave near Beaver Creek,
Md., and obtained unusual stalagmitic growths of beautiful and
perfect form.

Explorations for the division of stratigraphic paleontology were
made by Dr. G. A. Cooper during 6 weeks spent in the richly fossilif-
erous country on Gaspé Peninsula, Quebec, resulting in the acquisition
of many fine fossils. Following this Dr. Cooper made stratigraphic
studies in New York State’s classical sequence of Devonian rocks.
Though supplementary to previous studies by Dr. Cooper in this
State, this year’s task was to trace the stratigraphic units eastward
from the Unadilla Valley. The needed columnar sections were pre-
pared, and many specimens, some new to science, were obtained.
74 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

As the field expedition under C. W. Gilmore, curator of vertebrate
paleontology, extended well into the present year, only brief mention
was made of it in last year’s report. This expedition in the Oligocene
of Montana, western Nebraska, southeastern South Dakota, and
eastern Wyoming brought gratifying results in the acquisition of a
large and representative collection of this important fauna. Out-
standing among many valuable specimens is a nearly complete skeleton
of an eagle of a type distinct from any hitherto known.

An important accomplishment of the department of biology was the
organization of the Johnson-Smithsonian Deep-Sea Expedition, under
the direction of Dr. Paul Bartsch, curator of mollusks and Cenozoic
invertebrates, and the successful completion of the first of a series of
cruises planned for oceanographic work. Eldridge R. Johnson in the
fall of 1932 placed his palatial yacht Caroline at the disposal of the
Smithsonian Institution for the purpose of deep-sea exploration, to-
gether with funds for equipment of the vessel, necessary gear and
instruments, and an adequate scientific staff. At the suggestion of
Dr. Bartsch an oceanographic survey of the Puerto Rican Deep was
undertaken. Various agencies of the Government interested in
oceanographic work, including bureaus in the Navy, Agriculture, and
Commerce Departments, rendered valuable assistance in the way of
suggestions and material, as did the authorities of the Carnegie
Institution of Washington, the Oceanographic Institution of Woods
Hole, the American Museum of Natural History, Dr. William Beebe,
and others. The gathering of equipment and its installation began in
October, and on January 21, 1933, the Caroline left New York.

The program for the cruise was carried out successfully, and on
March 14 the Caroline returned to Washington loaded with valuable
collections, embracing many forms of life unknown to science, and
with extensive observations in the various branches of oceanography,
all of which are now in the hands of specialists for study. During
the cruise more than 900 soundings were made, and serial gatherings
of water samples and temperatures were taken down to 3,200 fathoms.
Collections were made at 109 stations, mostly at depths below 200
fathoms, with gear ranging from tangles to dredges, beam trawls,
otter trawls, and intermediate nets. Several cores were taken, and
morning and evening observations of air draft were made by means
of pilot balloons observed through a theodolite. It is planned to
continue the work during another cruise in the same general area.

Another important marine expedition was that of Dr. Waldo L.
Schmitt, curator of marine invertebrates, to the Galapagos Islands on
the yacht Velero IIJ, through invitation of Capt. G. Allan Hancock,
owner of the ship and leader of the expedition. Dr. Schmitt em-
barked at Los Angeles on December 28, 1932, and returned on March
25, 1933. Fully equipped for scientific work both on land and sea
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY: NATIONAL MUSEUM (es

and with a staff representing several branches of zoology, the expedi-
tion visited 11 of the 16 principal islands of the Galapagos Archi-
pelago and 13 other places on the coasts of South and Central America
and Mexico, including the Malpelo, Cocos, and Isabel Islands. The
expedition obtained large series of invertebrates of which a first set
of Crustacea, to which Dr. Schmitt paid special attention, becomes
the property of the National Museum. Many additions to scientific
knowledge in this group are included in these collections.

Dr. Hugh M. Smith continued explorations in Siam covering
various parts of the country not previously visited. The work
included a trip up the tortuous Pasak River, which marks the bound-
ary between central Siam and the eastern plateau, journeys to Sam
Roy Yot (Three Hundred Peaks) in western Siam, and to the moun-
tain-forest jungle of the northwestern corner of Siam. The large
collections of mammals, birds, reptiles, and mollusks received testify
to Dr. Smith’s continued interest in the Museum and will yield many
scientific novelties.

Collections received from Dr. D. C. Graham indicate that he has
safely returned to his old field in western China and has resumed his
zoological activities in behalf of the Smithsonian Institution. Con-
tinuation of his former explorations has been planned in cooperation
with the recently established West China Museum.

Dr. Alan Mozley, awarded the Walter Rathbone Bacon traveling
scholarship under the Smithsonian Institution for study of the land
and fresh-water molluscan fauna of Siberia, had a successful season
during the summer of 1932. Through the cooperation of local
authorities he was enabled to carry out plans for a visit to the Akhmo-
linsk Steppe and to the taiga north of Tomsk. Thanks to the
generous assistance of the director of the limnological station at Lake
Baikal, he was able to spend nearly 2 months in the Baikal region,
where he circumnavigated the lake in the motor yacht of the station
and made various land excursions. During the winter Dr. Mozley
worked on his collections at the University of Edinburgh, where
facilities were generously provided him.

Dr. Herbert Friedmann, curator of birds, through the courtesy of
Hobart Ames, visited Grand Junction, Tenn., to study a curious red
phase among the quail found in that locality. Dr. A. Wetmore,
assistant secretary, during a trip to New Mexico and Arizona, col-
lected series of bird skins and skeletons.

The beginning of the year found Dr. J. M. Aldrich, curator of
insects, west of the Rocky Mountains collecting Diptera, work that
was completed the middle of August. P. W. Oman, of the Bureau
of Entomology, made an extended trip by automobile through the
northwestern United States to obtain specimens of leafhoppers and
other homopterous insects, and returned with many valuable addi-
tions to the Museum collections.
76 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt spent the first 6 weeks of the year at the
marine laboratory of the Carnegie Institution of Washington at Dry
Tortugas, Fla., in continuation of studies of the crustacean fauna of
the region. A comprehensive collection of marine invertebrates,
mainly crustaceans, was brought back.

During the early part of the year Dr. Paul Bartsch continued
studies of Cerion colonies on the Florida Keys, with the financial
assistance of the Carnegie Institution of Washington. On his return
he collected mollusks on several mountain peaks of the southern
Alleghenies.

Austin H. Clark made several trips to the region included in the
proposed Shenandoah National Park in furtherance of a project for
coordinating and extending knowledge of the biology of the area, in
cooperation with the National Park Service, the United States
Bureau of Public Roads, and the Virginia State Commission on Con-
servation and Development.

In July and August 1932, J. R. Swallen, assistant botanist in the
section of grasses, collected in Yucatan under a cooperative arrange-
ment between the United States Department of Agriculture, the
University of Michigan, and the Carnegie Institution of Washington,
in connection with a biological survey of the Mayan area. The col-
lection obtained, about 1,000 specimens, has increased the known
grass flora of the region by more than 50 percent. C. V. Morton,
aid in the division of plants, left in March for a 3-months’ botanical
exploration in Oaxaca. Because of an unfavorable season and Mr.
Morton’s illness, this work, which was conducted with the kind
assistance of Dr. Emil Makrinius, of Pochutla, had to be considerably
curtailed. The 2,000 specimens collected, however, will prove valu-
able, since they come from a region little represented in the National
Herbarium.

During the summer of 1932, Prof. C. E. Burt, of Southwestern
College, Winfield, Kans., carried on field work in herpetology designed
to obtain series of turtles in the region of the upper reaches of the
Cumberland and Tennessee Rivers. The Museum has long needed
material from that portion of the Appalachian system. The trip,
made by automobile, was eminently successful and resulted in large
and important collections.

During the Peary Memorial expedition to the west coast of Green-
land, under command of Capt. R. A. Bartlett, arranged by the Peary
family, Arthur D. Norcross, and friends, Captain Bartlett obtained
a large collection of marine invertebrates mostly from the vicinity
of Cape York, which with customary generosity he presented to the
Museum.

W. G. Sheldon and Richard Borden, during July, August, and
September 1932, undertook a second expedition to the mountain
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY: NATIONAL MUSEUM 77

region in east-central British Columbia, reaching Mount Selwyn on
the Peace River on July 17 and Hudson Hope on August 1. The
Sukunka River, which drains the mountains just south of Pine Pass,
was investigated to its source, and a grizzly bear was collected. The
expedition, difficult and arduous, terminated at the railroad at
Dawson Creek, and was highly successful in its collections, which
included a moose, a grizzly bear, mountain goats, wolves, red fox,
marten, weasels, marmots, rabbits, squirrels, and various smaller
mammals.
EDUCATIONAL WORK

The National Museum during the year continued its customary
activities in educational lines. Our exhibition halls display great
series of objects so arranged as to demonstrate facts of many kinds,
on subjects ranging from the tools and dress of primitive man to
complicated modern machinery, examples of the life of strange lands,
of the elements that compose the earth, fossil animals and plants
of former ages, and many other things. Descriptive labels accom-
pany all these, and there is constant change to keep them properly
arranged and up to date. The whole serves as a compendium of
reference to the student or as an attractive display to the one of more
casual interest, from which all may profit according to their desires.

In addition, the Museum is constantly active in the dissemination
of knowledge in response to many hundreds of inquiries that come
by mail or from visitors. Classes from the city schools are guided
through the halls, and groups of students from a distance are given
similar service. Although the Museum does not maintain regular
series of lectures, members of the staff are called on regularly to
address meetings. Students throughout the country interested in
definite problems come to work with our collections and libraries,
and frequently workers from abroad are engaged in investigations
here that sometimes continue for months. Thus it may be seen how
widely varied is the range of our educational activities and how
extensive the field that they cover.

VISITORS

The Museum buildings were open to visitors during the year on
week days from 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. and on Sundays from 1:30 to
4:30 p.m., except the Aircraft Building, which was open only on week
days. All the buildings were closed all day on Christmas and New
Year’s Days, and part of the day on December 24, 26, and 31, Jan-
uary 2, and March 4.

The total number of visitors to the various Museum buildings
during the year was 1,427,358, or 202,672 less than during 1931-32,
a decrease clearly reflecting economic conditions throughout the
78 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

country. The average attendance for week days was 3,825 and for
Sundays 4,571. The number of visitors to the Smithsonian Building
on week days was 183,928, a daily average of 591, and on Sundays
40,561, an average of 780; to the Arts and Industries Building
478,160 on week days (average, 1,537) and 103,642 on Sundays
(average, 1,993); to the Natural History Building 426,514 on week
days (average, 1,371) and 93,463 on Sundays (average, 1,797); and
to the Aircraft Building 101,091, a daily average of 325.

Table 1 shows the number of visitors during each month for the
past year.

TABLE 1.—Visitors to Museum buildings during the year ended June 80, 1933

Museum buildings

Smithson-
Year and month ian Build- he : Iss is Total
ae Teuisbtlee History Aircraft

1932
DP iliy oe tet teers sere Bhs nh eat 28, 251 | 70, 878 | 53, 540 | 13, 426 166, 095
Anetiste tA oes: ENG Oe Re 33, 310 | 90, 225 | 66,900 | 15,967 | 206, 402
Septenmtbertaate 4s 2! hee 21, 250 | 54, 857 | 42,911} 9, 420 128, 438
Octoberste tes eer ueen de oa 15, 018 | 39, 861 | 38,270] 5, 947 99, 096
November) S20 Ut Vier 11, 024 | 27, 586 | 30,397] 4, 429 73, 436
December: 22+ ofeach 6, 942 | 16, 422 | 17,292 | 3, 516 44,172

1933
January: 35. Ne SU crag rot Ie 8, 503 | 21, 368 | 28,925 | 4, 449 63, 245
PebuUaby 2. =p seen te poe hel eons 83138"| 20%302 (2a e807 eo tron 56, 034
Marieke 2228. catia Ve Bs 20, 538 | 45, 487 | 47,853 | 8, 886 122, 714
(ApDTile eee Ae doy Sag tele 33, 114 | 84, 684 | 65, 146 | 12, 457 195, 401
Misys tere ese anaes eta ee 18, 863 | 56, 337 | 57,388 | 9, 075 141, 663
Munes = el ee Oe ON ae 19, 587 | 53, 845 | 47,548 | 9, 732 130, 662
Me tial Sees Meck bia 224, 488 |581, 802 |519, 977 |101, 091 | 1, 427, 358

PUBLICATIONS

The publications issued during the year include nine volumes,
as follows: The Annual Report for 1932; Bulletin 39, part N (6th
rev.), Directions for Preparing Specimens of Mammals, by Gerrit
S. Miller, Jr.; Bulletin 100, volume 12, The Fishes of the Families
Banjosidae, Lethrinidae, Sparidae, Girellidae, Kyphosidae, Opleg-
nathidae, Gerridae, Mullidae, Emmelichthyidae, Sciaenidae, Sillag-
inidae, Arripidae, and Enoplosidae Collected by the United States
Bureau of Fisheries Steamer Albatross, Chiefly in Philippine Seas
and Adjacent Waters, by Henry W. Fowler; Bulletin 158, The
Copepods of the Woods Hole Region, Mass., by Charles Branch
Wilson; Bulletin 163, American and Kuropean Swords in the His-
torical Collections of the United States National Museum, by Theo-
dore T. Belote; Bulletin 164, The Canadian and Ordovician Forma-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY: NATIONAL MUSEUM 79

tions and Fossils of South Manchuria, by Riuji Endo; and small
editions for office use of the complete volumes 79, 80, and 81 of the
Proceedings of the National Museum. Forty-one separate papers
published include 2 in the Bulletins and 39 in the Proceedings.

The distribution of volumes and separates to libraries and indi-
viduals on the regular mailing lists aggregated 71,294 copies; while
in addition 14,256 copies of publications issued during this and pre-
vious years were supplied in response to special requests. The
mailing lists have been revised to avoid loss in distribution.

During the year 504,770 forms, labels, and other items were printed
and 970 volumes were bound.

LIBRARY

In the library system of the Smithsonian Institution, the National
Museum Library is second in importance only to the Smithsonian
deposit in the Library of Congress. Its collections, concerned
chiefly with natural history and technology, were increased during
the year by 2,436 volumes and 786 pamphlets, and now number
84,580 volumes and 110,748 pamphlets. The accessions came, as
usual, from four sources: Purchases, gifts, exchanges, and binding
periodicals.

Gifts were received from many members and associates of the
Museum staff. Mrs. Charles D. Walcott gave the library many
publications, as did also the late Dr. William H. Holmes, former
director of the National Gallery of Art, his gifts for the year totaling
more than 600. Important gifts also were received by assignment
from the Smithsonian Institution. One was a collection of letters
written by Asa Gray, John Torrey, Charles Pickering, Capt. Charles
Wilkes, and others of the United States exploring expedition, 1838-42,
to William D. Brackenridge, a prominent botanist of the expedition.
The collection was presented to the Institution by Mrs. Isabel Brack-
enridge Hendry, acting for the grandchildren of Mr. Brackenridge.
It constitutes a valuable addition to the manuscript material on the
subject already in the library.

The staff kept the current work up to date and performed certain
extra activities. They entered 10,458 periodicals, or 1,433 more than
in 1932. Among these were 204 volumes and 1,092 parts that they
obtained by special exchange letters in the process of completing
standard sets. They also began 86 new exchanges for the Museum;
sent 795 volumes to the bindery; cataloged 2,108 volumes, 954 pam-
phlets, and 15 charts; and added 20,242 cards to the catalogs and
shelf lists. Until toward the close of the year the library work for the
National Gallery of Art was done, as usual, by the main library staff;
it consisted of entering 428 periodicals and cataloging 344 volumes and
80 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

93 pamphlets. The number of volumes and parts sent to the sectional
libraries for filing was 5,901. The number of intramural loans was
8,344, of which more than a third were made at the loan desk in the
Arts and Industries Building. Of these, 2,359 publications were
borrowed from the Library of Congress and 535 from other libraries,
including those of the Department of Agriculture, Geological Survey,
Army Medical Museum; and the Boston Public Library, Cleveland
Public Library, John Crerar Library, Newberry Library; the libraries
of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, American Mu-
seum of Natural History, Arnold Arboretum, Field Museum of
Natural History, Museum of Comparative Zoology, Peabody Museum;
and Columbia, Harvard, Johns Hopkins, Michigan, Pennsylvania,
Princeton, and Yale Universities. In all, 42 publications were bor-
rowed from libraries out of town, and 30 lent to them. The number
of publications returned to the Library of Congress was 2,526 and to
other libraries 608.

The staff filed the Wistar Institute cards to date and sorted and
distributed the systematic set of the Concilium Bibliographicum
cards to the sectional libraries. They began the rearrangement and
classifying of the contents of the manuscript case, taking up first the
Berlandier manuscripts, consisting of several thousand pages mainly
on the natural history of Mexico. They returned hundreds of publi-
cations no longer needed to the Superintendent of Documents, and
transferred other hundreds to the Library of Congress, the Patent
Office, and Howard University.

One of the most important tasks of the staff during the year was
making analyticals for the first 36 volumes of the Proceedings of the
National Museum. This work was undertaken in cooperation with
the Library of Congress, to which the 1,694 manuscript cards prepared
were sent for printing, and completes the analysis of this well-known
set of Museum publications. Library of Congress printed cards will
soon be available for all the publications that have been issued by the
Smithsonian Institution and its bureaus. Several sets of these cards
are being received by the library, of which two are being filed in the
union and Museum catalogs. One is also being used as the basis of
the dictionary index that was begun at the Smithsonian early in the
year. Finally, the difficult task of reorganizing the technological
library in the Old Museum was notably advanced. The wooden
shelving in the north gallery on the third floor was replaced by steel
to the extent of 1,134 linear feet, the collections were reshelved, and
a careful reading of the shelves was begun, preparatory to taking an
inventory.

As time permitted, the staff continued to render special assistance
in solving the problems of the sectional libraries, including those of the
divisions of mammals, botany, and physical anthropology.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY: NATIONAL MUSEUM 81

PHOTOGRAPHIC LABORATORY

The photographic laboratory made during the year 3,025 negatives,
20,037 prints, 867 lantern slides, and 104 enlargements; developed 98
rolls of film and 48 film packs; and dry-mounted 39 prints. This
work represents a slight increase over last year in the number of
negatives and prints made, and was required by the National Museum
and by the National Gallery of Art and the Bureau of American
Ethnology, whose photographic needs are supplied by the laboratory
through a cooperative arrangement.

BUILDINGS AND EQUIPMENT

Repairs and alterations—Among the more important repairs and
alterations to Museum buildings performed during the year are the
following:

The exterior walls of the Natural History Building were washed by
a detail of firemen from the District of Columbia Fire Department.

The plaster ceiling and side walls in the north lobby, Natural
History Building, were given three coats of paint, and other painting
was done as needed, both interior and exterior, including the tin roofs
of the Arts and Industries Building and the Smithsonian Building.

The women’s comfort room in the Natural History Building was
thoroughly renovated.

The large second-floor east-corner room and the small room adjoin-
ing it, in the Arts and Industries Building, were remodeled in the
spring of 1933 for the occupancy of the associate director and his
assistants. The small anteroom was also renovated. Also, room
90 was remodeled for the use of the new illustrator.

The cafe dining room in the Arts and Industries Building was
remodeled, the walls and ceiling covered with composition board, and
new fixtures installed.

Work was completed on the installation of the pneumatic collecting
and conveying system in the two woodworking rooms in the carpenter
shop for removing sawdust.

The work of dismantling the George Washington Bicentennial Art
Exhibit was completed in January. The two stone lions on the pedes-
tals at each side of the south steps, Natural History Building, were
removed and shipped to Newport News, Va., for permanent exhibi-
tion. Several of the plaster figures remained in the rotunda, having
been presented to the National Gallery of Art.

Heat, light, and power.—The heat, light, and power plant, located
in the Natural History Building, was in continuous operation for
about 8 months of the year. The consumption of coal was somewhat
more than it was last year, but not above the average for the past few
years. For heat, light, and power production 3,297.1 tons of bitu-
minous coal were purchased at $4.62 a ton.
82 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

The electric current purchased for the Arts and Industries Building
during the year amounted to 124,790 kilowatt-hours and cost $2,849.66,
while the current purchased during the summer for the other buildings
was 264,310 kilowatt-hours and cost $4,645.08, which makes a total of
389,100 kilowatt-hours purchased at a cost of $7,494.74. The rate
per kilowatt-hour was 1.93 cents, which is materially less than for
last year, owing primarily to the fact that the current for the Arts and
Industries Building was on a different schedule. The current
generated in the Museum plant was 621,384 kilowatt-hours, produced
at a cost of 1.63 cents a kilowatt-hour.

When the new lead-covered cables were purchased last year for
enlarging the connection between the Museum lines and the Potomac
Electric Power Co. cables where they enter the Natural History
Building on the north side, the central line was not increased. To
make this connection safe, a new 500,000 circular mils cable was
bought and will be installed during the coming year.

A good deal of electrical repair work has been done during the year,
including not only regular repair and upkeep, but also installation of
new wiring systems where the old wires have been found to be
overloaded or defective.

Repair work too has been necessary on some of the elevators,
especially the automatic push-button elevator in the east end of the
Smithsonian Building, which for safety’s sake should be replaced by
a manually operated car at the earliest possible time.

New electric-light equipment to be installed includes 191 ceiling
fixtures purchased for the third floor of the Natural History Building.

The lighting of the stamp collection, in the Arts and Industries
Building, which has been desired for a long time, has now been com-
pleted. This consists of white porcelain-lined inverted trough reflec-
tors supported from the tops of the cases in such a way as to deflect
the light down against each surface of the slides on which the stamps
are mounted. The method has proved very satisfactory and efficient.

To provide convenient connections for the tweive 500-watt reflec-
tors purchased last year for added interior illumination of the dome
of the Natural History Building, 12 outlet boxes with twin receptacles
have been installed around the rotunda on the fourth floor, with direct
control in the engine room.

The installation of small, low-voltage lamps for microscopic work
in the National Herbarium has gone forward. This method of
furnishing light for such work was begun last year, and has proved so
satisfactory that it has been called for by other workers.

The new heating system at the north front of the Smithsonian
Building was completed and was in operation throughout the year.
Further improvement in heating efficiency was effected by replacing
with new low radiators, in various offices in the Natural History
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY: NATIONAL MUSEUM 83

Building, the radiators of the taller type, some of which were badly
situated. Work has progressed, too, on the installation, begun last
year, of new pipe in the hot-water system in the Natural History
Building. This pipe, brass instead of galvanized iron, will tend to
retard the accumulation of scale and dirt and thus aid in the proper
flow and distribution of the water. Because of the congested location
of the old equipment, the tank and other new apparatus are to be
placed in the east end of the engine room.

Ice production.—The refrigerating machine, located in the base-
ment of the Natural History Building, for manufacturing ice for all
the Museum buildings, was operated a total of 4,058 hours during
the year and produced 413.9 tons of ice at a cost of $827.68, or at the
rate of $2 a ton (35 cents a ton less than for last year). During the
extremely hot weather, it was necessary to purchase 12}; tons of ice,
at a cost of $3.80 a ton.

Fire protection.—The fire alarms in the various Museum buildings
have been regularly inspected and tested, the fire hose examined and
the plugs flushed, and the sprinkler system in the Aircraft Building
properly cared for.

In the Arts and Industries Building some progress was made in
reducing fire hazards along lines recommended by the Federal Fire
Council. The improvements include filling window openings and
open arches with plaster block, replacing wooden partitions with
plaster block, replacing old electric wiring with modern wiring, and
replacing wooden library shelves with steel shelves. Although many
of the fire hazards still remain, especially in the Smithsonian Building
and the Arts and Industries Building, they are being removed as
rapidly as funds permit, and fire protection is being generally improved.

Furniture and fixtures —The furniture added during the year in-
cluded 10 exhibition cases, 365 pieces of storage, office, laboratory,
and other furniture, and 2,373 drawers, boxes, and frames of various
kinds. During the same period, 19 exhibition cases and bases, 93
pieces of storage, office, and laboratory furniture, and 112 wooden
drawers were condemned as unfit for further use.

An inventory of furniture on hand June 30, 1933, showed 3,743
exhibition cases and bases, 17,001 pieces of storage, office, and lab-
oratory furniture, and 103,062 drawers, boxes, and frames.

MEETINGS AND RECEPTIONS

The facilities of the auditorium and lecture room are offered by the
Museum to scientific and educational organizations for regular and
special meetings, and whenever possible it assists in carrying out
their programs. Ninety-five such meetings were held in the audi-
torium and lecture room during the year by a wide range of societies
and organizations.

7217485 ——1
84 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

Memorial meeting —To commemorate the many years of service in
the Smithsonian Institution of Prof. William Henry Holmes, who
died on April 20, 1933, a memorial meeting was held on the morning
of April 22, Dr. Abbot presiding. The meeting was widely attended
by his coworkers and friends.

Receptions.—On the evening of January 26, 1933, a reception was
held by the Washington Real Estate Board in connection with the
convention in Washington of the National Organization of Real
Estate Boards. The foyer and all the first floor of the Natural
History Building were open for the occasion.

About 1,775 persons attended an informal reception given on the
evening of March 28, 1933, in the Natural History Building by the
American Chemical Society, convening in Washington at that time.
Music was furnished by the United States Marine Band, and motion
pictures on chemical subjects were shown in the auditorium.

The Congress of Physicians and Surgeons held a reception for
Members of Congress on the evening of May 9, 1933, in the rotunda,
art gallery, and auditorium of the Natural History Building. Nearly
1,500 persons attended.

Gellatly Art Collection opening.—The official opening of the Gellatly
Art Collection took place in the Natural History Building on the
evening of June 22, 1933. Secretary and Mrs. Abbot, Assistant
Secretary and Mrs. Wetmore, and the Acting Director of the National
Gallery of Art and Mrs. Tolman received.

Special exhibits —The annual forestry notebook contest, under the
auspices of the public schools of the District of Columbia, was held in
the foyer of the Natural History Building, November 16 to 28, 1932.
Some of the notebooks were attached to Museum floor screens, while
others were exhibited on temporary tables furnished by the Museum.

The wooden screens forming alcoves on both sides of the foyer in
the Natural History Building were used from December 10, 1932,
until January 10, 1933, for an exhibit of architectural drawings from
the architectural departments of colleges and schools in the District
of Columbia, which was held under the auspices of the Washington
Chapter of the American Institute of Architects. The exhibition
was opened on the evening of December 10, with a reception in the
foyer. Drawings were exhibited by the following institutions: George
Washington University, University of Maryland, Central High School,
Catholic University of America, Gallaudet College, and McKinley
High School.

From March 30 to April 14, 1933, four alcoves on the west side of
the foyer were assigned for an exhibit of material collected under the
direction of Dr. Paul Bartsch on the Johnson-Smithsonian Deep Sea
Expedition. The deep-sea specimens, in jars, were placed on plain
wooden shelves installed on the semipermanent screens.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY: NATIONAL MUSEUM 85

The foyer was occupied from April 17 until May 5, 1933, for an
exhibition of public school art under the auspices of the Eastern Arts
Association, and from May 8 to 20 part of the foyer was given over to
an exhibition of colored posters on wild-flower preservation, under the
auspices of the Wild Flower Preservation Society.

CHANGES IN ORGANIZATION AND STAFF

The changes this year in organization and staff were caused chiefly
by the compulsory retirement on June 30, 1932, of a number of
employees in key positions. The retirement of W. deC. Ravenel
deprived the department of arts and industries of its director and the
division of history of its administrative supervisor. The duties of
both of these offices were on July 1, 1932, temporarily assumed by
J. EK. Graf, associate director of the Museum. On September 6, 1932,
the position of director of the department of arts and industries was
replaced by a new position of head curator—bringing the department
in line with the natural history departments—and Carl W. Mitman,
curator of engineering, was advanced to the head curatorship. Frank
A. Taylor, assistant curator of engineering, succeeded Mr. Mitman as
curator of the division of engineering. ‘The division of history con-
tinued to remain an independent division, reporting to the head of
the Museum through the associate director.

In the department of biology, the assistant curatorship of the
division of fishes, vacated by the retirement of Barton A. Bean on
June 30, 1932, was filled on January 3, 1933, by the appointment
of Dr. George S. Myers. Dr. Horace G. Richards, assistant curator in
the division of mollusks, resigned on September 10, 1932.

In the department of anthropology, the position of scientific aide
that had been held by Richard A. Allen was abolished, and the clerical
force was strengthened by the appointment of an assistant clerk-
stenographer for the division of ethnology.

In the department of geology, James Benn was made scientific
aide on March 1, 1933, taking over part of the work formerly done
by Miss Margaret W. Moodey.

In the mechanical shops, H. C. Taylor, head of the paint shop, who
retired on June 30, 1932, was succeeded on September 6, 1932, by
William Crossingham, who had been associated with this branch of
the Museum work for over 30 years.

In the administration office, James G. Traylor, appointment clerk,
was retired on June 30, 1932, but he continued as clerk to the Board
of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution. On January 16, 1933,
the appointment work of the Smithsonian Institution was consoli-
dated with the classification and retirement work, and Miss Helen
A. Olmsted, from the administrative office of the Museum, was made
personnel officer of the Institution.
86 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

On August 29, 1932, Carl W. Mitman was appointed contact officer
to represent the Smithsonian Institution in its participation in the
Century of Progress Exposition, Chicago, June 1 to November 1,
1933. On June 15, Roderic F. Davis was made special agent under
Mr. Mitman for work in Chicago.

Honorary connections with the national collections were conferred
on several scientists of note. David I. Bushnell, Jr., long associated
with the ethnological and archeological work of the Institution, was
given an honorary appointment as collaborator in anthropology on
July 27, 1932. J. Townsend Russell, who had for several years held
an honorary position as collaborator in Old World archeology, was
made honorary assistant curator of that subject on May 13, 1933.

In the department of biology, the work of Dr. Charles Branch
Wilson, who has collaborated on Museum collections for a quarter of
a century, was recognized by his honorary appointment on June 30,
1933, as collaborator in Copepoda.

In the department of geology, the active interest for many years of
Dr. August F. Foerste was again recognized, this time by his honorary
appointment on September 29, 1932, as associate in paleontology.
Dr. Foerste served the Museum in an honorary capacity as collabo-
rator in paleontology from April 16 to December 31, 1928.

The Smithsonian was fortunately able, after her retirement from
active Government service, to take advantage of Miss Margaret W.
Moodey’s long experience in identifying, classifying, and cataloging
geological specimens by procuring her services under the income of
the Springer fund as aide for work on the Springer collection of fossil
echinoderms.

Four employees were retired during the year under the provisions
of the Civil Service retirement act. Of these Frank T. Wright,
laborer, was retired for disability on August 31, 1932. Others were
retired because of age limitation, as follows: Margaret W. Moodey,
aide in the department of geology, on December 31, 1932, after over
30 years of service; Ambrose Green, guard, on March 31, 1933, with
nearly 38 years of service; and Walter A. Barkley, guard, on January
15, 1933, after 2 years at the Museum but with other civil and military
service for the Government.

The Museum lost through death 2 active workers and 3 others long
associated with its activities. George Emmert, guard, died on Feb-
ruary 1, 1933, and John J. Veit, guard, on April 26, 1933, after services
of 14 and 15 years, respectively. The death should be recorded, also,
of Dr. Marcus Benjamin, retired, for many years editor of the
National Museum, on October 22, 1932.
DETAILED REPORTS ON THE COLLECTIONS

REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY
(WatterR Houca, Head Curator)

Many things of exceptional value came to the department of
anthropology during the year, mostly by gift. Though exploration,
the source of first-grade scientific material, was curtailed, archeo-
logical work on Kodiak Island and at Point Barrow, Alaska, and
exploration of caves in Texas was continued; a reconnaissance was
made of remains of Indian irrigation projects and house structure in
southern Arizona; and cooperative archeological investigations were
pursued in Europe.

ACCESSIONS FOR THE YEAR

The division of ethnology received 48 accessions and 961 speci-
mens, compared with 60 accessions and 9381 specimens last year.
Noteworthy among them is a series of Philippine material, including
Moro and other Malay textiles collected by Gen. Tasker H. Bliss
while Governor of Moro Province, 1905-9, and presented by Mrs.
Bliss; textiles and beadwork of the Moro, Bagobo, and Igorot Tribes
collected by the late Capt. Lewis Patstone and presented by Miss
M. A. Patstone; and several embroidered garments of Pina cloth,
donated by Miss Sarah S. Metcalf. From Cambodia, Indo-China,
came a crossbow and from China and Japan large and artistic collec-
tions of lacquer, porcelains, brasses, bronzes, ivory carvings, and
many objects of minor art. Africa is represented by an inscribed gold
ring from the Gold Coast and by a miscellaneous ethnological collec-
tion from the Kivu district, Belgian Congo, presented by Miss Ellen
I. Burk. A headdress and war club from Rapa Island, Society
Group, came as the gift of Stanley W. Bird. Russia is the source of
a small collection of brasses, including an excellent samovar, teapot,
and tray, the gift of Mrs. F. Ostrach. Mexican material received
includes Guadalajara earthenware, the gift of Miss Susan P. Keech,
and horse trappings of braided horsehair.

By transfer from the Bureau of American Ethnology, a unique
collection was received from the Chama Indians of the Ucayali
River area of Peru and from several Jivaro groups of eastern Ecuador.
This material was obtained by M. W. Stirling, chief of the Beurau,
while a member of the Latin-American expedition to eastern Ecuador

87
88 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

and Peru, and scientifically is the outstanding collection of the year,
though intrinsically the gift of imperial Chinese porcelains, brasses,
and other objects of high art secured in Peiping by Gen. Charles A.
Coolidge in 1900, and presented by Mrs. Coolidge, is of first rank.
The Mrs. Alexius McGlannan collection of Japanese, Chinese, and
European folk and minor arts is likewise highly valuable.

The bequest to the National Museum by the late Osage chief,
Tom Baconrind, of his personal belongings and ceremonial parapher-
nalia aroused unusual interest, as Chief Baconrind was prominent in
Oklahoma and learned in the ceremonial lore of his tribe. He assisted
the late Francis La Flesche, of the Bureau of American Ethnology, in
his studies of the Osage language. The Baconrind gift includes
decorative embellishments of native Indian, peyote, and Christian
cult elements. A valuable addition to the collection of historical and
comparative religious art is the large gift from the estate of Mrs. Alice
Pike Barney.

In the division of archeology 64 new accessions, totaling 2,737
specimens, were added, as against 69 accessions and 6,712 specimens
during the previous year. The following are worthy of special
notice: 339 stone, bone, and wooden implements, basketry, and other
materials collected by Frank M. Setzler from six caves in Brewster
County, Tex.; 477 flint implements from Aurignacian, Upper Paleo-
lithic, and other early cultural horizons in two caves at the foot of
Mount Carmel, Palestine, collected by the American School of
Prehistoric Research and received as a loan from the Archaeological
Society of Washington; 789 stone, bone, and ivory implements and
ornaments collected by Dr. Ales Hrdli¢ka on Kodiak Island, Alaska;
58 specimens of stone and copper implements and pottery collected in
Ecuador by M. W. Stirling; 218 stone artifacts from Monasuka-
panough and other Indian village sites, mostly in Albemarle County,
Va., collected and presented by D. I. Bushnell, Jr.; 58 stone, shell, and
earthenware objects from five village sites in Puerto Rico, collected
by Gerrit S. Miller, Jr.; 26 earthenware vessels and stone implements
from Ometepe Island, Lake Nicaragua, presented by Corp. Emil
M. Krieger; 9 wood carvings, copper pins, and an earthenware effigy
collected at Pachacamac and other prehistoric sites in Peru and
presented by George Hewitt Myers; a quipu, or knotted string record,
and 15 fragments of textiles from Pachacamac and Trapiche ruins,
Peru, a gift from Mrs. J. P. Compton; 38 lots of potsherds, bone
projectile points, and implements from the Gran Chaco of Argentina,
from E. R. Wagner, Museo Arcaico Provincial, Santiago del Estero,
Argentina.

In the division of physical anthropology 18 accessions, 658 speci-
mens, included important skull and skeletal material from Kodiak
Island, Aleutian Islands, Point Barrow, and St. Lawrence Island,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY: NATIONAL MUSEUM 89

Alaska, and from California and New Mexico. A series of 262
photographs of Filipinos came from Dr. R. B. Bean.

Two accessions were received in the section of musical instruments;
7 (378 specimens) in the section of ceramics, including 80 pieces of
older glass and pottery and 143 pieces of Irish and American Belleek
ware; and 8 (141 specimens) in art textiles, including noteworthy
embroideries and laces.

INSTALLATION AND PRESERVATION OF COLLECTIONS

New exhibits were arranged for each of the major exhibition halls
assigned to ethnology. South American exhibits were enriched by a
large collection of Chama pottery from a group once believed not to
practice pottery manufacture. The collection shows them to be the
equal of the Coneba in producing a thin-walled, creamy-textured
ware. This and three additional exhibit units resulting from the
Latin-American expedition to eastern Ecuador have been installed.
Material included is from various groups of Jivaro and comprises
blowguns, looms and weaving apparatus, woven textiles, decorated
pottery, and potterymaking implements, objects of personal adorn-
ment, and various objects representing decadent stages in the art of
head-hunting. Mexican folk pottery and examples of the folk arts
of Mexican, Nicaraguan, and Guatemalan peoples were assembled
to form a new exhibit in the Mexican alcove. This includes textiles,
wood carving, model figures in wax, and objects of personal adorn-
ment. The Colombian and Panamanian exhibits were improved
through the addition of the W. W. Archer Choco collection and the
M. W. Stirling Tule and Choco material.

A case was arranged to show historical Indian sculpture from
modern Indian tribes. Masks and figurine carvings in wood collected
by Gibbs, Stuckley, and Wilkes from tribes of the Columbia Valley
and the Pacific Northwest are shown, as well as a portrait bust of
himself modeled by the Ute, Chief Shem, and the famous Haida
slate carving known as the ‘‘Bear Mother.”

During the year the division of archeology concentrated its
efforts on complete revision of the hall devoted to Old World pre-
history. An important feature is the synoptic series, portraying
diagrammatically the cultural evolution of man in relation to geo-
logical events, from Pliocene times to the period of modern civiliza-
tion, and including type artifacts, charts showing environmental
conditions, and water-color sketches suggesting characteristic human
activities and industries of the successive periods. Other major
exhibits installed deal with the following cultures: Eolithic, pre-
Chellean, Chellean, Acheulian, Micoqien, Mousterian, Aurignacian,
Magdalenian, Azilian, Final Capsian, Maglemosian, the Proto-
90 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

Neolithic of France and Italy (Campignian), of Scandinavia (Erte-
bglle), and of Central Africa and India, the Neolithic of western,
northern, and Alpine Europe, of North Africa, Indo-China, Ja
and Siberia, and the later Sumerian-Babylonian.

Five charts tracing the correlation between cultural and geo-
logical events in the Old World, 5 illustrations for the synoptic
series, 13 maps showing cultural distributions, and 6 maps depicting
the range of glacial advance and retreat were prepared and in-
corporated in the exhibits.

Study collections of the Paleolithic and Neolithic periods were
reclassified and the accompanying records corrected wherever neces-
sary to include new information. These have also been regrouped
into cultural-geographical series, so that students may examine the
material with greater ease and effectiveness. The collection from
Casa Grande, southern Arizona, secured early in the present century
by the late Jesse Walter Fewkes, was reexamined, and the exhibit
illustrating the material culture of this famous ruin was greatly
improved.

In the division of physical anthropology a temporary exhibit
of 6 cases was arranged from the newly recovered Alaska (Kodiak
Island) materials, and 3 cases of new exhibits were added to the
permanent display. A case of exhibits prepared for the National
Academy of Sciences meeting in April remained for 2 weeks on view
in the academy. Two cases of exhibits were prepared for the meet-
ing of the American Surgical Association.

INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH

In ethnology, Henry B. Collins, Jr., continued the study of Eskimo
archeology, particularly on materials collected by himself, J. A.
Ford, and M. B. Chambers. For several years the Smithsonian
Institution has conducted archeological studies along the west
Alaskan coast, to obtain data on the chronological sequence of
certain early phases of Eskimo culture. During this year and
last the scene has been shifted to the north Alaska coast in the
vicinity of Pomt Barrow. Here the problem involved concerns the
historical sequence of Punuk and Thule phases of Eskimo culture.
James A. Ford spent the winter of 1931-32 at Point Barrow on the
Arctic coast and devoted the following summer to excavating at
several old Eskimo sites in the region. Point Barrow has for some
time been recognized as one of the most important places archeo-
logically in Alaska, since it was the westernmost limit of the extinct
Thule culture, which centered in northern Canada, and also the most
eastward point to which the Old Bering Sea culture extended. Mr.
Ford’s excavations were the first of a systematic nature to be car-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY: NATIONAL MUSEUM 91

ried on at this strategic point, and the material obtained throws
light on the relationships between the Thule, Punuk, and Old Bering
Sea cultures. Mr. Collins also devoted some time to research on
southeastern archeology, and participated in the conference on
southern prehistory held by the National Research Council at
Birmingham, Ala., in December.

Phases of Arawakan occupation of the Greater Antilles have
become known through five seasons of active field work by Smith-
sonian expeditions sponsored by Dr. W. L. Abbott in the Dominican
Republic, Haiti, and Cuba. Problems involved concern the inter-
relationships among Ciboney, Arawak, Carib, and perhaps other
tribal cultures in central and western Cuba. H. W. Krieger during
the year studied material assembled on these expeditions and belong-
ing to these tribal cultures. The greater problem of northern and
southern affiliation of the prehistoric Antillean cultures is much
nearer a solution, but much work remains to be done in Venezuela,
Puerto Rico, the Bahamas, and perhaps Florida. The 1932 season’s
work, during which Mr. Krieger investigated mounds, earthworks,
and kitchenmiddens in central and western Cuba, has confirmed
the belief of students that Mayan influence did not reach western
Cuba. It was also found that pre-Arawak cultures of the Ciboney
type are much more extensive than had previously been known.
The principal evidence for this is the large number of village sites
yielding no pottery.

Art design areas of North America and of Oceania and certain
problems connected with the distribution of aboriginal application
of design were other topics of research by Mr. Krieger. The quilled
and painted designs on the George Catlin collection of Indian cos-
tumes from unidentified northern Plains tribes, and the costumes
displayed in the Indian portraits by George Catlin, also received
his attention. The culture of the historic tidewater Indians of
Virginia, Maryland, and the Carolinas continues of major interest.
The strictly prehistoric cultures and the physical anthropology of
this area are receiving the attention, respectively, of Frank M.
Setzler and Dr. T. Dale Stewart.

The curator of archeology, Neil M. Judd, continued work on his
report on the Pueblo Bonito explorations of the National Geographic
Society. Assistant Curator Setzler studied archeological material
he had previously collected in the Big Bend region of Texas and
published a description of certain fragmentary vessels from east-
central Louisiana collected in 1926 by the late Gerard Fowke. The
importance of these fragments lies in their definite resemblance to
a type of pottery generally designated by archeologists as ‘‘ Hopewell”’
and heretofore reported only from the northern Mississippi Valley.
92 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

Research by the curator of physical anthropology, Dr. Ales
Hrdliéka, was concentrated on his field work in Alaska and on study
of the skeletal materials brought back. He also finished an extensive
work on ‘‘The Anthropology of the Pueblos”, measured the col-
lection of Chinese skeletons, and prepared for publication a mono-
graph on ‘‘Ear Exostoses: Contribution to Racial Pathology.”
The assistant curator, Dr. T. D. Stewart, measured the tympanic
plate and external auditory meatus in the Eskimo, California Indians,
and related groups; tested the skull-capacity machine and studied
the skull-capacity problem in general; studied the vertebral column
in the Eskimo; and continued research on the hair directions of
primates.

DISTRIBUTION AND EXCHANGE OF SPECIMENS

Four gifts made to other institutions included 72 specimens.
One lot consisted of prehistoric Eskimo objects collected in dupli-
cate by Dr. Hrdlitka and Mr. Collins. Two small gifts represent-
ing the history of the Japanese Red Cross Society were made to
the National Red Cross Museum of Washington, D.C., and a large
collection was sent to the City Museum of Talladega, Ala. Sixteen
specimens were transferred to the divisions of textiles and archeology.

During the year eight lots of archeological material (612 speci-
mens) were sent out in exchange or as gifts to educational institu-
tions, as follows: 104 specimens (gift) for scientific purposes to
Rev. David C. Graham, Suifu, Szechwan, China; 167 specimens
(gift) to the City Museum of Talladega, Ala.; 1 cast of a slate tube
to Dr. Charles Back, Montezuma, Ind., in exchange for permission
to make and retain a cast of the original; 4 lots of potsherds (gift)
to the Antelope Valley Museum, Lancaster, Calif.; 3 casts of Easter
Island wooden tablets as a gift to the Musée d’Ethnographie, Palais
du Trocadero, Paris; 4 casts (2 sendings) to W. J. Curtis, Piqua, Ky.,
in exchange for permission to make similar replicas; 329 Old World
archeological specimens (gift) to the Hastings College Museum, Hast-
ings, Nebr.

NUMBER OF SPECIMENS UNDER DEPARTMENT

During the year the department received 131 accessions, a total
of 4,877 specimens. Of these, 4 accessions comprising 510 specimens
were loans. The material was distributed as follows: Ethnology,
48 accessions (961 specimens); archeology, 64 accessions (2,737
specimens); physical anthropology, 18 accessions (658 specimens);
musical instruments, 2 accessions (2 specimens); ceramics, 7 ac-
cessions (378 specimens); and art textiles, 8 accessions (141 specimens).
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY: NATIONAL MUSEUM 93

On June 30, 1933, the total number of specimens in the depart-
ment of anthropology was as follows:

PtnmOlOgy see 2.5 Set oe eo 187, 919
PIPBHCOMI EVER to ia ois 2 eee ee, as ee ee Se 440, 817
PHYsICal Anthropology. 2.02.2 24225 22.20 ce 33, 497
Miusicaltingtnuments: 2 eee ee ee ee es 2, 074
Oy 2 rar 101 Cel: Ae ee ge re a ee ee ey 6, 178
ARG teXt eget se Bele ee spa RS ahd 2 han Ae od 1, 528
Anthropology (not assigned)_____._______.---___--_--- 9
REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY
(LEONHARD STEJNEGER, Head Curator)

The past year promises to open a new era in the development
of the divisions which deal with marine fauna, especially of the
deeper waters of the ocean. Thanks to Eldridge R. Johnson’s
initiative and offer of the use of his yacht Caroline, together with
generous funds for its equipment for oceanographic work, the first
Johnson-Smithsonian Deep-Sea Expedition, under the direction of
Dr. Paul Bartsch, curator of mollusks, made a successful cruise of
exploration of the Puerto Rican Deep, which resulted in greatly
enriching the Museum collections, in addition to giving observations
bearing on biological, chemical, and physical problems of the ocean.

Capt. G. Allan Hancock generously offered the Museum participa-
tion in the Hancock Galapagos expedition on the yacht Velero III
during a 3-months’ oceanographic cruise to the Galapagos Islands
and the western coast of Central America. Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt,
curator of marine invertebrates, was detailed for this service and
returned with much valuable material, chiefly crustacean, for the
Museum collections.

ACCESSIONS FOR THE YEAR

There were 1,200 accessions for the year with a total of 295,782
specimens, more than double the number received during the previ-
ous year. Through the two expeditions alluded to, the scientific
importance of the invertebrate material is probably greater than
that of the vertebrate, though the high scientific value of some of
the fish collections should be emphasized, as well as the acquisition
of material of various classes from French Indo-China, important
on account of the locality being hitherto poorly represented in the
Museum. Dr. Hugh M. Smith’s collections of Siamese mammals,
birds, and mollusks maintain their standing as first-class contribu-
tions, and the first collections from Dr. D. C. Graham after his
return to his old field in China are coming up to the expectations
raised by previous experience. Many of the plant collections ac-
cessioned during the year are scientifically of a high order.

Mammals.—The outstanding accession was the skull, with six
blades of baleen, of the bowhead whale (Balaena mysticetus), col-
lected by J. A. Ford at Point Barrow, Alaska. This is the first
skull of its kind to come to any museum from the Pacific side of

94
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY: NATIONAL MUSEUM 95

the Arctic Ocean, and the only bowhead in any American museum,
while in European museums the species is represented by less than
half a dozen specimens. From Dr. Hugh M. Smith in Siam 151
mammals, supplementing the large collections of previous years,
were received. By exchange with H. J. V. Sody, Buitenzorg, Java,
59 mammal skins with skulls from Java and Celebes, were obtained,
mostly forms new to the Museum. W. G. Sheldon and Richard
Borden presented 63 specimens collected in British Columbia. Dr.
R. K. Enders collected in Panama 51 mammals for the Museum,
two species being new to the region. Noteworthy among the many
specimens obtained from the National Zoological Park by transfer
were a young mountain gorilla, Cacajao calvus, Hylobates agilis, and
a young fur seal born at the park. Two gibbons (/7ylobates hoolock),
a species new to the Museum, were obtained in exchange, and a skele-
ton of a dugong, from Australia, by purchase.

Birds.—The 456 birdskins and 2 skeletons from Siam sent by Dr.
Hugh M. Smith take first place. James Ford collected 169 bird-
skins in Alaska, and Dr. A. Wetmore 95 skins and 388 skeletons in
the southwestern United States, besides about 100 local birds. A
number of species and genera new to the Museum were obtained by
exchange, including an Hawaiian honey creeper (Paroreomyza
flammea), 10 forms of hummingbirds, and 13 of other birds. A
skin and skeleton of the rare Hawaiian goose (Nesochen sandvicensis)
were presented by the Commissioners of Agriculture and Forestry
at Honolulu, and the first known nestling wandering tattlers (//etero-
scelus incanus), collected by Joseph S. Dixon, came from the National
Park Service. Among transfers of specimens from the National
Zoological Park was an egg of the California condor. Eggs of
148 forms hitherto not represented in the Museum were obtained
in exchange. Percy Shufeldt placed a valuable collection of 2,316
birdskins on deposit in the division.

Reptiles and amphibians.—The largest additions of the year came
from Dr. C. E. Burt, the most important being collected for the
Museum during a trip to the upper reaches of the Tennessee and
Cumberland Rivers, when he obtained 1,491 specimens. He also
donated 1,325 specimens from the West. An important collection
from Puerto Rico containing topotype material of some recently
described frogs was the result of G. S. Miller’s visit to that island
early in 1932. Three small herpetological collections obtained from
French Indo-China are highly important as the locality was not
represented in the Museum collections previously, except for a few
specimens recently received. From the National Zoological Park
the division received by transfer an unusually interesting lot of
animals, among which is a series of the pipa, or Surinam toad. A
splendidly preserved series of Californian Batrachoseps is of great
96 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

value for the study of that difficult group of salamanders. A good
collection of reptiles and amphibians from Kansas was contributed
by H. K. Gloyd.

Fishes —Of special importance was the fine collection of fishes
obtained by the Johnson-Smithsonian Deep-Sea Expedition off Puerto
Rico, containing many remarkable deep-sea forms, among them a
new genus and species of Triacanthidae, the second one of the family
to be recorded from the New World. Another collection of great
interest is a lot of 67 specimens presented by Dr. George S. Myers,
assistant curator of fishes, consisting mostly of type specimens of
West African and South American fresh-water fishes described by
the donor and others. Holotypes of 2 species, cotypes of 8, and
paratypes of 13 are included. Altogether this accession brings to the
Museum 26 species, 13 genera, and 1 family hitherto not represented
in its collections. From the United States Bureau of Fisheries a fine
series of 1,177 fishes from the Catawba and Tuckasegee Rivers,
N.C., including the type of a new darter, and another lot consisting
of 3 type specimens from the Gulf of Mexico, were received by
transfer. C. R. Aschemeier obtained 1,959 fresh-water fishes in
Florida, partly collected for the Museum, partly as a gift. The
British Museum presented two paratypes of Notobranchius kiyawensis.
Two paratypes of a new smelt were a gift from Dr. L. P. Schultz, of
the University of Washington. A specimen of Gempylus serpens, a
species new to the Museum, was presented by Eastham Guild,
Papeete, Tahiti. From Dr. D. C. Graham came a collection of
fishes from Szechwan, China.

Insects.—The outstanding accession of the year was the Edward
T. Owen collection of Lepidoptera, comprising about 40,000 beauti-
fully preserved specimens and including many species new to the
Museum. The collection represents the life work of Professor Owen
and was received from the executor of his estate. Frank Johnson, of
New York City, made several gifts of rare species of Lepidoptera of
great value, numbering in all 1,030 specimens, of species not previ-
ously in the Museum or poorly represented. Two important dona-
tions of Microlepidoptera, including about 600 specimens each, were
obtained from the British Museum and Edward Meyrick. M. W.
Stirling, Chief of the Bureau of American Ethnology, brought back
from his South American trip 350 Lepidoptera from Peru. The
collection of the late Prof. P. R. Lowry, Durham, N.H., comprising
908 slides of insects, mostly plant lice, was donated by his widow.
By exchange with O. Ringdahl, Haelsingborg, Sweden, 273 named
Diptera of the family Anthomyiidae, in which he is a distinguished
specialist, were obtained, an accession furnishing a large representation
of the northern European fauna. Two lots of miscellaneous insects,
comprising about 3,800 specimens, came from Indo-China, an im-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY: NATIONAL MUSEUM 97

portant addition as the Museum has little material from that region.
L. D. Christenson, Wellsville, Utah, donated a collection of 4,550
Cuban insects, and D. S. Bullock of Angol, Chile, continued his
liberal contributions. About 15,000 insects were transferred to the
Museum by the United States Bureau of Entomology, being mis-
cellaneous material received for identification from field workers.
Marine invertebrates —The total number of specimens received was
15,160, of which the following accessions were of special interest:
From the estate of the late Dr. Charles Dwight Marsh, his important
collection of 3,307 slide mounts of copepods was acquired, including
representative material of 26 new species. Capt. Robert A. Bartlett,
New York City, presented a large collection of miscellaneous marine
invertebrates taken in northwest Greenland waters. Dr. Waldo L.
Schmitt collected series of specimens at the Tortugas, Fla., and also
a large collection of Crustacea from the Galapagos Islands, during the
cruise of the Velero III, of which mention has already been made.
The collections brought home by the Johnson-Smithsonian Deep-Sea
Expedition, under direction of Dr. Paul Bartsch, were highly impor-
tant. Dr. R. E. Coker, University of North Carolina, presented
alcoholic specimens of copepods, comprising holotypes, paratypes,
and other important material representative of species to be de-
scribed by him. P. Hummelinck, of Utrecht, Holland, contributed
85 crustaceans, including types, from the Dutch islands off the coast
of Venezuela. The deposition of type specimens of new species
included the type of a new sponge, by Dr. James T. Penney, University
of South Carolina; the type of new species of crab, described by Dr.
Mary J. Rathbun, donated by the Museu Paulista, Sao Paulo, Brazil;
and the type and 3 paratypes of a new species of parasitic copepod by
Wilbur M. Tidd, Ohio State University. An important collection of
60 microscopic slide mounts and 49 alcoholic specimens of isopods
was obtained from Dr. K. W. Verhoeff, Pasing, Bavaria.
Mollusks.—One of the most important accessions of the year is
that of 5,550 mollusks taken principally from the Puerto Rican Deep,
during the Johnson-Smithsonian Deep-Sea Expedition. Four acces-
sions, 100,500 specimens, are credited to the Frances Lea Chamber-
lain fund, including material from the Maynard collection of Cerions.
Dr. Hugh M. Smith contributed 575 specimens of mollusks from
Siam; Brother Daniel, Colegio de San José, Medellin, Colombia, 66
specimens of land, fresh-water, and marine shells; and Walter F,
Webb, Rochester, N.Y., 161 specimens from the United States and
Australia. A donation from Mrs. Isabel B. Hendry, Rosslyn, Va.,
contains about 3,100 specimens of land, fresh-water, and marine
shells, and 1 from Miss Florence S. Gilson, Nyack, N.Y., 1,400
specimens, mostly marine mollusks. From Dr. C. G. Aguayo,
Habana, Cuba, were received 67 specimens of land shells from that
98 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

island, and from the zoological section of the University of Stellen-
bosch, South Africa, 140 specimens. The type and paratype of a
new fresh-water mussel from Florida were presented by Berlin Hart
Wright, Penn Yan, N.Y.; 16 paratypes from Santo Domingo by
Dr. H. A. Pilsbry, Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, and
3 cotypes from the Philippine Islands by Dr. Fred Baker, Point Loma,
Calif.

Corals —More than 200 specimens were received, nearly all from
the Johnson-Smithsonian Deep-Sea Expedition.

Helminths —The total number of helminths accessioned is 1,068.

Echinoderms.—The most important of the 10 accessions received
during the year is that from the Johnson-Smithsonian Deep-Sea
Expedition, including a large number of specimens of species from
moderately deep water in the Caribbean region that have not been
collected since the explorations of the Blake in 1877-80, the Albatross
in 1884-87, and the Fish Hawk in 1899.

Plants.—Accessions for the year comprised 56,125 specimens, most
important of which are as follows: 24,124 specimens were transferred
by the United States Department of Agriculture, mostly from the
Bureau of Plant Industry, 4,062 being grasses and 15,308 Argentine
specimens collected by Venturi. About 3,600 duplicate specimens
of the historic Mutis Herbarium, received as an exchange with the
Botanical Garden at Madrid, Spain, through the efforts of E. P.
Killip, will be of great importance in the study of South American
plants. A considerable number of South American plants were
obtained from the British Museum (Natural History). Several other
tropical American collections were received in exchange, among them
765 specimens of the Ecklon-Zeyler expedition from the Natural
History Museum at Vienna, Austria; 530 plants from the Royal
Botanic Gardens, Kew, England; 984 plants from the Botanical
Museum at Copenhagen, Denmark; 1,141 specimens from the Natural
History Riksmuseum in Stockholm, Sweden; 1,257 specimens, mainly
from Peru, from the Field Museum of Natural History, Chicago;
1,709 specimens from British Honduras, Guatemala, and Sumatra
from the University of Michigan. Similarly, 1,619 Chinese plants
were received from Lingnan University, Canton, and 500 from the
University of Nanking, China; 744 plants collected in the Hawaiian,
Fiji, and Society Islands from the Bernice P. Bishop Museum in
Honolulu; and 886 mainly Chinese, West African, and Cuban plants
from the Arnold Arboretum, Harvard University. C. V. Morton
collected 1,897 plants for the Museum at Oaxaca, Mexico, with the
assistance of Dr. Emil Makrinius. The University of Vermont gave
the National Herbarium 306 specimens collected in Mexico by C. G.
Pringle, the lot consisting of numbers not previously represented in
the collections. Among the numerous gifts by institutions and
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY: NATIONAL MUSEUM 99

individuals were 464 specimens from the Death Valley region, Calif.,
by the National Geographic Society; 470 specimens from Nicaragua,
by the Instituto Pedagégico de Varones, Managua; 449 specimens
from the Santa Marta region, Colombia, by Dr. William Seifriz,
University of Pennsylvania; 279 specimens from eastern Peru, by
Guillermo Klug, Iquitos; 244 specimens from Colombia, by Baltazar
Guevara Amortegui; 341 specimens from Panama, by Brother Paul,
Colegio de la Salle; and 576 specimens from the State of Washington,
by J. William Thompson, Seattle.

INSTALLATION AND PRESERVATION OF COLLECTIONS

The main work of the taxidermists was the mounting of a hippo-
potamus and the construction of a biological group of the Haitian
ground iguana. The District of Columbia faunal exhibit continued
under the care of Dr. Bartsch, who kept it current and made additions,
notably a mounted specimen of the Louisiana heron.

Additional half-unit cases were supplied in the division of mammals
for the rearrangement of the primate skins, all of which are now
grouped together. Considerable work was done in rearranging smaller
mammal skins, especially rodents and carnivores. The skeleton
collection also was rearranged. The carnivore and larger rodent
skulls of the Merriam collection, which has hitherto been kept intact
as a separate unit, were intercalated in the general collection. Twelve
large and medium-sized mammal skins were tanned on outside
contract, and 13 skins were tanned by taxidermists of the Museum,
who also degreased and made up 79 skins, skinned or prepared for
skeletons 26 mammals, and removed 15 sets of gibbon leg bones.
Fifty-five skeletons, mostly large, 145 skulls, and 14 sets of leg bones
were cleaned. Contract work on small and medium-sized skulls and
skeletons resulted in cleaning 695 skulls and 130 skeletons.

About two thirds of the birdskins received during the year were
distributed in the study series. Of collections previously held up as
separate units awaiting identification and study, the nonpasserine
birds of the Roosevelt and Aschemeier African collections were identi-
fied and distributed. About one fourth of the large Siamese collec-
tions was worked up and distributed, as well as the rest of the
Museum’s Chinese birds. The skeletal material collected by H. B.
Collins, Jr., on St. Lawrence Island was also identified. The work of
expanding and rearranging the crowded parts of the study series
included many groups of birds. The collection of alcoholic specimens
was completely overhauled and all unidentified material culled out.
The work of the preparators included skinning 108 birds, degreasing
and remaking 158 skins, mounting two birds for the District collec-
tion, cleaning 292 skeletons, skeletonizing 220 birds, and blowing
40 eggs.

72774—35—8
100 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

In the division of reptiles and batrachians, 6,310 newly identified
specimens were incorporated in the collection. Dry preparations
were added to the turtle collection as follows: 6 skeletons, 121 skulls,
59 shells; 71 study skins were also prepared, and a number of other
reptile skins and skeletons made.

The division of fishes, during the vacancy caused by B. A. Bean’s
retirement on June 30, 1932, was ably cared for by E. D. Reid, under
the immediate supervision of the head curator, until Dr. G. S. Myers,
the new assistant curator, took charge. The large collection, mostly
of Albatross fishes, for many years at Stanford University for study
by the late David Starr Jordan and Charles Henry Gilbert, was
packed and forwarded to Washington by Dr. Myers.

Dr. J. M. Aldrich, curator of insects, whose work was confined to
Diptera, considerably improved the arrangement of several families.
Dr. Alan Stone transferred all the mosquito collection to standard
museum insect drawers and metal-covered cases and further rear-
ranged the family Tabanidae. In the Coleoptera, H. A. Barber
rearranged and expanded special groups and made a preliminary
rearrangement of Philippine hispids. Dr. M. W. Blackman rear-
ranged the Museum collection of 22 genera of the family Scolytidae.
Dr. A. G. Béving continued to supervise the coleopterous larval
collection. Nearly 3,000 jars of this material have been prepared
and filled in the past 2 years. L. L. Buchanan studied and rearranged
specimens of Hylobius and Lepidophorus, of the carabid genus
Monoferonia, of the long series of granary weevils of the genus
Sitophilus, and of the coffee-bean weevil. In addition he selected
a synoptic series of the species of the genus Calendra and identified
and arranged more than 3,000 North American specimens of the
weevil genus Apion. Dr. EK. A. Chapin made progress in arrange-
ment of the scarabaeid beetles of the subfamilies Melolonthinae,
Dynastinae, and Cetoniinae. W.S. Fisher completed rearrangement
of the Mexican, Central American, and South American species of
Cerambycidae and rearranged and to some extent classified the
Oriental Cerambycidae.

In Lepidoptera the specialists proceeded with the incorporation of
the great Owen collection into the general Museum series. Foster
H. Benjamin consolidated all the North American Noctuidae of the
subfamily Catocalinae, which now occupies 67 large drawers and 36
standard museum drawers. A similar rearrangement for the North
American Noctuidae of the subfamily Agrotinae was partially com-
pleted. August Busck completed the incorporation of the Micro-
lepidoptera from the Barnes collection into the general Museum series.
Carl Heinrich added the Barnes collection material of the subfamilies
Calleriinae and Macrothecinae to the general collection. Dr. William
Schaus was active in expanding and rearranging the exotic Macro-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY: NATIONAL MUSEUM 101

lepidoptera in order to care for the additional specimens that have
become available during the year. He also completed a new arrange-
ment of the family Epiplemidae and did much work on the Owen
collection.

In Hymenoptera R. A. Cushman expanded and rearranged some
of the groups and subfamilies in the Ichneumonidae. A. B. Gahan
undertook some rearrangement due to the addition of material.
C. F. W. Muesebeck arranged the Braconidae of the subfamily
Aphidiinae and the exotic specimens of the subfamily Microgasterinae.
Miss Grace A. Sandhouse completely rearranged the collections of
aculeates. In addition, the aculeate Hymenoptera of the old Fitch
collection were worked over and incorporated into the rerular Museum
collections. The North American material of the genus Pemphredon
was identified and arranged; and the neotropical species of Try-
poxylon were incorporated in the collection. Many undetermined
Psammocharidae were sorted and grouped into genera, and the
North American specimens of the genus Pepsis were identified and
arranged.

In orthopteroids and neuropteroids, A. N. Caudell continued
arrangement of the regular Museum material and made some progress
in working up the Baker Philippine material. Dr. H. E. Ewing
undertook to arrange the spider collection and sorted out and properly
segregated various mixed lots of material in the groups assigned to
him. In Hemiptera, H. G. Barber rearranged the entire Heteroptera
collection. He now has the true bugs in a satisfactory natural order
so that material is readily accessible. P. W. Oman rearranged
Museum material in the Homoptera, involving various United States
and Canadian Fulgoridae, and supervised the transfer of the extensive
North American Psyllidae collection to trays and partly rearranged
this material. He also arranged the South American species of leaf-
hoppers of the genus Agallia and its relatives, as well as a large part
of the West Indian and Central American Cicadellidae.

The alcoholic collection in the division of marine invertebrates is
in excellent shape, owing chiefly to the efficient services of the laborer
recently assigned to the division. Temporary clerical assistance
made it possible to bring the cataloging of identified specimens about
up to date. Work on the study collection of the division of mollusks
has progressed steadily but slowly. Members of the zoological
division staff of the United States Bureau of Animal Industry gave
the helminthological collection its periodical overhauling. The usual
curatorial work was done in the collection of echinoderms.

About 25,000 mounted phanerogams were added to the main
herbarium, mostly recent South American material; 33,883 mounted
specimens were stamped and recorded, preparatory to incorporation
in the collection. The segregation of type specimens of American
102 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

phanerogams was continued by E. P. Killip and E. H. Walker, 18,768
types of new species and varieties having now been labeled, cataloged,
and placed in heavy individual covers. Also 4,225 photographs of
type specimens of American plants in other herbaria (chiefly Euro-
pean) were mounted separately on herbarium sheets for distribution
into the herbarium. As in previous years, E. C. Leonard, in addition
to his ordinary duties, regularly devoted some time to the moss collec-
tion, and recently began similar curatorial work on the Hepaticae,
of which a large number await incorporation in the herbarium.

The C. G. Lloyd mycological collection has been maintained in
accordance with the terms of agreement under which it was deposited.
There is great need of a comprehensive index of Mr. Lloyd’s mycologi-
cal writings, which consist to a great extent of scattered notes, the
indexes to the separate volumes into which his writings were collected
being neither complete nor uniform in style. Manuscript of a
detailed index to the seven volumes was therefore prepared during
the year and will be issued shortly by the Lloyd Library at Cincinnati.
As a further step in clarifying and rounding out Mr. Lloyd’s myco-
logical work, a complete list of his new fungus species and new com-
binations, totaling about 1,500, is being made. This will include for
each species (1) citation of place of publication; (2) other references
in the literature by Lloyd and other mycologists, with comment;
(3) citation of type and other specimens, with accompanying data.
This work, to be ready shortly, will also be published by the Lloyd
Library.

During the year 22,290 specimens were mounted by adhesive
straps, all but 6,100 of these by contract; 3,412 specimens were
glued (by contract); and 28,428 fully prepared specimens were
turned out, all of which were stamped and recorded and are now
ready for incorporation in the herbarium. Of material intended for
the herbarium, there are on hand more than 20,000 specimens that
are wholly unmounted; also 2,500 that have been glued but not
stamped.

RESEARCH BY MEMBERS OF THE STAFF

The research of G. S. Miller, Jr., curator of mammals, was on the
primates. The large collection of gibbons (mostly brought together
by Dr. W. L. Abbott) was reexamined and reidentified in the light
of recent studies by Pocock and Kloss; and a special study of the
remarkable color variation was made. A short note on the classi-
fication of the gibbons was published. The opportunity to examine
a fresh gorilla’s foot, afforded by the death of a young mountain
gorilla in the Zoological Park, furnished the stimulus to a new study
of the problem of the origin of the human foot (whether or not from
a mechanical type like that found in the great apes). Dr. Remington
Kellogg reexamined and identified the hair seals in the Museum col-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY: NATIONAL MUSEUM 103

lection; prepared for publication three reports on cetaceans in the
Los Angeles Museum of History, Science and Art, the Condon
Museum of the University of Oregon, and the Field Museum of
Natural History; and cooperated with specialists in other groups in
the preparation of a tentative draft of the zones comprising the
California Tertiary.

The curator of birds, Dr. Herbert Friedmann, completed work on
the birds collected by the Smithsonian African expedition under
Theodore Roosevelt, and also the report on the birds collected in
Gaboon by the Garner expedition. He also reported on a large col-
lection of bird bones from St. Lawrence Island, and on three smaller
lots from the mainland of Alaska and from Kodiak Island; and began
work on the remaining parts of Ridgway’s unfinished work ‘The
Birds of North and Middle America” and nearly completed the
compilation of literature for all the groups remaining to be published
on. He also wrote papers relating to the nictitating membrane of
the domestic pigeon, to parasitic cowbirds and cuckoos, to early
observations on North American birds, to racial variations in certain
African shrikes, to the display of Wallace’s bird of paradise, and other
subjects. The associate curator, J. H. Riley, studied and identified
the large collections of Siamese birds sent in by Dr. H. M. Smith
and published descriptions and notes on some of the novelties and
more interesting forms. A. C. Bent, collaborator, completed the
manuscript of the tenth volume of his ‘‘ Life Histories of North Ameri-
can Birds”, on part of the falconiform birds. Dr. Wetmore pub-
lished on the birds collected by the Parish-Smithsonian expedition
in Cuba and Haiti; described several new forms of fossil birds from
North America; continued his editorial work on Swann’s ‘ Mono-
graph of the Accipitres”’, part of which was issued during the year;
and wrote various other articles.

The curator of reptiles and batrachians, Dr. L. Stejneger, worked
on a revision of the Testudinata of North and Middle America;
finished a report on some collections from the Galapagos Islands and
Polynesia; and in collaboration with Dr. Thomas Barbour, of the
Museum of Comparative Zoology, brought out the third edition of
their ‘Check List of North American Amphibians and Reptiles.”
Dr. Doris M. Cochran, assistant curator, completed a report on the
herpetology of Hispaniola and published several descriptive papers
on new species.

Dr. G. S. Myers, assistant curator of fishes, nearly completed a
revision of the genera of oviparous cyprinodonts, a group of small
fishes of great value in the destruction of malarial and yellow-fever
mosquitoes in the Tropics. He also began work on the deep-sea
fishes obtained by the Johnson-Smithsonian Deep-Sea Expedition and
on the fishes from western China collected by Dr. D. C. Graham.
104. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

Dr. J. M. Aldrich, curator of insects, prepared a paper on the
dipterous family Tachinidae of the Patagonian region, based on our
material and that of the British Museum; published several short
papers describing new species from various parts of the world and
including notes on synonymy and nomenclature; made a catalog of
the muscoid flies of the Old World except Europe; and studied the
species of botflies of the genus Cuterebra, in collaboration with
Maj. E. E. Austen, of the British Museum. C. T. Greene worked
on a revision of the genus Anastrepha of the family Trypetidae, of
definite importance because of the discovery of members of the genus
in the southernmost parts of the United States, including Florida
and the Brownsville area in Texas. Foster H. Benjamin completed
a manuscript discussing the classification and biology of the native
Trypetidae of Florida, based on extensive collections made during
the effort of the Department of Agriculture to exterminate the
Mediterranean fruit fly. Dr. Alan Stone undertook a critical revi-
sionary study of the genus Tabanus. Dr. A. G. Boving prepared
numerous notes on and illustrations of beetle larvae, including two
Puerto Rican species of Phyllophaga, the coccinellid beetle Ortalistes
rubidus, and the larvae of Rhinomacer pilosus, Tetrigus fleutiauri,
and Nicobium castaneum. One paper, describing the larva of the
coccinellid beetle Decadiomus pictus, was published. L. L. Buchanan
began a critical revisional study of the weevil genus Conotrachelus.
Dr. E. A. Chapin prepared a key to the species of Chlaenobia present
in the Museum collections, and continued his revisional work on
various groups of West Indian Scarabaeidae, especially on those of
Puerto Rico. W.S. Fisher completed a study on the genus Hzocentrus
from Java, prepared descriptions for a number of new species of
Mexican Buprestidae, and made minor studies in various small
groups to facilitate identification.

In the section of Lepidoptera, Dr. W. Schaus continued study of
the Puerto Rican Macrolepidoptera, in the course of which he pre-
pared descriptions for many new species. Foster H. Benjamin
worked on various North American lepidopterous groups, and pre-
pared a number of short papers. August Busck continued work on
the family Tortricidae and took up the genus Aristotelia, which con-
tains a number of species of economic importance. Carl Heinrich
continued study of American Phycitinae. R.A. Cushman undertook
a revision of the genus Polyaenus, did some work on the tribes
Lissonotini and Glyptini, and published one paper on the identity
of several Oriental parasitic ichneumonids of economic importance.
A. B. Gahan devoted much time to a paper on the parasites of the
Hessian fly. C. F. W. Muesebeck worked on a revision of the
braconid subfamily Euphorinae and progressed in work on the sub-
family Exothecinae and the genus Rogas. Miss Grace A. Sandhouse
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY: NATIONAL MUSEUM 105

continued studies on the North American Halictinae, particularly on
certain subgenera of the genus /Y/alictus, during which she made
many dissections and from these permanent preparations for the
collection. She completed work on the North American Augochlora
and worked out a synoptic key to the North American Pemphredon.
William Middleton worked on sawflies and prepared descriptions of
some new species.

A. N. Caudell published a report on the Orthoptera of the Pinchot
expedition; carried on some investigational work on neuropteroids,
in the course of which he prepared a description for one new species;
and studied specimens of Decticinae from California. He finished
and submitted for publication an alphabetical index to the orthop-
terous insects of North America published subsequent to the year
1900 to and including 1925.

Dr. H. E. Ewing made taxonomic studies on both mites and suck-
ing-lice during the year, during which he completed for publication
four papers on the classification of various genera or groups.

In Hemiptera H. G. Barber carried on investigations in a variety
of groups, including Nearctic and Neotropical Phymatidae, Neo-
tropical Coreidae, Notonectidae and Belostomatidae (with the assist-
ance of Prof. H. B. Hungerford), and Halobatinae, in connection
with the Carnegie Plankton expedition, and made considerable prog-
ress with the study of the races of the chinch bug (lissus leucopterus
Say). P. W. Oman undertook preliminary studies in a number of
genera in both the Cicadellidae and the Fulgoridae. His most
important contribution during the year was an extensive paper on
classification of the North American agallian leafhoppers. Dr. P. W.
Mason continued his study of the aphid tribe Macrosiphina.

In the division of marine invertebrates, Dr. Mary J. Rathbun,
associate in zoology, was actively engaged in the preparation of the
fourth of her series of comprehensive monographs on American crabs.
In addition she determined nearly all the current sendings of recent
Brachyura and fossil Crustacea and submitted for publication a paper
describing seven new species from the Gulf of California. Dr. Waldo
L. Schmitt, curator, published a review of the distribution of the
larger fresh-water shrimps of the United States, and also prepared for
publication the new species in his report on the macruran and ano-
muran Crustacea of Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands and an account
of two new species of pycnogonids. A revision of the genus Hmerita
was likewise submitted for publication. The assistant curator,
C. R. Shoemaker, completed several studies on amphipods; others he
has in progress, with a view to bringing taxonomic knowledge of these
long neglected Crustacea up to date for the east coast of North
America. ‘The report being prepared by J. O. Maloney, aide, on the
isopods collected in the course of the various expeditions that Capt.
106 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

R. A. Bartlett has made to Greenland in the past several years is
rapidly approaching completion, while his descriptions of two new
species of isopod crustaceans from California appeared in print during
the year. Dr. J. A. Cushman, honorary collaborator, made progress
on further parts of his monographs of the tropical Pacific foraminifera.
In addition to handling a large volume of paleontological material,
he identified various lots of recent foraminifera. Dr. W. H. Longley,
collaborator, spent nearly 4 months abroad, chiefly in London, Paris,
and Berlin, in part in connection with his studies on evolution.

Most of the time of the curator of mollusks, Dr. Paul Bartsch,
was required in planning, equipping, and directing the Johnson-
Smithsonian Deep-Sea Expedition and in caring for the material
obtained. The identification of material sent in for report occupied
the time of the rest of the staff not otherwise taken up by curatorial
duties.

The curator of echinoderms, Austin H. Clark, continued work on
parts 4 and 5 of his monograph of the existing crinoids, with a view
to their completion in the near future, and studied and indentified
a part of the material collected by the Johnson-Smithsonian Deep-Sea
Expedition.

In the division of plants Dr. W. R. Maxon, associate curator,
carried on studies of tropical American ferns; E. P. Killip, associate
curator, continued work on a monograph of the American species of
Passifloraceae, besides studies of certain genera of Urticaceae and
Boraginaceae; E. C. Leonard, assistant curator, studied West Indian
flora; C. V. Morton, aide, investigated several tropical American
families of phanerogams, especially the Solanaceae; and E. H. Walker,
aide, practically finished a revision of Chinese Myrsinaceae, besides
carrying on bibliographic work. Here may be mentioned also the
study by Mr. Killip of a series of about 3,600 duplicate specimens of
the historic Mutis Herbarium received from the Jardin Botanico,
Madrid, through his active interest. The Mutis collection, made in
Colombia between 1760 and 1808, contains specimens upon which
many early species were proposed. In return for the valuable dupli-
cates sent to this Institution, Mr. Killip has undertaken to identify
the specimens, and to date has reported upon about 2,000 of the
3,600 received.

DISTRIBUTION AND EXCHANGE OF SPECIMENS

Duplicate specimens distributed to museums, high schools, colleges,
and similar institutions aggregated 1,351 specimens, and 43,578
exchanges were sent out, of which 1,073 were zoological specimens.
The 42,505 plants distributed went to 104 institutions and corre-
spondents, of which 46 were in the United States, and 58 in 22 countries
abroad.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY: NATIONAL MUSEUM 107

NUMBER OF SPECIMENS UNDER DEPARTMENT

The number of specimens under the department of biology, so far
as has been ascertained by count and estimate, is now more than
10,800,000. The actual number is probably much greater, since
several collections, as the corals, have not been included, nor does the
number of plants given below include duplicates and unmounted
material of the lower cryptogams. In several of the divisions, such
as those of marine invertebrates and mollusks, lots consisting of
minute organisms are frequently counted as single specimens though
they may contain hundreds or even thousands of individuals, the
enumeration of which would serve no useful purpose.

IME aya hs ee ea See Se ee 221, 425
Birds:
SinSa aes org ee ee A re te lots 252, 456
ACO OL CHa ae a= meet EE ee oe 8, 961
DKCICLONS tier eee ee tS ilsyevie’
0 ee Ipc mene Sed ea = Se Le 87, 562
—_—_——_— 362, 357
Reptiles and amphibians-_--___-_ ee en a ce 100, 842
1 EIST 6): Yet ne  e  pae e 741, 341
nISeCis ete ees Se eee me ED a le er yh ye 4, 141, 686
Marine: Invertebrates. 26 5.2822 = ake- ce ece cle 897, 602
Wie Wilks = sere 2 i ON aS ee ee 2, 497, 401
Efe ninth bis ee eee 4 es a ct 144, 255
Richinoderms==2 222) a Be eee 158, 035
j 12 01S | Soa ah De ae 1, 550, 363

AR aN eee es yt See 5 10, 815, 307
REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY
(Ray S. Bassuter, Head Curator)

The past year was notable for the quantity and value of geological
material acquired, particularly in the mineralogical division, where
several endowment funds were used rather freely to take advantage of
favorable market conditions. In quality of specimens acquired
through field work and exchange, this has been the most outstanding
year in the history of the division of vertebrate paleontology. Ex-
plorations were undertaken in both of the paleontological divisions
and in the mineralogical division, the latter under the auspices of the
Canfield fund. All resulted in the acquisition of desirable material
both for exhibition and study.

ACCESSIONS

In both specimens and accessions the aggregate is greater than last
year, numbering 255 accessions with an estimated total of 35,555
specimens. The number for the various divisions is as follows:
Mineralogy and petrology, 100 accessions, 728 specimens; geology,
systematic and applied, 33 accessions, 706 specimens; stratigraphic
paleontology, 92 accessions, 33,805 specimens; vertebrate paleontol-
ogy, 30 accessions, 316 specimens.

The year’s accessions include the following minerals not previously
represented: Alkansul, alleghanyite, ardealite, bianchite (type),
corvusite (type), galaxite, leucophosphite, minyulite, oxykertschenite,
pisekite, rilandite (type), rosickyite, and tuhualite.

There were 31 accessions to the Roebling collection through the
income from the Roebling fund, totaling 114 specimens. Perhaps the
finest item is a 24-pound pink spodumene (kunzite) of good crystal
form and almost flawless. Four fine black opals from Lightning
Ridge, New South Wales, are partly polished to show the wonderful
fire that makes these Australian stones most highly prized of all
opals. Two 1.7-carat diamonds were added to the American series,
1 from Huntsville, Tex., and 1 from the gold washings of Brown
County, Ind. A fine cinnamon-brown crystal of topaz from Burma
weighs 24% pounds. A huge mass of native copper from the Lake
Superior region shows numerous unusually large and well-formed
crystals. Other noteworthy additions are a specimen of quartz
with attached crystals of euclase and topaz from Brazil; 3 speci-
mens of California gold showing unusually fine crystals; a beautiful

108
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY: NATIONAL MUSEUM 109

crystal of pink and green tourmaline from Madagascar; and 2 large
loose crystals of the rare silicate euclase from Brazil. Through the
interest of Gilbert LaBine, discoverer of the rich radium deposits at
Great Bear Lake, Canada, a 75-pound mass of the radium ore pitch-
blende, crusted with colorful alteration products, and a rich mass of
native silver from the same locality, were added.

Several fine-cut gems were acquired through the Roebling fund,
including a rare Brazilian rose-red topaz of 18 carats, a Madagascar
ruby tourmaline of 30 carats, a flawless Brazilian pink tourmaline of
62 carats, and an unusual pink amethyst of 49 carats.

To the Canfield collection through the Canfield fund came 13
accessions totaling 235 specimens. The outstanding one comprises
three masses of crystallized gold from Breckenridge, Colo., the largest
being a slab of fine mossy leaf gold weighing 22.6 troy ounces. A
large group of brilliant azurite crystals from Aranzazu, Zacatecas,
Mexico, was obtained through the interest of Samuel Sokobin,
American consul at Saltillo, Coahuila. Other notable specimens are
a group of azurite crystals; a crystal of cerussite from Tsumeb,
Southwest Africa; the copper oxychloride atacamite from Chile; a rare
phosphate of iron, strengite, and the phosphate of lead, pyromorphite,
in unusually large crystals, both from Germany; a group of large and
brilliant crystals of tin oxide, cassiterite, on a white quartz crystal
base, from New South Wales; a huge crystal of pyrite from Arizona;
and a rich example of the rare manganese silicate ganophyllite from
Franklin, N.J. Over 200 Bolivian minerals, including excellent
crystallized cassiterite, ferberite, and bismuthinite also were acquired.

The finest stone added to the Isaac Lea collection, through the
Frances Lea Chamberlain fund, is a flawless golden beryl of fine color
from Madagascar, weighing 46 carats. Also, 2 red tourmalines from
Madagascar, an engraved emerald of 11 carats, an old carving in
Burmese amber, a rare ruby-red feldspar, and 2 unusually deep-
colored citrine quartzes were added.

Other additions to the gem collection include 3 cabochons of
white grossularite garnets, 3 of Whitby jet, 3 of amazonstone, and
several pieces of jaspar. The Oregon Agate and Mineral Society
contributed an unusual cut agate showing iridescent rainbow colors;
Martin L. Ehrmann presented a dish of yellow precious serpentine;
and John H. Willing 3 gold stickpins fashioned as a pick, a shovel,
and a pan, stated to have been made in 1855 and worn by early
California gold miners.

A huge quartz geode, almost 3 feet in diameter and with a crystal-
lined cavity 18 inches deep, from Keokuk, Iowa, was presented by
William M. Thomas and his son, Beverly Thomas. Mr. Thomas,
a veteran geode collector, states that this is the finest geode he has
ever seen. W. E. Lockhart gave a huge slab of amazonstone, meas-
110 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

uring about 3 feet square, from Colorado. The following persons
likewise added unusually fine material to the collection: Ernest
Schernikow, a slab of precious opal from Honduras; F. F. Bradley,
a fine group of celestite crystals from Clay Center, Ohio; Mark Bandy,
a large specimen of the rare iron sulphate quetenite, from Chile;
Boodle Lane, a specimen of galena showing parallel growth, and John
C. Wells, specimens of new phosphate minerals from the Black Hills.

Twenty-two specimens, including 14 falls new to the collection,
were added to the meteorite series. Two of exceptional interest
are from Meteor Crater, Canyon Diablo, Ariz., one a complete
individual weighing 1,011 pounds, one of the largest masses recovered
at this famous crater, the other the mass from which were obtained
the first diamonds found in a meteorite. Another example is the
largest individual of a shower that fell at Archie, Mo., on August
10, 1932, during the Perseid meteor shower. This is the second
known instance of the fall of a meteorite during a meteor shower.
Other meteorite accessions are one half (23% pounds) of the Altonah,
Utah, fall; Beardsley, Kans. (945 grams); Bear Lodge, Wyo. (3,120
grams); Bencubbin, Australia (242 grams); Coya Norte, Chile (16
pounds 10 ounces); Henbury, Australia (31 pounds); Huizopa,
Mexico (2,774 grams); Melrose, N.Mex. (990 grams); Nagy Vazsony,
Hungary (36 grams); New Almelo, N. Mex. (1,550 grams); Oroville,
Calif. (262 grams); Pinon, N.Mex. (1,410 grams); and Tlacatopec,
Mexico (2,430 grams), acquired through exchanges and gifts.

The United States Geological Survey transferred several described
sets of rocks and ores, the following districts being represented:
Ellijay quadrangle, North Carolina; eastern Oregon; Squaw Creek,
Silver Peak, and Antonio districts, Oregon; and southwestern Idaho.
Through the interest of Dr. Josiah Bridge, the Museum obtained from
Ramie Inman two large blocks of a handsome diabase porphyry from
Fredericktown, Mo. Dr. Robert W. Sayles presented two large
exhibition blocks of a glacial conglomerate, the Squantum tillite,
and Dr. Tom Barth collected two large exhibition blocks of gneiss
in Norway.

The outstanding accessions in economic geology are as follows:
A pegmatite dike from Ohio City, Colo., containing large sheets of
lepidolite mica obtained through E. B. Eckel, of the United States
Geological Survey, from Messrs. Werner and Disberger, of Ohio
City; a 600-pound mass of gold ore from the Homestake Mining Co.,
Lead, S.Dak.; two large and colorful potash ores, sylvinite and
carnallite, from the Minas de Potasa de Suria, Spain; several speci-
mens of halite and related minerals from Hallstatt, Austria, sent by
Bergrat Karl Krieger; a series of copper ores and minerals including
some large specimens from Butte, Mont., presented by A. L. Bigley
and A. E. Blair, of the Anaconda Copper Co.; and a number of
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY: NATIONAL MUSEUM Lil

specially selected Bisbee copper ores from William P. Crawford, of
Bisbee, Ariz. Frank L. Hess, honorary custodian of rare metals,
continued his interest by adding over 50 specimens of rare metal
ores and minerals from Canada, the Kola Peninsula, Karelin, Brazil,
and other districts.

Several notable accessions came to the division of stratigraphic
paleontology: 26 exchanges arranged largely by the assistant curator
to fill gaps in the brachiopod series were received. The British
Museum and Dr. R. Kozlowski at Warsaw and Dr. A. Hadding at
Lund supplied fine Jurassic and Cretaceous brachiopods. The
National Museum at Melbourne and the Dominion Museum at
Wellington furnished two fine collections from the Tertiary of the
Australian realm, and the Paleontological Institute of Vienna a
small collection of rare Triassic forms. From Harvard University
was obtained a large suite from the Middle Paleozoic of Bohemia.
Collections from the Devonian were furnished by Dr. A. Opilk in
Estonia and by the Muséum Royal d’Histoire Naturelle de Belgique,
Brussels. Finally, two sizable lots from the Universities of Okla-
homa and New Mexico placed in our collection a more adequate
representation of Upper Paleozoic brachiopods from these States.

Among the other exchanges were two lots of Bohemian fossils
from Charles University, Prague; an excellent representation of
the Norwegian Cambrian from Oslo; a series of topotypes of Car-
boniferous fossils from the University of London; and an interesting
series from the University of Adelaide. Dr. H. Justin Roddy again
furnished an extraordinary collection from the Lower Cambrian of
the Lancaster region in Pennsylvania.

Several valuable collections were presented, most notable being
the fifth shipment of the private collection of Dr. A. F. Foerste,
numbering some 10,000 specimens of invertebrate fossils of which
over 1,000 are types. Particularly notable is the valuable acqui-
sition of several fine fossil starfishes collected by the late Dr. Albert
Perry Brigham, of Colgate University, and presented by Mrs. Brig-
ham and Mr. and Mrs. L. V. Roth. Dr. J. Brookes Knight, of Yale
University, gave about 125 brachiopods from the Pennsylvanian of
Missouri, and Prof. G. M. Kay, at Columbia University, a collection of
Trenton brachiopods. Through the interest of Dr. Mary J. Rathbun,
six lots of fossil crustaceans were donated, among which those fur-
nished by Dr. Hubert G. Schenck, of Stanford University, and some
pinnotherid crabs, including types, gift of E. W. Galliher, Pacific
Grove, Calif., were of most importance.

Among other gifts were a collection of Pennsylvanian gastropods
from J. Brookes Knight, of Yale University; a small lot of Pennsyl-
vanian fossils from Ralph H. King, University of Texas; a large exhi-
bition slab crowded with the gastropod Lecanospira found in Virginia
112 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

by Dr. A. A. L. Mathews, Oberlin College; examples of the fresh-
water limestone crowded with fossils, used to build the new Mormon
Church in Washington, secured through the builders; and finally a
valuable lot of Tennessee Cambrian fossils collected by Prof. George
M. Hall, University of Tennessee.

The Springer fund purchased the important Keyte collection of
Paleozoic fossil crinoids from Colorado. The assistant curator during
his field expedition obtained 10,000 to 15,000 fossils in Gaspe and
New York. These supplied many important specimens for the bio-
logic and stratigraphic series and also needed material for exchange.
A trip into the Ohio Valley by the head curator also furnished a
valuable lot of late Paleozoic fossils.

Of the eight accessions of fossil plants, mention may be made
of those received from Prof. Ralph Chaney, University of California,
which contain many counterparts of types described in several
papers. Prof. G. R. Wieland, of Yale, donated two examples of the
interesting fern Tempskya, and the Santa Barbara Museum of Natural
History gave some Pleistocene plants excellently preserved in asphalt.

Material resulting from the field expedition of 1932 is of first
importance in the division of vertebrate paleontology, especially
benefiting the mammalian collections. Specimens worthy of especial
mention are: Much of the skeleton of a hawklike bird, of which the
skull, lower jaw, pelvis, sternum, and other bones are present, un-
questionably the most perfect skeleton of a bird yet collected from
the Oligocene of North America; a skull and skeletal parts of Husmilus,
a rare saber-toothed cat of which only three or four specimens were
previously known; two articulated skeletons of Mesohippus; two
articulated skeletons of Merycoidodon; one skeleton each of Lep-
tomeryx and Ischyromys; 120 skulls, many partial skeletons, articu-
lated limbs and feet, in all representing more than 20 genera of verte-
brates. Some forms new to science will probably be found when a
study is made of these materials.

Through exchanges arranged with various institutions, the division
obtained a number of specimens of outstanding merit. From the
American Museum of Natural History came a mountable skeleton
of Moropus, a rare mammal from the Miocene of Nebraska, and a
skeleton of the giant reptile Gorgosaurus libratus from the Upper
Cretaceous of Canada. The former has all the broken and missing
bones restored so that the skeleton is ready for mounting. Both
genera were previously unrepresented in our collections. The Los
Angeles Museum of History, Science and Art furnished a mountable
composite skeleton of Hquus occidentalis, from the famous Rancho La
Brea asphalt deposits; and the Colorado Museum of Natural History,
Denver, a composite skeleton of the Oligocene rhinoceros, Trigonias
osborni. From the Royal Ontario Paleontological Museum were
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY: NATIONAL MUSEUM 113

obtained two duck-billed dinosaur skulls (Hdmontosaurus and Prosau-
rolophus), both new in the collections, and from the National Museum
of South Africa four skulls and limb and foot bones of Lystrosaurus
and Dicynodon, extinct reptiles from the Triassic. Remains of these
genera are rarely found in paleontological collections of North America.
A beautifully preserved skull of Equus alaskae Hay from Point Barrow,
Alaska, was collected for the Museum by James A. Ford. A fossil
frog skeleton from the Miocene of Nevada, the most perfect example
of an extinct frog yet found on this continent, was presented by R. M.
Catlin. A skull of a large cetacean from California, presented by
Dr. A. P. Ousdal, forms a valued addition to the series of cetacean
remains. By purchase from George IF’. Sternberg a beautiful example
of the extinct fish Ichthyodectes hamatus was obtained, and similarly
the mosasaur series was enriched by a mountable skeleton of the large
sea lizard Platecarpus.

INSTALLATION AND PRESERVATION OF COLLECTIONS

A rearrangement of the systematic mineral collection, reported last
year as under way, was completed, and much new and striking mate-
rial from the Roebling and Canfield collections was incorporated.
The 2,892 specimens of this series include 837 distinct mineral species
and comprise high-quality material only. The new arrangement
permitted the introduction of some new exhibits in refractories, lith-
ium, beryllium and rare-earth ores. Several large specimens of ores
from important mining districts were installed on new bases. Five
large meteorites, previously exhibited on individual bases, were rein-
stalled on a single long base to harmonize with previous installations.
Some striking exhibits on individual pedestals include a large geode
from Iowa fitted with interior lighting, radium ore from Canada,
and a group of carved corals.

The head curator prepared a new set of slides on geological subjects
for the stereomotorgraph, assembled a set of small, polished samples of
foreign building stones, both ancient and modern, and prepared
various sets of Cenozoic and recent bryozoans for exchange with the
British Museum, in the course of which many specimens were identi-
fied and added to the collections. He also continued building up a
library of pamphlets on general geology, stratigraphy, and invertebrate
paleontology.

In revising the exhibition series of ores it was found necessary to
expand the study series to accommodate material removed from
exhibition, during which the classification, cataloging, and distribution
of the important collection of rare metal ores assembled during many
years’ collecting by Frank L. Hess were completed by the assistant
curator. This is probably the finest collection of rare-metal ores
extant.
114 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

Dr. W. F. Foshag, assisted by James Benn, selected material for an
exhibit illustrating the fluorescence of minerals under ultraviolet
light. Since only an occasional specimen shows a satisfactory degree
of fluorescence, it was necessary to examine hundreds of samples
before the best possible effect could be achieved. A satisfactory
lighting system was devised by L. B. Clark, of the Division of
Radiation and Organisms.

The head curator completed the preparation and installation of the
biologic series of fossil plants, a case illustrating the geology of a
coral island, one showing various types of geological structures,
another with imitative forms of fossils, and one each of the peculiar
extinct merostome crustaceans and unusual cephalopods. He like-
wise installed on a single exhibition base large, showy examples of
various kinds of conglomerates and glacial boulder clays.

Dr. C. E. Resser, with the help of Dr. Josiah Bridge, assembled an
exhibit illustrating the life of the Ozarkian and Canadian periods,
thus filling a long-existing gap. In cooperation with Dr. Roland
Brown and Dr. C. B. Read, of the United States Geological Survey,
available material also was assembled to illustrate fossilized fruits and
flowers.

Dr. G. A. Cooper placed 30 lithologic samples in the stratigraphic
exhibition series, revised the exhibit of stromatopores, and, at the
close of the year, went over the entire exhibition series in preparation
for the International Geological Congress. Dr. C. B. Read continued
his voluntary rearrangement of the Lacoe plants. Dr. Charles Butts
arranged his extensive collections of Paleozoic fossils so that they are
readily available.

Following her retirement from the Government service at the end of
December 1932, Miss Margaret Moodey was appointed, under the
Springer fund, to take up the long-delayed work of cataloging the
unrivaled Springer collection of echinoderms. Two months were
spent in bibliographic work and 4 months in checking and cataloging.
At the end of the year, 8 families of the Camerata, comprising 115
standard drawers, were completed.

The exhibition series in vertebrate paleontology was increased by
the addition of a 5-foot skeleton of Ichthyodectes hamatus, skulls of
Edmontosaurus regalis Lambe and Prosaurolophus maximus Brown;
skull and lower jaws of Hyrachodon and a skull of Ovibos.

Assistant Curator C. L. Gazin continued his rearrangement of the
mammal collection. The Cumberland Cave collection, consisting of
several hundred specimens, is now completely cataloged, labeled, and
arranged in standard trays; the Plesippus materials have been assorted
and, with the exception of the skulls, assembled as a single unit;
the Cook collection from Idaho and the Gidley collection from Florida
were assorted, labeled, and many of the specimens cataloged. Dr.
Gazin also has identified many of the Bridger specimens.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY: NATIONAL MUSEUM 115

INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH

By members of the staff—The head curator completed the pre-
liminary study and illustrations of the Hederellidae, a new group
of fossil Bryozoa; brought up to date his bibliographic index of
Paleozoic Ostracoda, being published by the Geological Society of
America; prepared an address on the development of invertebrate
paleontology in America; and forwarded for publication a mono-
graph of the Tertiary Bryozoa of Australia, prepared in collaboration
with the late Ferdinand Canu.

Dr. W. F. Foshag completed investigations on the rare minerals
searlesite, bakerite, ganophyllite, and sulfohalite and continued
work on the borate minerals of the West, in which it was necessary
to analyze a number of marls. Several doubtful minerals were
studied and their true nature determined.

EK. P. Henderson announced two new mineral species, corvusite
and rilandite, and nearly completed work on two other new species.
Many partial analyses were made for identification, and some mate-
rial was found worthy of more detailed examination.

Dr. C. E. Resser assisted R. Endo in preparing a paper on the
Cambrian of Manchuria. He completed a paper presenting a pre-
liminary generalized time scale for the Cambrian and began a de-
scription of the fossils from the Olenellus zone in the Appalachians.
These last papers were presented at the Boston meeting of the
Geological Society of America.

Dr. G. A. Cooper prepared a preliminary paper on the results of
his field work in eastern New York and another, written jointly
with Dr. Lawrence Whitcomb, of Lehigh University, describing a
new genus of brachiopod.

Dr. E. O. Ulrich continued his studies of early Paleozoic faunas.
A grant from the Geological Society of America made possible the
temporary employment of Dr. H. S. Ladd, who since February was
engaged in labeling and photographing fossils and in organizing
materials so that Dr. Ulrich’s many uncompleted manuscripts, in-
cluding joint papers with Drs. Foerste, Cooper, Bridge, and others,
may finally be printed.

Dr. A. F. Foerste continued his cephalopod studies, unearthing
much important information. He will soon reach the point when the
cephalopod series can be generally overhauled and classified. |

C. W. Gilmore completed a manuscript describing dinosaurian
remains from the Cretaceous of Mongolia, which has been sent to
the American Museum of Natural History for publication. A
beginning was made on a study of turtle specimens from Mongolia
for that institution. This will complete our part of the cooperative
arrangement between the two institutions whereby for work done

72774—85——9
116 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

on the Mongolian fauna, Dr. G. G. Simpson will study and describe
the Museum’s collection of Paleocene mammals.

Dr. C. L. Gazin completed his extended study of the Cumberland
Cave Pleistocene fauna and submitted it for publication. Two
papers, ‘“A New Shrew from the Upper Pliocene of Idaho” and
“The Status of the Extinct American Eland’, were published, and
a manuscript, ‘‘New Ielids from the Upper Pliocene of Idaho”, was
submitted for publication. Some progress was made on his study
of the Plesippus materials, as well as a beginning in the study of
other portions of the Idaho collections, particularly the mustelids
and lagomorphs.

Dr. Remington Kellogg, as in previous years, continued his re-
searches on the cetacean collection, this past year being more par-
ticularly applied to the zeuglodonts.

Research by outside investigators aided by Museum material.—
During the year 1,767 specimens were lent for study, and 463 lots
of material were received for examination and report.

In the paleontological division, Dr. David White was engaged on
a description of the Pottsville flora of Illinois. Dr. R. W. Brown
continued the study of the Fort Union flora and wrote papers de-
scribing the flora of the Miocene of the Blue Mountains, Oreg., and
of the Salmon, Idaho, region. Jointly with Dr. C. B. Read, he
nearly completed a revision of the Cretaceous fern genus Tempskya.
Dr. Read prepared papers on the floras in the Mosquito Range,
Colo., and in the New Providence shale and on Trichopitys. Dr.
L. W. Stephenson was engaged in a study of the Navarro fauna of
the Texas Cretaceous, and Dr. Edwin Kirk continued his studies
on crinoids and completed several papers.

Dr. T. Kobayashi remained here throughout the year continuing
his studies of Korean and Manchurian fossils. Much new informa-
tion of critical importance is constantly coming to light in his studies.

Abbé Georges Le Maitre, the Belgian scientist, studied the mete-
orite collection; Dr. M. K. Elias, of the Kansas State Geological
Survey, spent some weeks studying Carboniferous and Tertiary
plants. A. L. Morrow, of Yale University, R. W. Imlay, of the
University of Michigan, and Prof. H. A. Meyerhoff, of Smith Col-
lege, studied the Mesozoic collections; Dr. A. R. Barwick, of Catholic
University, studied the invertebrate fossil collection in general; Dr.
J. A. Cushman the foraminifera; Dr. Cecil Kindle, of the College of
the City of New York, and Dr. Lawrence Whitcomb, of Lehigh
University, the Paleozoic invertebrates; and Prof. P. E. Raymond
and Henry C. Stetson, of Harvard University, spent a few days
working on certain Burgess shale specimens.

Dr. George G. Simpson made considerable progress in his study
of the Paleocene mammal collection. A locality map, printed as a
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY: NATIONAL MUSEUM EZ

result of his field trip to Montana for the Museum this past sum-
mer, adds greatly to the value of the collection in definitely locating
all the specimens both geologically and geographically. Dr. R. S.
Lull, director of the Peabody Museum of Natural History, utilized
the horned dinosaur collections in connection with his monographic
revision of the Ceratopsian dinosauria. Barnum Brown, of the
American Museum of Natural History, likewise made use of the col-
lections in connection with his study of the armored dinosauria.

Assistance to Government bureaus and private individuals.—Mineral-
ogical material was furnished to members of the Geological Survey,
the Department of Agriculture, and the Geophysical Laboratory, and
Dr. Resser continued his services to the Geological Survey as
adviser on Cambrian questions. Requests from Prof. George M.
Hall, of the University of Tennessee, for identification of age and
species in Cambrian collections necessitated considerable study of the
Nolichucky fossils. Thereby, for the first time, definite information
was obtained regarding the faunal characteristics of this widespread
southern Appalachian formation. A large series of highly important
Cambrian fossils was obtained by the Princeton Summer School, at
Red Lodge, Mont., and forwarded to the Museum for preliminary
identification.

DISTRIBUTION AND EXCHANGE OF SPECIMENS

The following distribution of geological specimens was made:
Gifts, 3,456 specimens; exchanges, 2,278; loans for study, 1,767. As
transfers to other Government bureaus, 21 specimens were sent.

NUMBER OF SPECIMENS UNDER DEPARTMENT

The estimated total of specimens in the department is as follows:

Mineralogy and petrolopy=_2--. 2-222-222-5252 225 ce 140, 736
Geology, systematic and applied_._.-____----_------ 95, 493
Stratigraphic paleontology___________-__-_---- eee 1, 864, 167
Vertebrate paleontology.....-.-.------------------ 27, 322

PIO TAL. Ale ieee ee ee cee soomeee 2, 127, 718
REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF ARTS AND INDUSTRIES
(Cart W. Mirman, Head Curator)

For the first 2 months of the year, following the retirement of
W. deC. Ravenel on June 30, 1932, the department of arts and
industries was administered by J. E. Graf, associate director. On
September 6, 1932, the office of head curator was established and an
administrative set-up created similar to that of the natural science
departments of the Museum. C. W. Mitman, who had spent 3
months of the summer in a general survey of technical, industrial,
and science museums of western Europe, was advanced from the
position of curator of engineering to the new position; and Frank A.
Taylor was promoted from assistant curator of engineering to curator.

ACCESSIONS FOR THE YEAR

Valuable historical specimens of textiles, engineering, and graphic
arts that never would have come to light in boom times were brought
to the department’s attention during the year and acquired when
possible. Slack business, on the other hand, practically prevented the
acquisition of new industrial exhibits, but permitted many who had
cooperated with the Museum in the past to renew their exhibits.

Specimens added to the department’s collections during 1933
totaled 4,261, about one third more than in 1932. The distribution
of these among the divisions and sections was as follows: Engineering,
312; textiles, 708; organic chemistry, 764; wood technology, 365;
foods, 2; history of agriculture, 252; medicine, 425; graphic arts,
including photography, 1,433.

Engineering.—The 312 specimens included in the 82 accessions
of this division were assigned to the sections as follows: Aeronautics,
174; mechanical technology, 130; mineral technology, 8.

In aeronautics, the most prominent object acquired was the
gondola, or car, of the Pilgrim, the first dirigible designed for inflation
with helium gas. It is complete with the Laurence 3-cylinder radial
engine and the 4-blade metal propeller used with it, and was presented
by the Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co.

The collection pertaining to the early history of balloons was
augmented by the gift of Miss Emma Durant, of New York City, of a
number of original illustrations and records describing the work of
her father, Charles F. Durant, the first professional American aero-
naut, who made his first ascent from Castle Garden, New York City,

118
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY: NATIONAL MUSEUM 119

in 1830. Two structural sections from the airships Shenandoah and
Akron, showing two forms of trusses, came from Howard Minker,
Washington, D.C., and the Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co., respectively.
To the collection of aircraft engines the Pratt & Whitney Co.,
Hartford, Conn., added a sectioned operating example of their
“Wasp” engine. Seven airship propellers were transferred from the
War Department; an adjustable metal airplane propeller of 1914 was
presented by Inglis M. Uppercu, Keyport, N.J.; and a modern hollow
steel blade from a Dicks propeller was given by the Pittsburgh Screw
& Bolt Corporation. A departure from the usual form of lift and
propulsion is illustrated by a wind-tunnel model of a rotary airfoil,
presented by its inventor, I. B. Laskowitz, Brooklyn, N.Y.
Although several full-size airplanes were offered to the Museum
during the year, none could be accepted because of limited space.
To the collection of airplane models, however, many new types were
added, including a beautifully constructed miniature of a ‘‘Travelair”’
biplane of 1930, one eighth size and half skeletonized to show the
construction. It is one of the finest models in the collection and was
loaned by its maker, Herbert Atkinson, of New Bedford, Mass. The
acquisition of a Curtiss pusher model of the 1908 type and a Curtiss
“Hawk” model of 1928, both made to the same scale, permits an
interesting contrast of airplane design over a 20-year period. These
models were received from Edward Reeves and Richard Hooper,
respectively, of Washington, D.C. Another model received from
Mr. Reeves illustrates the old ‘‘ Antoinette” type, a French mono-
plane of 1909, which made remarkable flights in the early days of
aviation. A German World War bombing airplane is represented
by a model of a ‘“‘Gotha’’, made and presented by Isaac H. Henry,
of Easton, Md. Modern military types are shown by a ‘‘Condor”
bomber model from Harris Taylor, Clarendon, Va.; a Boeing low-wing
monoplane model from Robert McGregor, Clarksburg, W.Va.; and
a Navy Vought ‘Corsair’? model made by Edwin Geigan, Washing-
ton, D.C., and received from Miss EK. M. Luers, Bowie, Md. The
series of models illustrating the winners of the famed Schneider
trophy for seaplanes was increased by a miniature of the Supermarine
S-6-B, which won the trophy in 1931 at a speed of 340 miles an hour.
The model was made and presented by Ivan Lettner, Anacostia, D.C.
With the assistance of the War Department, A. G. Spalding Co.,
New York, Sternheimer Bros., Richmond, Va., and the Transcon-
tinental and Western Air, Inc., Kansas City, Mo., a display of fliers’
helmets was prepared showing the evolution of pilots’ headgear from
the old crash helmets of the early days to the uniform cap of the
modern transport pilot.
The Beverly Hills (Calif.) Chamber of Commerce presented the
parachute with which the flier Rodman Law made a demonstration
120 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

jump from an airplane in 1912, one of the first instances of its kind.
This accession provides the Museum with an example of the old
“bundle” type of parachute, antedating the several pack types
already exhibited.

Col. Charles A. Lindbergh added to his previous gift of the Spirit
of St. Louis the maps and personal equipment that he carried during
his Pan American flight of 1927-28. Much of this material was in-
tended for emergency use in event of a forced landing in the jungles
of Central America.

The largest single group of accessions in the section of mechanical
technology was in the class of material relating to land transportation.
The sole full-size vehicle added this year was a Columbia electric
buggy of about 1903-6, the gift of Mrs. Sewell M. Johnson, Wash-
ington, D.C. This vehicle is a well-preserved example of the light
electric automobile that in its day was so much more dependable
than the unperfected gasoline automobile that it was the choice of
conservative and professional people. Other automotive material
included the steam engine built by the Mason Regulator Co. in 1897
for the first Stanley steam automobile; and a Stanley steam auto-
mobile engine of about 1923 from L. J. Hathaway, Cherrydale, Va.

The railroad and locomotive collection was enhanced by the
addition of three models of English locomotives of about 25 years
ago. They are the gift of Frank A. Wardlaw, Jr., Inspiration, Ariz.,
and Frank A. Wardlaw, New York City, and include the Locomotive
Greyhound of the L. & N.W. Ry. Co., and the Locomotive 146 of the
¥.C.O. Rr. (Argentine) of 1905, which were made by Mr. Wardlaw,
Sr.; and the Caledonian Railroad Co.’s Locomotive 903. ‘These
locomotives exhibit many features foreign to American practice not
heretofore shown in the collections. An unusual railroad item was a
Japanese drawing in color of a Norris locomotive, tender, and car of
1853, the gift of C. P. Clausen, Washington, D.C. The Japanese
date of the picture indicates that it was made about 1853 and con-
sequently only a year or two after Commodore Perry negotiated the
treaty with Japan. Miss Martha Hopkins, Damariscotta, Maine,
presented an old single-ox yoke, a type of which not many are known
to exist.

The watercraft collection received only one addition during the
year—a nicely executed model of the champion ice yacht Debutante
ITI, presented by John D. Buckstaff, Oshkosh, Wis., and Douglas
Van Dyke, Milwaukee, Wis. The original is the present holder of the
Stuart trophy and the world’s record over a 20-mile triangular course.

In the class of electrical material the additions to the collection of
incandescent lamps are of considerable interest. Frank A. Wardlaw,
New York City, an associate of Thomas A. Edison, presented 2
originals of the Edison paper horseshoe filament lamp of 1879, 2
REPORT OF 1HE SECRETARY: NATIONAL MUSEUM PAI

of the bamboo filament lamps of 1880, and an original wooden-screw
socket for each type. The paper filament lamps, one of which is
intact, are of the first type made after the successful experimental
lamp of October 1879, and the bamboo filament lamps, one of which
is intact, are the first commercial type. Donald F. Poole, Washing-
ton, D.C., presented two early Maxim lamps with sockets. A more
modern note in electric lighting is represented in a display panel of
eight rare gas discharge tubes, the gift of the Air Reduction Sales
Co., New York City. Two fans received show early stages in the
development of this electrical appliance. One, made by Leo Daft,
electrical pioneer, and dating from before 1890, is the gift of Mrs.
Matilda Daft Williams, Albany, N.Y. It is small, with an unguarded
fan wheel mounted on the shaft of a small motor with long vertical
field coils. The other is a Holtzer Cabot fan of about 1900, in which
the earlier type of motor and same general arrangement are still
evident though dressed up in a heavy cast-iron base and grilled
housing. This fan is the gift of Mrs. Mae I. English and Mrs. L. F
Speich, Washington, D.C.

A Merritt typewriter of about 1890, one of the first few machines
made by the Merritt Typewriter Co., Springfield, Mass., and a com-
mercial form of a machine formerly represented in the collection by a
Patent Office model only, was the only addition to the typewriter
collection. It was presented by C. C. Merritt, nephew of the inventor.

Two Edison phonographs were added to the collections. One, an
original of the tin-foil record type, was presented by Frank A. Ward-
law; the other, a nicely preserved ‘‘Amberola-50” of about 1915, the
gift of Clarence Beyer, Baltimore, Md., represents the final develop-
ment of the wax-cylinder record type, and is complete with a group of
select records.

Among the additions to the collection of surveying and astronomical
instruments is the Herschelian reflecting telescope made by Amasa
Holcomb, of Southwick, Mass., about 1835. The reflector, about 8
inches in diameter and having a focal length of about 9 feet, is of
speculum metal and has a remarkably well preserved surface. It is
the gift of Mrs. Grace E. Holcomb Steere and Mrs. Eva C. Holcomb
Storey, Southwick, Mass., who also presented an astronomical
transit and instrument tripod by the same maker. From the War
Department came an interesting form of large reconnoitering tele-
scope and an astronomical transit, both about 60 years old.

Among the watches added to the timekeeping collections is an
English silver case watch dated 1794, the movement of which is
marked ‘‘Effingham Embree, New York.’ Not many watches in the
collection dating from 1800 carry the names of American makers or
importers. It is the gift of Mrs. Gertrude O. S. Cleveland, Quine-
baug, Conn. Clocks added to the collection include two tall case
122 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

clocks of the early nineteenth century, one the gift of Mrs. Daniel
Gardner, Newburgh, N.Y., the other of Mrs. James R. Van Horn,
Washington, D.C. An early electric master-clock system, which was
installed in the Arts and Industries Building when erected and
which was removed during the past year, was added to the collection
for its technical interest.

To the section of mineral technology the Carborundum Co.,
Niagara Falls, N.Y., gave a model of a carborundum grain sifter as an
addition to the splendid models that the same company presented
last year to show the processes of manufacture of carborundum abra-
sive products. A group of lathe tools made with ‘‘Firthite” alloy
cutting edge inserts, a small piece of ‘‘Firthite’”’, and a wire drawing
die with a ‘‘Firthaloy”’ insert were added to the metallurgy exhibits
by L. Gerald Firth, McKeesport, Pa. Philip McKenna, Latrobe,
Pa., presented a lathe tool with a ‘‘Vascaloy”’ insert.

Textiles, organic chemistry, wood technology, foods, history of agri-
culture, and medicine.—Because of the increasing interest of the public
in early American textiles, efforts were made to carry out the plans
proposed in last year’s report for special exhibitions of home handi-
crafts in textiles. Mrs. William S. Corby, Chevy Chase, Md., loaned
for this purpose part of her collection of early American coverlets.
These examples of a household industry, which began in Colonial days
and continued until the Civil War, were collected in Virginia, Massa-
chusetts, Pennsylvania, Indiana, Maryland, and Florida. Other
coverlets for this exhibition were loaned by Capt. James A. Stader,
Neosho, Mo., and C. H. Popenoe, Silver Spring, Md.

Beautiful examples of artistic needlework, made before the days of
the sewing machine, were received as gifts as follows: From Mrs.
Kate Vinson a silk applique quilt designed and made in Baltimore,
Md., 1845, by the donor’s mother; from Miss Isabelle M. Erwin and
Miss Mildred A. Erwin a white quilted counterpane and a cotton
patchwork quilt, pieced in ‘‘Trish Chain” pattern, both made in South
Carolina in 1850; and from Mrs. Mary E. Lyddane linen samplers
made in 1804 and 1833. Mrs. Laurence Stabler, Alexandria, Va.,
loaned two appliqued cotton quilts, one in “‘Tree of Life” design
made in 1802, the other in 1830; and a small linen sampler worked in
1733. Mrs. Daniel Gardner added 27 miscellaneous textile articles.
The Museum is indebted to Miss Susan P. Keech for a cotton coverlet,
made of a monochrome copper cylinder print—the so-called ‘‘'Toile de
la Bastile’”—which has been in the Keech family of Harford County,
Md., for 70 years or more.

The Cotton-Textile Institute continued its valued cooperation by
the presentation of two series of modern cotton fabrics produced by
American manufacturers. Further additions to the display of sea-
sonal cotton dress goods were made by Galey & Lord, who presented
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY: NATIONAL MUSEUM 1B

specimens of fancy weave cotton and rayon fabrics. The Celanese
Corporation of America contributed a new series of examples of piece-
dyed dress materials to replace the specimens presented last year.
To the Flatau Fabrics Corporation the Museum is indebted for ex-
amples of warp-printed, novelty silk crepe fabrics, finished by a
special process to give the material a sandy feel when handled. ‘The
cooperation of Sidney Blumenthal & Co. was continued by the gift
of specimens of upholstery and drapery pile fabrics, cloaking and
velvet dress fabrics, and a printed velour bathmat, these to replace
some of the specimens contributed by this firm during the past 19
years.

The Armstrong Cork Co. presented a full series showing the manu-
facture of linoleum and suggestions for the interior decoration of differ-
ent types of rooms; the Standard Textile Products Co. specimens
illustrating the manufacture of wall and table oilcloth and uses to
which these materials may be put; and M. J. Whittall Associates a
series of specimens illustrating the manufacture of wool carpet yarns.
The Universal Winding Co. sent examples of windings of bare and
insulated wires for electrical purposes, which had been wound on
winders of different types.

Through the courtesy of T. A. Keleher, a live exhibit of about 300
half-grown silkworms was set up in the textile hall. They were placed
on shelves in a special glass case, where they were fed fresh mulberry
leaves every few hours until the cocoons were spun, the first week of
June.

Specimens of new rubber products and a historical series illus-
trating the development of rubber pneumatic tires from 1904 to the
present time were contributed by the B. F. Goodrich Rubber Co.
The United Shoe Machinery Corporation added to its exhibit a new
series showing a recently perfected shoemaking method.

For the collections pertaining to agricultural history were received
three models of the Cyrus Hall McCormick grain reaper constructed,
one eighth size, according to the specifications of United States
Patents Nos. 3895 and 5335, issued June 21, 1834, January 31, 1845,
and October 23, 1847. The first was the gift of Secretary Abbot; the
others of the McCormick Historical Association, which also presented
three groups of documents, one relating to the development of two
hillside plows, patented by Cyrus Hall McCormick in 1831 and
1833; one to the development of the reaper by Cyrus Hall McCormick;
and one to a threshing machine invented by Robert McCormick in
1834.

An interesting specimen was received from Miss Anna Tiede in
the form of a blank book of veneer cut from western white pine.
The sheets were cut with a slicing knife, but, ingeniously, were not
cut,entirely through, just enough wood being left at the back to bind
them. The sheets are not glued at any point.
124 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

Gerrit S. Miller, Jr., collected in Puerto Rico during March and
April 1932 for the section of wood technology 74 woods from a region
heretofore only scantily represented in the collection. These specimens
are backed by herbarium material in the division of plants. The Uni-
versity of Poznan sent a set of 63 samples of the woods of Poland in
exchange fora collection of woods of the United States. At the sug-
gestion of Mr. Miller, E. N. Bancroft, surveyor general of Kingston,
Jamaica, collected for the Museum wood samples of Jamaican trees,
most of which are backed by herbarium material in the division of
plants. Most of these are generous trunk sections.

Other woods received from various contributors for the study
collection comprise single billets or trunk sections. One is a 17-inch
section of the rare Chonta palm from Juan Fernandez Island off the
coast of Chili, obtained by Dr. W. L. Schmitt. Prof. T. Jonson, of
the Royal Swedish Forestry School, Stockholm, contributed a fine
trunk section of European white birch from the demonstration forest
of the College of Forestry at Garpenberg, Province of Dalarne,
Sweden. In exchange for a study sample of Ginkgo wood sent to
him in August 1932, F. K. Dalton sent a piece of the wood of kaika-
waka, or New Zealand cedar, which burns very slowly and is used
locally for fire doors and similar purposes. <A piece of German oak
cut from a dugout built on the Elbe between 800 and 900 A.D., and
attesting the great durability of this species, was received from R. D.
Hess as an exchange.

A collection of homeopathic pharmaceutical preparations, from
Boericke & Tafel, arranged to illustrate the history and principles of
homeopathy, was the largest gift received by the division of medicine
during the year. The specimens included consist of pharmaceuticals
of all kinds from the animal, mineral, and vegetable kingdoms.
The division is indebted to Dr. F. B. Kilmer, of Johnson & Johnson,
for the contribution of type specimens of the earliest antiseptic sur-
gical dressings made on a commercial scale in the United States.
The first type, carbolated gauze, introduced the new Listerian sys-
tem of antiseptic dressings. The others illustrate improved forms
of dressings with corrosive sublimate and boric acid as the medicinal
agents.

The pharmacy collection was improved by the addition of con-
siderable material, including a druggist’s mortar contributed by
Magnus, Mabee & Reynard, and a series of six photographic en-
largements of murals depicting the progress of pharmacy, a gift of
the Philadelphia College of Pharmacy and Science.

Accessions for the materia medica section included a gift of a set
of photographs especially prepared by Eli Lilly & Co. to illustrate
steps in the manufacture of insulin; a contribution of Merck & Co.
of a series of cinchona alkaloids and alkaloidal salts; and donations
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY: NATIONAL MUSEUM 120

of crude drugs by the United States Department of Agriculture,
R. Hilber’s Son Corporation, J. L. Hopkins & Co., S. B. Penick &
Co., Peek & Velsor, and Johnson & Johnson.

Additions to the section of public health were: A group of models
and a panel transferred from the United States Children’s Bureau;
a partial set of specially prepared placards and a series of strip films
received from the Metropolitan Life Insurance Co.; and additional
colored transparencies donated by the American Hospital Association.

Graphic arts.—The 51 accessions, 4 more than last year, totaled 1,433
specimens, of which the gifts, purchases, transfers, and deposits made
a permanent addition to the collections of 482 specimens. The most
important accession was 200 old etchings collected by J. Kay,
London, in 1826. The lot contains prints by such famous artists as
Rembrandt, Claude, Hollar, Cornelius, Bego, and Castiglione, and
many by lesser artists, quite a few of which are of much better
quality than those by the more famous etchers. Etchings and dry-
points by American artists were received from Joseph C. Claghorn,
Mrs. Sybilla M. Weber, and Robert Lawson.

In connection with the new installation of the photomechanical
and substitute processes, the following accessions were obtained:
Photographs of the inventors Frederic E. Ives, Max Levy, Louis
E. Levy, and Karl Kletsch; 36 prints made by the Photogravure
and Color Co., of New York, from 3 old photomechanical plates
etched about 1860 by Fox Talbot. The Meriden Gravure Co. gave
18 specimens of their work in collotype, and 5 specimens of excellent
European work were purchased and incorporated in the exhibit.
The Laboratory Press of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pitts-
burgh, presented 7 examples of the work being done in the school
of printing, and 2 large highlight water-marked samples of paper
were the gift of the Japan Paper Co.

Of the 26 accessions received by the section of photography during
the year, the most important and valued was the gift of Mary O.
Petrocelli, Brooklyn, N.Y., of 86 beautiful bromoil and resinotypia
prints made by her late husband, Joseph Petrocelli, between 1921
and 1928. They are all suitably and effectively framed, and were
presented in the hope that they would stimulate a desire to carry
on this type of work, of which Mr. Petrocelli was a master.

An important addition to the motion-picture exhibit was a com-
plete early Edison projection kinetoscope acquired from John P.
Daniels, Crisfield, Md.

Three burnishers used by the late John F. Jarvis, Washington,
D.C., the gift of Mr. Jarvis’ daughters, Mrs. Mae I. English and
Mrs. L. F. Speich, illustrate the development of this once useful
article in photography. M. Schneckenberger, chief photographer
for the Buffalo Museum of Science, Buffalo, N.Y., loaned two im-
126 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

portant cameras, one a Kodak No. 210 and the other an E. & H.
T. Anthony No. 1025. Dr. Robert Taft gave a portrait of Hamilton
H. Smith, the inventor of the tintype, which is a copy of a self-por-
trait (1889) printed on platinum paper of Smith’s preparation.

A 35-mm moving-picture film, the gift of Geophysiches Institut,
Prague, illustrates the copying of books in this compact form, each
page being copied on one frame and projected onto a screen for
study. Libraries are using this method to copy rare old books, thus
to preserve the originals and make them available for others.
Another film acquired from the Universal Talking Newsreel, New
York, illustrates the method of locomotion of a walrus in the San
Diego Zoo.

Mrs. Hazel Englebrecht, Des Moines, Iowa, specialist in X-ray
photography, presented to the section 2 photographs of flowers
and 9 negatives of various assorted subjects. DeLancey Gill,
Alexandria, Va., for many years illustrator of the Bureau of Ameri-
can Ethnology, upon his retirement on June 30, 1932, gave the col-
lection a Thornton Pickard shutter, a Triplex shutter, an old focusing
glass, and a Watkins meter. Eugene Augustin Lauste, Bloomfield,
N.J., ploneer inventor of sound and sight motion pictures, presented
22 photographic copies of his early inventions. Ida F. Arnold,
Canton, Mass., presented a collection of 4 daguerreotypes, 4 ambro-
types, 2 tintypes, and 1 cabinet portrait.

Loeb collection of chemical types—Miss Aida M. Doyle, of the
section of organic chemistry, devoted 2 days a week to the Loeb
collection of chemical types under the head curator’s direction, and
by the close of the year had made satisfactory progress toward com-
pleting a technical catalog of the collection, which now numbers
1,336 specimens.

INSTALLATION AND PRESERVATION OF COLLECTIONS

Engineering.—In the section of aeronautics the erection of the
gondola and part of the envelop of the airship Pilgrim was the larg-
est new installation. In addition, the collection of kites was in-
stalled in metal swinging frames and a complete series of illustrations
portraying the evolution of the parachute was added. In mechani-
cal technology the most popular new arrangement was the addition
of a horse, harness, and liveried driver to the hansom cab presented
last year by Mrs. James Parmelee. Mrs. Parmelee donated a nicely
carved wooden horse, the original harness, and the driver’s livery.
The large tower-clock movement presented last year by the city of
Frederick, Md., was installed at the level of the ‘‘clock gallery” on
the top of a steel tower erected from the main floor, and will be
operated during the coming year. The glass and metallurgy exhibits
of the section of mineral technology were completely rearranged.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY: NATIONAL MUSEUM 127

An attractive exhibit portraying the early work of Joseph Wharton
in the development of nickel refining and manufacturing processes
was installed.

Textiles, organic chemistry, wood technology, foods, and medicine.—In
all, 35 installations of new material and 13 rearrangements or rein-
stallations of specimens received in previous years were made in the
textile halls. In the section of organic chemistry 17 exhibits were
dismantled and revised, replacing some specimens with new material
of more recent manufacture. Three new installations were made in
the section of foods. A new colony of bees was installed in the obser-
vation hive in the spring, the bees in the old colony having nearly all
perished in the previous cold winter.

In wood technology a new cork exhibit was installed from material
contributed by the Armstrong Cork Co., the walnut airplane pro-
peller and accompanying parts, received in 1917 from the American
Propeller & Manufacturing Co., were rearranged; and parts of the
exhibit of the Hammermill Paper Co., illustrating the manufacture
and use of sulphite wood pulp for writing papers, were revised. This
year 203 woods were received, primarily for the study collection. Of
these, 65 were of such size that they could be placed in the regular
drawers with little or no cutting, 133 were cut to size and all duplicates
put in storage, while 5 await seasoning. A total of 308 hand samples
were prepared for the study collection, 2,087 duplicates for distribu-
tion and exchange, and 318 thin sections were made for the division
of plants.

Important among the new or improved installations in the division
of medicine are models illustrating various phases of child welfare;
exhibits devoted to the portraying of general hygiene, preventive
medicine, and vital statistics; the Arabian period of medical history;
the history of pharmacy; the evolution of pharmacopoeias, dispensa-
tories, and formularies; and improved insulin, surgical dressings, and
crude drug exhibits.

Graphic arts —Besides conducting 8 special exhibitions, the mem-
bers of the staff of the division of graphic arts devoted 4% months to
the arrangement and installation of the photomechanical prints.
Many of the early specimens are rare, and to insure their careful
preservation they were covered with glass and bound with passe
partout. This method, once started, made it necessary to cover all
specimens in order to make the exhibition uniform. Nearly all the
old material and much new was rematted and covered with glass.

INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH

Dr. F. L. Lewton, curator of textiles, continued his botanical
studies of certain undescribed plants related to the cottons; the
assistant curator of wood technology, W. N. Watkins, carried on
128 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

investigations of the utility of certain tropical Florida woods and
gave special study to the anatomy of other species of woods; the
assistant curator of medicine, Dr. Charles Whitebread, pursued his
studies of Arabian medicine and the history of pharmacy; R. P.
Tolman, curator of graphic arts, devoted some time to further re-
search on the artist Malbone; and the assistant curator of engineering,
Paul E. Garber, found time to give to his researches in aeronautical
history.

Many individuals and industrial organizations made use of the
department’s collections during the year, some in connection with
their studies on various phases of industrial and technologic history
and transportation, involving in some cases the comparison of speci-
mens in the collections with privately-owned objects, and others in
connection with the preparation of historicai exhibits for the Century
of Progress Exposition in Chicago. Assistance of this sort was
rendered also to a number of Federal agencies, including the United
States Shipping Board, the Bureau of Public Roads, the Bureau of
Navigation and Steamboat Inspection, and the Aeronautics Branch
of the Department of Commerce. Much time too was required to
comply with requests for the identification of specimens brought or
sent in by individuals and Federal bureaus. Such assistance in-
cluded identification of woods fur the United States Bureau of Plant
Industry, the National Committee on Wood Utilization, the Bureau
of Standards, and the Bureau of American Ethnology. Seeds of
foreign cottons were identified for the Division of Foreign Plant
Introduction and rare drugs for the Division of Botany, United States
Bureau of Plant Industry. In addition, many lots of material, such
as paintings, sculpture, ship models, tools, textile fabrics, machinery,
electrical and mechanical equipment, watches and clocks, and
scientific apparatus, were identified and appraised.

DISTRIBUTION AND EXCHANGE OF SPECIMENS

The distributions from the department of arts and industries during
the year aggregated 2,091 specimens, of which 39 were gifts in aid of
education, 8 exchanges for material which has or will be received, and
1,595 loans for educational or research purposes. Also 449 specimens
that had been temporarily in the department were returned to their
owners.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY: NATIONAL MUSEUM 129

NUMBER OF SPECIMENS UNDER DEPARTMENT

The number of specimens in the department was 115,467, assigned
as follows:

AYE ONT © CT 11 a gen a ene ee a 15, 025
J DYES TU Cy eye se gp eT aka os sO a a 13, 754
Wiood technology: se ee aan en an wee err 2 ee 8, 294
Organic chemistry and animal products__-..-.--------- 20, 108
[OOG See ee ne ee ee ees So ena ae oe 1, 092
Agricultural history (estimated) _.........------------- 1, 202
£16 1 0 a <= ep aa a Sa 16, 622
Graphic arts, including photography_...--------------- 38, 034
Loeb collection of chemical types__..--_-------------- 1, 336
REPORT ON THE DIVISION OF HISTORY

(TuHEoporE T. Bretotre, Curator)

In 1921 the division of history was removed from the department of
anthropology and placed as a separate unit under the department of
arts and industries, its report since 1925 for convenience having been
combined with that of that department. With a reorganization
during the present year, the division of history now renders a separate
account of its activities.

The historical collections have been divided into the following
units: Art, antiquarian, costume, military, naval, numismatic, and
philatelic. ‘These terms refer to the intrinsic character of the histor-
ical materials and indicate categories for the classification, installa-
tion, preservation, and future development of the immense mass of
objects of various types now in the care of the division. The arrange-
ment of the material in each of these groups has been greatly facili-
tated during recent years by the assignment of suitable exhibition and
storage space in the Arts and Industries Building for the entire
historical collections. Much of the time of the historical staff has
been occupied with transferring materials from the Natural History
Building to the Arts and Industries Building, but the rearrangement
of all this material has not yet been completed.

ACCESSIONS FOR THE YEAR

Additions to the collections during the year were smaller in numbers
than in recent years, chiefly because of lack of exhibition and storage
space for new specimens of bulky size, the necessity of depending upon
gifts for material that has become comparatively scarce and valuable,
and the adoption of a high standard for material accepted. Speci-
mens added numbered 5,537, or 519 less than for the previous year.

In the antiquarian collections several objects of special interest
were added. One of these is a small compass in a Jeather case which
was carried by William Clark during the Lewis and Clark expedition
to the Pacific coast, 1804-6, and presented by Miss Mary McCabe.
Another is a silver vase given to Maj. Gen. Silas Casey, when captain
of the Second Infantry, United States Army, in recognition of his
services during the War with Mexico. It was lent to the Museum by
Miss Sophie Pearce Casey. Seven pieces of chinaware owned during
the early part of the nineteenth century by President James Madison

130
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY: NATIONAL MUSEUM 131

were presented by John H. Gray. Mrs. Daniel Gardner added 77
specimens of china, glass, and miscellaneous tableware to the anti-
quarian material presented by her in 1931.

An interesting collection of feminine wearing apparel of the latter
part of the nineteenth century was donated by Mrs. Gertrude O. S.
Cleveland. A frock coat and vest worn by William McKinley, prior
to his election as President of the United States in 1896, were presented
by George A. Troll.

A United States flag carried on the boat Emma Dean by Maj. J. W.
Powell and his party during their exploring expedition down the
Green and Colorado Rivers, 1871-72, was presented by Frederick S.
Dellenbaugh.

Two military belt buckles of more than the usual historical impor-
tance were received. One of these, presented by Virginia B. Lewis
and Emily B. Leaf, was owned during the War of 1812 by Maj. Gen.
Jacob Brown. The other, a gift of B. F. O’Rourke, was worn by
Thomas O’ Rourke, Company E, Highty-eighth New York Volunteers,
during the Battle of Cold Harbor, Va., and bears on its surface a rifle
bullet that was embedded in it during that engagement. The military
collection was also increased by a saber carried during the Civil War
by Lt. Thomas D. Jellico, One hundred and sixty-ninth New York
Volunteer Infantry, presented by Mrs. Clara Jellico Bevers, and by a
Spanish carbine and sword of the period of the Spanish-American
War, presented by Mrs. Arthur Foraker. The Polish Government
presented a series of uniforms and accessories of types now used in
the Polish Army.

A number of relics of unusual historical interest relating to the
career of Commodore Thomas Macdonough, added to the naval
collection, include a gold watch owned by him; a silver pitcher and
six goblets presented to him by the citizens of Lansingburg, N.Y., in
commemoration of his victory on Lake Champlain, September 11,
1814; and a handsome gold-mounted sword, a scabbard, and belt
presented to him by the crew of the U.S.S. Guerriere, July 8, 1819.
These items were lent by Rodney Macdonough. A naval sword,
received as a gift from Mrs. J. A. Starkweather, was owned during the
early part of the nineteenth century by Dr. Thomas Williamson,
United States Navy.

Among the additions to the numismatic collection was a Portuguese
half-dobra gold piece struck in Brazil in 1761, presented by Phillip
Elting. From the International Nickel Co. came a collection of 48
nickel coins illustrating the types of coins of this metal now circulating
in Albania, Austria, Belgium, Ecuador, France, Germany, Greece,
Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Luxembourg, Montenegro, Morocco,
Poland, Siam, Switzerland, Turkey, and Vatican City. The United
States Mint transferred two examples each of the gold, silver, and

72774—35——10
132 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

bronze coins struck in the Denver, Philadelphia, and San Francisco
Mints during 1932.

Two bronze copies of the medal of award of the United States
George Washington Bicentennial Commission, 1932, were presented
by the commission. The directors of the French Mint presented an
exceptionally artistic medal commemorating the tercentennial anni-
versary of the birth of Benedict Spinoza. A special collection of 186
British medals commemorating the exploits of Admiral Edward Ver-
non, R.N., during his expedition against the Spanish possessions in
the Caribbean Sea, 1739-41, was lent for temporary exhibition by
L. McCormick-Goodhart.

A number of additions were made to the collection of military deco-
rations. From the War Department came two examples of the
recently reestablished United States military decoration, the Purple
Heart. From the New Mexico National Guard, through Maj. Fred-
erick R. Lafferty, the Museum received two examples of the long-
service medal and drill-attendance medal of the type awarded to
members of that guard. Six military decorations and six exquisitely
executed miniatures of these decorations, all owned during the World
War by Maj. Gen. George M. Burr, were presented by Mrs. Lydia
K. Burr.

The philatelic collections were increased by 3,971 specimens received
from the Post Office Department, including examples of many United
States and foreign commemorative stamps of more than the usual
historical interest.

INSTALLATION AND PRESERVATION OF COLLECTIONS

The transfer of historical materials from the Natural History
Building to the Arts and Industries Building has complicated the
problem of adequate space and furniture, but the arrangement has
been greatly improved by the transfer. The art material has offered
the greatest difficulties, as it is difficult to arrange busts, portraits, and
historic scenes in a satisfactory manner owing to the architectural
features of the walls of the building. Part of the collection of busts is
shown on the tops of wall cases.

The only series of paintings now shown with entire success is the
Ferris collection of American historical subjects for which special
alcoves were provided 2 years ago. This collection makes a splendid
showing and harmonizes well with the costumes material exhibited in
the same hall.

The antiquarian material has been united and now includes a fine
series of china, glass, silverware, and furniture relating to the develop-
ment of the American home from about 1750 to 1850. The pieces of
greatest importance are those associated with noted personages of
American history, and material of this character is given the most
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY: NATIONAL MUSEUM 133

prominent location in the exhibition scheme. ‘This section includes
materials owned by George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Alexander
Hamilton, James Madison, and many other important figures in
American history.

An exhibit of unusual historical interest installed during the year
included examples of coins, tokens, and paper currency issued by
local and State authorities and by private individuals and commer-
cial firms in the United States from the Colonial period to the present
time. Of equal importance are many examples of metal currency
known as “tokens” that were produced in the United States during
the financial panic of 1837 and during the Civil War. This special
exhibit also included coins and currency made during the period of
the Confederation prior to the establishment of the United States
Mint and the first issue by that establishment of the official series of
United States coins, which began in 1793.

The value of the philatelic material for exhibition purposes was
greatly increased by the installation of a special series of electric
fixtures, which not only light the cabinets but also the nearby wall
cases containing the Richard Mansfield collection of historical
theatrical costumes.

NUMBER OF SPECIMENS UNDER DIVISION

During the past year 5,537 specimens were received and 227 speci-
mens were returned to the owners. The number of specimens
included in each of the classes of materials assigned to the division is
given below. The library material, which includes documents
and publications of historical interest, has received few additions in
recent years, as material of this character is no longer included in
the field of work of the division.

CT ee ee ee As eo eS ea ee 4, 546
PENSE ULC LUNGS ee eee eee eee ae ee Pa St ee 10, 996
COR GIT CS Ape ee ee ety a Fe oe ne, NR Pree 4, 090
1D 5 92) | ee peeve aver Mes, ee peer en a eee 2, 225
IM SUN) 9 eae, SR ne ie oe ees 27, 488
Nich. yeeu eats ees ea reece Cee ent Seana oS 6 oes 2, 510
EIN SURCVR TES 299] saps eee ee ee va ee eo yt © Be 45, 802
} EA n VU FY) by ee a cr eS Eee ey 391, 131

PGs am ce ealees te a ee ene ee ae 488, 788
PUBLICATIONS ISSUED BY THE UNITED STATES
NATIONAL MUSEUM DURING THE FISCAL YEAR 1932-33

REPORT

Report on the progress and condition of the United States National Museum for
the year ended June 30, 1932.
8vo., pp. i-vi, 1-181, pl. 1.

PROCEEDINGS

Proceedings of the United States National Museum. Volume 79.
8vo., arts. 1-34, xvi+626 pp., 76 figs., 115 pls.

Proceedings of the United States National Museum. Volume 80.
8vo., arts. 1-23, xii+603 pp., 54 figs., 65 pls.

Proceedings of the United States National Museum. Volume 81.
8vo., arts. 1-18, xil+571 pp., 136 figs., 64 pls.

BULLETINS

No. 39, part N. Directions for preparing specimens of mammals. Sixth edition,
revised. By Gerrit S. Miller, Jr.

8vo., pp. i-ii, 1-20, 5 figs.

No. 100, volume 12. Contributions to the biology of the Philippine Archipelago
and adjacent regions: The fishes of the families Banjosidae, Lethrinidae,
Sparidae, Girellidae, Kyphosidae, Oplegnathidae, Gerridae, Mullidae,
Emmelichthyidae, Sciaenidae, Sillaginidae, Arripidae, and Enoplosidae
collected by the United States Bureau of Fisheries steamer Albatross, chiefly
in Philippine seas and adjacent waters. By Henry W. Fowler.

8vo., pp. i-vi, 1-465, 32 figs.

No. 158. The copepods of the Woods Hole region, Massachusetts. By Charles

Branch Wilson.
8vo., pp. i-xix, 1-635, 316 figs., pls. 1-41 (colored frontispiece).

No. 163. American and European swords in the historical collections of the

United States National Museum. By Theodore T. Belote.
8vo., pp. i-vii, 1-163, pls. 1-46.
No. 164. The Canadian and Ordovician formations and fossils of South Man-

churia. By Riuji Endo.
8vo., pp. i-iii, 1-152, pls. 1-38 (including 5 folding maps).

PAPERS PUBLISHED IN SEPARATE FORM
FROM THE BULLETINS

From no. 100, volume 6. Contributions to the biology of the Philippine Archi-
pelago and adjacent regions: Part 7, The Philippine land mollusks Cochlo-
styla rufogaster and Obba marmorata and their races. By Paul Bartsch.

8vo., pp. 329-342, pls. 83-86.

From the same: Part 8, The land shells of the genus Obba from Mindoro Province,

Philippine Islands. By Paul Bartsch.
8vo., pp. 343-371, pls. 87-93.

134
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY: NATIONAL MUSEUM 135

FROM VOLUME 80 OF THE PROCEEDINGS

. 2921. Insects of the order Orthoptera of the Pinchot expedition of 1929.

By A. N. Caudell.
Art. 21, pp. 1-7.

. 2923. Revision of the nearctic ichneumon-flies belonging to the genus

Macrocentrus. By C. F. Muesebeck.
Art. 23, pp .1-55.

FROM VOLUME 81 OF THE PROCEEDINGS

. 2925. Birds collected in Cuba and Haiti by the Parish-Smithsonian expedi-

tion of 1930. By Alexander Wetmore.
Art. 2, pp. 1-40, pls. 1-7.

. 2927. The marine and fresh-water sponges of California. By M. W. de

Laubenfels.
Art. 4, pp. 1-140, 79 figs.

. 2928. A new trematode of the genus Urotrema from bats. By Joseph FE.

Alicata.
Art. 5, pp. 1-4, 1 fig.

. 2929. A newly discovered West Indian mollusk faunula. By Paul Bartsch.

Art. 6, pp. 1-12, pls. 1-3.

. 2930. Decorative designs on Elden Pueblo pottery, Flagstaff, Ariz. By

Walter Hough.
Art. 7, pp. 1-11, 1 fig., pls. 1-10.

. 2931. The fishes obtained by Lieut. H. C. Kellers, of the United States

Naval Eclipse expedition of 1930, at Niuafoou Island, Tonga group, in
Oceania. By Henry W. Fowler.
Art. 8, pp. 1-9, 3 figs.

. 2934. The forms of the common Old World swallowtail butterfly (Papilio

machaon) in North America, with descriptions of two new species. By
Austin H. Clark.
Art. 11, pp. 1-15, pls. 1-8.

. 2935. Report on the hexactinellid sponges collected by the United States

Fisheries steamer Albatross in the northwestern Pacific during the summer of
1906. By Yaichiro Okada.
Art. 12, pp. 1-118, 16 figs., pls. 1-6.

. 2936. The trematode parasites of marine mammals. By Emmett W. Price.

Art. 13, pp. 1-68, pls. 1-12.

. 2937. Two new land shells of the genus Bulimulus from Bolivia. By Wil-

liam B. Marshall.
Art. 14, pp. 1-3, pl. 1.

. 2938. A Miocene mollusk of the genus Haliotis from the Temblor Range,

California. By W. P. Woodring.
Art. 15, pp. 1-4, pl. 1.

. 2939. Notes on the helminth parasites of the opossum (Didelphis virginiana)

in southeast Texas, with descriptions of four new species. By Asa C.
Chandler.
Art. 16, pp. 1-15, 5 figs.

. 2940. The helminths parasitic in the Amphibia and Reptilia of Houston,

Tex., and vicinity. By Paul D. Harwood.
Art. 17, pp. 1-71, pls. 1-5.

. 2941. On a newly mounted skeleton of Diplodocus in the United States

National Museum. By Charles W. Gilmore.
Art. 18, pp. 1-21, 3 figs., pls. 1-6.
136 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

No.

No.

No.

No.

No.

FROM VOLUME 8&2 OF THE PROCEEDINGS

2942. A remarkable new genus and species of two-winged flies related to
the Oestridae. By Charles H. T. Townsend.

Art. 1, pp. 1-4, 2 figs.
2943. Anew Paleocene mammal from a deep well in Louisiana. By George
Gaylord Simpson.

Art. 2, pp. 1-4, 1 fig.

._ 2944. The Chinese lizards of the genus Gekko. By Leonhard Stejneger.

Art. 3, pp. 1-8.

. 2945. Description of a tick, Dermacentor halli, from the Texas peccary, with

a key to the North American species of Dermacentor. By Allen McIntosh.
Art. 4, pp. 1-6, 1 fig., pl. 1.

. 2046. New fossil fresh-water mollusks from Ecuador. By William B.

Marshall and Edgar O. Bowles.
Art. 5, pp. 1-7, pl. 1.

2947. Two new nematodes, and notes on new findings of nematodes parasitic¢
in Amphibia. By A. C. Walton.

Art. 6, pp. 1-5, 1 fig.
2948. A fossil rhinoceros (Diceratherium armatum Marsh) from Gallatin
County, Montana. By Horace Elmer Wood, 2d.

Art. 7, pp. 1-4, pls. 1-3.
2949. New fresh-water gastropod mollusks of the genus Chilina of South
America. By William B. Marshall.

Art. 8, pp. 1-6, pl. 1.

. 2950. A new species of extinct turtle from the Upper Pliocene of Idaho.

By Charles W. Gilmore.
Art. 9, pp. 1-7, 5 figs., pls. 1-3.

. 2951. A collection of birds from Great Namaqualand, Southwest Africa.

By Herbert Friedmann.
Art. 10, pp. 1-12, pl. 1.

. 2952. Five new species of North American ichneumon-flies. By Frank D.

DeGant.
Art. 11, pp. 1-6.

. 2953. Fossil plants from the Aspen shale of southwestern Wyoming. By

Roland W. Brown.
Art. 12, pp. 1-10, 2 figs., pls. 1, 2.

. 2954. Camptostroma, a Lower Cambrian floating hydrozoan. By Rudolf

Ruedemann.
Art. 13, pp. 1-8, 2 figs., pls. 1-4.

. 2955. Descriptions of new ichneumon-flies with taxonomic notes. By R. A.

Cushman.
Art. 14, pp. 1-16.

. 2956. Description of two parasitic nematodes from the Texas peceary. By

Benjamin Schwartz and Joseph E. Alicata.
Art. 16, pp. 1-6, 4 figs.

. 2957. New termites from India. By Thomas E. Snyder.

Art. 16, pp. 1-15, 8 figs., pl. 1.

. 2958. A new nematode from the rhea. By Everett E. Wehr.

Art. 17, pp. 1-5, 3 figs.
No.

No.

No.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY: NATIONAL MUSEUM 137

2959. Synopsis of the calanoid crustaceans, exclusive of the Diaptomidae,
found in fresh and brackish waters, chiefly of North America. By C.
Dwight Marsh.

Art. 18, pp. 1-58, pls. 1-24.

. 2960. West African snails of the family Achatinidae in the United States

National Museum. By Henry A. Pilsbry.
Art. 19, pp. 1-6, pls. 1, 2.

. 2961. Descriptions of new and imperfectly known species and genera of

gobioid and pleuronectid fishes in the United States National Museum.
By Isaac Ginsburg.
Art. 20, pp. 1-23, 3 figs.

2962. Crossochir koelzi: A new California surf-fish of the family Embiotoe
cidae. By Carl L. Hubbs.
Art. 21, pp. 1-9, pl. 1.
2963. Pottery of the Hopewell type from Louisiana. By Frank M. Setzler
Art. 22, pp. 1-21, 6 figs., pls. 1-7.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION

FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1933

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

Your executive committee respectfully submits the following report
in relation to the funds of the Smithsonian Institution, together with
a statement of the appropriations by Congress for the Government
bureaus in the administrative charge of the Institution:

SMITHSONIAN ENDOWMENT FUND

The original bequest of James Smithson was £104,960, 8 shillings,

6 pence; $508,318.46. Refunds of money expended in prosecu-

tion of the claim, freights, insurance, etc., together with pay-

ment into the fund of the sum of £5,015 which had been with-

held during the lifetime of Madame de la Batut, brought the

FUN GetoviMenamiO Unt sO besa eee ee eee $550, 000. 00
Since the original bequest the Institution has received gifts from

various sources, chiefly in the years prior to 1893, the income

from which may be used for the general work of the Institution.
To these gifts has been added capital from savings on income,

gain from sale of securities, ete., bringing the total endowment

for general purposes to the: amount of=-2-2=_ 2225-2 -5— 45-5 = 1, 121, 938. 03

The Institution holds also a number of endowment gifts the income
of each being restricted to specific use. These are invested and
stand on the books of the Institution as follows:

Arthur, James, fund, income for investigations and study of sun and

lecturevoni the sun 20 a a ee ee eee $46, 176. 01
Bacon, Virginia Purdy, fund, for a traveling scholarship to investi-

gate fauna of countries other than the United States____.__-_-_-- 57, 846. 04
Baird, Lucy H., fund, for creating a memorial to Secretary Baird___. 9, 492. 74
Barstow, Frederic D., fund, for purchase of animals for the Zoological

1 So 9 gpl Ree Bate Mie ie een eae ena ee poe ee Mee NE Ne he ye 878. 26
Canfield Collection fund, for increase and care of the Canfield collec-

tion Of minerals®= 3-2 2se. Sees ee ee eee 44, 162. 63
Casey, Thomas L., fund, for maintenance of the Casey collection and

promotion of researches relating to Coleoptera___._------------ 8, 923. 05
Chamberlain, Francis Lea, fund, for increase and promotion of

Isaac Lea collection of gems and mollusks___-_---------------- 32, 513. 80

Hodgkins fund, specific, for increase and diffusion of more exact
knowledge in regard to nature and properties of atmospheric air__ 100, 000. 00

138
REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

Hughes, Bruce, fund, to found Hughes alcove
Myer, Catherine Walden, fund, for purchase of first-class works of
art for the use of and benefit of the National Gallery of Art
Pell, Cornelia Livingston, fund, for maintenance of Alfred Duane
Pell collection
Poore, Lucy T. and George W., fund, for general use of the Institu-
tion when principal amounts to the sum of $250,000
Reid, Addison T., fund, for founding chair in biology in memory of
Asher Tunis
Roebling fund, for care, improvement, and increase of Roebling col-
lection of minerals
Rollins, Miriam and William, fund, for investigations in physics and
chemistry
Springer, Frank, fund, for care, etc., of Springer collection and
library
Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, research fund, for develop-
ment of geological and paleontological studies and publishing
results thereof
Younger, Helen Walcott, fund, held in trust
Zerbee, Frances Brincklé, fund, for endowment of aquaria

Total endowment for specific purposes other than Freer
endowment

139

$17, 492. 15

21, 886. 49
2, 787. 63
63, 642. 83

25, 725. 75

139, 339. 01

58, 779. 04
14, 883. 04
11, 615. 48

49, 812. 50
878.73

706, 835. 18

The capital funds of the Institution, except the Freer funds, are

invested as follows:

U.S Consolidated! Separate |
Treasury fund funds

PATRON IGS: LUG 2 nee eae ns means ee | ane eS $4651:76. 00) | 5 oe Se
Bacon, Virginia Purdy, fund <<--2---22 sds 2) co eoeccsscace 67, 846. 045|-2---2esc22 ack
Baird. Wucy. Hy fonds 88 eo 3 2 Se eee ed ees 9,402.74. | oss a
Barstow, Frederic: D., fund—_-....--....22..2.- leit Pie eS 878426) |22 oe
@antield Collection, fund.- 2.22.28 222k |e sb ise es 44, 162:.63) |_..o-2.c-62sce
Oasey,Lhomasty,, fund: 22223-5222 eee eon ee ce 85923205) |e esas <2 8
@bamberiain tind 2-—- na o2os- cus caacssasenn|seceseoceaaass 32,013, 80 |-ceceeee noon
Hodgkins (specific) fund___----.--._.---------. $100;,0005 00: |e eeenes auc | boa core eae
Mupnesbruee, (UNG) See See en eee 7, 4922 16 hae ese ee
iver, Oatberine W.tUnd. 22.2222. eo notice cececccecn 2UES86, 40) |e RE ne
Pell, CorneliatLivingston; fund 2422: oe eceeo- ele2-2- Je se f 2, 787. 63 | beri See eats
Poore, Lucy T. and George W., fund_--__--_--- 26, 670. 00 | BOLO Ter Re tees ee kets es
Reld; Addison T’., fund. 2222 2.....2_-.cccceee 11, 000. 00 i Ty 626 Nit) (a ae ee Be
Roebling Collection fund =22---2<-22-5-...22--2|--222-22-- 22 Jo 189),080! Olt 22222 S255 2 ee
Rollins, Miriam and William, fund._....-...__|_--.-.-.------ | BS ieior OF, || Sook ee

Smithsonian unrestricted funds:

AVERY, fn oo oe eS: eee ee eed 14, 000. 00 42, 900130; Seewccu seen
MnGowmMen btu 2ee-2 22 4_ 2 en se eee DID PAQ4E 45 "| 2 nee
Habel fund. <2o5-5 esses os eee Acces 60000) |poceees seo 5 Q 2) 2c eek see
Hackenberg fund: ..- 222-222 222 -oe eee ele so A tee CAC im ee oe eee
Hamilton fund: We 2-5 2025 22 2 see 2, 500. 00 466) 06) |222s2-coeeeece
Henty fund a) es san = sos adacocccenbewcucesas seen eeeccaan ne 18965800 | eaaseen eee
Hodgkins general fund__.._---.------------ 116, 000. 00 34; 6260.90) |ésc3.- 22. ssc2
Pareng tnMnG se oo <5 ccna lacneseeccecel 727, 640. 00 1 AON 4s ee cet eet
WUROGS NUNC Sees is ae aeons saan ecee nea 590. 00 O46. 10) |e oe ee eee ee
Sanfordifunda: -- 22222. ee sescccee ene 1, 100. 00 15027600) | toc acenausases

Springer fund______-__-_---_---__-.-------_---- Bee eee Sete eee Ek 0 $14, 883. 04
Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, fund-_-_--- liege sa! uy Gs 9 Ue te (Ee ae See

Younger, Helen Walcott, fund__._....---------- Se ane | |e eee 49, 812. 50
Zerbee, Frances Brincklé, fund___...---.------ | ee aaa ae 878578 |W ccoaenocene-

S10 | [Sk ie | 1, 000, 000. 00 764, 077. 67 64, 695. 54

Total

$46, 176. 01
57, 846. 04
» 9, 492. 74
878. 26

44, 162. 63
8, 923. 05
32, 513. 80
100, 000. 00
17, 492. 15
21, 886. 49
2, 787.63
63, 642. 83
25, 725. 75
139, 339. O1
38, 779. 04

46, 995. 35
172, 494. 45
500. 00

4, 645, 45
2, 966. 06
1, 396. 39
150, 626. 90
729, 049, 48
1, 136. 19
2, 127. 76
14, 883. 04
11, 615. 48
49, 812. 50
878. 73

1, 828, 773. 21
140 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

FREER GALLERY OF ART FUND

Harly in 1906, by deed of gift, Charles L. Freer, of Detroit, gave to
the Institution his collection of Chinese and other oriental objects of
art, as well as paintings, etchings, and other works of art by Whistler,
Thayer, Dewing, and other artists. Later he also gave funds for the
construction of a building to house the collection, and finally, in his
will, probated November 6, 1919, he provided stock and securities to
the estimated value of $1,958,591.42 as an endowment fund for the
operation of the gallery. From the above date to the present time
these funds have been increased by stock dividends, savings of income,
etc., to a total of $4,736,907.59. In view of the importance and
special nature of the gift and the requirements of the testator in
respect to it, all Freer funds are kept separate from the other funds
of the Institution, and the accounting in respect to them is stated
separately.

The invested funds of the Freer bequest are classified as follows:

Gourtiand crounds und: a= =s2 98se2 Set eee eee $530, 719. 72
Court and grounds maintenance fund_._........---.---.----- 133, 392. 99
ChiratorssunG@eeess 2 Oe oer See oa ae eee see ee 540, 030. 57
Residuany legacy. <i ee Se 8 255 eee a er ee een Se 3, 532, 764. 31
Totals 225. beteces Seo Pe Sle ae eae See ee ee 4, 736, 907. 59
SUMMARY
Invested endowment for general purposes. _-...-.------------ $1, 121, 938. 03
Invested endowment for specific purposes other than Freer en-
Gowmentsa a8 Ses eae ee ee eee eae 706, 835. 18
Total invested endowment other than Freer endowment___ 1, 828, 773. 21
Freer invested endowment for specific purposes___------------ 4, 736, 907. 59
Total invested endowment for all purposes___---------- 6, 565, 680. 80

CLASSIFICATION OF INVESTMENTS

Deposited in the United States Treasury at 6 percent per annum

as authorized in the U. S. Revised Statutes, sec. 5591_____-_ $1, 000, 000. 00
Investments other than Freer endowment (cost

or market value at date acquired):

Bonds (20 different groups) __..--.-------- $368, 873. 41
Stocks (36 different groups) ....---------- 430, 252. 66
Real estate first-mortgage notes_..-------- 16, 750. 00
Wninvested capital maa" 2 eee eee eee 12, 897. 14

SSS SSS 828, 773. 21

Total investments other than Freer endowment_-------- 1, 828, 773. 21

Investments of Freer endowment (cost or market
value at date acquired):

Bonds (48 different groups) .....--------- $2, 275, 487. 44
Stocks (87 different groups)_——.-.-.---.-- 2,371,085. 15
Real estate first-mortgage notes___-------- 58, 500. 00
lWUninvested (capitals 2s eee eee 31, 835. 00

——_—————_ 4, 78, 907. 59

Total:investments:s2- 52-42. ee nese Se eee eee eee 6, 565, 680. 80
REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

141

CASH BALANCES, RECEIPTS, AND DISBURSEMENTS DURING THE FISCAL

YEAR }

Cash patance on hand June. 30, 19822 2- = = ee ess

Receipts:
Cash income from various sources for genera
work of the institution___._....----------
Cash gifts expendable for special scientific
objects (not to be invested) _...---------
Cash received as royalties from sales of Smith-
sonian Scientific Series_._..._-------------
Cash income from endowments for specific
use other than Freer endowments and
from miscellaneous sources (including re-
fund of temporary advances) ------------
Cash capital from sale, call of securities, etc.
Cros berrelmvVeStcd) metre eee oe ee

Total receipts other than Freer endowment

Cash receipts from Freer endowment, income
from investments, etc__._----------------
Cash capital from sale, call of securities, etc.
(to be reinvested)______----------------

Disbursements:

From funds for general work of the Institution:
Buildings, care, repairs and alterations__-
Furniture and fixtures__....----------
General administration ?_____.-_------

Publications (comprising preparation,

printing, and distribution) ----------
Researches and explorations____-------
International exchanges_._-.----------

From funds for specific use, other than Freer
endowment:

Investments made from gifts, from gain
from sales, etc., of securities and from
Savin cs ONMNNCOMeCse saa =— =e ==

Other expenditures, consisting largely of
research work, travel, increase and
care of special collections, etc., from
income of endowment funds and from
cash gifts for specific use (including
temporary advances) _..------------

Reinvestment of cash capital from sale, call
of securities, ete._......-..-------------

Institution.
3 This includes salaries of the Secretary and certain others.

$67, 978.
124, 500.

2, 500.

58, 373.

226, 107.

217, 437.

1, 190, 648.

117, 601.

161, 978.

214, 539. 9

49

$250, 270. 59

479, 460. 02

1, 408, 086. 05

2, 137, 816. 66

52, 619. 79

494, 120. 31

1 This statement does not include Government appropriations under the administrative charge of the
142 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

CASH BALANCES, RECEIPTS, AND DISBURSEMENTS DURING THE FISCAL
YEAR—continued
Disbursements—Continued.

From Freer endowment:
Operating expenses of the gallery, salaries,

fieldsexpenses,etca == =. neers sams $57, 896. O1
Purchases’ot art objects®===2==2e2 sear" 166, 548. 77
Investments made from gain from sale,
etc., of securities and from income--_-_ 7, 525. 90
Reinvestment of cash capital, from sale,
call of securities, etce = 2 = =e ese Sd al i OE as:
rl 0 OGS.ok
Cash: balance June30,/ 1933 xt sees be 183, 408. 25
Do talk. ie Shee or ee 2 Se es ee ee ae 2, 187, 816. 66

EXPENDITURES FOR RESEARCHES IN PURE SCIENCE, EXPLORATIONS,
CARE, INCREASE, AND STUDY OF COLLECTIONS, ETC.

Expenditures from general endowment:

Publ Cabins ise See eager ee es a ae ee er $9, 771. 57
Researches and explorations.------===-.---+==-- 20, 645. 32
—————. $80, 416. 89
Expenditures from funds devoted to specific purposes:
Researches and explorations__._._..---.---------- 121, 629. 71
Care, increase, and study of special collections_-_-._ 15, 743. 11
Publications cee Oss 2. so oh e eae em eae DAN 2S
——_———— 139, 490. 10
Totals: 2 hi Bee Cl ph ga ia Ls ee ee eee ee 169, 906. 99

The practice of depositing on time in local trust companies and
banks such revenues as may be spared temporarily has been continued
during the past year, and interest on these deposits has amounted to
$2,020.04.

The Institution gratefully acknowledges gifts or bequests from
the following:

Dr. Adolph M. Hanson, income from certain royalties for conducting scientific
work of the Institution.

Mr. Eldridge R. Johnson, for deep-sea and other oceanographic explorations.

Research Corporation, for further contributions for researches in radiation.

Mr. John A. Roebling, for further contributions for researches in radiation.

Mrs. Mary Vaux Walcott, for purchase of Indian sand paintings.

All payments are made by check, signed by the Secretary of the
Institution, on the Treasurer of the United States, and all revenues
are deposited to the credit of the same account. In many instances
deposits are placed in bank for convenience of collection and later are
withdrawn in round amounts and deposited in the Treasury.

The foregoing report relates only to the private funds of the
Institution.
REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 143

The following appropriations were made by Congress for the
Government bureaus under the administrative charge of the Smith-
sonian Institution for the fiscal year 1933.

Pelariesinnd ox pelsedas asso ano eae see Soe $38, 644
elven @eCOleChOn 1. .acn< ooo eae ee eee Hohe wees 17, 500
Peremnatinal ExCnanpes. . 5 25S eee eae kee So sS ee 47, 529
Peet  EUNGION We ee = aia See ee ao een ee a 66, 640
International Catalog of Scientific Literature__-.----------------- 5, 650
Pecroplivsical WpsCrVvalolry 222 So oee a wees = ses 2s eens 82, 094
National Museum: :
Maintenance and operation.-.-------------------- $148, 370
Preservation of collections. ...-----=--~..-=--.---- 617, 760
— 766, 130
aust Caet UO OL AN ee renee saw Soe oa he eee eee 38, 220
Petula POOleeICs) (Patino Se Fe oie Bebe ceeenw nam 228, 880
Prin @andbinein el 22 2 ese et ee ee 5 ee si ek eee 62, 422
Ota aa ee ee nee a A Se a eee 1, 303, 709

There was also an allotment of $12,500 made by the United States
Commission of the Chicago World’s Fair Centennial Celebration
for participation by the Smithsonian Institution in ‘‘A Century of
Progress.”

The report of the audit of the Smithsonian private funds is printed
below:

OcToBER 4, 1933.
EXECUTIVE ComMITTEEF, BoARD or REGENTS,

Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C.

Sirs: Pursuant to agreement we have audited the accounts of the Smithsonian
Institution for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1933, and certify the balance of
cash on hand June 30, 19338, to be $185,308.25.

We have verified the record of receipts and disbursements maintained by the
Institution and the agreement of the book balances with the bank balances.

We bave examined all the securities in the custody of the Institution and in
the custody of the banks and found them to agree with the book records.

We have compared the stated income of such securities with the receipts of
record and found them in agreement therewith.

We have examined all vouchers covering disbursements for account of the
Institution during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1933, together with the authority
therefor, and have compared them with the Institution’s record of expenditures
and found them to agree.

‘We have examined and verified the accounts of the Institution with each
trust fund.

We found the books of account and records well and accurately kept and the
securities conveniently filed and securely cared for.

All information requested by your auditors was promptly and courteously
furnished.
144 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

We certify the balance sheet, in our opinion, correctly presents the financial
condition of the Institution as at June 30, 1933.
WiuuiamM L. YaEGER & Co.
WiuiiamM L. YAEGER,
Certified Public Accountant.

Respectfully submitted.

Freperic A. DELaNo,
R. Watton Moors,

JoHN C. Merriam,
Hrecutive Committee.
GENERAL APPENDIX

TO THE

SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 19338

ADVERTISEMENT

The object of the Grenrrat Arpenprx to the Annual Report of the
Smithsonian Institution is to furnish brief accounts of scientific
discovery in particular directions; reports of investigations made by
collaborators of the Institution; and memoirs of a general character
or on special topics that are of interest or value to the numerous
correspondents of the Institution.

It has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution from a very early date to enrich the annual
report required of them by law with memoirs illustrating the more
remarkable and important developments in physical and biological
discovery, as well as showing the general character of the operations
of the Institution; and, during the greater part of its history, this
purpose has been carried out largely by the publication of such
papers as would possess an interest to all attracted by scientific
progress.

In 1880, induced in part by the discontinuance of an annual sum-
mary of progress which for 30 years previously had been issued by
well-known private publishing firms, the secretary had a series of
abstracts prepared by competent collaborators, showing concisely
the prominent features of recent scientific progress in astronomy,
geology, meteorology, physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zool-
ogy, and anthropology. This latter plan was continued, though not
altogether satisfactorily, down to and including the year 1888.

In the report for 1889 a return was made to the earlier method of
presenting a miscellaneous selection of papers (some of them origi-
nal) embracing a considerable range of scientific investigation and
discussion. This method has been continued in the present report
for 1933.

72774— 35 11 147

a “gil by mere aad cae Da oe te ni Otht ho doe
paiaaine la aronenne: tape Hatrnte il eh bisa Hedoonk ti
«labia enabtenideercnt tet pond 3 sires ott realest wb yer
“dgahat tail hervortany to ecihenoed Baie : ‘woldstiiend: att ko aio) i

| eeeronaiis i i wtlay W sonetat $6) ‘pie Lea) sone lalvooa it ne eat

‘lowkswdtsend ost ‘to ate

. oe oy, per % ee oe Ne doi, dasaioony & aed el

ue osornt od ignite weit ntt, tine ul ed iad to hartlipatt ‘ng

| i te houhioa aniberan ae oh Abney ener: denier 9 O8aL 0%: duosyt ails atl

| fwnecena. alt ortne OF ari ae ols roy a mort materiel nelnee Asa
| lieniaaroie. Pathe Lelieraihep att wheningofovab: ddwhiogme Bita. ofdedtamaed i
‘east day ‘elt F494 Jenks Leones, adit watwora ae Tew eg Aresrosdlhyy) |
etdt aetntil 2th Yo snd! sstkere add Sots hae | rao oath bie
dota ha Katy Se wld ed elyoal ye hakeen waded paul it
saunter ad Bitoceann ia! 03 testodot ae ae: bluow ee % %

“ete Tsuna ie Ty idanapuieeas dy sH oan it feotbi (Oear ut
Wel holreat imped hed lane ny ay OF) 4ot tloudey orang te, ea
Yo ehios y bid ules alt ard gobblidue seg omemeneme
“yiiona. nhiwarls atolnyodation: Heaneqaiey, Xt hoenqeny atsenied a”
Vitcaieriton art eetiuony ititets drab’. te ederini ak) Aeeisiny ot
| das: eta Sr Hisatt ery er eHarstle eu oxolor j ’
“ion dysiodd dolinitoy sae aul wkat antl sraolaqoudiae Hint |
(OO RR DS Nias say aad abot Bests a: serrols ‘tiisodsabaites

on) ”

ae shan id h ausne) rouge 16 noidoolae aounslbagaimn ee
(Mie Koidoreyral ating ta oyna sidetobiniiog i gnioeadtina Uh
| da pin od me bawniaivon, biti ae babi Boa |

ree

HOW THE SUN WARMS THE EARTH *

By C. G. ABBor
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution

[With 6 plates]

James Arthur in 1931 bequeathed a considerable sum to the Smith-
sonian Institution for the study of the sun. A condition of the gift
directed that each year a lecture should be given on some phase of
our knowledge of the sun either by a member of the Institution’s
staff or by some other competent person. The first Arthur lecture
was given 2 years ago by Dr. Henry Norris Russell, who discussed
the sun’s chemical and physical composition. Last year, Dr. Ernest
William Brown, in the second Arthur lecture, treated of the sun’s
gravitational control of the solar system. In this third Arthur lec-
ture I propose to give some account of the sun’s radiation, whereby
the earth is kept at a habitable temperature.

HEAT EXCHANGE BY RADIATION

Experiment: Here I have a lamp which I can heat more and
more by electric current until, as you see, it glows brightly. At the
other side of the stage, too far away for direct heating by the lamp,
is a concave mirror which forms an image of the lamp upon a sen-

b

FIGURE 1.—Heat exchange by radiation.

The lamp, a, heated by electricity, sends rays to the concave mirror, b, which focuses
them on the thermopile, c, whose warming is indicated by the galvanometer, d.

sitive electrical thermometer called a thermopile (fig 1). That you
may all observe its behavior, I record the indications of the elec-
trical thermometer on the screen. Please observe this little spot of

1The third Arthur lecture, delivered at the Smithsonian Institution on Feb. 26, 1934.
149
150 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

light upon the scale of the instrument. Now I warm the lamp as
before. See the spot of light move. To convince you that rays from
the warmed lamp are actually crossing the stage and warming the
electrical thermometer by being focused upon it, I insert this card
so as to hide the lamp from the focusing mirror. The spot of light
immediately falls back. I remove the card. It leaps forward. All
chis time the lamp, though warmed, has been too cool to glow. But
now I heat it to a glowing temperature, as you see. Note how very
much wider now is the swing of the recording light spot as again
I insert the card.

RAYS MAY TRAVEL IN A VACUUM

Thus we see that not only visible rays from very hot sources, but
invisible rays from bodies too cool to glow, are able to cross wide
spaces and to produce heat when they are absorbed by blackened
receiving surfaces like that of this electrical thermometer. In our
experiment the space traversed by the rays was filled with air. That
was a hindrance, not a help, to the passage of these rays. They will
cross a vacuum even more freely than they will pass through air.
When we say that a radio program is “on the air”, it is true that
the air fills the space between the broadcaster and the listener, but
it is not the air that carries the waves. Just as sunlight comes to
us across a 92,000,000-mile vacuum, radio rays can also travel in
vacuum. They do not employ the air for their conveyance. The
nature of the medium that carries light and radio rays is still
obscure, but we know that it is not the air.

THE SUN IS THE EARTH’S HEAT SOURCE

The sun’s rays are almost the sole source of the heat that warms
our earth. They cross the void of space to us just as the rays from
the lamp crossed this stage. It requires 8 minutes for the sun’s rays
to reach the earth, traveling 186,000 miles each second. We noted
that the electrical thermometer, when radiated upon by the hot lamp,
warmed up to a certain degree of temperature and then stayed con-
stant. The earth, wherever the sun’s rays strike it, also tends to
warm up. Its temperature would stay constant as the thermopile
did when thus warmed, if conditions on the earth remained un-
changed. But clouds may form and obscure the sun, dust or smoke
frequently intervenes and, most important of all, the earth rotates
a complete turn every day. No spot on earth stays fixed underneath
the sun beam long enough to come to a constant temperature. The
earth is about 8,000 miles in diameter, and 25,000 miles in circum-
ference. Hence at the equator its surface passes under the solar
beam about 1,000 miles each hour.
HOW THE SUN WARMS THE EARTH—aABBOT Lok

On

INFLUENCE OF OBLIQUITY
The effect of sun rays in producing heat must always depend on
the obliquity of the receiving surface to the rays received. Figure 2
illustrates this point. The rays whose front have the width ab must

c
ee ae pee = g
| e 2
| 7
| rod
| ee
ort
re ee Oe See fi
Fa
Ficury 2.—Influence of obliquity by radiation.

evidently produce a greater intensity of heating effect on the sur-
face ed at right angles to the beam than on the surfaces ef or gh,
where the same amount of radiation is spread over large areas. Ex-
periment: I can illustrate this readily. (See fig. 1.) Note how the
warmth of the thermopile, as measured on the screen, diminishes
when I rotate it gradually from being at right angles until it reaches
parallelism with the rays it receives from the heated lamp. Let us
apply this principle of response to obliquity to our thought of the
warming of the earth by sun rays. We see, as in figure 3, that

ett ee

FicurRE 3.—Solar heating of the earth influenced by obliquity.

the intensity of the solar heating is greatest at noon and greatest in
summer, because at these times the obliquity is least. This is the
reason why, in the United States, July is warmer than January,
even though the sun is 3,000,000 miles farther away in July than it
is in January. Returning to consideration of the effect of rapid ro-
tation in preventing the surface of the earth from attaining con-
stancy of temperature under solar heating, we now see that, owing
to change of obliquity of solar rays, the intensity of the earth’s
heating continually changes from morning to night. Darting along
at 1,000 miles per hour, three times as fast as a racing airplane, the
earth’s surface never has time to reach a constant temperature under
solar heating.
152 $ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

COMPARISON OF THE SOLAR HEATING OF THE EARTH AND THE
MOON

On the moon things do not change so rapidly. The moon has no
atmosphere, hence no clouds, smoke, or dust. (See pl. 1.) Instead
of rotating in 24 hours like our earth, the moon rotates only once in
274%, days. Being little more than 2,000 miles in diameter, its cir-
cumference is less than 7,000 miles. Hence the moon’s surface passes
under the sun’s rays only about 10 miles per hour. Thus there is
opportunity for the moon’s illuminated surface to warm up to a
practically constant temperature. At the center of the moon’s bright
face its temperature is found to be 250° F., which is about 40° F.
above that of boiling water. Compare this with the earth. Even at
the Equator there are few stations where the weather records report
temperatures above 112° F., which is 100° below the boiling tem-
perature. This is the case even though the sun sends rays equally
as intense to the earth as to the moon. The difference in maximum
temperatures reached by the two bodies depends partly on the rapid
rotation of the earth and partly on its possession of an atmosphere.

ATMOSPHERIC INFLUENCE ON PLANETARY TEMPERATURE

Not only do clouds, dust, and smoke produce their effects, but our
atmosphere is a sort of ray trap. On cloudless days, sun rays can
pass through it readily. They lose only about one-fourth of their
heat before reaching the earth. It is not so with the long-wave
rays sent outwards by our earth’s surface. About three-fourths of
them are restrained by the atmosphere. Hence, like a blanket upon
a sleeper, the atmosphere must itself be warmed through before the
earth’s heat given up to the atmosphere by long-wave radiation and
by contact can escape to space. With such an effective blanket keep-
ing the earth warm, it is not surprising that at night, when the
solar heating is all cut off, the earth’s temperature does not fall as
much as that of the moon. Those who have been on high moun-
tains, or in parched deserts, where the atmospheric blanket is so
dry as to be less efficient than it is here in the East, know how much
more and how much quicker the night air cools than it does near
the sea. Indeed, one shivers even in daytime on a high desert
mountain the moment he steps into the shade. The following fig-
ures [a slide on the screen] exhibit this phenomenon for two places
of nearly the same latitude near the Equator and for the moon.

Average range of temperatures between day and night

Port auyPrincessHaitic ao ee a eee 125
Timbuktu; in\ the Sahara UDesert.) asa ae eee PCy
ray ME rs 2 BEN C8 i ada BR ear Ses ce Le ay 100° F
Onstheimoone: 22 ik 2 ath er a al eee eS 500° F
HOW THE SUN WARMS THE EARTH—ABBOT 153

IMMENSITY OF SOLAR RADIATION

I despair of giving you a vivid idea of the immensity of the sun’s
heat and of the quantity of energy it continually emits. Experi-
ment: I turn on for an instant a 1,000-candlepower Mazda lamp.
It seems blindingly bright. But the sun’s surface for equal areas
emits about five times as blinding a beam as this lamp does, and the
area of the sun’s surface is about 8 billions of trillions (8X10?)
times that of the lamp filament. Plateau, a Belgian physicist,
wished to study the after images left within his eyes by a bright
hight. Looking steadily at the sun for 20 seconds, he lost his sight
completely.

Dr. 8. P. Langley describes how he made an experiment to com-
pare the rays of the molten steel poured from the Bessemer con-
verter with those of the sun. Into the enormous converter pot there
streamed first some 15,000 pounds of molten iron loaded with half a
ton of silicon and carbon. Then a blast of air was forced up
through the glowing mass, and the chemical action set up a heat
which so far surpassed mere iron-melting temperature that when
another 15,000 pounds of molten iron was added it looked like choco-
late poured into a white cup. The cataract of liquid steel was then
discharged, shooting showers of scintillations that seemed sunlike
in their brillancy, and spattering the surroundings for a hundred
feet with little shooting stars. But there was nothing really sun-
like at all in this fierce glare. For when Langley exposed an appa-
ratus which took a balance between the brightness of the surface of
the steel and an equal surface of the sun, the sun was found to send
out at least 87 times as intense radiation, square foot against square
foot, as the dazzling steel. This applies to the total rays, whether
visible to the eye or not. But for the light rays only, the sun
proved intrinsically not less than 5,000 times the stronger source.
And this was near Pittsburgh, where the sun’s rays had already
lost over half their intensity in the murk of the atmosphere.

SUN RAYS EMITTED IN ALL DIRECTIONS

Some people, possibly of Scotch ancestry, reluctant to contem-
plate a pitiable waste of good things, have supposed that the sun
does not send its rays in every direction, but only in those directions
where there lie objects to be shined upon, such as the earth or the
planets. This is not true. The sun shines nearly equally in every
direction, and for aught we know the rays it is sending out at this
instant, if they hit nothing, may go on and on for a million years
or even forever, covering 186,000 miles on their journey every single
second that they travel. This thesis is proved by the observed fact
that the intensity of the sun’s rays falls off as the square of its dis-
154 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

tance increases. Our experiments have proved it by observing the
change in solar radiation intensity between perihelion and aphelion
of the earth.

TOTAL OUTPUT OF SOLAR RADIATION

How much energy does the sun lose in this prodigal way? Every
year it loses heat equivalent to 400 billions of trillions (4X10?) of
tons of anthracite coal. Of this prodigious amount the earth inter-
cepts the equivalent of 200 trillions of tons. Compared merely with
the small part of solar radiation intercepted by the earth, the total
yearly consumption of coal for heat, light, and power in the United
States is trifling—only 500 millions of tons.

SOLAR POWER

This leads to the inquiry why we depend on coal, oil, and waterfalls
for power, when the sun is furnishing to the earth so incomparably
much more energy free, gratis, for nothing. There are two reasons.
First, clouds and night interrupt the continuity of the supply, and
cut it off just at those times when we most need power. Even dur-
ing the day the rays alter very much in their intensity because they
shine through great thicknesses of the atmosphere in the early morn-
ing and the late afternoon. Night also varies greatly in length be-
tween summer and winter in temperate zones where the most power
is used. Unfortunately, night is longest in winter, when we need
most power. Second, though sun rays cost nothing to produce, they
cost much to capture. If their energy could be fully utilized it would
require only about a square yard for 1 horsepower. But the losses
unavoidable in using sun rays for power will demand provision of
at least 4 and probably 10 square yards per horsepower. In fact, no
solar-power plants thus far have reached such efficiency. To install
apparatus over 10,000 square yards to obtain 1,000 horsepower, or
over 10,000,000 square yards to match Niagara may well give
engineers pause.

Nevertheless, solar power may not be hopeless. Two of the most
successful solar-power installations made thus far are those of
Boyle and Willsie? at Needles, Calif., about 1908, and that of the
Sun Power Co. (Eastern Hemisphere) Ltd., at Meadi, near Cairo, in
Egypt, in the year 1918. These two installations illustrate two con-
trasting types. In the first the inventors avoided expensive equip-
ment by contenting themselves with a small temperature rise and
therefore with low efficiency. The heater consisted of a shallow
wooden basin coated with asphalt and divided by strips into troughs.
It was covered by layers of window glass and insulated at the sides

2 Engineering News, May 138, 1909.
HOW THE SUN WARMS THE EARTH—ABBOT 155

and bottom by double air spaces. Each trough of the heater formed
a compartment. (The following six paragraphs are taken from the
paper cited in footnote 2.)

The heater in the fourth plant was in two sections, separated by a
footpath. The first section was covered by one layer of glass and
the second section with two layers. Both sections were inclined. The

Water from the distributing tank D.T. after flowing
through the glass-covered troughs H.H.H. absorbing
solar heat is stored in the storage tank §.7T. This
hot water gives up its heat in the vaporizer V and
is sent back by the circulating pump C. P. to the
distributing tank. Single-headed arrows indicate the
flow of the water. Emergency steam boiler, B, for
cloudy periods.

Sulphur dioxide flows in the direction of the double-
headed arrows from the vaporizer coils to the engine
E. The exhaust vapor goes to the condenser C.
The liquid sulphur dioxide is returned by the feed
pump F. P. to the vaporizer.

In practice the distributing tank is smali; the storage
tank §. T. holding both the hot and cold water.

Ficurb 4.—Diagrammatic plan of Willsie sun-power plant.

heat-collecting liquid ran from the first section into the second sec-
tion, at a temperature of about 150° F., and from the second section
into the storage tank at about 180° F. These temperatures varied
with the time of day, wind, cloudiness, and other weather conditions,
and especially with the amount of liquid flowing through the heater.

The solar-heated water was stored in a tank, insulated to prevent
the loss of heat by radiation. The heated water was then drawn
uniformly and continuously from the storage tank and made to give
156 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

up its heat by circulating it about a boiler or heat exchanger con-
taining some volatile liquid, such as ammonia or sulphur dioxide.
The vapor generated by this heat, after operating an engine, was
condensed and returned to the boiler to be used again. The water,
after giving up its heat to the sulphur dioxide, was sent out through
the solar heater to collect again the heat in the sun’s rays. Theo-
retically, the plan meets all the requirements for the transformation
of solar heat into continuous, uniform power (fig. 4).

The sulphur dioxide engine used in this experiment was a vertical
automatic cut-off, which at times, with a boiler pressure of 215
pounds, probably developed 15 horsepower. ‘The two heater sections
exposed an area of about 1,000 square feet to the sun, but as the heat
was taken from storage and not directly from the heater, it is not
fair to assume the above proportion of heater surface to horsepower
developed.

The condenser consisted of 6 stacks of horizontal pipes, 12 pipes
to the stack. The cooling water, pumped from a well 48 feet deep,
had a temperature of 75° F. Only enough water was allowed to drip
over the pipes to keep them wet, and so great was the evaporation
in the dry desert breeze that the cooling water left the lower pipes
at 64°. By using the cooling water over and over, the condenser
gave very satisfactory results. A shade of arrow weed, a straight
willowlike shrub abundant along the Colorado River, kept the sun-
shine from the condenser pipes and permitted a good air circulation.

At times the storage valve would be opened after dark, allowing
the solar-heated liquid to flow over the exchanger pipes and thus
start up the engine. Up to the year 1910 this was probably the first
sun-power plant that was ever operated at night with solar heat col-
lected during the day, and it came nearer than any other plant to
the commercial utilization of solar heat for power purposes; it was
also the largest sun-power plant of which there was any record.

From the foregoing, the cost of installing a sun-power plant may
be estimated :

Fleaters 24 UM SILC se ese es eee ee eee per horsepower__ $100. 00
SS EOr elo vl (MS Fa UTS SUZ Cee ese ae ee ne ee do2=-=) 310700
Hngine® pumps; 7ete@l2o eee se se ee ee SS ee eee dos) 120500
Wal DOri zero eco eee ee es ee ee ee doLeee yy e1 500
GoM Mem sere LE. aka a ee ee ee ah doses] 15500
Liquid: Sulphur ‘dioxi des <2 02 8) sai ee ee ee ee 25
Hmerzencys Steam +boilers sa ee eee 2.75

Ls OY 62) a a pe Ee i elec (La SR eS ee eee oe ee 164. 00

At that time the costs of steam-power plants were said to range
from $40 to $90 per horsepower. The cost of a Willsie sun-power
plant was accordingly from two to four times that of a steam plant,
HOW THE SUN WARMS THE EARTH—ABBOT 157

and the interest and depreciation on this excess of cost would offset
in some measure the saving of fuel.

In the Egyptian solar-power plant (pl. 2), fairly high tempera-
tures and fairly high efficiency were obtained by concentrating solar
rays by a battery of cylindric mirrors onto a system of connecting
boiler tubes. In order to follow the sun’s daily march through the
heavens, the mirrors were rotated from east to west each day at such
a rate as to keep the sun rays in focus upon the boiler tubes. The
total area of sunshine collected was 13,269 square feet. Each chan-
nel-shaped reflector and its boiler was 205 feet long, and there were
five such sections placed side by side. The concentration was 414
to 1. The maximum quantity of steam produced was 12 pounds per
100 square feet of sunshine, equivalent to 183 square feet per brake
horsepower, and the maximum thermal efficiency was 40.1 percent.
On August 22, 1913, the average power for the 5 hour’s run was
59.4 brake horsepower per acre, and the maximum and minimum
power on that day were 63 and 52.4 brake horsepower per acre,
respectively.

The engineer, Mr. Ackermann, remarks:

The problem of the utilization of solar energy is well worthy of the atten-
tion of engineers, for even now it is very nearly a solved problem where there
is plenty of sunshine and coal costs £3 10s. a ton. It is fortunate that where
coal is dear, sunshine is often plentiful, and it is to be remembered that coal
will gradually get dearer while the cost of manufacture of sun-power plants
should decrease. Sun-power plants are admirably suitable for pumping in
connection with irrigation, for where there is most sunshine there is need for
most irrigation, and the slight variation in the quantity of water pumped
throughout the day does not matter. Also, when temporarily there is no sun-
shine (due to clouds), probably little or no irrigation is required.

A SOLAR COOKER

I have myself dabbled in the enticing solar-power field. As an
introductory experiment I designed and constructed a solar cooker
on Mount Wilson, Calif. In my experiments I desired to store the
heat in a suitable reservoir at such a temperature as would permit
all the usual cooking operations, such as stewing, preserving, boiling
and baking of meats, and even including the baking of bread, to be
carried on for some time after the cutting off of sunlight.

As the most convenient way to combine a solar-heat collector with
a suitable high-temperature reservoir, it seemed best to concentrate
the solar rays upon a metal tube communicating to a reservoir at
some distance above the collector. The scheme is exactly that of a
household water heater, merely substituting concentrated sun rays
for a fire as the source of heat. In this way, the hot fluid, expanding,
rises by the differential action of gravity into the top of the reser-
158 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

voir, while the cooler fluid at the bottom of it flows downward to
the heat source in replacement. A continuous circulation of hot fluid
would thus maintain the temperature of the reservoir. Water, the
cheapest liquid, could not be used in the cooker unless under such
pressure as would introduce a costly and dangerous element. Tem-
peratures approaching 200° C. were desired, and if water were used,
steam pressures of nearly 15 atmospheres would prevail. Instead of
water, therefore, engine-cylinder oil was preferred. This fluid can
be heated to temperatures somewhat above 200° C. without boiling,
flashing, or strongly evaporating.

I chose the cylindrical reflector of parabolic cross-section for the
purpose of collecting and focusing the solar rays. A cylindrical
reflector does not require, like a conical one, motions about two axes
in order to follow the sun. If the cylindrical mirror is mounted
upon an axis parallel to the earth’s axis, a rotation from east toward
west at the same rate as the earth’s daily rotation from west toward
east is all that is required. To be sure, the full, aperture of the
mirror is attained only at the dates of the equinoxes. Yet if the
mirror is made rather long from north to south, compared to its
width from east to west, this loss is trifling, even in June and
December.

The mirror is made 1214 feet long and 714 feet wide, and is
mounted with its long dimension parallel to an axis pointing toward
the North Star. For rigidity and cheapness the mirror was framed
on five sections of structural steel.

But how should it become a brightly reflecting mirror? This was
accomplished by using sheets of glossy rolled aluminum, thick enough
to preserve their shape when screwed to the steel. They added
very little to the weight of the mirror and were found to reflect
about 75 percent of the total solar radiation. Experience shows
that aluminum sheets retain their highly reflecting surface for
several years if kept dry. Later “Allegheny metal”, or stainless
steel, was used.

Having thus made a light, rigid, parabolic cylindrical mirror, the
next care was to mount it free to turn about an axis parallel to the
earth’s. It was necessary to provide a driving mechanism to cause
the mirror to follow the apparent daily march of the sun from east
to west. Much expense might have been lavished on this part, for
the combination of an astronomical driving clock and worm-and-
wheel mechanism, usually employed by astronomers to drive tele-
scopes of a similar size, often costs hundreds of dollars. A very
inexpensive device was used for the mirror of the cooker. <A little
alarm clock was made master of the situation. It gave a signal
which at each 5 minutes allowed the machinery to run. The ma-
chinery ran a little too fast, and after a short run was held back
HOW THE SUN WARMS THE EARTH—ABBOT 159

for about a minute, awaiting the next pleasure of the little master
clock. The whole driving outfit required an outlay of about $15
and 3 days’ work. It has operated perfectly satisfactorily for about
8 hours a day through several summers.

The reservoir, 20 by 24 by 36 inches, was made of steel, with
welded corners. Two ovens, each 9 by 11 by 1614 inches, were let
in at the back. The reservoir stands on a platform about 6 feet
above the top end of the mirror. To conduct the heated oil, there
is a copper pipe 114 inches in diameter, bent so as to pass from the
reservoir down under the mirror, returning in the focus of the sun
rays through the hollow trunnions.

The reservoir and pipes are protected from loss of heat by brick-
work composed of diatomaceous earth. Such bricks are known by
the trade name “ silocel.” Only substances lke cotton and silk-fluff
are less conducting, and their insulating advantage over the bricks
is very slight. As these bricks are perfectly fireproof, they are
highly suitable for use around an oil reservoir, heated nearly to
the limit of safe oil temperatures.

It remains to speak of the coverings of the mirror, and of the
heater tube within it. In order to avoid cooling by air currents,
and to prevent the mirror surface from being fouled by dust and
other things, the whole top of the mirror frame is covered by sheets
of window glass. To prevent the loss of heat by air convection
from the very hot blackened heater tube, this metal tube is sur-
rounded by a glass tube, leaving an air space of about three-fourths
inch all around it. But the glass tube grows very hot, and itself
tends to cool, so that great losses of heat would still occur there.
This is hindered by a second concentric tube of glass, larger than
the first, and separated from it by the highest practicable vacuum.
In this way, the heated inner tube is, like the inner part of a thermos
bottle, prevented from cooling by a vacuum jacket. Of course, it
is not practicable to coat the inner glass with silver, like a thermos
bottle. Complete silvering of it would shut out the sun rays. How-
ever, the upper one-third of its surface is silvered, which helps
decidedly to prevent the escape of heat and hinders very little the
sun rays from entering.

The whole cooker, with all of its coverings, is shown in plate 3.
Temperatures of 175° C. are readily attained. This is quite hot
enough to bake bread.

Fruit is preserved with great ease. The prepared fruit is put
into glass jars, covered over with sirup, and left overnight in the
lower oven. In the morning, the jar covers are fastened down while
still hot. That is all! Indeed, the cooker is highly convenient.
Foods may be prepared in a cool kitchen, having no fire. A beauti-
ful mountain view is seen as they are set into the ovens out of doors.
160 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

There is no danger of burning in the well-tempered heat. Foods
may be left to cook for many hours without harm. AJl meats and
vegetables are most deliciously prepared.

In short, the solar cooker is a delightful luxury. Whether im-
provements and simplifications may reduce it to less than a luxury
is still questionable. As an experiment in collecting solar heat, it
has served a very useful purpose. Several of the devices tried out
thereby seem likely to be of value for the greater problem of har-
nessing the sun rays for power.

CONDITIONS IN THE SUN

Before discussing the influence of the sun on climates and weather,
let us devote a few moments to the consideration of the sun itself.
As Dr. Russell stated 2 years ago, the sun is composed of the same
chemical elements as those found upon the earth, and roughly in
the same proportions. The temperature even at the surface of the
sun is observed to be of the order of 6,000° absolute centigrade, nearly
twice as hot as the arc ight. All substances are not only melted, but
rendered gaseous, at such temperatures. At lower levels within the
sun’s body there is every reason to believe that the temperature
rapidly rises. Dr. Eddington computes for the sun’s central tem-
perature something lke 20,000,000° C. The pressure there reaches
many millions of atmospheres. Though we have no examples of
such extreme conditions on the earth, we may surely infer that the
sun’s substance except possibly near its center is wholly gaseous.
Elements like oxygen and hydrogen, which combine so avidly as
to explode together when burned on earth, would not unite at all
at solar temperatures. Not only are there no molecular compounds
formed there (except in sun spots, where lower temperatures pre-
vail), but even the atoms themselves are largely split to pieces,
throwing off electrons and the other recently discovered subatomic
constituents.

MEASURING SOLAR RADIATION

For many years the Smithsonian Institution has devoted much
attention to the measurement of the intensity of solar radiation.
We are concerned not only with its total heating power but with
the relative intensity of the rays of the different colors. [Here a
spectrum was thrown on the screen.| Not only the rays visible to
the eye, but others beyond the violet and beyond the red, which
we call ultraviolet and infrared, respectively, are plentifully emitted
by the glowing sun.

All rays, whatever their color, or even if they are invisible ultra-
violet or infrared rays, give up their total energy to produce heat
HOW THE SUN WARMS THE EARTH—ABBOT 161

when they are fully absorbed upon a black surface. Hence we use
sensitive blackened electrical thermometers rather than the eye, the
photograph, or even the photoelectric cell when we wish to compare

i a? ~ d £ d'
(7
‘h ae xO) (of
Ve Fig.l
We e!
a
| yr
Fic. IV.
a Se cee 5
ETL om:

a | Fic. 1.
qh
q \
S
\
|
/ N
SS pra ; “
3 MUTE i cl i z
eS a

KIN A

Ficgurn 5.—Vacuum Bolometer.

Sensitive strips h h’, mounted on the copper blocks ec d’ form two arms of a Wheat-
stone bridge completed by the two coils b b’. Solar spectral rays are admitted by a
vestibule with diaphragms and may be adjusted by the eyepiece. The vessel, a, is highly
evacuated.

accurately the energy of one ray with the energy of another ray
of a different color or wave length. My predecessor, Secretary
Langley, invented the bolometer (fig. 5), a delicate electrical re-
162 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

sistance thermometer, for this purpose about the year 1880. We
use the bolometer every day in our three field stations on high
desert mountains of California, Chile, and Egypt to measure the
energy of the rays that compose the sun’s spectrum.

A STATION FOR OBSERVING SOLAR RADIATION

Plate 4, figure 1 shows our station at Montezuma, Chile. It occu-
pies a foothill 9,000 feet in height not far from the Andes Momun-
tains, which rise to 18,000 feet within full view. The station is near
the nitrate fields of northern Chile, where neither beast nor bird,
reptile nor insect, nor any living plant is to be seen. Darwin, in
his book entitled “The Voyage of the Beagle”, tells of riding all
day in this Desert of Atacama, and seeing no life except a few
flies feasting on the dead body of a mule. The observers bring all
the water for washing, bathing, cooking, and photography from
Calama, a town 10 miles away. They have a piano, Victrola, radio,
books and games, and telephonic communication with Calama, but
the life there is certainly not a gay one. Every day that is fair
(and 80 percent of the days are fair) they observe from about 6
o’clock until 10 o’clock a.m., and compute from 10 o’clock until mid-
afternoon, or even later. By evening they are able to telephone out
their message, giving the intensity of the sun’s rays as they would
be found outside our atmosphere. The result reaches Washington
early on the next morning and is broadcast by Science Service at
4 p.m. to the world.

Plate 4, figure 2 shows the bleak character of our newly occupied
station in the Sinai Peninsula, Egypt. It is on Mount St. Katherine,
8,500 feet in elevation, about 10 miles from St. Katherine Monastery
on Mount Sinai. The director, Mr. Zodtner, his wife, and two small
children, and the assistant, Mr. Greeley, occupy this station.

SOLAR ENERGY SPECTRA

Figure 6 shows a series of bolometric solar spectral energy curves
all obtained on the same forenoon at our station at Montezuma,
Chile. You will note first of all that the spectrum visible to the eye
makes less than half of the length of the prismatic solar energy
spectrum as we observe it. Second, you will observe that at several
places in the infrared region there are great vacancies where the
spectral energy almost disappears. These bands, named by Langley
p, ¢, w, and Q, are produced by the absorption of the sun’s rays by
water vapor in the earth’s atmosphere. Third, you will see many
smaller indentations in the visible and ultraviolet regions, which
are duplicated on all of the several energy curves shown in the figure.
These indentations correspond to the dark lines called Fraunhofer
lines seen visually in, or in photographs of, spectra of the sun.
HOW THE SUN WARMS THE EARTH—ABBOT

They are produced by ab-
sorption of gases such as
hydrogen, calcium, iron,
magnesium, and_ others,
which are volatilized in the
sun itself. Fourth, you
may note that though all
of the energy curves are
of nearly equal height in
the highest parts of the
infrared spectrum, their
heights increase consider-
ably from the bottom en-
ergy curve shown to the top
one, if observed in the vio-
let or ultraviolet. This in-
dicates how much more
transparent our atmosphere
is for red and infrared rays
than it is for violet and
ultraviolet rays. The curves
were made successively, the
lowest in the early morn-
ing, when the sun shone
obliquely through a great
thickness of atmosphere,
causing much depletion of
the rays, and the highest
near noon, when the sun
was nearly vertically over-
head and the thickness of
air traversed was much less.

SOLAR ENERGY SPECTRA
IN FREE SPACE

By measuring the heights
of all of these curves at
some 40 points scattered
from the ultraviolet to the
infrared, and knowing the
thickness of atmosphere
traversed by the sun rays

ewe we ow ww ws me mew we ww ww wm epee

—_-—- ee
5

v

> Uitra-violet —

ae

wwe we ow wo we wwe oe oe ew a ew ow ww ww mms

Visible —

163

Taken at Montezuma, Chile.

Ficure 6.—Prismatie solar spectral energy curves.

in each instance, we are able to compute how high the curve would
be at all points if taken in free space outside our atmosphere.

72774— 35 ——12
164 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

Figure 7 shows such a curve, freed from all atmospheric absorp-
tion, freed also from all instrumental absorption, and reduced from
the prismatic to the normal or wave-length scale. Here the visible

»
| | | -|- |
a | a
| | pl iek Hf

Compared to the energy curve of the perfect radi-

ou
cu
js)
b x
cS) al
e | 28
as Dig
son [N80
x9 (aS Gop =
FQ OOD
=a9 6
8.8 8 fs De.
aes) ~
[oe Be EO
Ys ]2o5
355 cz=a
@B- ea
ro © a Ecol

ator at 6000° Abs. C.

Ficurp 7.—Normal solar spectral energy curve outside the atmosphere.

part shrinks greatly in length but grows greatly in height relatively
to the infrared. Compare this solar energy curve, if you please,
with the energy curve of a perfect radiator of the temperature of
HOW THE SUN WARMS THE EARTH—ABBOT 165

6,000° absolute centigrade shown near it. Evidently they are much
alike in most parts, but the solar curve falls away from the other
in the ultraviolet. This weakness of ultraviolet rays is due mainly
to the powerful absorption of the sun’s ultraviolet rays by the sun’s
own gaseous envelop. But you will gather from this comparison of
the two curves, I am sure, an indication of one of the ways used to
estimate the sun’s effective surface temperature as of the order of
6,000° absolute centigrade.

THE SILVER-DISK PYRHELIOMETER FOR MEASURING TOTAL SOLAR
RADIATION

Plate 5 shows the silver-disk pyrheliometer. It is an instrument
which I invented at the Smithsonian Institution for measuring the
total heating power of the whole solar beam. It has been standard-
ized against the water-flow pyrheliometer, also my invention, and
over 70 copies of the silver-disk pyrheliometer have been made and
calibrated at the Smithsonian Institution and furnished at cost to
observers on all the continents of the world. At the front of the
pyrheliometer is a tubular vestibule with numerous diaphragms for
keeping out sky light and the wind, while admitting the sun’s rays
to the box beneath. In this box is a blackened disk of silver, as
big as a dollar, and about five-sixteenths inch thick, on which the
sun’s rays shine at right angles. In a radial hole, bored from one
side into the silver disk, is sunk the cylindrical bulb of a delicate
mercury thermometer. Jor convenience the stem of the thermometer
is bent at right angles and fastened alongside of the vestibule. The
observer, with watch in hand, notes the rate of rise of the ther-
mometer when he has admitted sun rays by opening the shutter
at the top of the vestibule tube. In this way the heat of the sun’s
rays is measured.

THE SOLAR CONSTANT OF RADIATION

We cannot carry the silver-disk pyrheliometer to the moon to
measure the intensity of sun rays outside our atmosphere. It is
true that we did in 1914 send an automatic pyrheliometer into the
stratosphere (figs. 8 and 9) and got good observations with twenty-
four twenty-fifths of the atmosphere eliminated. Instead of actually
observing outside the atmosphere, we measure the area under one of
the bolometric spectral energy curves that I showed a few moments
ago, and also the area under the computed solar-energy curve outside
the atmosphere, which I also referred to. Dividing the latter area
by the former, we obtain the factor by which, if we multiply the
solar heat observed by the pyrheliometer, we may obtain the heat
which that instrument would have measured if we had taken station
on the moon and observed the sun there.
166 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

Figure 8.—Autographic balloon pyrheliometer and barograph. A photographic record of
solar radiation and barometric pressure was obtained at 15 miles elevation.

rae b~ Peppler, Balloon. |
TOS; :
~)-Abbot, Mi.Waitney.
hax.

igAe bot, Mi.Wilsow,
Max.

Lg

can
@

-
N

Radiation of Verlical Sun at Mean Distance.

a
copy

2

GiCal. em. min.

ba)

Qe 2\0

Barometer.
Ficurg 9.—Pyrheliometry from earth’s surface up to the stratosphere,
HOW THE SUN WARMS THE EARTH—-ABBOT 167

Such is Langley’s method for measuring what is called the solar
constant of radiation. I can explain its result as follows: Imagine
a cube of blackened water 1 centimeter on edge, or about the size of a
dice cube. Expose it on the moon with one face at right angles to
the sun’srays. Let the experiment be made in March when the earth
and moon are at mean solar distance. How much will the tem-
perature of the blackened water cube rise in 1 minute? The answer
is 1.94° C. That is called the solar constant of radiation. In usual
words, the intensity of solar heating is 1.94 calories per square
centimeter per minute at mean solar distance outside our atmosphere.

THE SUN A VARIABLE STAR

For 15 years Smithsonian observers have measured the solar con-
stant on every practicable day on one or more high desert mountains
in distant lands. Though called a constant, the value is not a
constant. Figure 10 shows how its monthly mean values have been
observed to vary from 1920 to 1930. The changes, as you see, are
not large. In 1922 there came the largest, reaching a range of 2.5
percent. Figure 11 shows the values measured simultaneously by
Smithsonian observers in California, Chile, and South-West Africa.
Their results, though not absolutely identical, are so nearly so as
to disclose fair agreement as to the variability of the sun. Its
variability seems to be altogether irregular. As we see it in figure
-10, it seems quite devoid of any wavelike regular periodicity.

PERIODICITIES IN SOLAR VARIATION

In figure 12, however, I show that this first impression of entire
irregularity in solar variation is superficial. In reality the sun’s
variation is a complex summation of not less than seven regularly
recurring waves, or periodicities. They are respectively of approxi-
mately 7, 8, 11, 21, 25, 45, and 68 months in their periods.

The component periodicity curves are summed up into the curve B,
which is plotted in dots upon the original measured curve A. Even
in details the agreement of the two curves is striking. Thus we claim
that the sun is not a constant star but a variable one, whose appar-
ently irregular variation is really a complex of at least seven perio-
dicities.

The interesting question at once occurs: Do the solar periodicities
impress themselves on the earth’s weather? They do. Before dis-
cussing this subject I must speak of the sun spots.

SUN SPOTS

When Galileo in 1610 first used the telescope he saw that the sun’s
surface carried dark spots (pl. 6) and that these moved along, indi-
cating that the sun rotates in about 26 days. From 1826 to 1868
‘SHOI}BIS 0214} 3B PeAIEsqO A[SNoOsue} [NUS SoN[VA JUL}SUOI-IvJOS— TT AXA]

foe) oe e area,

NvV3K ———*
sctvaxnude— —-—
"NLIW. -378VL ———-*

VANNZILNOW o——o

= a

=

aE
WW

NETO as SW ae aoe Vg Wie haeeO mG Ole ot Vinmiin (eam IN | AV om Wine dares OMNGR Om Sim Vig tre tie Waa ec ONE Se (oe Oba Na O=niS aa Vi Can (rs WN VSN VN is ee fae,

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

168

62é! G26) 426) ez6éi

Olbt

oZb'

Orb t

: a J | yo
o9bt

62bl Leb! 9261 Szol vZb! €zbl Zzbl 1264 ozb

HOW THE SUN WARMS THE EARTH—ABBOT 169

H. Schwabe, of Dessau, Germany, kept daily watch upon the sun
spots and discovered about 1848 that their numbers wax and wane
in a period of about 11 years. His observations were continued by
many observers, and old records were consulted which showed that
the 11-year periodicity in sun spots has continued for several cen-

nn
\, AI !.940
eal

1.930

ote ee

|
| |
1.950} th |
|

=
d=
=A;
mae

Weis
CNN
AA AANA,

H | ae [ ao L _L al a
JAN, JULY JAN, JULY JAN. JULY JAN. JULY JAN. JULY JAN. JULY JAN. JULY JAN. JULY JAN. JULY JAN. JULY JAN. JULY JAN,
1922 925 1926 1927 192B 1926 '930 1931 1932 1933 1934 (935
Ficur® 12.—Analysis of apparently irregular solar variation indicates that it is composed
of seven regular periodicities.

“|

turies (fig. 13). Recently Douglass, by tree-ring measurements, and
Baron de Geer, Antevs, and others, by measuring clay deposits, have
found evidences of the sun-spot period for many centuries. About
25 years ago Dr. Hale at Mount Wilson Observatory discovered that
sun spots are magnetic. This fell in nicely with the previously
observed fact that the earth’s magnetism and the aurora borealis are
both closely associated with the sun-spot periodicity. Hale soon
found that magnetic polarities are opposite in adjacent spots, and he
showed later that the magnetic polarity of sun spots passes through
170 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

iFsite} 1815 1820 1825 1830

i Bel
a gh if a

\

mR
é | | es
i ef

M4

:
dactt
1925 ane n930
FicurH 13.—Curve showing 11-year periodicity in sun spots, 1810-1934.

HOW THE SUN WARMS THE EARTH—ABBOT slg

this interesting course, that the order of the two polarities is opposite
in the north and south solar hemispheres and that the order con-
tinues unchanged through each 11-year sun-spot period, but reverses
at the beginning of the next period (fig. 14). Thus it requires two
11-year periods to bring the sun through a full cycle of magnetic
changes.

N

® Op LAST
PRESENT Ge Se)

sy x
hee eS

CYCLE RQ &
CYCLE
® &

Figure 14.—Diagram of reversal of sun-spot magnetie polarity which occurs at the
beginning of a new sun-spot cycle of 11 years.

SUN SPOTS AND WEATHER

For many years we have known that though the solar constant is a
little higher when sun spots are most numerous, paradoxically the
weather at most stations is a little cooler. The effect is only about
1° F. at maximum. Recently I have found a more important effect
than this of sun spots on weather. Figure 15 gives one of the many
instances which illustrate it. At Bismarck, N.Dak., I find the solar
periodicities plainly shown in the departures from normal tempera-
172 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

ture, but the phases and the magnitudes of the periodicities change
according as sun spots are few or many. The same is true at other
places. I shall not detain you with many instances of the periodici-
ties in solar variation reflected in weather but I will ask you to note

09
D,
1.0 0.8/MAR.1875 -
SEPT. 1879

AUG.1904 - FEB. i909

D,
FEB.1887/- SEPT. 1890

Wifee.ls22—
OCT. 1924

| MONTHS
Neat 2

“SPOTS FREQUENT

10) AS\= MEAN OF A,-Az

z SPOTS\, MANY ;
A-D = SUN-SPOT SHIFTS
08 IN PHASE OF II-MONTH
PERIODICITY OF TEMPERATURE,
oF — BISMARCK, N.DAK.
06 ¥ 1875 - 1925

Figure 15.—Phases of weather periodicities changed by sun-spot prevalence.

that the 11-month period in Bismarck temperatures holds practically
with unchanged phase from 1875 to 1925, provided we limit ourselves
in comparisons to intervals of equal sun-spot numbers. On the other
hand the phase of this weather wave reverses if we compare intervals
HOW THE SUN WARMS THE EARTH—ABBOT 173

of low with intervals of high sun spots. To reinforce this observa-
tion, I shall give one other instance from Cape Town, South Africa,
10,000 miles from Bismarck. Again in figure 16, observing the 11-
month solar period as reflected in Cape ‘Town temperature depar-
tures, and confining ourselves to intervals of time when Wolf’s sun-
spot numbers did not exceed 30, we find that the 11-month period is
so definite and so accurately in the same phase from 1865 to 1925
that we are able to correct the length of the period and detect that it
lacks 3 days of a full 11 months. It is in fact 331 days.

I need not detain you to discuss others of the numerous solar
periodicities which I have found reflected at numerous stations all
over the world, both in temperature and precipitation. I will only
state that the cumulative evidence that the solar variations largely
control the weather is overwhelming. The regular periodicities that
comprise solar variation are all important in governing weather, but
their weather effects shift in phase according to the sun-spot numbers
prevailing.

THE 23-YEAR PERIOD IN WEATHER

It happens that 7 solar periodicities above specified all come
very close to finding their least common multiple in the double sun-
spot period of 276 months, or 23 years. It may be very significant
that this interval, within the error of observation, is equal to Hale’s
magnetic cycle in sun spots. Since all of the solar periodicities of
which it is the least common multiple are influential in governing
weather, we need not be surprised to find that the weather tends to
repeat itself, detail after detail, at intervals of 23 years.

As an illustration, figure 17 shows the smoothed percentages of
normal monthly precipitation found at Nagpur in south-central India
from 1856 to 1980. The values are arranged in 23-year cycles, so
chosen that the year 1875 begins a cycle so as to fit with most of the
lists in World Weather Records.? Lines have been drawn to guide
the reader’s eye to what seem to me to be homologous features in
the four cycles illustrated. I would like to call special attention to
the regions 1865-70, 1888-93, 1912-17. In 1865, 1868, and 1870 we
find 3 pillarlike features of high-percentage precipitation bound-
ing 2 features of subnormal precipitation. Thus there stand out
two intervals of 3 and 2 years, respectively, as if guarded by these
sentinel features, but embracing nearly a score of subordinate fea-
tures. The reader’s attention is now invited to similar features,
1888-93 and 1912-17, in which nearly all the details seem to be
recognizable,

* Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 79, 1927; vol. 90, 1934.
174

EGREES FAHR.

Figur» 16.—The 11-mont

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

nonth period in temperatures of Cape Town, during sun-spot minima
only, 1865 to 1925. Shift of phase shows true period 331 days.
175

HOW THE SUN WARMS THE EARTH—ABBOT

‘BIpUL [VI]UND ‘andseN Jo uos}eU}{[doeI1d uy ojosO Avak-EZ 9G L— LT Gano

| 126
ul, bl ih

I \ oe

te I T ar uae e :
a7
002

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

176

A

1852 -187.

FROM 5 GROUPS, SO. CALIFORNIA

2

5

10

FIGURE 18.
HOW THE SUN WARMS THE EARTH—ABBOT N77

Ad.
uu
Tt

ue THREE YEAR PERIODICITY OF =

VARVE THICKNESS E
see (A-E) EACH IS MEAN OF 115 YEARS
CURVE F (ON DOUBLE SCALE) MEAN OF 575 YEARS

YEARS _—5 _10 oe °)

VIGUBE 19.
178 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

The separation between the first and second of these occurrences
is almost exactly 23 years, but there is a delay of nearly a year in the
appearance of the third. A similar delay marks, however, all of the
features from 1899 to 1918, after which the cycle returns approxi-
mately to its earlier phase-status. Compare, for illustration, the
year 1929 with 1860.

The 23-year cycle is recognizable in tree rings and in clay deposits
of the glacial period as indicated by figures 18 and 19.

1922 1923 1924 1925 1926 1927 1928 1929 1930 1931 1932 1933

MORTH PLATTE, NEB.
DEPARTURES FROM NORMAL TEMPERATURE
(5-MONTH RUNNING MEANS)

—~ =OBSERVED ---- = PREDICTED
FIGurRH 20.

In some cases the 23-year cycle has features of high or low values
prevailing over the course of several years and repeated similarly |
during each cycle. Such cases occur, for example, in the Nagpur
precipitation cycles from the twenty-first through to the fifth year,
during which 7 years the precipitation is subnormal. This indi-
cates a probability that the subnormal precipitation will be experi-
enced in central India from 1942 to 1948.

When the attempt is made to forecast weather for coming years
in more detail than such general statements as these, the embar-
rassing changes of phase already referred to are encountered.
These, though they do not destroy the general sequence of the indi-
vidual features of the 23-year cycle, produce displacements, some-
times as great as a year, and often several months, in the times of
their occurrence. Further research, it may be hoped, will aid in
overcoming this difficulty.
HOW THE SUN WARMS THE EARTH—ABBOT 179

A modest forecasting experiment is undertaken in figure 20. Havy-
ing plotted 2 complete 23-year cycles extending from 1875 to 1920,
inclusive, and in addition plotted 1 more year—1921—I pieced onto
the last month of 1921, 12 months of forecast based on a study of
the 2 preceding cycles. After having drawn this predicted curve,
I then drew the curve of actual observation for those 12 months.
Similarly, I proceeded, 1 year at a time, from 1922 to 1932, inclusive,
as shown in figure 20. Although the fit between forecasted and ob-
served curves is not perfect, the maxima and minima are nearly
correctly matched in times, the ranges are usually similar, and the
correlation is indeed fairly high.

And now, ladies and gentlemen, having discussed with you radia-
tion, the earth and moon as depending on solar heating, and pros-
pects for solar power, the sun itself in its glowing grandeur, our
measurements which prove the sun to be a variable star, the regular
periodicities disclosed in the sun’s variation, the influence of sun
spots on weather, and finally the dependence of weather on the varia-
tion of the sun, I conclude the third Arthur lecture.

72774—35——-13
up| Be

jie Y-or Hindi e a sakegis z gi th

wei pyosbosobey Te (vt rab. inher 3 sthatet

1G you Sor sii gasmbianet) delat enme a

SPIN alii siti), aneth=% oitad val

sti “RE a¥ods wot Hot teriwado Lission ig.

fiuleud (SESE ah Seek yecrnt poate Ee ame y 4

<a huca fereai etiam aah it any chapsot LA aro
fiaenm exk-nesinint ben emai oon rome p

j Ait Wey (ortliegte PAE EY ate ‘Rigi Meds aah Oe zi

| | oe Chet acne

*: P. dx
Hai BL u aS sales
eriti Hy) pLUony enh
thas LSS a PT ots Le 4
Hs TAINS aE OES ii
Nites ee SAT Tine ae Se est) ply aie ip

rnin Ye, oebintaeed! tabi’ Tesycapbtnee gant SIRs TNR Desa id

ro ay, Lele eT yy ‘i oy bean ly athent: bree
sry honed: U i f, Titer aunt siniBirion,
‘ |
im
7
vatty Py | aval oe vow Val |
i Ce IS joke {
ae ea ages, se si
“yeti G pee aah +4 he rf 4
De te ho be : 4 eye rilen at

ey ares We is
i> Seta, aI,
ance! Uiee pore uate 4
See et
: z 2 ‘ips ai ar:

5 “a
q “
ey '
4 > aC
‘SaTIUT OG INOGK St 191 BIO SI] JO JaeMIBIP ay TL,

“"NOIDSY ONIGNNOYYNS GNV SNOINYSsdOD YALVYED YVNNT AHL

“ALOPBVAIISG() UOSTI AA JUNOTY

L 3L1LV1d qGY—"¢¢6| "Oday URIUOsSYQIUG
*Jo}8M Surduind 10j pasn oursus urevays & SUTATIp JO asodind af} 10J YvaY{ ABLOS JOO 04 4d ASY Ul IPBETT 1B E16 Ul paAO[durs oJaM WMOYS 910y SIOIIUL o1uesis oo

“ANIDSNA YV10S SAOG-NVYWNNHS SHL

ec 3ALV 1d yqGGYy¥—"EE6l ‘yaoday uRluOsYyyIWIG
Smithsonian Report, 1933.—Abbot PLATE 3

THE ABBOT SOLAR COOKER, MOUNT WILSON, CALIF.

Side view showing end of great mirror, reservoir with ovens, and oil circulation tubes.
Smithsonian Report, 1933.—Abbot PLATE 4

1. MONTEZUMA, CHILE, SOLAR OBSERVATORY, ALTITUDE 9,000 FEET.

The coelostat at right reflects the solar beam into the tunnel to the spectrobolometer. In the center are
shown the two silver-disk pyrheliometers for observing total solar radiation. At the left the observer
measures the sun’s altitude

2. SMITHSONIAN SOLAR OBSERVATORY ON MOUNT ST. KATHERINE, SINAI PEN-
INSULA, EGYPT, ALTITUDE 8,500 FEET.

Observatory on the peak, dwelling below. The director, his wife, two infants, and the assistant occupy
this desolate station.
Smithsonian Report, 1933.—Abbot PLATE 5

SILVER-DISK PYRHELIOMETER
[ Smithsonian Report, 1933.—Abbot PLATE 6

MOUNT WILSON SOLAR PHOTOGRAPH, SEPTEMBER 25, 1928.
GRAVITATION IN THE SOLAR SYSTEM’

$y ERNEST W. BROWN
Yale University

[With 4 plates]

We are apt to regard the sun as important for life on the earth
chiefly because it is our main source of heat and light. But it is
equally important for the continued existence of life as we know
it that the earth shall continue to receive the proper amounts of
heat and light, and to do so it is necessary that our planet shall
remain at nearly the same distance from the sun at all times. The
amount of either that we receive varies inversely as the square of
the distance between the two bodies; should this distance vary too
greatly or should the earth leave the neighborhood of the sun al-
together, existence as we know it would cease. This distance is main-
tained by the operation of the laws of motion and of gravitation.
In this lecture, which is a rapid survey of the problem of the re-
conciliation of theory with observation, I shall adopt the familiar
Newtonian laws as the theoretical basis.

According to the Newtonian view, gravitation is a force which al-
ways tends to draw two particles of matter together. This tend-
ency is balanced by the inertial property of matter. The effect of
this property is that when deviation from constant velocity in a
straight line is caused by such a force as gravitation, the amount of
the deviation in a given interval of time, properly measured, is
proportional to the force. In the case of the force of gravitation this
balancing effect results in the two bodies circling about one another,
never exceeding a certain distance apart or approaching nearer than
another definite distance, unless they happen to be started moving
exactly toward or away from each other, or unless the relative start-
ing velocity is too great. Newton showed that under the usual
conditions the curved motion is that of a closed oval—an ellipse—or,
if the starting conditions are just right, a circle. In the last case,
the balancing effect of the motion is often called the “ centrifugal
force ”, but it is better named the “ kinetic reaction ”, since it is not

1The second Arthur lecture, delivered at the Smithsonian Institution Jan. 25, 1938.

181
182 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

a force in the Newtonian sense but is a result of the motion that
balances the centripetal force of gravitation.

In order to solve the problem of the motion of any body, we must
know in advance certain features of that motion. In the solar sys-
tem, for example, we must know whether the motion is nearly circu-
lar, like that of the earth around the sun, or highly elliptical, lke
that of a comet. For this purpose rather rough observations will
serve. But when this has become known and an accurate calculation
is needed, accurate observations must be used. If observations of the
position of a body could be made with perfect accuracy, a very few
would suffice. But they are always subject to errors of various
kinds, and to diminish the effects of some of these errors the observa-
tions must be numerous. Only by continual comparison of the re-
sults of theory with the observations can one hope to know the past,
and by knowing the past to predict the future.

The working out of the consequences of the laws of motion and
gravitation is almost entirely performed by mathematics. When
only two particles are concerned the problem is very simple. With
more than two it becomes highly complicated, and a considerable
number of the most eminent mathematicians from the time of Newton
up to the middle of the nineteenth century attacked it. It is easy to
find reasons for the comparative neglect of the problem at the present
time: The initiation of other problems in mathematics and astron-
omy, the laborious and intricate calculations now necessary if prog-
ress is to be made, and the need for assimiliation of a large heritage
of the past have all played a part.

Many astronomical discoveries have been due to the discussion of
large numbers of observations. The early tendency of scientific
work was to record only the unusual—an eclipse, the appearance of a
comet, the time of setting of a bright star or of a planet, and so on.
Gravitational astronomy can be said to have made a real start when
Tycho Brahe undertook to observe daily over a long period of years
sun, moon, planets, and stars, and to record their positions in the
sky with all the accuracy his home-made instruments could furnish.
Not only so, but he tried to discover all the errors to which his ob-
servations were subjected and to correct them accordingly. The next
step, that of making deductions from the observations, was taken
by Johannes Kepler, who, with some difficulty, managed to get hold
of certain of the records left by Tycho after the death of the latter.

Just as Tycho was the forerunner of the tireless routine observer,
so Kepler was the first to undertake the discussion of large numbers
of observations in order to deduce such laws as he might be able to
find. With an immense amount of labor extending over many years
he was able to give to the world those that still bear his name.
GRAVITATION—-BROWN 183

Briefly, the three laws state that the curves in which the planets move
round the sun are ellipses with the sun in one focus; that the time
taken to get from one part of the ellipse to another is proportional
to the area bounded by the ellipse and the two distances to the sun,
and lastly, that the squares of the periods of revolution of the planets
around the sun are proportional to the cubes of the longest diameters
of the ellipses in which they move. The success of his work was a
wonderful achievement, for he had little to guide him; only by
persistent trial and error could these results have been obtained at
that time.

Kepler died in 1630. Isaac Newton, the third and without any
question the greatest of the trio who laid the foundations of celestial
mechanics, was born in 1642. Through his work the subject was
changed from a mass of hypotheses and guesses into a science which
was capable of endless development. Kepler had given a geometrical
description of the motions of the planets: he had formulated certain
empirical laws which had no apparent connection with one another.
Newton gave the bases by which he was able to show that these laws
were a necessary consequence of properties that are common to all
matter. To do so, he had to take new steps in at least three direc-
tions. First, the final formulation of the laws under which all matter
will move whatever may be the acting forces. Here he had the aid
of the work of Galileo, who had been a contemporary of Kepler, but
who does not seem to have been in touch with him. Second, the
choice of the law or laws of force which would make the planets
move in the manner shown by Kepler. Third, the invention of a
mathematical device, which would enable him to deduce the con-
sequences of the laws of motion and of gravitation, and thus to show
that Kepler’s laws were precisely what could be expected from the
operation of these fundamental properties of matter.

We are approaching the two hundred and fiftieth anniversary of
the year in which Isaac Newton gave the first demonstration that the
orderly progress of the bodies that constitute the solar system was
due to the existence of certain simple laws apparently obeyed by all
matter. These laws, formulated with admirable lucidity in the
Principia, remained unchanged for over two centuries. While the
comparison of their effects with the observed motions showed small
deviations with the gradually increasing accuracy of the calculations
needed to show these effects, and of the observations, only in our
own time has the theory of relativity given us a new basis from
which these properties of matter may be developed. From the point
of view of the astronomer who is interested in the comparison of
theory with observation in the solar system, the difference between
the two methods of approach is philosophical rather than practical.
184 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

The numerical results have been shown to be so nearly the same,
that in only one case has it been possible to detect by observations of
the positions of the bodies of the solar system a minute difference
between the results deduced from the Newtonian laws of motion and
eravitation and those deduced from the theory of relativity.

Newton was not content with the bare outlines of the subject but
desired to fill in details wherever possible. It is reported that the
publication of his work was much delayed because of his difficulty
in proving that a uniform sphere would attract an external particle
exactly as if all its mass were concentrated at its center. And again
he was delayed by an erroneous value of the radius of the earth, a
proper value of which was needed in the application of his theory to
the motion of the moon, if theory and observation were to agree.
Further, he dreaded controversy, and had he given his proofs by
the use of calculus, or “ fluxions ” as he called it, there would prob-
ably have been endless debate concerning the validity of this new
and unknown method of argumentation. To avoid it, he performed
one of his greatest feats, the translation of the whole process into
elementary plane geometry—a method of reasoning which was known
and acceptable to the scientific men of his time.

For nearly a century after the publication (1688) of the Prin-
cipia of Newton, progress was slow, perhaps because it demanded
considerable development of the calculus originated by Newton and
Leibnitz. The geometrical form of argument used in the Principia
is much too difficult and complicated for investigation, and it was
not until Leonard Euler and some of his predecessors had shown
how to deal with the problem by analysis that progress was possible.
Most of Euler’s work appeared in the third quarter of the eighteenth
century. The end of it is marked by the advent of Laplace, whose
Traité de la Mécanique Céléste furnished mathematicians with a
storehouse of facts that were deducible from the equations of mo-
tion, and who gave principles for the development of the solutions,
which furnished starting points for many of the investigations of his
successors.

The mathematical processes start by translating the laws into
algebraic symbols and then equating the gravitational forces to their
kinetic reactions. This process—a comparatively simple one—in-
volves the setting up of certain formulas known as differential equa-
tions which give the rate of change of the velocity of each body in
any direction in terms of the positions of all of them at the moment.
What is usually needed is the deduction of the positions at any other
moment. This second step requires what is known as the * solution ”
of the differential equations. It is at this point that the difficulties
begin to arise. No method is known for obtaining these solutions

GRAVITATION—BROWN 185

exactly. What is actually done is the introduction of modifications
made to simplify tne mathematical and numerical work; the results
so obtained are later corrected to take care, as far as possible, of
the changes that have been introduced. This process of gradual
approximation is in general use for most of the problems in which
mathematical methods are adopted for the study of physical phe-
nomena; for those of celestial mechanics, it is the basis of all the
methods which have been devised.

After Laplace’s time the increasing accuracy and number of the
observations demanded that the calculations giving the positions of
the moon and planets be carried out in much greater detail, involving
a disproportionate increase in the work. The problem of the moon’s
motion alone required many years of calculation to carry the ap-
proximations to the point where the results appeared to have the
same degree of accuracy as the observations. During the nineteenth
century only two of the many who started succeeded in getting near
the goal, namely, P. A. Hansen and C. Delaunay. Hansen’s work,
with minor corrections, was used to calculate the positions of the
moon given in the Nautical Almanacs for some 70 years. Delaunay’s
theory was not put into tabular form until the beginning of the
present century, at a time when the demand for accuracy exceeded
that which his theory was capable of furnishing.

For the great planets two ambitious projects have been carried
out successfully. In Paris, Leverrier, with the help of a staff of
computers, recalculated the theories of their motions and carried the
work through to the formation of tables which were in use for many
years to predict their places given in the almanacs. Toward the close
of the century, a similar task was undertaken by Simon Newcomb
in Washington, but with increased demands for accuracy he found
the work too great for one man, even with the computing assistance
which he was able to command. He wisely sought and obtained the
services of G. W. Hill, the greatest celestial mechanician so far arisen
in America, for the most laborious and difficult part of the work,
namely, the theories of the motions of Jupiter and Saturn.

With the publication of the works of Hill and Newcomb carried
through to the formation of tables so that comparison with observa-
tion was rendered comparatively easy, it was evident that the accu-
racy of the theories had caught up with that of the observations. It
thus became possible to discuss, with the hope of making new dis-
coveries, the differences between the theories and the immense store
of observations that had been accumulated at many observatories
during the nineteenth century. Newcomb undertook this task and
proved himself to be a master in marshaling great masses of mate-
rial and in deducing the best results from them. The details of this
186 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

work have not been published, but the results are summed up in a
smal] octavo publication entitled “ Astronomical Constants.”

As stated above, the immediate object of most of the work of the
past in this subject has been the deduction of the positions of the
known bodies of the solar system at any time in the past or future,
from the laws of motion and gravitation. The deduced positions
are compared with those observed in the telescope. The desire to
achieve the highest accuracy possible has to many been a sufficient
objective. Ultimately, it leads to a knowledge of the extent to
which the assumed laws will account for the observed phenomena.
The study of the differences between the observed and calculated
positions has sometimes given unexpected information concerning
the operations of the laws; at other times it has furnished informa-
tion concerning effects other than those produced by the direct action
of gravitation. In fact, every considerable increase in accuracy,
either of the theory or of the observations, has been followed by
discoveries that have stimulated further investigation and the desire
for still greater accuracy.

Newcomb’s summary shows that most of the definite differences
between theory and observation could be accounted for by small
changes in the constants that had been used to calculate the theories.
It followed that, in general, the Newtonian laws of motion and
gravitation were sufficient to account for the observed phenomena.
Only one outstanding deviation was found—one that had previously
been indicated by Leverrier, namely, an unexplained motion of the
perihelion of Mercury. As is now well known, this has received an
explanation through the theory of relativity, and, within the prob-
able error of the determination of the motion of Mercury from
observation, it is satisfactory. As mentioned above, this is the only
difference in the motions of the solar system between the results
of the Newtonian and relativity laws that is large enough to be
detected at present, and this condition will probably continue for
many years to come.

Nearly another half century has passed since Newcomb’s results
came into general use; and in the interval observations have been
accumulating—chiefly at Greenwich and Washington, where they
form part of a continuous program. In that time, only minor
differences which could not properly be ascribed to errors of ob-
servation, have appeared. Some of these could undoubtedly be
diminished by a new discussion of the masses and other elements
of the orbits; others are possibly due to slight defects in the calcu-
lated theories—defects that it is difficult to avoid altogether with
long and involved calculations. Some idea of the small magnitude
of these differences can be gained from the statement that the mean
annual deviations of any of the great planets from their calculated
GRAVITATION—-BROWN 187

positions during the years 1926-30 have scarcely exceeded two-tenths
of a second of time, and the majority of them are smaller. But the
problem of accounting for such differences as exist has become more
difficult, mainly because they are so much smaller than those to be
dealt with in the past. Effects that could previously be laid aside as
too small for consideration must now be taken into account. Changes
in our measure of time, for example, must be considered, at least
in dealing with the inner planets. As far as the outer planets,
Uranus and Neptune, are concerned, there is some evidence that
the agreement with observation could be improved by a new deter-
mination of their theoretical orbits. Although a new planet, Pluto,
has been discovered in their neighborhood, the weight of the evi-
dence at present available indicates that its mass is too small to
affect their motions to an extent sensibly greater than the errors
of observation within the interval during which the planets have
been followed.

The latest theory of the moon’s motion appears to satisfy the
observations when we take account of the changes in our measure
of time. It must be stated, however, that as the moon is the chief
source for the exact determination of these changes, the argument
is not conclusive; it depends as much on the nature of these changes
and on the evidence that can be gathered from other sources. There
is some difference between the calculated and observed motions of
its perigee.

The present theory of the sun’s action should be taken to another
place of decimals before it can be asserted that this difference is
real, but the amount of calculation needed to obtain this increased
accuracy is so great that it will hardly be undertaken as long as other
influences on its motion are in doubt. The chief of these is the effect
produced by the distribution of the moon’s mass; the constants
adopted for this effect are very doubtful, and a redetermination of
them from accurate observations of the librations extending over a
long period of years is the first step.

I have mentioned several times the fact that large numbers of
observations have contributed mainly to our knowledge of the accu-
racy of the laws which govern the motions of the bodies in the solar
system. Some statistics may be of interest. In his Astronomical
Constants (1895) Newcomb gives the following numbers used in his
discussion :

SS TUT aces ee aed I 40, 176
MGT CUI yee ee oe ne Ee ee 5, 421
pV CNMI ie cove Sree esheets Os i ee ender 12, 319
TVET ae a es 4,114

A similar discussion taken up at the present time would probably
require the consideration of an additional 10,000 to 15,000.
188 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

Observations of the moon at the present time are accumulating at
a rapid rate—in 1931 over a thousand were compared with their
theoretical values. There are probably some 10,000 available in
the 20 years elapsed since the present theory was finished, and the
constants of that theory were determined from nearly 30,000.

Up to this point I have dealt only with those bodies in the solar
system for which the calculated theories have a degree of accuracy
similar to that of the observations. To complete the list one must
mention certain of the satellites which have been under observation
for long periods of years. Of the large numbers of small planets
with diameters ranging from 300 miles down which have been dis-
covered and kept in view since the beginning of the nineteenth
century, only one, Vesta, has had its orbit calculated with an accu-
racy similar to that of the orbits of the great planets. In addition
we have some scores of comets which belong to the system, and come
into the range of observation at regular intervals.

To sum up the results of this immense amount of calculation and
observation, it may be stated that no deviation from the Newtonian
or the extended relativistic laws of motion and gravitation has yet
been established in the motions of the solar system. Such apparent
deviations as have been confirmed have hitherto been found to be due
to other sources of disturbance, either in the method of observation
or in the calculations, or can be ascribed to a lack of knowledge of
the distribution of the matter which may cause the deviation. But
the desire for accuracy has done more than merely to give a verifi-
cation of the laws, for through it remote effects of these laws have
been found which could hardly have been discovered in any other
way. The amount of the tidal friction, which has played an impor-
tant part in the past history of the system, the verification of the
relativity laws, the changes in the rate of rotation of the earth, may
be cited as modern examples. Other cases of more technical interest
will occur to the astronomer.

Perhaps the most useful service this work is performing at the
present time is the more accurate determination of the motion of the
earth relatively to the stars, or what is the same thing mathemati-
cally, the motion of the stars relatively to the earth. We can only
observe from our moving platform, and to get exact results it is
necessary to know how the platform moves. Thus the emphasis
shifts from time to time, but the work goes on, and ultimately most
of it is found to have value for one purpose or another. This is
desirable, for there is no way of recalling the past, and we must
capture the present with the hope of benefits in the future.
Smithsonian Report, 1933.—Browr PLATE

SIR ISAAC NEWTON, 1642-1727.
Smithsonian Report, 1933.—Brown PLATE 2

Science Service, Inc.

PIERRE SIMON, MARQUIS DE LAPLACE, 1749-1827.
Smithsonian Report, 1933.—Brown PLATE 3
I

SIMON NEWCOMB, 1835-1909.
Smithsonian Report, 1933.—Brown PLATE 4

Orren Jack Turner.

ALBERT EINSTEIN,
THE STRUCTURE AND ROTATION OF THE
GALAXY *

By J. S. PLASKETT

I. THE STRUCTURE OF THE GALAXY

For uncounted generations thoughtful men, philosophers and
mathematicians, physicists and astronomers, as well as many other
students, have been puzzling over the nature of our surroundings in
space. They have not been satisfied, as I am afraid many of us are
satisfied, with their merely terrestrial surroundings but have tried to
penetrate the almost inconceivable distances that separate the mem-
bers of our stellar system, to trace the evolution and unravel some
of the mysteries of the structure and constitution of the universe.
The word “universe”, however, is so broad and inclusive in its
meaning, it implies something so vast and incomprehensible to our
finite minds, as to be quite beyond the possibility of useful definition
or discussion in a lecture like this. The term “universe” has fre-
quently been used, and indeed is still used, I believe improperly, as
referring to the particular system of stars of which our sun is one
insignificant member among thousands of millions of others. A
much better designation, however, is “ galaxy ”, and hereafter we will
refer to the system in which we are situated as the galaxy. Although
it is now almost universally believed that there are countless other
stellar systems extending to distances beyond the capacity of the most
powerful telescope to penetrate, all of which may justly be included
in the universe, yet it is generally recognized that our system is the
largest and most complex of any known. The galaxy indeed is more
than sufficiently large and complex, with its structure and motions
still only partially determined, as to occupy fully our attention for
one evening.

It seems hardly necessary to state in this twentieth century that
the fundamental problem in the background of all modern astronom-
ical research is the problem of the constitution, the structure, and
the motions of the galaxy. While undoubtedly some practical ap-
plications of astronomy to the determination of time and to naviga-
tion and surveying have little to do with the structure of the galaxy,

1A lecture delivered before the Astronomical Society of the Pacific at San Francisco on

Apr. 20, 1932. Reprinted by permission from Publications of the Astronomical Society
of the Pacific, vol. 44, no. 259, June 1932.

189
190 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

it must be remembered that these applications no longer require
astronomical research, nor do they now occupy more than a very
small fraction of the time of an astronomical observatory. Whether
an astronomer is engaged in determining the positions or measuring
the radial motions or distances of the stars, whether he is examining
their apparent brightness or investigating their orbital motions,
whether he is analyzing the constitution and physical conditions of
the stars and nebulae by means of the spectroscope, or whether he
is only applying mathematical analysis to the investigation of the
dynamical conditions in the galaxy, he is, by every one of these
methods and many others, hoping to add something of value toward
the solution of the fundamental astronomical problem and to aid
in building up a true conception of the structure of the galaxy.

A mere glance at the sky on a clear moonless night shows a lumi-
nous belt, the Milky Way, hence the name “ galaxy”, stretching
across the sky, while observations at different times of the year and
in both hemispheres show that this Milky Way belt goes clear
around the sky, practically in a great circle. The concentration
of the stars in the Milky Way seems to indicate unmistakably to
us that they must extend to greater distances in that direction but,
until comparatively recent times, the prepossession that the earth
must be the center of the universe tended to the assumption of a
spherical distribution. That the stellar system must have a rela-
tively flattened form was first pointed out by Wright, only about
200 years ago. ‘This idea of the flattened shape of the galaxy was
further elaborated by the elder Herschel, who by means of his star-
gaging about the end of the eighteenth century stated that the shape
of the stellar system approximated that of a grindstone.

Our conceptions of the dimensions of the stellar system have
erown with increasing knowledge of the distances of the stars. As
the distance or parallax of any star was not measured until 1838
and as by the end of the nineteenth century less than 100 stellar
parallaxes had been measured, with many of them very uncertainly
determined, it is obvious that the ideas of the dimensions of the
galaxy prevalent at the beginning of the present century were based
on meager observational data and were little better than guesses.
Tt was not until 1905 that Newcomb and Seeliger, who were the first
to apply analytical methods to the problem, arrived at an estimate
of 7,000 light years for the diameter of the galaxy.

I hope I may be pardoned at this stage for interpolating some
explanatory matter with illustrations about the astronomer’s yard-
stick, the light-year. While I believe that everyone knows what a
light-year means, I am sure that very few have any adequate con-
ception how great a distance it represents and, therefore, I venture
to repeat the well-known fact that a light-year, the distance that light
STRUCTURE OF THE GALAXY—PLASKETT 191

traveling at the tremendous speed of 186,000 miles per second will
cover in a year, represents about 6 million million miles. To get
a concrete illustration, the nearest fixed star, « Centauri, in the
Southern Hemisphere and not visible in these latitudes, is 444 light-
years distant, or 25 million million miles. It is very easy to say 25
million million or to see it as 25 followed by 12 ciphers, but not
quite so easy to realize the tremendous distance involved. Some
help may be gained by calculating how long it would take an ex-
press train traveling 60 miles an hour, day and night, to cover this
distance. Such a conveyance would take some 57,000,000 years to
complete the journey. Perhaps a still better illustration is that of
the spider web, the very fine filament used in the reticles of transits
or measuring microscopes, of which it is estimated that 2 pounds
would stretch around the earth, 25,000 miles. At this rate it would
require no less than 1,000,000 tons of spider web to reach « Centauri
and hence 1,600 million tons to span Newcomb and Seeliger’s esti-
mate of the diameter of the galaxy.

At the risk of boring you, but in the hope of “ getting across’
some conception of the immensity of stellar distances, and the sparse-
ness of the stars in space, I shall show some figures made by me
some 4 years ago to illustrate the scale of the universe. The first
is a table (table 1), starting with the smallest known particle, the
electron, and proceeding by 21 steps each 100 times the preceding,
to the largest known entity, the Einstein universe. It should be stated,
of course, that these dimensions were those extant when the drawings
were made, but some of them are quite different now, especially the
dimensions of the universe, and in the present rapidly changing state
of quantum and relativity theory may be again different next year.

TABLE 1.—Scale of universe

—9 .000 000 000 000 06 inch 1.6X10-% em. Electron.
—s . 000 000 000 006 inch 16 xX 10-2
—7 . 000 000 000 6 inch 1.6x10°
—6 . 000 000 06 inch I 6>el Oe! Atom.
—5 . 000 006 inch 1.6X10°5 Soap bubble.
—4 . 000 6 inch 1.6X103 Tissue paper.
—3 . 06 inch 1.6X1071
—2 6.3 inches 1.6X10
—1 . 01 mile 1.6X 108
0 1 mile 1.6105
1 100 miles 1. 6X10
2 10 000 miles 1.6 10° Earth.
3 1 000 000 miles 1.6104 Earth—moon.
4 100 000 000 miles 1. 6X 1038 Earth-sun.
5 10 000 000 000 miles 1.6X10 Solar system.
6 1 000 000 000 000 miles 1.6X 10!"
7 17 light-years 1. 6X 101° Nearer stars.
8 1 700 light-years 1.6X 107! Local cluster.
9 170 000 light-years 1. 6X 10% Galaxy. |
10 17 000 000 light-years 1. 6X 1075 Nearer spirals.
11 1 700 000 000 light-years 1. 6X 107? 6 X range 100” telescope.
12 170 000 000 000 light-years 1.6X10%cm,. Linstein universe,
192 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

The dimensions are given in centimeters, inches, miles, and light-
years, and for comparison corresponding familiar objects are given
to the right. The astronomical end of the scale is illustrated by fur-
ther figures, each having its side 100 times the length of the preced-
ing and each showing in the right-hand lower corner the size of the
preceding figure. Starting with a sketch of the Western Hemisphere
just nicely fitting in a square with a side 10,000 miles, it and the next
two steps, the earth-moon system 1,000,000 miles and the sun-earth
100,000,000 miles are sufficiently familiar not to need illustrating.
The next step (fig. 1), again 100 times the length of the preceding

Ne ptune”

No.5 Side 10090 000 000 miles

FIGURE 1.—Solar system.

or 10,000,000,000 miles, easily contains the planetary system but only
part of the orbits of some of the long-period comets. The next (fig.
2), of 1,000,000,000,000 miles, or one-sixth of a light-year as you will
remember, shows the whole planetary system as a dot in empty space.
How empty space really is will be better appreciated when it is

il
400,000
inch in diameter and that you would have to travel 25 times as "far
in any direction before you would encounter a single star. Yet so
tremendous is its extent that it is estimated there are some 200,000,-
000,000 stars in the galaxy.

learned that the sun in this figure would be an invisible dot-—~—
STRUCTURE OF THE GALAXY—PLASKETT 193

The next step (fig. 3), 100,000,000,000,000 miles, or 17 light-years,
shows the relative distance and intrinsic brightness of a few of the
nearer fixed stars. Please remember that the width of this figure
corresponds to a train journey of 230,000,000 years, and yet we see
how far we are from anything approaching a galaxy of 200109
stars. If we proceed to the next step (fig. 4), however, scale 1,700
light-years, we are now more nearly approaching galactic dimensions
and begin to see what Newcomb and Seeliger were considering when
they estimated a diameter of 7,000 light-years with a thickness of
about one-fourth the diameter. This group of stars, which is now

ee

Distance Nearest Star 25 times Length of Slide
No6 Side 1000 000 000000 miles Size Nod a

FicurRpB 2.—The solar neighborhood.

called the “local cluster”, with the sun not quite central, will cer-
tainly extend to a diameter of 7,000 light-years or more before the
stars become very thinly spaced and probably represents the galaxy
of Newcomb and Seeliger.

The dimensions of the galaxy were increased by Walkey in 1914
to a diameter of 14,000 light-years and by Eddington in 1915 to
about 15,000 light-years. The most complete investigation of the
structure and dimensions of the limited stellar system as then rec-
ognized is due to the famous Dutch astronomer, Kapteyn, who in
1920 from long-extended investigations, embracing practically the
aim of his life work, gave an idealized representation of the galaxy
194 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

with the stars thinning out gradually with increasing distance from
the sun, more rapidly of course in the direction perpendicular to the
plane of the Milky Way. On Kapteyn’s system, the diameter along
the direction of the Milky Way, where the stars are only one-tenth as
thickly spaced as in the neighborhood of the sun, is about 18,000
light-years corresponding to Walkey’s and Eddington’s dimensions,
with a thickness of about 3,500. If, however, one goes farther out-
ward until the stars are only one-hundredth as thickly spaced as near
the sun, and hence very sparsely scattered indeed, the diameter would
be 55,000 and the thickness 11,000 light-years.

Nearest Stars Projected on Ecliptic

Lal. Wiss
005

e
aCentaurz
‘et

6) Cygni,

Barnard
“000%

No.7 Side 100 000.000 000 000 m., 17 Light Years Size No6

Fiaurp 3.—The nearest stars.

But as Kapteyn himself fully realized, all the earlier estimates
as well as his own referred to a simplified ideal watch-shaped system
of stars, thinning out gradually as you go outward from the sun,
which is taken as the center, while the real system is much more
complex. Even the most cursory glance at the Milky Way on a
clear, moonless night suffices to show that the stellar system has no
such regular distribution as that pictured above. It seems rather to
be formed of great aggregations of stars, star clouds as they are
usually called, separated by sparser regions arranged in the most
irregular way, and one is forced to realize, especially when one sees
STRUCTURE OF THE GALAXY—PLASKETT 195

photographs of the Milky Way, how very inadequate were these
early conceptions of the galaxy, the distribution being assumed as
regular to enable the problem to be treated mathematically. While
they probably represent the arrangement of the stars in the neigh-
borhood of the sun, in the local cluster as it is now called—and it
should be remembered that it was only these stars whose distances
and distribution were then available for analysis—they took no
account of the complex and irregular distribution around the Milky
Way into the great star clouds, so obvious a feature of its structure.

The Local @lustes =

Nos. Side 1700 Light years * Size Nov ry

Fiaturwn 4.—The local cluster.

Even while Kapteyn was preparing his magnum opus and before
it was published, a research was under way by Shapley at the
Mount Wilson Observatory, which was to supersede Kapteyn’s ideal
structure and give us a much enlarged conception of the magnitude
and complexity of the galaxy. Shapley developed an entirely new
method of determining the distances of the stars, depending upon a
knowledge of the intrinsic brightness of certain variable stars, the
Cepheids. Whereas, by the ordinary trigonometric method, stellar
distances beyond a hundred light-years or so are only very un-
certainly determined, this luminosity method gives accurate distances
to several thousands of light-years. Shapley thus determined the

72774—35—14
196 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

distances of the 80-odd globular clusters, curiously distributed over
the sky, being nearly all in one hemisphere, which he found to vary
from 20,000 to 200,000 light-years. When their positions with re-
spect to the plane of the Milky Way were plotted, the remarkable
fact emerged that they were distributed symmetrically with respect
to the central plane with the same number on each side, as seen in
figure 5, the next step in the scale of the universe. There seems to
be no escape from the conclusion that the clusters and the stars
belong to the same dynamical organization, that each forms part
of the galaxy, and that they must be concentric and coterminous with
one another. The central position of our sun in the galaxy forever
disappeared when the distribution of the clusters showed that it was
about half-way between the center and the edge of the great dis-
coidal system of stars, which Shapley estimated as having a diameter
of 300,000 light-years and a thickness of 12,000.

Shapley’s conception of the galaxy has been generally accepted
with the exception that more recent investigations with more ex-
tensive material have shown that Shapley’s distances of the clusters,
and hence the scale of the galaxy, should be reduced by approxi-
mately 40 percent. But even such a reduction leaves the galactic
system nearly 200,000 light-years in diameter, of almost inconceiv-
able dimensions, requiring for example 50,000,000,000 tons of spider
web to span.

The modern conception of the sidereal system is then not a single
watch-shaped cluster of stars surrounding the sun and gradually
thinning out toward the edges, but rather a great aggregation com-
posed of this cluster and numerous others, represented by the Milky
Way clouds gradually merging into one another at the edges where
the stars are thinner, the whole forming one great disklke system
roughly circular in outline, but with its thickness only about one-
twentieth of its diameter. The globular clusters, though part of the
galaxy, are, however, nowhere near the disk (see fig. 5), but form
a roughly spherical or spheroidal shell concentric with the disk, a
cluster of guardian attendants on each side of the main disklike
system—the latter estimated to contain some 200,000,000,000 stars, of
which our solar system is but one average member.

A very natural question arises as to the structure and arrangement
of the stars in this system. We have seen that, while the stars in
the neighborhood of the sun are fairly uniformly distributed in a
watch-shaped cluster, gradually thinning out toward the edges, the
photographs of the Milky Way clouds show that the structure of
adjacent clusters or star clouds as viewed from our position in the
disk itself is complex and apparently irregular, without orderly ar-
rangement. But may this not be due to our situation within the
STRUCTURE OF THE GALAXY—PLASKETT 197

plane of the disk where it is impossible to see more than the vertical
projection of part of the disk or, in other words, where we cannot
distinguish the wood for the trees? As it is impossible for us either
to determine the structure of the galaxy from our position within
it or to get outside the galaxy to examine it from without, the only
recourse is to see if we can find any prototypes outside the galaxy,
any outside systems whose structure may legitimately be assumed as
similar to our own.

The Galaxy and Clusters - Perpendicular to Milky Way

No.9 Side 170 000 ‘light years

FicurE 5.—The galactic system.

It is now quite generally believed that the spiral nebulae, of
which many thousands or perhaps even millions can be detected by
modern telescopes, are external galaxies, are stellar systems, consti-
tuted very similarly to our own galaxy. Thanks to the work of
Hubble at the Mount Wilson Observatory, who was able, by examin-
ing the Cepheid variables in some of the nearer of these nebulae, to
determine their distances in the same way that Shapley obtained
the distances of the globular clusters in our own galaxy or nebula,
we now know the distances and the dimensions of some of the nearer
of these external galaxies, these spiral nebulae.

The characteristic form of these external star systems is familiar
to all, and we see readily the reason for the name spiral, assigned
198 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

to these objects, since all show distinctly an extremely flattened disk-
like form with a marked central condensation from which spiral
arms, with knots or condensations distributed throughout their
length, unwind. It surely does not require a very vivid imagination
to picture our own galaxy as a great spiral nebula with a flattened
disklike form, the local cluster and the Milky Way clouds being the
condensations in the arms of this spiral. The main difficulty is the
question of size, as our galaxy is undoubtedly four or five times
greater in diameter than the largest known spiral, the Great Nebula
in Andromeda.

And yet if we examine photographs of the two nearest spirals,
Messier 33 in Triangulum and Messier 31, the Great Nebula in Andro-
meda, we see so many similarities that the essential identity in struc-
ture of these spirals and our galaxy can scarcely be doubted. The
spiral in Triangulum with a distance of some 900,000 light-years and
a diameter of 15,000 is well resolved into stars and star clouds by
the 100-inch telescope, and I have always considered this spiral as
being a model about one-fifteenth in size of our own galaxy. But
the similarity in structural detail is even more marked in the An-
dromeda nebula, which at a distance of 900,000 light-years has a
diameter of 45,000, about one-fifth of the galaxy. A photograph of
part of the Andromeda nebula on a large scale with the 100-inch
telescope shows so striking a resemblance to the Milky Way clouds
that, especially if we remember the difference in scale and that the
fainter stars cannot show in the Andromeda on account of the great
distance, no one who sees them can doubt the essential similarity of
structure.

We can then, I think, legitimately assume that the galaxy is a
great discoidal aggregation some 200,000 light-years in diameter and
10,000 in thickness, built up of stars and star clouds which gradually
merge into one another at the edges where the stars are thinner. It
also seems legitimate to assume, from analogy with the external
galaxies, the spiral nebulae, that it has a marked central condensa-
tion, indicated by the richness of the star clouds in the direction of
the center in Sagittarius, and a definite spiral form with the Milky
Way clouds as the condensations along the spiral arms. Our sun
is near the center of one of these condensations, the local cluster,
situated about halfway between the center and the edge of the whole
system. It seems obvious, from our position within the system, that
the structure of the adjacent condensations, particularly when com-
plicated by the presence of absorbing matter or clouds, so prominent
a feature of both the galaxy and the spirals, could easily reproduce
the structure we see in the Milky Way clouds. Although we cannot
prove positively that the galaxy is so constituted, any evidence we
STRUCTURE OF THE GALAXY—PLASKETT 199

have is in favor of such a conception, while the essential similarity
in structure of all the spirals forms strong presumptive evidence of
a similar structure in the galaxy. That the galaxy is essentially a
homogeneous unit like the spirals is indicated by the demonstration,
based mainly on observational data obtained at Victoria, that the
space between the stars is uniformly pervaded throughout by almost
incredibly diffuse matter, millions of times more tenuous than the
highest vacuum we can produce on the earth, with the molecules
about a centimeter apart, and so tenuous that there would be only
about 4 ounces of this gaseous matter in the whole volume of the
earth. Our conception of the galaxy as a single homogeneous dy-
namical unit is much strengthened by the proof to be presently given
that both stars and diffuse matter are in beautifully ordered rotation
in their own plane.

Another view of the galaxy was, however, advanced about a year
ago by Shapley, who was the originator of the present conception of
its dimensions and structure. Shapley contends that, as the galaxy
is five times larger than any other known system, it is not likely to
have a similar structure. He analyzes loose clusters of nebulae in
Virgo and Centaurus and assumes that the galaxy is built up of a
number of discrete nebulae loosely aggregated together. There are,
however, many difficulties in this hypothesis, for in the clusters he
assumes as analogous there is no trace of discoidal form, while the
component nebulae are widely separated from one another in con-
tradistinction to the galaxy, where star clouds merge into one an-
other. But the main objection to Shapley’s new hypothesis les in
the demonstrated dynamical unity of the galaxy and in its ordered
rotation in its own plane, to which his loose groups of nebulae have
not the least similarity.

II. THE ROTATION OF THE GALAXY

The conception we have tried to develop of the structure of the
galaxy should enable us to understand better the motions in the
galaxy. The name, the “ fixed stars”, is a misnomer, as it has long
been known that motion is a universal property of the stars. The
motion of a star, which may be in any direction, can only be meas-
ured in two directions—its cross motion, or change of position in
the sky, called the proper motion, and its motion in the line of sight,
its radial velocity measured by the spectroscope. From these two
components, provided the distance is known, we can get the real or
space motion of any star. The proper motions are all very small,
the largest being a change of position of 10’’ per year, or the width
of the moon in 180 years, while the majority of proper motions are
less than one-hundredth of this, or moon width in 18,000 years. The
200 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

radial velocities, which will mainly be dealt with in this discussion,
vary from zero up to some 40 or 50 kilometers per second, on the
average about 20 kilometers, 12 miles, per second, although a few
stars have higher velocities, up to 300 or 400 kilometers per second.

The motions of the stars appear in general to be quite at random
without trace of regularity, ike a swarm of mosquitoes, for example,
or a crowd of people holidaying in a park. It was, however, early
realized that our sun, if in motion, would give an apparent syste-
matic trend to the motions of the other stars; and Herschel, as early
as 1783, from the proper motions of 13 stars, showed that the sun
was moving toward the constellation Hercules. The method used
may be illustrated from the example of people moving at random in
a park. It is obvious that a person going through the park will see
the people in front, on the whole, seem to approach, those behind
appear to recede, and those at the sides to be moving backward.
In this way, from the proper motions and radial velocities of several
thousand stars, we know with some precision that the sun is ap-
proaching the constellation Lyra, not far from Herschel’s first at-
tempt, with a speed of 20 kilometers, 12 miles, per second. Owing to
our moving viewpoint on the solar system, it is evident the stars will
all have spurious apparent motions, and before we can discuss the
real motions of the stars we must first of all correct for the solar
motion. Hereafter, when speaking of stellar motions, therefore, we
shall be referring to the corrected or real motions of the stars.

The motions of the stars are so nearly at random that it was not
until 1905 that Kapteyn found there was a preference of the proper
motions for two opposite directions, “ star-streaming” as he called
it, the effect being as if there were two systems of stars each with
random motions, interpenetrating one another. No satisfactory ex-
planation of this phenomenon was forthcoming, though it was gen-
erally agreed it must be due to the gravitational attraction of the
whole system. A second mysterious systematic effect was discovered
by Stromberg at Mount Wilson in 1924. Stromberg showed that
the motions of all the stars with velocities greater than 80 kilometers
per second, the high-velocity stars, were not at random but were all
directed to one hemisphere of the sky. Stromberg was unable to
offer any satisfactory explanation for this “asymmetry in stellar
velocities ” as he called it. It was found, however, that the mean
direction was almost exactly at right angles to the direction to the
center of the galaxy in Sagittarius.

These two systematic effects in the motions of the stars and the
need of some comprehensive treatment of the dynamics of the stellar
system have been met only very recently by Lindblad’s theory of the
rotation of the galaxy in 1926. Although speculations about the
STRUCTURE OF THE GALAXY—PLASKETT 201

rotation of the stellar system about some central star were prevalent
during the nineteenth century, they had no observational data to
support them and could not survive. Before giving Lindblad’s
hypothesis, however, there are some general considerations unknown
earlier in support of a rotation of the galaxy which may well be
cited.

We have already built up our conception of the galaxy as a tre-
mendous discoidal aggregation of stars and star clouds with a diam-
eter of 200,000 and a thickness of 10,000 light-years. Elementary
dynamics at once indicates that such a thin disk-shaped system could
only be maintained in a flattened form by rapid rotation, otherwise
it would assume a more nearly spherical shape. And we have not far
to go to find analogues showing rotation. The very structure of the
spirals suggests rotation; they are just like a Catherine wheel.
Moreover, the spectroscope has demonstrated that several of them
are in rapid rotation. Unfortunately, however, we cannot get out-
side our galaxy to test its rotation spectroscopically, and there did
not seem any means of attacking the problem internally from our
position within the system, where all the stars we can observe are
rotating as well as ourselves.

The way was first pointed out by Lindblad in 1926 in a series
of papers to the Swedish Academy. Lindblad postulated that the
galaxy was composed of a number of subsystems, approximately
concentric with one another, and all in rotation at different rates
around a common axis perpendicular to the galactic plane. The
subsystem rotating at the highest speed would evidently by centrif-
ugal force be the most flattened toward the central plane and, on
Lindblad’s hypothesis, is the one containing our sun, the local cluster,
the Milky Way clouds, and the vast majority of the stars. Sub-
systems with a lower rotational speed would be less flattened to the
galactic plane. ‘The stars in such a slower-moving subsystem would
appear to us to be moving much faster, to have higher radial veloc-
ities than the stars in our own system, as our high rotational speed,
about 300 kilometers, or 200 miles, per second, would sweep us
rapidly past them. The most slowly rotating subsystem is the
system of globular clusters which are little flattened toward the
plane and whose low rotational speed gives them apparently high
velocities in the line of sight with respect to the sun.

Lindblad’s hypothesis at once gives an explanation of Stromberg’s
asymmetry, as the high-velocity stars evidently belong to a slower-
moving subsystem and being overtaken by the higher rotational
speed of the sun, at right angles to the direction to the center, gives
them the appearance of moving in the opposite direction, as has
already been shown. The phenomenon of star-streaming, the pref-
202 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

erential direction being nearly in the direction to the center of
the galaxy, is also explainable though not so directly as a result of
galactic rotation. While Lindblad’s theory thus successfully ac-
counted for these previously unexplained systematic motions, it did
not point the way to any observational means of testing the rota-
tion. A method was developed by J. H. Oort, of Leyden, in a
masterly paper about a year later, but before discussing Oort’s
work, it will be well to consider the general consequences of a rota-
tion and to see what possibility there is of detecting any rotation
from our position within the galaxy where the sun and stars are
rotating together.

The rotation of a system of stars implies a central attracting force,
obviously provided by the matter of the stars themselves, directed
toward the center of gravity of the system. The law of force and
the manner of rotation will depend upon the distribution of the
stars within the system, and two particular cases may be considered,
that of uniform distribution and that of a concentration toward
the center.

In the case of uniform distribution of the stars or matter through-
out the system, it is an elementary principle of dynamics that for
stars within the system the attractive force will be directly propor-
tional to the distance from the center, and that all the bodies within
the system will revolve around the center in the same time; in other
words, such a stellar system will rotate like a solid disk or wheel.
For uniform distribution of the stars throughout a system, there
will hence be no relative motion between the sun and stars and no
possibility of detecting a rotation from observations of the radial
velocities or proper motions of neighboring stars. Just as a fly on
the spoke of a rapidly rotating wheel could not tell by observing
other flies on the rim, hub, or spokes whether the wheel was sta-
tionary or spinning.

Although it is impossible to detect a rotation of the galaxy from
internal evidence, when the stars are uniformly distributed through
the system, the position is more hopeful if there is a concentration
of the stars or matter toward the center. Analogy with the spirals,
which all show central condensation, makes it highly probable that
the stars are more concentrated toward the center of the galaxy.
In the extreme theoretical case, with all the matter concentrated at
the center, practically true of the solar system, the attracting force
is inversely as the square of the distance, and the bodies or stars
nearer the center revolve faster, both linearly and angularly, than
those farther out. An example is the solar system, where the inner
planets move much faster than the outer, and if we were to measure
the radial velocities of the planets we could prove that they were
STRUCTURE OF THE GALAXY—PLASKETT 203

in rotation about the sun and be able to find the direction to the
sun from these motions even if the latter were or became invisible.
This was done by Gyldén as far back as 1871, when from the mo-
tions of some of the asteroids he determined the direction to the
sun within 6°. Exactly the same relation holds in the stellar
system for, even if only part of the matter is concentrated at the
center, the revolution will follow some intermediate course between
constant angular velocity and planetary motion, and it is obvious
that as long as there is any condensation toward the center, there
will be relative motion between the neighboring stars which can be
measured and the rotation determined. This can be shown perhaps
more clearly by a diagram, figure 6.

3 ° t t
t 3 ° ee, iy
<€------~---—------------- -$---e---0 ¢ 3
$ $ ° : g
7 ° . $ 3 ° 2 2
» e ra

€---—---—---- e--—-~-—-—O e °
fg e % | t t ‘
: ; ss ak ape eter
a a ep ert ae oe ae ee
TO DISTANT CENTER t f ' :
Tah ace te

FicuRE 6.—Differential velocities produced by galactic rotation.

In the lower group of stars with the sun in the center, the differ-
ential rotation is shown by the stars nearer the center having a
higher rotational speed. If an equal and opposite velocity to that
of the sun is impressed upon this group it brings the sun to rest, and
we have the motions shown in the upper group. The components of
these velocities in the direction of the sun, the radial velocities, are
shown in the center group. It will at once be seen that the relative
motion or the rotational effect depends not only on the angle between
the star and the direction to the center but also on the distance of
the star from the sun. There is no rotational effect along, and per-
pendicular to, the direction to the center, while the maximum rota-
tional effects are midway between the zero values.
204 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

Oort’s great contribution to the problem of the rotation of the
galaxy was to translate the foregoing general principles into simple
mathematical language and test the resulting expressions from the
known motions of the stars. Expressed most simply, this states that
the residual velocity of any star, the velocity after the effect of the
solar motion has been removed, the actual velocity of the star in the
system, is directly proportional to its distance from the sun, provided
only that this distance is small compared to the distance of the center,
and to the sine of twice the angle between the star and the direction
to the center of the galaxy, or

p=rA sin 2(1—1,)

Oort showed conclusively from an analysis of the then known
radial velocities of all the more distant celestial objects such as the
O-, B-, and N-type stars, the Cepheids and the “c ” stars, the plane-
tary nebulae and the calcium clouds, that the observed velocities of
all these objects followed closely those predicted by the galactic rota-
tion. Ifthe observed distribution of the velocities of all these objects
is not due to a rotation of the galaxy, the producing cause gives re-
sults very similar to galactic rotation.

There are certain limitations and difficulties in conclusively dem-
onstrating the rotation which should be noted. It has been shown
that the rotation produces a change in velocity of 1 kilometer per
second for stars at a distance of 200 light-years. Since, owing to
the effect of the random motions and of errors of observation, a rota-
tional effect of 5 kilometers is the minimum for definite results, this
requires a knowledge of the velocities of stars 1,000 light-years dis-
tant. Only a very small proportion of the stars at that distance are
bright enough for velocity determinations, and the numbers for analy-
sis are hence very small, too small to overcome the disturbing effect
of the random motions which only become harmless when averaged
out over several stars. Consequently Oort’s tests of the galactic
rotation were limited by the small number of radial velocities of
distant stars available at that time.

Fortunately, at Victoria there were available as a result of about
6 years’ work by Dr. Pearce and me, the radial velocities of some
500 O- and B-type stars, the hottest, most massive, most luminous
stars in the sky, and hence the most distant that can be spectro-
scopically observed. As they also have the smallest random motions
of any class of stars they are especially suitable for testing the
rotation of the galaxy and indeed have provided the most convincing
evidence of its reality. It is necessary, however, as the rotational
effect is directly proportional to the distance, to arrange these stars
into groups at different distances. This is a difficult task, as no
STRUCTURE OF THE GALAXY—PLASKETT 205

reliable parallaxes are available. If the stars were all of the same
intrinsic brightness, they could be arranged according to distance
by the apparent magnitudes, but this criterion is imperfect on ac-
count of the considerable range in total brightness. The criterion
eventually used depends on the properties of the diffuse gaseous
matter pervading the system which has already been mentioned,
whose presence is revealed and its motions determined by the dark
absorption lines H and K of calcium in the spectra of these stars.
The more distant the star, the greater depth of the diffuse gas the
starlight passes through, the greater the absorption, and the stronger
the H and K lines. Some 250 of these stars in which the H and K
lines are well defined were arranged into three groups of weak,
medium, and strong lines, and consequently into groups of stars, as
eventually appeared at average distances of 2,000, 3,000, and 5,500
light-years.

As the rotational effect depends also upon the angle between the
star and the direction to the center of the galaxy, each of these dis-
tance groups was arranged into some 10 subgroups in longitude.
This had the further advantage, by combining a number of stars in
each subgroup, of diminishing the disturbing effects of random
motions. These different groups were then solved by Oort’s equa-
tion, using the method of least-squares, a mathematical process of
getting the most probable values of the unknown quantities. The re-
sults of this solution are exhibited in table 2, in which the second and
third columns contain the number of stars and the average longitude
of each subgroup. The fourth column gives the average observed
residual velocity, corrected for the solar motion, of the stars in each
subgroup. The fifth column gives the computed velocity that would
be produced by the galactic rotation for the mean longitude of each
group.

The eye needs only to glance down the pair of columns to be
struck by the remarkable agreement between the observed velocities
and those that would be produced by a rotation of the galaxy. The
coincidence seems even more striking when it is remembered that
there are unavoidable errors of observation present in the velocities
and that the stars have random motions on the average of about 10
kilometers per second. Considering the small numbers of stars in
many of the groups and the disturbing effects of such random mo-
tions, the agreement is extraordinary and can certainly not be acci-
dental. If the double wave swing of the residual velocities, from
positive to negative and back again to positive, so distinctly shown
in every group, is not due to a rotation of the galaxy, it must arise
from some cause which gives a distribution of the residual velocities
almost exactly similar to that produced by the galactic rotation.
206 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

TABLE 2.—Comparison of velocities

Stellar velocities Cloud velocities

Group Number Eee SSS SSS
Observed | Computed | Observed | Computed

Intensity of interstellar lines 4.4 to 6.9

rA=+10.22 rA=+5.03

eh See pare ay yee eee he 2 345° | +36.2 | +10.8 —1.2 : +3. 3
Pt sp hap Sacpen ft ASA LES ae 2 17 Se ee +4. 9 +4.9
Pa tn Bo cae ean 14 38 +10.4} + 9.9 +5. 7 +2.9
AN ie adie) AW eau hs bb 11 61 ste lOndelicl= 2a —0. 4 —1.0
by eo tees Se SN eee Ne ieee 13 75 elspa | ed —0. 4 — 3. 2
Oe oF ey cea REDD oe 8 89 —= 16518" soi 3 —6. 0 —4.6
(eee nT oa ee ie SO ree 8 113 2a O10 —6. 9 —4,4
fo a ea eee agra gta fs 6 131 4 | — OD +2. 7 —2. 2
OE ee AU ea ihe ee are 8 156 + 7.0) + 8.0 = Aled +2. 0
A he oc NCE oe SD sc 13 174 +14.4 | +12.6 +4. 9 +4, 1
1) Fave pray teres, ek ei a tas 3 205 A Oba] ten Ones +3. 4 +4, 2

Intensity of interstellar lines 7.0 to 7.9

rA=+14.53 rA=+6.91

ae ee ene re meroes 8 12 seve pilietiyats + 46/4 67
Diep RARER EES: Vela are 12 38 ta Sa Oi tate 28s Oh est 6S 35s E sd,
aI eee NS eee eS: 11 51 ate eae a Lene esas lat a gO
AO BER 2a. 2 NER ER ee 10 65 = 57) (= O95 FOF OFS —— 22516
Oe of es Na ree 4 75 == flee =F OND: ed en
Oates seen ee 8 89 D2 Sed LO NG | esa
EE PAIRS EIEN AROS Bp 3 110 —23.9 | —13.9) —9.7|— 67
Siok Dee asl TA Bees oe 3 139 te eT i BD A) =O. St ee
(Oa i ieee 2 ee eee 9 160 +106] + 72)+ 02)4 3.3
QE Baas Sas Re st OTe yS 10 174 ET. 2 | -F12.2 | 207 | =F 8. 6
Uglies teeta Gah A i 192 +44.6]} +14.4 | +13.0] 4+ 67

Intensity of interstellar lines 8.0 to 9.5

rA=+27.52 rA=+13.72

aU ene ean Ws ed ee et 2 358 +35. 7 | -+-24.3-] -— 8.2") - 9.4
Dio bod OR Ss FRE SoA ay 2 17 = 12; 2-298 SSE iGh ey Soe
Pes AER Ermer eps mes chee 6 34 AE SOM tape ome roe
7 EL Uae BN Ba re 8S SR, 2 47 +11.8] +104} + 66] + 2.4
LG es Oe Ny Ae Ee i Ue Zt 12 70 — 3.4) | —10. 40) = 5547) =1810
Geo oie eae Sa 4 97 —26.8 | —23.4 | —15.5 | —143
ieee Rapes SE. eA es le | 9 107 — 28. 4; || 25. 5) — i 7 |, a5
922 Oa 2 eee £ 141 — 41/—09;};4+ 1.2) — 3.2
OF 2 Se ee ae 2 169 13.16 |G NO)! soos Ooi conte

It will be noted that the velocities of the diffuse cosmic matter,
or cloud, which are obtained from the displacement of the inter-
stellar H and K lines in the same way as the stellar velocities from
the hydrogen and helium lines, are given in the sixth column, and
that these velocities show an even closer agreement with those that
would be produced by a rotation of the galaxy, given in the seventh
STRUCTURE OF THE GALAXY—PLASKETT 207

column, than is the case in the stellar velocities. No one who bears
this agreement in mind can have any reasonable doubt that not only
the stars but the intervening exceedingly diffuse matter, 4 ounces in
the volume of the earth, are rotating around a very distant center
in the direction of the constellation Sagittarius. This direction of
328° is determined from the least-squares solutions at the same time
as the rotational effect rA. Our conviction of the reality of the
galactic rotation will be considerably strengthened when we learn
that the geometrical center of the galaxy as determined by Shapley
from the distribution of the globular clusters is at galactic longitude
327°, agreeing exactly, within the errors of observation, with that
determined dynamically on the assumption of a rotation of the
galaxy from the distribution of the velocities.

It will be of interest to derive some more general results of the
rotation. I am sure it is not necessary to tell you that the velocities
we have been discussing are not the rotational velocities around the
galactic center but only the differences in velocity produced by the
change in rotational velocity at different distances from the center.
The orbital or rotational velocity is much greater, though not yet
very rigorously determined. One way of obtaining it is from
measures of the radial velocity of the globular clusters, which, as we
have seen, have a low rotational motion and whose mean observed
velocity should hence give the orbital velocity of the sun. The
result shows that the rotational speed is of the order of 300 kilo-
meters, or 200 miles, per second. ‘This becomes greater as we go
toward and smaller as we go away from the center. Computing
the change, it appears that 5,000 light-years nearer the center the
speed will be 335 kilometers per second, and 5,000 hght-years farther
away, 265 kilometers per second. As you have seen, it is these
changes in rotational speed that cause the velocity differences dis-
cussed.

As compared with terrestrial velocities, the rotational speed of
300 kilometers per second is tremendous indeed, nearly 2,000 times
faster than man has ever traveled on the earth, than the speed
attained in the recent Schneider Cup trials of 400 miles per hour,
but yet so vast are the dimensions of the galaxy that it will take the
sun about 250,000,000 years to complete one revolution. Hence, dur-
ing the whole span of geologic time on the earth our sun has only
made some five or six revolutions in its orbit. This velocity of 300
kilometers per second only corresponds to a change of angle or longi-
tude of ’’0.006 per year, hence the hopelessness of detecting the rota-
tion by observing the proper motion of external objects is obvious.

The magnitude of the rotational effect—the value of A, which we
have found to be 1 kilometer per second for stars 200 light-years
away—and the orbital speed of the sun, 300 kilometers per second,
208 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

enable us to calculate the distance of the sun from the center and
the total mass of the system. ‘The distance of the sun from the
center, on the assumption that the main part of the mass is concen-
trated near the center, comes out as about 40,000 light-years
and the total mass of the galaxy as about that of 250,000,000,000
suns. If the orbital speed were smaller or the mass less concentrated
to the center, these dimensions would be somewhat reduced, though
the order is not changed. Please remember that this distance and
the mass are calculated, on the assumption of a rotation of the
galaxy, wholly from the radial velocities of relatively few stars
without any reference to measures of stellar distances or star counts.

It will be of interest to compare these dimensions with those
arrived at in our discussion of the structure of the galaxy and
based on the distances of the globular clusters. ‘The diameter
arrived at was 200,000 light-years, which, with the sun halfway
between center and edge, makes its distance from the center 50,000
light-years, a very satisfactory agreement of geometrical and dy-
namical values. Seares and Van Rhyn, from the result of star
counts, estimated a total of 30,000,000,000 stars in the galaxy. Since
dark nebulae obstruct our view, particularly in the direction of the
center in Sagittarius, the numbers may well be much greater, while
there is in addition the mass of the cosmic cloud and the bright and
dark nebulae, so that the dynamical estimate may not be unreason-
ably higher than the geometrical.

The evidence seems overwhelmingly in favor of a rotation of the
galaxy, but before unreserved acceptance two difficulties should be
mentioned. In the first place, practically all the velocity data on
which the observational test was made covered barely three-fifths of
the way around the galactic plane. While it seems highly probable
that the lacking velocities from the southern sky will confirm the
northern results, we should accept the evidence with some reserve
until the actual observations are available. The same difficulty, of
the insufliciency of data in the southern sky, is felt in almost every
general astronomical investigation and to my mind money spent in
the increase of astronomical equipment in the Northern Hemisphere
would be much more useful if it could be transferred to the South-
ern. The second difficulty lies in the shearing effect of the differen-
tial rotation on the permanence of such aggregations of stars as the
local cluster and the Milky Way clouds. If we take the local cluster
as 5,000 light-years in diameter, the differential rotation will cause
the inner edge of the cluster to make 8 revolutions while the outer
part is making 7. Obviously a compact cluster will be sheared into
an elongated form, so that the presence of star clouds in the galaxy
must be regarded only as transitory eddies in a whirlpool which
form and dissipate continually.
STRUCTURE OF THE GALAXY—PLASKETT 209

Nevertheless, the evidence in favor of the rotation seems over-
whelming and it will be useful to summarize it briefly: (a) The
spiral nebulae, to which strong evidence points as being replicas of
the galaxy on a smaller scale, are by their very appearance obviously
in rotation, while rapid rotation has been spectroscopically meas-
ured in several of them. (6) The extremely flattened shape of the
galaxy, with the thickness only about one-twentieth the diameter,
is in itself almost indisputable evidence of rapid rotation in its
own plane; otherwise it would assume a more nearly spherical form
like a globular cluster. (¢) The very presence of the cosmic diffuse
matter, obeying the differential rotational swing exactly as the stars,
is in itself a proof of galactic rotation. Only rotation could have
kept this gas distended throughout the system and have prevented
it from long ago collapsing into a dense nebula at the center.
(d) The satisfactory manner in which the galactic rotation has
accounted for the previously unexplained systematic effect of star-
streaming and the asymmetry in the high-velocity stars also counts
in its favor. (e) The observed residual velocities of the most dis-
tant stars and of the cosmic cloud agree so closely with those that
would be produced by a rotation of the galaxy as to make any other
explanation highly improbable. (f) And finally the dimensions of
the system and the direction to the center as determined dynamically
from the analysis of the velocities agree almost exactly with those
determined by the direct geometrical measures of distance and posi-
tion of the center.

I have been attempting this evening, with I hope some success, to
carry you with me in imagination away from our terrestrial limi-
tations, not to the bounds of space which are as yet glimpsed un-
certainly, if at all, but only sufficiently far to give a comprehensive
view of the galaxy. We should now be able to see it, not as an
unorganized aggregation of stars and star clouds, still less as a
haphazard collection of widely separated nebulae, but as a great
dynamical unit of definite discoidal form rotating in its own plane
in a majestic and beautifully ordered way. The galaxy is a wonder-
ful example of the universal reign of law in the physical world and
of the beneficent wisdom and power of the Supreme Ruler of the
universe.

NOTES ADDED BY AUTHOR, APRIL 1934

Developments in astronomy in the 2 years since this lecture was given have
considerably modified some of the dimensions there given and the conclusions
reached, and it seemed desirable to incorporate the changes in an appendix
rather than modify the text.

The principal development has been the general acceptance by astronomers
of the presence of some kind of an absorbing medium in the galaxy, principally
in the neighborhood of the central plane, which both dims and reddens the light
210 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

of distant stars. The effect of such an absorbing medium on the determina-
tions of the dimensions of the galaxy are fairly obvious when it is remembered
that these dimensions depend principally upon the known intrinsic brightness
of the Cepheid variables. The inverse square law enables the distance of
any star to be determined if its intrinsic and apparent brightnesses are known.
Any absorbing matter between us and the star will make it appear fainter and
its distance will hence be measured too great.

Various determinations of the decrease in apparent brightness produced by
the galactic absorbing matter have been made, but the most recent and direct
is by Stebbins at Mount Wilson, who by means of a photoelectric photometer
determined how much the globular clusters, from whose distribution the esti-
mate of a diameter of the galaxy of 200,000 light-years was made, were red-
dened by this absorbing matter. The startling conclusion was reached that
the presence of this obscuring material had made the previous estimates of the
distances of the globular clusters about twice too great and that the actual
diameter of the galaxy is only about 100,000 light-years instead of the 200,000
obtained without consideration of the presence of absorbing material.

This decreased diameter has been convincingly confirmed by a development
of the theory of the rotation of the galaxy discussed in the last section of
the lecture. If the galaxy is in rotation, and this is now almost universally
accepted by astronomers, the theory shows, and indeed it follows directly from
Kepler’s third law, that the distance of the sun from the gravitational center
of the galaxy can be obtained from certain constants of the rotation. These
constants can be derived from an analysis of the radial velocities and proper
motions of distant stars, and this has been done by the author and Dr. J. A.
Pearce in collaboration at Victoria for the most distant stars that can be
readily observed. Earlier determinations by this method were considerably
smaller, but the Victoria value from increased and more accurate material
gives the distance of the sun to the center as some 33,000 light-years. The
sun, from reliable evidence, is about two-thirds of the distance outward from
the center of the edge of the galaxy, which makes the diameter 100,000 light-
years. The agreement by these two entirely different and independent methods
is strong evidence of the essential correctness of this revised diameter of
100,000 light-years for the galaxy.

This reduces the disparity in size between the galaxy and the Andromeda
nebula to a little over 2 to 1 instead of the 4 or 5 to 1 given in the lecture.
But this disparity almost entirely disappears by reason of recent measures,
which double the apparent size of the Andromeda. Hubble has discovered
over 100 objects on photographs of this nebula, which he identifies as globular
clusters, and their distribution indicates that the nebula must extend to about
twice the size shown by long-exposure photographs. Similarly, within the last
few months Stebbins has measured by a photoelectric photometer the out-
lying regions of the Andromeda nebula and finds that the luminous star clouds
extend also to about twice its apparent diameter.

This obviously makes the Andromeda nebula of practically the same dimen-
sions as the galaxy and enormously strengthens the conclusion reached in
the lecture of the identity in structure and general characteristics of the two
systems. It renders improbable and unnecessary the hypothesis of some
astronomers that the galaxy is not a single unit rotating in its own plane,
similar to the external nebulae we see all around us, but is a large complex
organization of loosely aggregated discrete nebulae. It seems to me that the
removal of the disparity in size between the Andromeda and the galaxy has
removed the necessity or probability of such hypotheses and that we may now
accept readily our inherent belief in the homogeneity of the cosmos.
THE CONTENTS OF INTERSTELLAR SPACE*

By C. G. ABBOT
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution

[With 3 plates]

Many years ago the late Professor Barnard, whose devotion to
celestial photography was extraordinary, found many regions among
the multitudes of stars in the Milky Way where stars seem to be
absent. Plates 1 and 2 show some outstanding instances of this. To
explain these vacancies we must suppose either that there are no
stars in these directions, so that we see clear through our system to
the void beyond, or else that dark clouds of matter intercept the light
of the stars which lie beyond them. Such clouds, as they are supposed
to be, are not connected in any way to our earth, as rain clouds are,
for however many times one photographs these parts of the heavens
the dark starless regions remain unchanged. The results of recent
studies, described in what follows, go to show that the dark regions
are in fact caused by condensations of a rare medium which fills all
space within our galaxy.

Although in the opinion of astronomers the dark-cloud hypothesis
was more probable than the star-vacancy hypothesis, it was some
years before the proof came. In order to make it clear we must
recall that when the light of the sun or of a star is made to pass
through a spectroscope, not only does the rainbow band of colors
appear, but this band is crossed by numerous dark (or sometimes
bright) lines. These lines are the identifying marks of the chemical
elements. (See pl. 3.) Hydrogen, for instance, has a line in the
red, one in the blue, one in the indigo, and one in the violet, all of
which are very conspicuous. Calcium (the metallic part of the
familiar compound, lime) has 1 line in the green, 2 in the indigo,
2 very notable ones (often called “H” and “K”) in the violet, and

1This article is based upon two technical papers, one by Otto Struve (Popular Astron-
omy, vol. 41, no. 8, p. 423, 1933), the other by J. S. Plaskett and J. A. Pearce (Publica-
tions of the Dominion Astrophysical Observatory, vol. 5, no. 3, p. 167, 1933). Although
parts of the article are largely in the words of these authors, it was necessary in adapting
the material for use in the Smithsonian Report to make slight verbal changes throughout,
and for that reason no quotation marks are used. Pages 212 to 215 are based on
Plaskett and Pearce, pages 216 to 218 on Struve.

72774—35 15 211

212 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

others in the ultraviolet. Recent remarkable progress in atomic
physics has proved that the spectrum lines of a chemical element do
not all refer to the atoms of that element in a complete state. Atoms
when highly excited by intense heat, radiation, or electricity may
temporarily lose one or more electrons. Some of their spectral lines
refer to the fragments more or less diminished which remain with
the nucleus of the atoms so excited. The H and K lines of calcium,
for example, represent ionized calcium atoms with one electron gone.

The sun and the stars are all moving rapidly with reference to one
another through space. About the year 1910 L. Boss and W. W.
Campbell independently showed that the sun is moving at about 12
miles per second toward a well-defined point in the constellation
Hercules, about 10° southwest of the bright star Vega. In Camp-
bell’s determination the frame of reference was fixed by the positions
of 280 bright stars. Later, in 1926, Campbell and Moore employed
2,119 stars in determining the solar motion. Many of the stars form
double, triple, or even more complex systems, revolving with respect
to the center of gravity of the components, as well as traveling
rapidly through space together. All such motions, including the
motion of our sun toward Hercules, express themselves in the spectra
by shifting the positions of all the spectral lines of the moving
luminaries. The lines shift toward the red when the star is receding
(see pl. 3), and toward the violet when it is approaching us, or
what amounts to the same thing, when we are receding from or
approaching the stars. Astronomers, by measuring these line shifts
accurately, can estimate the velocities of stars away from or toward
the sun, as the case may be. In the case of double stars, with short
periods of mutual revolution, the spectral lines shift alternately
toward the red and toward the violet, and betray the exact period
of rotation, and in some cases the diameter of the star’s orbit.

Some 27 years ago Hartmann? first observed, in the spectroscopic
binary 8 Orionis, that the H and K lines of calcium did not share
in the orbital velocity oscillations of the hydrogen and helium lines
arising in the stellar atmosphere, but remained relatively fixed in
position, hence the name “ stationary ” calcium lines, which has per-
sisted almost to the present time. By far the most suggestive and
penetrating early contribution to the problem of the stationary H
and K lines was given by V. M. Slipher ° in 1909.

Slipher measured the velocities given by the stationary calcium
lines in 10 bluish stars in the constellations Scorpio, Ophiuchus,
Perseus, and Orion. From observations of 7 and ¢ Scorpii, double-
lined spectroscopic binaries (both components being bright enough

2 Astrophys. Journ., vol. 19, p. 268, 1904.
8 Lowell Obs. Bull., vol. 2, p. 1, 1909.
INTERSTELLAR SPACE—ABBOT Zhe

to show spectral lines), he deduced that “the sharp calcium lines
must have their origin in an absorbing medium outside the com-
ponents of the binary systems.” This conclusion was, of course,
facilitated by the doubling of all the spectral lines belonging to these
stars because of their mutual revolution. But his analysis did not
end there, for by combining his results with the then recent studies
of Campbell on the rapid motion of our sun with reference to 280
of the brighter stars Slipher was able to prove “that the origin of
the calcium absorption lines remains fixed with reference to the
frame fixed by Campbell’s 280 stars, or, at most, has a very low
velocity, and therefore that it is outside the solar system, apparently
in stellar space.” He advances as an hypothesis, ‘“ It might then,
for the present, be assumed that the calcium absorption has its origin
in an interposing cloud covering at least certain extensive regions of
the sky.” When, in addition, he suggested that the sodium D lines
be investigated for their stationary character, it will be evident from
what follows how far he was in advance of the time, and how un-
fortunate for the progress of this subject that this contribution
remained comparatively unnoticed.

In 1920, in an investigation by Plaskett,‘ on the massive eclipsing
system Y Cygni, it was found that the relative shifting of the cal-
cium spectral lines indicated a difference of 40 kilometers per second
in velocity for calcium away from the center of mass of the two stars,
as measured by the lines of other chemical elements. ‘This large
motion is quite beyond the possibility of explanation as errors of
measurement or wave length, and definitely rules out the hypothesis
of any limited calcium cloud surrounding the observed stars. Jor
out of such a cloud with such rapid relative motion the eclipsing
system would soon escape. Similar velocity differences were soon
found, and a new phase of the problem developed in a further re-
search on the O-type stars.° It was conclusively shown that these
stationary calcium lines were present, not only in spectroscopic bina-
ries but in all stars of the class; and that the velocity given by these
lines generally differed, frequently to a marked degree, and up to
50 and 60 kilometers per second, from the velocity given by the lines
of hydrogen, helium, etc., arising in the stellar atmosphere itself.
This seemed to leave no doubt of the presence in space of diffuse gas-
eous matter containing ionized calcium, the source of the so-called
“HH” and “K” lines, through which these high temperature O-type
stars were rushing rapidly about in all directions.

Further, when it was shown quite independently of Slipher’s ear-
lier work, which was then unknown, that the velocities given by these

#Publ. Dominion Astrophys. Obs., vol. 1, p. 213, 1920.

5 Publ. Dominion Astrophys. Obs., vol. 2, p. 335, 1924; Monthly Not., vol. 84, p. 80,
1923.
214 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

“interstellar ” lines, as we prefer to call them, were generally equal
and opposite to the apparent solar motion, toward Hercules, deter-
mined by Campbell, the conclusion was hardly escapable that these
high temperature stars were in motion, frequently in rapid motion,
through widely extended clouds of ionized calcium which are, com-
paratively speaking, at rest with respect to the stellar system as that
system is represented by Campbell’s 280 stars. Further, the D lines
of neutral sodium atoms having the same sharpness and stationary
character as H and K, which had been predicted by Slipher and
had been observed by Miss Heger * at the Lick Observatory in some
B-type stars, were also shown to be present along with the spectra of
some of the O-type stars.

Since both calcium and sodium have been found in interstellar
space, there seems then good grounds for the hypothesis that the
interstellar matter is of the same general composition as the stars
and contains most of the known elements. The sodium D lines and
the calcium H and K lines are, however, the lines most hkely to be
observed in celestial spectra. The principal spectral lines of other
elements of sufficiently great relative abundance in cosmic matter
to be expected in this connection lie in the far ultraviolet spectrum,
and are cut off from our observation by the ozone of the earth’s
atmosphere. The recognition that the interstellar lines did not gen-
erally appear in stars of lower temperature than the very blue ones,
taken in conjunction with Hubble’s*? recent theory of the excitation
of the gaseous nebulae to visibility by neighboring high-temperature
stars, led to the hypothesis, mainly due to H. H. Plaskett, that the
calcium and sodium in this widely extended diffuse interstellar mat-
ter are rendered absorbing at H and K and at the D lines by the
excitation of neighboring stars of very high temperature of the
types designated “O” and “B” of the Harvard star classification.
This hypothesis,’ advanced in 1923, required an extensive distribu-
tion of this diffuse gaseous matter, nearly stationary with respect to
the stellar system, and extending to distances of several thousand
light-years throughout the space inhabited by the O- and B-type
stars.

A great stimulus to, and a great advance in, the problem of the
cosmic diffuse matter in the galaxy was given by Eddington ® in the
1926 Bakerian Lecture of the Royal Society. He discusses theoret-
ically the physical conditions likely to be present in diffuse matter
in interstellar space and showed the probability of uniform distri-
bution except where condensations in this matter gave rise to the

® Licks Obs. Bull., vol. 10, no. 326, p. 59, 1919; no. 337, p. 141, 1921.

7Contr. Mt. Wilson Obs., vol. 11, pp. 252, 397, 1922.

8 Monthly Not., vol. 84, p. 80, 1923.
® Proc. Roy. Soc., ser. A, vol. 111, p. 424, 1926.
INTERSTELLAR SPACE—ABBOT 215

diffuse nebulae. He was able to derive the probable density of the
interstellar matter from considerations of the constitution of the
diffuse nebulae. Without following the steps of Eddington’s analy-
sis, we may summarize by saying that he arrived at the conclusion
that as far as the velocity of their particles was concerned these
nebulae would behave as if raised to a temperature of 10,000° Abs.C.
The resulting density of the interstellar gases, he found, is of the
order of 10°°* g/cm*. This density, as Eddington points out, must
be a maximum value, as otherwise the velocities of the stars, owing
to the increased mass of the stellar system, would be greater than
observed.

The extreme rarity of interstellar diffuse matter, as Eddington
showed, was favorable to the high speeds necessary for the splitting
off of one or more electrons from calcium atoms when illuminated by
the rays of the stars so that they would be in the state to show the
H and K lines in their spectra. To explain his point fully would
take us into the study of photoelectricity, which would be too far
afield. I will therefore only ask the reader to accept the fact that it
is the frequency of vibration, not the intensity of rays of light, which
determine whether or not they can singly or multiply ionize atoms.
The rays of the hottest stars, however distant and thereby enfeebled,
possess the tremendous frequency of vibration required.

The property of absorbing, nearly totally, specially selected rays
from stars is adapted to give the ionized calcium atoms velocities of
interaction far above those of molecules of a solid body situated in
interstellar space. Such specially influenced absorbing atoms radi-
ate and absorb as if at very high temperatures. Computed by the
ordinary laws of the perfect radiator or “absolutely black body ”,
space has a theoretical temperature of only 3° C. above absolute zero.
Calcium atoms at 3° Abs.C. would not be ionized and would not
show the H and K violet spectral lines. It is the ionizing influence
of high-frequency rays from stars that puts these atoms in condition
to absorb H and K rays.

The crucial test of Eddington’s hypothesis is that the intensity of
the stationary lines must be a simple function of the distance.

The intensity of a stationary calcium line may be measured with
a microphotometer. Comparing the contour thus derived with the
contour produced by a known amount of calcium vapor in the
laboratory, we can determine the total number of ionized calcium
atoms between the observer and the star. For a star about 10,000
or 15,000 light-years away we find 10" ionized calcium atoms in a
column having a section of 1 square centimeter. Remembering that
1 out of 1,000 calcium atoms is in the singly ionized state competent
to produce the observed H and K lines, we conclude that the total
216 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

number of calcium atoms in all stages of ionization is 10**. If we
make the assumption that the composition of matter in interstellar
space is similar to that of the earth, we would have to multiply this
result by 100 to get the total number of atoms of all elements. - This
leads to a density of something lke 10-°° g/cm’.

It is difficult to comprehend such a state of rarification as this, in
which there may be an atom or so per 100 cubic centimeters of space.
What is not occupied by the atom itself must be “empty ”, and just
what that means I will leave to the theoretical physicists to explain.
I am not sure, however, that it is any easier to comprehend the empty
spaces between nuclei and electrons in what we usually regard as
dense matter.

The most important recent advance in the study of interstellar
calcium is the investigation of galactic rotation of the interstellar
medium published last year by Plaskett and Pearce. They have
proved statistically that the effective distance of the calcium column
between the star and the observer is one-half of the distance between
the star and the observer. This proves that, statistically at least, the
density of interstellar calcium is approximately constant in all parts
of our Milky-Way system up to distances of 3,000 to 5,000 light-years
from the sun.

I have some doubt as to whether this constancy may be relied upon
in the case of every star. There are indications that condensations of
the general cloud are actually present.

So much for the proofs that interstellar space is populated by
atoms of calcium and other chemical elements situated so far apart
that on the average only one atom is to be found in a cube 2 inches on
a face. To see how rare such a gas is compared to our atmosphere,
let us recall that at sea level 1 cubic centimeter (about the volume of
backgammon players’ dice) of air at 0° C. contains 27,000,000,000,-
000,000,000 molecules.

DUST IN INTERSTELLAR SPACE

Rare gases, however, do not appear to be the sole contents of inter-
stellar space. Particles of dust form haze in the earth’s atmosphere,
as we well know. In the year 1912, for instance, the eruption of the
volcano of Mount Katmai in Alaska so filled the atmosphere of the
whole Northern Hemisphere with dust that the direct beam of the
sun at noon was weakened by about 20 percent. Photographic ex-
posures had to be increased in landscape photography because of this
voleanic haze. Lord Rayleigh showed in 1871 that when the particles
are very small, not much larger in diameter than the wave length of
light, they produce a much greater depletion of the shorter wave
lengths in the spectrum, such as violet and blue, than they do of
INTERSTELLAR SPACE—-ABBOT A Fi

longer ones, such as the red. Hence, if there are in space minute dust
particles, we should expect that not only would distant stars be made
fainter but their light would be somewhat redder than if they were
near. This effect is known as “ Rayleigh scattering.”

In 1930 Trumpler found evidence in favor of selective reddening
of the stars in space. His results have led to a considerable amount
of controversy in the astronomical literature of 1931-82, but the pre-
vailing opinion now seems to be that the reddening is actually pro-
duced by dust in space. Trumpler concluded that this dust causes a
general absorption of starlight weakening the total light received by
us from distant stars in proportion to their distance and amounting
to 0.7 stellar magnitude per 3,000 hght-years. He also observed in
addition a selective absorption for blue and violet rays amounting to
0.38 magnitude per 3,500 light-years, which, by eliminating the blue
and violet more than the red, produces a marked reddening of the
more distant stars. Elvey, Stebbins, Huffer, Van de Kamp, Miss
Williams, and others have found a large amount of supporting obser-
vational evidence. Schénberg and Gleissberg have worked out the
theory of the problem of Rayleigh scattering as applied to the sup-
posed interstellar dust. On the other hand, the Harvard group,
notably Gerasimovié and Miss Payne, have found evidence which
they regard as being against the hypothesis of Rayleigh scattering.
Opik has tried to reconcile the observations with the theory of scat-
tering, and his results are of great importance.

I think it will be generally agreed upon that the more distant
B-type stars (the bluish stars, naturally very rich in blue and violet
rays) are actually redder than the nearer ones of the same class.
There can be no doubt that the hypothesis of Rayleigh scattering
would provide the most attractive explanation of this observation.

There is a great deal of independent evidence that there is an
absorbing layer of matter in and near the galactic plane. Hubble
has found a well-defined region of avoidance of extragalactic nebulae,
which follows roughly the outlines of the Milky Way. Stebbins and
Huffer have recently shown that the red B stars—that is, those which
may have been weakened as regards their blue and violet rays by
their long path through interstellar haze—are concentrated in this
region of avoidance. Seares and Elvey have both found indications
that space-reddening is related to the regions of obscuration in the
Milky Way. Van de Kamp has found from statistical considerations
that the existence of a relatively thin absorbing layer is probable.
Vyssotsky and Miss Williams, and also Stebbins, have found support-
ing evidence from the colors of globular clusters.

Not one of the explanations suggested for the various observations
made which indicate the existence of interstellar haze is fully satis-

218 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

factory. While the tendency among astronomers now is to favor the
hypothesis of a medium of interstellar dust, which is not coexistent
with the cloud of interstellar gas giving rise to stationary absorp-
tion lines, we must admit that much work remains to be done, both
observationally and theoretically, before we shall be able to definitely
accept this interesting hypothesis.

To sum up these recent results of astronomical investigation:
Space is no longer to be conceived of as completely empty in those
regions not occupied by the individual stars and the bright nebulae.
The whole intervening regions are populated by obscuring gases so
very rare, it is true, as to be far beyond our best vacuums, but still
probably containing about the same mixture of chemical elements
that we find in the sun or the earth’s crust. Besides these gases
astronomers are now generally convinced that there is also in space
a very rare dusty haze made up of material particles. It is indeed
so very rare a haze that only by refined measurements does its effect
of obscuring the stars become manifest. It tends to make the dis-
tant stars more reddish.
PLATE 1

Abbot

Smithsonian Report, 1933.

Mount Wilson

DARK LANE IN THE MILKY WAY,

1 from view
PLATE 2

Smithsonian Report, 1933.—Abbot

REGION OF GREAT NEBULA OF RHO OPHIUCHI.
“JOMOT OY] UO puoddes Jod (SoTIUI HF) SIAJATMOTIY £9 puB ‘tINAJDeds Joddn 9yi UO puodas Jad (SaTIUI ZI) SAaPUTO|IY HT oq
0] MOYS [RUISIIO oy] UO S]UATOINSvOUT ot] TOI ‘(UOISSeded) YA oY} WOT AVM ‘YYSIS JO OUT] oY} UT IeYs aq} Jo poods oy} 02 eNp Sf Soul] S,AWIS oY} JO YlYS SIL “Aostep Yonut
sl Inq ‘UOTdalIp ours ol} UL ST JUeI@DETCSTP oy UMAQOIdS JOMOT ay} UL ! (pad ay} PABMO}) JBM oy} pivMo} paoe[dstp ATIYSIS ATWO oIv Souly s.lvISs ay) WiNajoeds Jaddn ayy uy
“TUMURIN] JO SOUT, WOSLIRdUIOD oO YITM opfoutoo AyTasopo winAQIeds s,1v1S VY} UY Soul, YAVp oy} JO sug ‘sa}evp JUeIoYTP OM} UO UHR} AVIS sIy] JO WuNAOods oy] SMOYS aINSY OL

‘SANIT AO LNAWSOV1IdSIG 3DYVT1 DNIMOHS ‘SINOIYO NW AYVNIG DIdODSOYULOAdS

cm
te EEO

Pimper ee

€ 3LVId wqqy—¢F¢h| ‘Woday ueruosyywg
sOME POINTS IN THE PHILOSOPHY OF
PHYSICS: TIME, EVOLUTION, AND CREATION’

By E. A. MILNE, F.R.S.

When I agreed to this lecture I stipulated that I might be allowed
to interpret the subject announced so as to let my treatment relate
less to the subject in general than to some particular aspects which
happen to have been interesting me lately. Professor Whitehead,
Sir Arthur Eddington, and Sir James Jeans have given to the world
brilliant accounts of the present position of physics in relation to
mathematics and philosophy. What I have to say bears to their
writings the humble relation of an example to a piece of book work,
or of an application of a theorem to the theorem itself.

The particular subject to which I invite your attention is that
of time and space, more particularly time, in relation to relativity
and thermodynamics, and the time and space of the whole world.
The present position in physics of time seems to me to offer difficul-
ties, and it may interest you if I attempt to discuss them for a
“short space of time ”, whatever that may mean!

Strictly speaking, physics has no philosophy. It has method. At
any rate physicists, both theoretical and experimental, are rarely
philosophers when they are making investigations, but they are
acutely conscious of method. Philosophy concerns itself with the
justification of these methods, and the ultimate meaning in reality
of the results obtained by the methods. Now the methods of theo-
retical physics seem to be reducible to two species, the method of
starting with concepts and the method of starting with things
observed. ‘To start with a concept requires two people who agree
that they understand what the concept means without giving it an
exact definition. They agree that the concept is an entity which,
for each of them, stands in the same relation to the things and
propositions which are to follow. In some presentations of thermo-
dynamics, energy is introduced as a concept; in Sir James Jeans’
recent book, The New Background of Science, space and, possibly,
even electrons and protons are regarded as mental concepts, though
with respect to the latter most physicists would disagree with him.

1An address delivered to the British Institute of Philosophy on Oct. 17, 1933. Re-

printed by permission from Philosophy, January 1934.
219
220 ##$ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

When a subject is developed from concepts, the concepts play
the part of the terms occurring in the axioms of geometry. It may
be convenient to have some sort of idea of what the concepts stand
for, to give crude illustrations of them, as for example when we
make to ourselves a crude picture of a geometrical point or line.
But actually no use is made of these crude illustrations. The con-
cepts are undefined save as being governed by propositions of which
they are subjects. To say of energy that it is that which is con-
served in processes of certain types takes us no further in under-
standing what energy means, nor has the proposition any content
unless a measurement process is specified by which conservation can
be tested. As Mr. Bertrand Russell remarks in an oft-quoted sen-
tence, the upshot of this is that—in geometry for example—mathe-
maticians do not know what they are talking about and do not care;
they do not care because to care would be irrelevant.

In the other method of procedure, a synthetic process is followed.
Things experienced or observed come first, and then combinations of
these are constructed which have such aspects of generality that they
give insight into the relations between the things observed. ‘The
things observed lead to generalizations which involve terms with
an observational meaning, and these generalizations sum up many
possible observations.

Physical science in its theoretical development tends, not to oscil-
late between the two methods, but to replace the first method by the
second. The method of concepts often requires the greater imagina-
tion and the deeper insight to isolate the concepts which are to prove
useful. But it is more primitive. In a way, it saves trouble. The
method of defining each term in terms of things already observed
requires much painstaking analysis. But it has the ultimate merit of
avoiding the unnecessary. The method of concepts affords no test
as to whether the concepts are essential. Indeed, the method of con-
cepts is a matter of mental economy, but not of logical economy. It
is a pioneer method, without which progress would be often slow or
impossible. Concepts wisely chosen lead to discoveries, to phenom-
ena previously unsuspected. Often the conceptual character disap-
pears of itself, when things introduced as concepts become objects of
observation. At other times unnecessary concepts are only bundled
out by a great revolution in thought. The atomic theory of matter
and the dynamical theory of gases both started with concepts,
the concept of atomic entities of different species and the concept of
these atomic or molecular entities in motion interacting dynamically
with one another. The atomic theory of matter was not implied by
the rules of chemical combination—the conservation of mass and the
PHILOSOPHY OF PHYSICS—MILNE 22)

existence of combining ratios and so on—but was, nevertheless, a
grand tool of investigation before individual atoms were observed.
The dynamical theory of gases led to relations between observable
quantities, like Maxwell’s prediction of the independence of gaseous
viscosity of pressure, subsequently verified. In each case the start-
ing point was a superb effort of the imagination. Rutherford’s dis-
covery of the atomic nucleus led to Bohr’s magnificent conception of
atomic structure as involving discrete electronic orbits about a center,
and Bohr’s theory opened up the possibility of unraveling the spectra
of the elements and predicting their chemical properties.

Electronic orbits were a hypothesis. Was this a necessary hypoth-
esis? In 1925 Heisenberg answered this question by passing to the
other method of theoretical physics, the method of introducing noth-
ing but “ observables ”, to use Dirac’s word. Abandoning the men-
tion of orbital sizes and frequencies, Heisenberg showed that the
transition relations between the observed energy levels in atoms
could be obtained by starting from these levels alone.

This great revolution in thought led to the foundation of the
quantum mechanics. But it was not a revolution in method. In
1905 Einstein had apphed the same method to the notion of simul-
taneity of events. He showed that when we examine simply the
observations which it is possible to make by which we habitually
assign epochs to events, then two events which appear to be simul-
taneous to a given observer are not in general simultaneous to a
second observer in uniform motion with respect to the first observer.
Einstein swept out of tenability the concept of an absolute simul-
taneity, previously uncritically accepted as intuitive. Einstein’s
method was to tie an observer down to stating his tests for what
he was disposed to call simultaneity; unless he came prepared to
state tests for simultaneity, a judgment as to the simultaneity or
otherwise of two distant events was valueless. It was this necessity
for concentrating on evidence, which Einstein forced physics to take
into account, that has had so profound an effect on the development
of physics. It is true that the statement made above, concerning an
observer in uniform motion with regard to a second observer, in-
volves a conventional assignment of epoch to an event and involves,
further, a definition of uniform velocity, which, in turn, implies a
definition of distance and a definition of uniform time. The defini-
tion of distance employed by Einstein involved the introduction of
the concept of the rigid body, which cannot be defined, so that Ein-
stein’s treatment was not free from conceptual taint. We shall
later endeavor to avoid such departures from the purely observa-
tional method. Nevertheless, we may with Jeans speak appropriately
of the “Kinstein-Heisenberg policy” of concentrating only on
222 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

observables, and regard the fact that this policy is not only prac-
ticable but amazingly successful as one of the discoveries of the
century.

Once an unnecessary concept is dismissed, it does not return.
Nevertheless, new different concepts may then make their ap-
pearance. MHeisenberg’s discoveries were quickly followed by
Schrédinger’s development of the wave mechanics, which presented
a new unobservable y, the subject of mathematical propositions but
not otherwise defined. Certain aspects of y—its absolute magnitude,
for example—had physical interpretations and were equivalent to
physical measures, but y itself remained mysterious. Dirac, in his
profound volume, has constructed a complete mechanics which
begins by introducing a new set of concepts, not defined in terms
of immediate experience. Certain nonnumerical magnitudes typi-
fied by symbols y (or ¢) and q@ are introduced as representing
“states” and “observables”, respectively, where a distinction is
made between the “ observable” « and the number that is obtained
when an observation of this observable a is made on the system in
the state y. Thus the state and the observable are conceptual things,
capable of being roughly described but not defined or directly ex-
perienced. A purely symbolic mathematics is then constructed on
the basis of defined operations between observables and states, and
formulae are obtained embodying the fact that under certain circum-
stances observations assign definite numerical values to observables.
Probability interpretations are then placed on certain symbols,
capable of a meaning whatever systems or observations are in ques-
tion. Next, in a most beautiful manner the equations of classical
mechanics are used to suggest relations between observables which
are cases of the general abstract theory, and thus certain operations
conducted on them are capable of interpretation. Lastly, the con-
structed abstract theory and the introduced abstract mechanics are
applied to particular physical systems, themselves involving such
concepts as the point mass and the point charge, and the predicted
properties of these specific physical systems can then be obtained
from the interpretation of the abstract relations. This imperfect
summary is only intended to illustrate the development of physics
by the successive use of old concepts, then things observed, and then,
in turn, new concepts, the last being possibly very strange ones.

Though the Einstein-Heisenberg policy is fairly new to physics,
it is far from new to philosophy. This was the policy of Locke and
Hume. Hume in particular irrevocably damaged the idea of efficient
causation by examining the evidence by which a particular “ cause ”
was assigned to a particular “ effect.” Though we may not accept
his solution in terms of habit, we owe a great debt to his exposure
PHILOSOPHY OF PHYSICS—MILNE 223

of certain fallacies of thought; the philosophy of physics considered
as a method is in fact the philosophy of Hume. Again, modern
logic, in the works of Whitehead and Russell, is the fearless eradica-
tion of things that cannot be observed. The theory of number, both
of finite number and of infinite number, is the strict application of
such a simple experimental process as that of counting objects.

It is in the domain of microscopic phenomena that the successes
of modern physics have been most conspicuous. I should like now
to invite your attention to the application of the methods of physics
to the less fashionable domain of macroscopic or ordinary-scale
phenomena, and to discuss these in relation to certain large-scale
phenomena. It is often said that the concepts of space and time
may break down in atomic phenomena. But it is no use saying
this unless we are clear as to what these concepts mean in larger-
scale phenomena, indeed until we are certain that they are only
concepts. For example, in order to be able to attach a meaning
to the uncertainty principle of Heisenberg we have to give form
to the notions of position and momentum, of energy and time, which
involve both kinematical and dynamical notions; and the principle
implies the transfer to atomic phenomena of notions derived from
ordinary experience.

Now, there are two well-defined branches of physical science which
concern themselves with the macroscopic phenomena. One is the
theory of relativity; the other is thermodynamics. Both of these
bring us immediately to ¢éme. The one makes little of time; the other
makes much.

The one, relatively, appears to relegate time to the role of a co-
ordinate. It is often represented as claiming to show that time and
space, not separately real, are but aspects of a higher reality, “ space-
time ”, which is the true framework of events. The individual is
supposed to make his private choice of his resolution of this frame-
work into his own separate space and time, but no one choice 1s
to be preferred to any other. An individual observing two separated
distant events may describe one as preceding the other, while
another may describe them as simultaneous. The time ordering of
the events thus depends on the particular observer, and has nothing
to do with the events themselves. As Jeans points out in the book
mentioned, this raises acute difficulties concerning the reality of
evolution. He mentions that it has been suggested that “the concept
of evolution in time may lose all meaning” so that we cannot speak
of the universe evolving as a pattern is woven on a loom. If “ time
is merely a geometrical direction of our own choice in a continuum ”,
the pattern is already spread out, and future events have the same
kind of reality as past ones. “ Indeed, an inhabitant of a nebula
224 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

can wave his ‘now’ through the continuum until its intersection
with the world line of our path passes instantaneously from 1932
to 1942.” In fact, the theory of relativity does not imply that the
observer on a distant nebula can experience or observe the event,
near ourselves, which we shall experience in 1942, at an epoch
defined by an event occurring in our reckoning as 1932. In the
definite meanings it is possible to attach to the words, we shall
experience the events of 1942 sooner than anybody else can have
experience of them. We ourselves are first in the field. But the
evolution difficulty still remains. If time means different things for
two different observers, how can the universe be said to evolve in
time? For no meaning can be attached to a unique temporal ordering
of the totality of events.

Yet there is one characteristic of the world frequently adduced
to show that it is indubitably evolving. That characteristic is an
apparent steady increase of entropy. As each observer’s time goes
on, the universe appears to him to be moving from a less probable
state to a more probable state; it appears to be tending to a change-
less state, of uniform temperature, a state called “heat death”, in
which all available mechanical energy has been transformed into
forms not available at this final constant temperature. In a section
called “The Final State of Maximum Entropy” Jeans says that
though general considerations cannot indicate the road by which
the final end of the universe is reached, they can tell us something
as to the nature of this final state. Though the entropy mzqht de-
crease momentarily, this is enormously improbable, and it is still
more improbable that it should go on decreasing for any measurable
period. Jeans draws explicit attention to the fact that his examples
of change of entropy are confined to finite portions of the universe,
such as a boiling kettle or red ink mixing with water, but he applies
the same conclusions to the whole universe. “‘ There can be no end
to the increase of entropy until these regions [regions of the universe
at different temperatures] are all at the same temperature, with
radiant energy diffused uniformly through space. Then and only
then will the universe have reached its final state, the perfect quiet
and perfect darkness of eternal night.”

Thus we have the two results: relativity suggests that the flux of
time is meaningless, whilst thermodynamics suggests that it is highly
significant. These are contradictory. If there is a limiting state
of the universe to which we are approaching, then states that are
old can be distinguished from states that are young, by the degree
of their approximation toward the final state. Not only distin-
guished, but labeled the one old and the other young. But, accord-
ing to relativity different observers assign different times to dif-
PHILOSOPHY OF PHYSICS—MILNE 225

ferent events. Which time is the one indicated by thermodynamics?
Does thermodynamics indeed select a special time, which we could
call absolute time, and if so what observer experiences this time?
Thermodynamics appears to say that the system is ageing to all
observers ; it does not keep company with relativity. It is not suffi-
cient with Eddington to say that the entropy-increasing property
gives a point to time’s arrow. It is not merely a question of the
time sense, the fact that entropy distinguishes one direction of time
from the other; it is that the interval between two states of the uni-
verse, corresponding to a given entropy difference, may apparently
be different for different observers.

Jeans does in fact conclude that there is for the world an absolute
time, though he derives this not from thermodynamics but from the
structure of the astronomical universe. His view is that absolute
time and absolute space exist in a wider external world than that
of pure physics, that this absolute space and time are found in
astronomical nature, and that so an escape may be found from the
relativity view that evolution is meaningless.

It appears to me, however, that Jeans evades the issue. By astro-
nomical nature he means very large scale phenomena, the outward
motions of the spiral nebulae, and his conclusion would be solidly
based only if these phenomena disclosed something which contra-
dicts those conclusions to which we have been led by laboratory
experiments. Jeans says that absolute time and absolute space do
not enter into the nature we study in our physical laboratories.
But how? In what sense can a large block of space be absolute
whilst a small one is not? If the universe contains an absolute
frame of reference, it must also be absolute whatever the scale of
the phenomena. We cannot, of course, rule out the possibility that
very large scale phenomena might disclose generalizations not found
to be valid for smaller-scale experiments. But Jeans is talking not
of phenomena but of time and space, elsewhere considered as “ mental
concepts.” And which large scale phenomena are in fact the cul-
prits? But there is another point. The second law of thermody-
namics 7s verified for ordinary scale phenomena, so that even for
ordinary phenomena we have the apparent conflict between rela-
tivity and thermodynamics. Jeans says: “ Through our conscious-
ness we break up the space-time product into space and time, whilst
electrons and radiations and protons cannot.” Yet it is not sug-
gested that it is due to our consciousness that that aspect of evolution
which we call the entropy-increasing property does actually exist.
These same electrons and protons which cannot break up space-time
into its constituents are the very participants in the drama of the
ultimate heat death. In spite of relativity, therefore, they know
226 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

how to behave as if a definite time exists. Jeans is even led to con-
jecture that “our minds may be in contact with reality by other
than purely physical elements ”, just because of their consciousness
of “a radical distinction between space and time which does not
appear to extend to physical phenomena.” Yet he emphasizes an
apparently fundamental distinction between time and space when
he describes that physical phenomenon which is the running-down
of the universe.

I want now to suggest that the impasse arises partly from our
forgetting the purely conceptual character of space-time and partly
from an unjustifiable application of the second law of thermody-
namics to the whole universe. Our experience of time is immediate,
not a concept; the experiments on which thermodynamics is based
are not concepts. But on the one hand “the whole universe” is a
concept, as De Sitter has pointed out, save in the case of the unin-
teresting possibility that the universe contains a finite number of
particles. And on the other hand, space-time is a concept of which
we have no experience, a mathematical invention, useful solely for
correlating experiences. We have no right to foist this invention on
nature and then complain that nature contains two contradictory
phenomena; for the so-called “ possession” of a space-time frame-
work in which time and space merge together is not a phenomenon
in nature. Our problem is to correlate the experience of one observer
(in which, in his time, the universe increases its entropy) with the
experience of another observer with a different time. Jeans is, I
think, right in suggesting that very large scale astronomical phe-
nomena afford a means of reconciling these experiences, but not, it
seems to me, by pointing to a unique or absolute space or time, which
involves grave difficulties in relation to the facts on which relativity
is based. We will attempt to remove our difficulties by building up
definitions of space and time, or rather building up measures of
space and time, from a basis of things experienced. We will pass
from concepts of space and time to observables, according to the
Kinstein-Heisenberg policy.

We begin with the observer. Each observer possesses, for macro-
scopic phenomena, a definite temporal experience of events at him-
self. I as an observer and chronicler can say of two events which
happen to me which precedes the other. For very small separations
of events it may, indeed, occur that I am unable to decide which is
earlier, and the indubitability of the time sequence may fail. But
this is not an exception in principle. I may suppose myself to have
constructed a clock, running no matter how irregularly, and to have
graduated it numerically in some perfectly arbitrary way. I can
make the graduations as small as is recognizable. Then when an
PHILOSOPHY OF PHYSICS—MILNE 221.

event occurs to me I can prick off on the clock disk the position of
the hand, and so attach some definite time number to the event.
There is no question of my “ resolving my experiences into time and
space "—there is no arguing about my own temporal experience.
We remark further that the only events the observer actually experi-
ences are events at himself. He may be informed of other events,
or infer their existence from his own experience, but he has direct
experience only of events at himself.

The observer, myself, is quite unable to superimpose two different
intervals on the clock. Once gone, an interval on the clock is gone for-
ever. ‘Thus from my own experience alone I cannot select one par-
ticular system of graduation of my clock subdivisions and call them
“uniform time.” So far uniform time is not definable.

I have certain experience of the relative proximity of objects
near me, namely, tactual experience. I can extend my arm, and
ascertain that I have to extend it more for one object than for an-
other. I can also walk to an object, and count my paces. But it
would be difficult to build up consistent measures of “ distances ” of
objects from these observations. If, on the other hand, I use a
meter scale and read off positions of objects against its graduation,
either I assume its graduations are equal or that the scale itself is
unaltered by displacement—in each case invoking the indefinable
concept of the rigid body. As we are endeavoring to proceed without
using indefinable concepts, we must exclude the use of the meter
scale,

The assigning of a distance to a distant object can be accom-
plished in principle as follows: I can send a signal (e.g., a light
signal) from myself to the object, despatching it at time ¢, by my
arbitrary clock. I can then receive back the echo, and note the time
of its arrival, say ¢,. If necessary I can arrange another observer at
the object who returns my signal immediately he receives it. The
position now is that I have two data of observation, ¢, and ¢,. What
can I do with them?

Out of two numerical magnitudes two other independent numbers
may be constructed in an infinite number of ways. I want to con-
struct two numbers, one of which I can call the epoch of the event
constituted by the arrival of my signal at the object, the other of
which I can call the distance of the same event, i.e., the distance
of the object at the instant of occurrence of the event. Though the
epoch of an event occurring not at myself is completely undefined,
so far, it is clear that it will be convenient to assign to this event
an epoch or time number which is greater than ¢,, the epoch of
despatch, and less than ¢,, the epoch of return. For in any sense we
can reasonably attach to “earlier” and “later”, the event is later

72774 35——16

228 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

than ¢,, earlier than ¢,. Let us adopt as a purely conventional defini-
tion of the epoch of the distant event the average of ¢, and ¢2, say T.
Thus T=14(4,+¢.). The event is then said to be simultaneous with
the event constituted by my clock-reading T. This is a purely con-
ventional definition of simultaneity, but it is compatible with any
intuitive ideas we have as to the meaning of simultaneity, provided
we could attach a meaning to saying that the clock was running uni-
formly and the signal traveled at constant velocity. In fact this
conventional assignment of an epoch to a distant event is some-
times said to involve the assumption that the forward and _ back-
ward signal velocity are the same. But we have not yet defined
“ distance ”, hence we have not defined velocity, so the lmitation
would be meaningless. We content ourselves with the epoch T as
defined with reference to the arbitrary clock employed.

Having averaged ¢, and ¢,, the simplest remaining thing to do is
to subtract them. For technical reasons, it is convenient first to
choose an arbitrary number, c, and then define the distance of the
event at 14c(t.—t,). This we will call X. In ordinary language
we should say that ¢ is the signal velocity, so that c(t,—¢1) is just
the distance described in the double journey. But in our presenta-
tion ¢ is just an arbitrarily chosen number. We have now defined
distance X without using a rigid scale. We have used only clock
measures made with an arbitrarily graduated clock.

If we wish to assign measures to the relative direction of two
distinct objects, we can measure the angles between their directions
with the aid of a rigid body equivalent to a theodolite. It should be
noticed that the use of a rigid body for measuring angles is funda-
mentally different from the use of a rigid body for comparing
lengths; the right angle and its subdivisions are communicable units,
capable of being set up independently, whilst the meter is not a
communicable unit. I can explain to a distant geometer what a
given angle is, so that he can set one up for himself; I can never
explain to him what a meter is without taking one to him, and this
assumes that a meaning can be attached to saying that it is un-
altered in the process of transport. Once a method has been de-
scribed for assigning distances and ascertaining angles, a geometry
can be adopted and coordinates can be assigned to any distant object.
It is not necessary here to go into details. The significant step is
that the measure or scale of spatial relationship can be constructed
out of clock observations. Space is constructed out of temporal ex-
perience—not, that is, its three-dimensional aspect but its scale aspect.
In the case of a one-dimensional world, a geometry is not necessary,
and space measures can be constructed purely out of temporal expe-
riences. The adoption of a geometry is necessary when we recog-
PHILOSOPHY OF PHYSICS—MILNE 229

nize the three-dimensionality of our possible observations; 1.e., that
we can determine direction in terms of two independent measures.

We now want to correlate or compare the clocks of two different
observers. When we repeat our measures of the distance X of an
object we may find that X remains constant or that X changes.
If X happens to remain constant, it is not difficult to show how,
if the object also carries an observer with a clock, the two clocks
may be synchronized. And if three observers, A, B, C, by such
synchronized clocks agree that they are at constant distances apart,
it can be shown that the time numbering of their clocks is unique.
This time numbering they will call uniform time. Whether it co-
incides with what we ordinarily mean by uniform time is another
matter, but this unique time numbering is as far as three such ob-
servers can get when they pay attention only to the reception time
of signals. The unique time numbering they arrive at would coincide
with what we ordinarily mean by uniform time when the strength
of the signals returned are also constant in time, provided we can say
what we mean by comparing the strengths of signals. This involves
the construction of a piece of apparatus capable of measuring signal
strengths, whose properties remained constant in time. ‘These prop-
erties would include length measures of its parts, measured with the
same arbitrary clock (now uniquely graduated). Now if another
observer, B’, were, in our ordinary language, receding from A, he
could be made to appear at a constant distance from A by letting
A’s clock run slow. This is equivalent to letting the unit of length
conventionally adopted by A increase, so that the size of a signal-
strength-measuring receiver would appear to decrease and the weaker
signals now received would be estimated as weaker simply due to the
smaller instrument used. I have not carried out all the mathe-
matical details of this process, but the general inference is clear.
Just as it is generally recognized that no observable differences
would be produced in the universe if we had a length measure arbi-
trarily changing, so when we base length measures primarily on time
measures, uniform time cannot be defined. Uniform time is a con-
vention based on the simplest description of a set of phenomena
occurring in nature—as is obvious when we examine its astronomical
definition in terms of the earth’s rotation, or in terms of dynamical
clocks assumed to remain invariable.

All we can do then is to correlate different ways of time-keeping.
The next problem of interest is then to correlate the time-keeping of
observers in motion. Suppose, then, that 7, whom I call observer
A, repeat my observations on an object B, and find that X, its dis-
tance, changes as T, the assigned epoch, changes. Let us assume for
simplicity that its direction remains constant. This assumes that a
230 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

meaning can be given to invariance of direction; this can be accom-
plished with the aid of a gyro-compass. I can now repeat my obser-
vations as often as I please and as close together as I please, either
by using a Morse-code method of signaling or signaling with differ-
ently colored lights. I must simply be able to recognize and identify
return signals. I can then graph X against T. I can in particular
find the slope of this graph at any time T. If this slope happens to
be constant, I shall say that the object B is in uniform motion with
respect to myself, and call the slope the velocity V, all in terms of
my arbitrary clock. The value of V is unaltered by multiplication of
the clock readings by an arbitrary factor.

Suppose B, also provided with a clock, performs similar observa-
tions on myself, A. He can send me signals and receive them back;
choosing the same number «, he can assign epochs 'T’ and distances
X’ to the events which are the arrivals of the signals at myself. He
can thus determine my velocity with respect to himself.

Now suppose that B stands in precisely the same relation to A as
A stands in relation to B. Then when A finds B to be moving with
a uniform velocity by his clock, there must exist a set of clock
graduations for B such that B finds A to be moving with a uniform
velocity and, moreover, with the same uniform velocity, for other-
wise they would not be equivalent. A and B are then said to possess
similar clocks. The possession of similar clocks by the two observers
is thus capable of experimental test.

We are thus able to say what we mean by A and B possessing
similar clocks without its being required to bring these clocks side
by side. The latter test would indeed violate the conditions of the
situation, the essence of which is that the two clocks are in relative
motion. If we reduced one clock to relative rest, we should have
no means of testing whether we had altered the clock in the process.
As it is, we have effected a comparison of the clocks whilst they are
in motion: what A finds B is doing by his (A’s) clock, is described
in the same way by A as what B finds is happening to A (by B’s
clock) is described by B; A describes his experience of B in the same
way as B describes his experience of A.

A and B can, however, make one further type of observation.
They can read one another’s clocks. Or, what is the same thing, B
can inform A of the time recorded by his (B’s) clock at the epoch
of arrival of a signal from A. A can then compare B’s reading of
B’s clock with the reading of his own clock which he has assigned as
simultaneous with this event. In ordinary words, A reads B’s clock
through a telescope, at a certain time by his own clock, corrects this
latter time for the time of travel of the signal, and compares his
own (corrected) clock reading with his telescopic observation of
PHILOSOPHY OF PHYSICS—MILNE Zol

B’s clock. It is easy to show that the direct reading by A through a
telescope is equivalent to the communication of information by B
and that the signal velocity is equal to the arbitrarily chosen
number ce,

It by no means follows that A and B agree on the epoch they
assign to the event which consists of reading B’s clock. This was
Einstein’s great discovery. A procedure for correlating the read-
ings, equivalent in the sequel to Kinstein’s results, is as follows: Con-
sider an event at B to which B assigns the epoch ¢’, (by direct read-
ing of his clock); and let A assign the epoch ¢, to it by his clock
after making the necessary light signals. Consider, secondly, an
event E, at A, to which A assigns the epoch ¢, (by direct reading of

Suffixes A and B denote locations of events. Unprimed symbols (ta, tsp) are A’s
assignments of epoch. Primed symbols (t’a, ¢’B) are B’s assignments of epoch

A’s clock) ; and let B assign the epoch ¢’, to Ey, by his clock after
making the necessary signals. Then, since A and B are supposed to
be completely equivalent in all their relationships, if ¢’3 happens to
equal t,, tg must equal ¢’,. In other words, suppose that A makes a
graph of his value for the epoch of Es, namely, ¢’, against B’s value
for the same event, namely ¢’;; then the same graph must result if
B plots ¢’s, his value for the epoch of Ea, against ¢,, A’s value. These
graphs could be actually drawn and compared. In mathematical
language we should have ¢’3=f(¢s) and ta=f(¢’a), where the two /’s
denote the same function.?

Now, it can be shown mathematically that the only possible form
of the graph for which this relation holds is represented by

t’p=tp(I— V*/c?)%
and
tr=t’,(I— V?/c?) 7A

2 When A and B have chosen clock graduations for which the two f’s are identical, they
may be said to be provided with identical clocks.
232 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

provided the clocks were synchronized to read zero at the instant
when A and B parted company. In words, B assigns to an event
near himself an earlier epoch, by his clock, than A assigns to the
same event by his clock. Similarly, A assigns to an event at himself
an earlier epoch than B assigns to the same event. To A, B’s clock
runs slow; to B, A’s clock runs slow. The degree of running slow is
the more pronounced the faster the relative motion.

This is a well-known result in the theory of relativity,? but our
presentation of it has a different logical setting. We have not used
the concept of a rigid measuring rod, and we have not assumed that
A and B are in “empty space.” We have not taken the constancy of
the velocity of light from observation. We have adopted it as an
axiom giving us our definitions of lengths. We have simply assumed
that A and B possess temporal experiences and that they stand in
completely equivalent relationships to one another. This condition
is satisfied if A and B stand in the same relation to the rest of the
universe. Our experimental basis is that it is actually possible to
realize in experience two equivalent observers in uniform relative
velocity.

Let us in fact apply this result to the whole universe. It is well
known to everybody nowadays that the universe as a whole is
expanding. By this we mean that the extragalactic nebulae are
receding from us and from one another, receding from one another,
moreover, at rates which are proportional to their separations.

This is the same thing as saying that if we take any nebula and
divide its velocity by its distance we get the same result for all
nebulae. We do not know from observation how this quotient
changes in time. It appears to be the same all over the universe at
the present epoch (i.e., for nebulae considered simultaneously in the
above sense of simultaneity) as far as is yet observed. Whether at
another epoch it will be the same we do not know. Some current
theories assume that the coefficient of the proportionality is locally
constant in time, and hence that the nebulae are being accelerated.
Now, however a nebula is being accelerated, its velocity can never
exceed the velocity of light. Thus, if the nebulae were being accel-
erated outward, each one would ultimately acquire the velocity of
light, and the law of proportionality of distance and velocity would
cease to be obeyed, for the velocities would tend to become the same
for all nebulae, but the distances would be different for different

3 What are usually called the ‘‘ Lorentz formulae”, connecting A’s and B’s assignments
of epochs and coordinates to any event whatever, can be shown to follow from the above
formulae without further assumptions.

4Statements sometimes made to the contrary, as for example that nebulae may ulti-
mately possess velocities greater than that of light and so pass out of causal connection
with the rest of the universe, are erroneous. The error came in owing to a false identifi-
cation of ‘“ cosmic” time with the time of experience,
PHILOSOPHY OF PHYSICS—MILNE Dae

nebulae. In that case the velocity-distance proportionality would
be an altogether ephemeral thing. There is, however, no observa-
tional evidence that the nebulae are being accelerated. I have given
reasons elsewhere for supposing that the velocity of each nebula is a
constant, apart from effect of irregularities in distribution leading to
residual gravitational fields. We may consider a smoothed out
model of the universe in which the velocity of each is actually con-
stant, the distance increasing accordingly with the time. Observa-
tion and all theories agree in showing that the nebulae were all very
close together about 2,000,000,000 years ago, reckoned by clocks at
ourselves. The nebulae may then be likened to an army of objects
which all parted company at a definite epoch in our own past, and
since then have moved each with its own constant velocity.

Now, in all schemes so far proposed for the universe, every particle
or nebula in the ideal scheme is equivalent to every other. The
relation between itself and the rest of the universe is the same
whatever nebula is chosen. The reason that this condition is im-
posed ® on world models is that we have only actually observed a
very small portion of the universe and we want to build up a model
of the whole which will not endow the observed portion with special
properties. Removing the last vestige of an anthropocentric view
of the universe, we refuse to consider our own viewpoint as special,
and we regard any other viewpoint as equally good. If you like,
we are extrapolating the observed portion of the universe in the
fairest possible way, first by constructing round the edges of the
observed portion adjacent portions as similar as possible, then build-
ing on to those, and so on, meaning always by “as similar as pos-
sible” the possession of the same features as viewed from the view-
point to which the extrapolation is extended. Distance and epochs
of events on the nebulae can then be assigned in principle by the
methods given. ‘The space in which they are embedded is a purely
constructed entity.

It may seem at first sight that if we construct a world model
with the same relation of each particle to the rest, then it must
extend indefinitely through infinite space. For the possession of
an experienced boundary is impossible. Yet it can be shown that
on the procedure we have outlined, in view of any observer the sys-
tem is of finite radius and the distance of the remotest members of
the system cannot exceed a finite length. The apparent paradox
is removed by noting that the nebulae form what is called an “ open ”
set of points, infinite in number, having the surface of a sphere for
the set of limiting points. The limiting points themselves are not

5In most current presentations of relativistic cosmology this condition is not imposed,
but is verified a posteriori. In my own presentation it is imposed a priori.
234 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

occupied, but representative points occur within arbitrarily small
distance of them. The important results for my present purpose
are that the total number of members of the world system is not
finite, and the most distant are receding with all but the velocity
of light, i.e., we can find members moving with speeds arbitrarily
close to that of light.

Let us now put together the four considerations: (1) the relativity
of time; (2) the running down of any finite portion of the universe
according to the second law of thermodynamics; (3) the expansion
of the universe, with members moving at all speeds up to (but just
not including) that of light; (4) the infinitude of particles in the
universe.

Consideration (4), which is impled by the analysis of world
structure just discussed, seems to me to be necessary if we are to
avoid the philosophical difficulties which would crop up if the number
of particles in the universe were finite. For they could always be
mapped in a flat constructed space, and if this space were finite the
particles would possess a center of position, and so absolute location
in this space would have a meaning. We should want to ask, but be
unable to answer the question, why the universe came to be asso-
ciated with this particular standard of absolute position and absolute
rest. We should in fact have found a frame of reference that was
specific, yet we could not mention anything to distinguish this frame
from any number of physically equivalent ones, except that the
universe happened to select it for occupation. In crude language,
how could the universe possibly know what frame it was adopting—
how could it identify it in the desert of featurelessness. A universe
possessing an infinite number of particles does not necessarily possess
a mass center, and in the case of the model I am discussing definitely
does not possess one. Each particle is equally a center of symmetry.
But if the universe were supposed mapped in a finite curved space,
and consisted of a finite number of particles, it would still determine
an absolute standard of rest in this completely featureless medium,
and no one could say how it does it! In the model I am considering,
relative position and velocity alone have a meaning.

Now let us compare our own experiences with the experiences of
an observer situated on a very distant nebula moving with nearly
the speed of light. The clock of the moving distant observer will be,
to us, almost standing still, and the epoch at which it stands will
be little removed from the epoch at which synchronization occurred,
that is, the epoch of separation. Thus whilst our own clock records
2,000,000,000 years as the time that has elapsed since all the nebulae
were close together, for a nebula moving at 9/10 of the velocity
of light, the time now read by the moving clock (our now) will be
2,000,000,000 x \/1— 81/100=870,000,000 years; for a nebula moving
PHILOSOPHY OF PHYSICS—MILNE 235

at 99/100 of the velocity of light, 280,000,000 years; for a nebula
moving at 999/1,000 of the velocity of light, 90,000,000 years; for a
nebula moving at 9,999/10,000 of the velocity of light, 28,000,000
years. These figures have a perfectly concrete meaning. If we de-
tect an event taking place, as we say, now on a nebula moving with
9,999/10,000 of the velocity of light away from us, then the age of
the universe reckoned by the moving observer on this nebula, at that
event is only 28,000,000 years—comparable with the age formerly
assigned by Kelvin to the universe in our own time scale. We see
that the phrase “the age of the universe” has no objective content.
Given an event, we have to mention an observer in whose “ now ” it
occurs, and the ages are different according to the observer chosen.

It then follows that the universe for the distant observer has only
been running down for 28,000,000 years. For us it has been running
down for 2,000,000,000 years. And these two estimates relate to the
same event, observed by two different observers. Thus for the fast-
moving observer the universe has run down less than for us, at the
two “nows ” corresponding to the same event. Since, with an infinite
number of nebulae in the world running away from us with all
speed up to that of light, we can always find an example of a nebula
with a velocity which is arbitrarily close to that of light, we can
therefore specify a nebula for which, at the event on it in our
“ present ”, the running-down of the universe is as little as we please
(reckoned from its zero).

It follows that though the universe is running down for each
separate observer, no absolute measure of the amount it has run
down at any definite instant of our time can be given. For us, it
has run down a definite amount. But for other observers, whom we
regard as contemporaneous observers, it has run down less, and we
can always in principle mention observers for whom it has run
down as little as we please. Here there is no sense in which it can
be said that the universe is running down independent of an observer.
In the ordinary sense of always, it always contains observers or states
which are practically at the outset of their world careers, ready
“wound up.” The world system, though decaying and dying at
each separate place and for each separate observer, always com-
prises other observers, at great distances, for whom this process of
decay has hardly gone on at all. It is not a question of cycles of
rejuvenation, or of a process of revivification. The fresh start is
always present, but it is not really a fresh start, it is the one start
that every portion had, but differently reckoned. The world system
is like a tree which decays at its center, but lives on just under the
bark. Thus no absolute sense can be attached to saying that the
world has run down, though everywhere it 7s running down. It
always contains experiences for which the process of running down
236 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

has hardly progressed at all. The world therefore lives forever.
Near its apparent boundary, the world in Keats’ words is:

For ever piping songs for ever new

For ever panting and for ever young.
If we call “creation” the indescribable and unobservable state out
of which the systems were born (for us, 2,000,000,000 years ago)
then we may say that there are always events in the world for which
antecedent creation is only just a thing of the past. We cannot
observe the event of creation itself, even in the limit, for it is only
an occurrence in our present for nebulae moving with the speed of
light, and these if they existed would be invisible, unobservable.

The event of creation itself is discreetly mantled in invisibility.
Not only can we not go behind creation, we cannot go right up to it;
but we can get within an arbitrarily short experience of it, by obser-
vations that are in principle capable of being carried out. There is
no reenactment of creation. Creation—one event; I have missed out
the copula. You can say “was” or “is” at your choice. There is
no difference in the two propositions, until an observer is mentioned.
In any one observer’s world-wide present, for whom creation “ was ”
so many years ago, we can always specify events the observers at
which reckon creation as arbitrarily close to “is.”

This situation may be very difficult to imagine. The difficulty is
just that of imagining an infinity of objects in a finite space. (It
must be remembered that the dimensions in the direction of motion
are reduced by the motion, in accordance with the law of the Lorentz
contraction.) But there is no difficulty in describing what we may
expect to observe, and this is all that can be demanded. The usual
theories put the burden of the trouble on the difficulty of imagining
a conceptual curved space. I transfer the difficulty to that of imag-
ining an open set of points. This is not really difficult, and in any
case it has the advantage of being describable in terms of experience.

The application of the second law of thermodynamics, invoked in
the ordinary proof that the universe is running down, involves the
axiom that in any process which occurs in the world it is possible
to find another portion of the world unaffected by the process. For
to estimate the increase of entropy consequent on the change—to
estimate the degree of “running down” involved in the process—it
is necessary to compensate the process by reversible changes carried
out between the affected part of the universe and the unaffected part.
A process must be imagined in which the affected part is restored
to its initial state, and the entropy changes thereby occasioned in the
orginally unaffected part estimated. It follows that if a process
goes on which affects the whole of the universe simultaneously it is
impossible to estimate the change of entropy. In such case the proof
PHILOSOPHY OF PHYSICS—MILNE 237

of the entropy-increase breaks down. Now, the expansion of the
universe, with bodies separating at different speeds, is a phenomenon
which goes on of itself and affects the relations of all the separate
parts continuously; it may be described as a nonuniform radial
dilatation, resulting in increasingly perfect velocity segregation of
the separate parts. But the universe is not an enclosed system. Un-
like the systems considered in thermodynamics, it has no confining
boundary, though as we have seen it has an apparent though unat-
tained boundary. Whether it is surrounded by “ empty space” or
not is a meaningless question, since it can be shown that there is no
possible causal connection between the objects (if any) outside the
sphere of observation and those inside it.

The expanding universe may be described as creating space as it
expands, or alternatively as expanding into empty space. This
external unobservable space need not be actually empty; its contents
can be readily described mathematically, but they automatically make
room for the observable part to expand into, so that the space behaves
in effect as empty. The external occupants are genuine wills-o’-the-
wisp. In either case the system is totally different from an enclosed
system, and it acts as its own Maxwell’s sorting demon. Maxwell
pictured a demon capable of opening and closing a door in a parti-
tion in a gas-filled vessel in such a way as to segregate fast-moving
molecules from slow ones. The natural expansion of a cloud of
objects such as nebulae into “ empty ” space is precisely such a type
of segregation. For it effects and then accentuates a complete sort-
ing-out of velocities, more and more completely concentrating the
faster objects at the greatest distances. Just as Maxwell’s sorting
demon could cause the gas on one side of a partition to become hot
and the other cold without expanding mechanical work, and so
could avoid the consequences of the second law of thermodynamics,
so the universe as a whole avoids the heat death. It does this in
virtue of the expansion and the infinity of particle number, taking
into account the relativity of time.

To summarize, the passage of time is a definite part of the experi-
ence of each individual, and from it may be constructed both time
measures and space measures without the introduction of the concept
of the rigid body as a length-measuring tool. Different individuals
assign different epochs and different distances to the same event, and
the relation between the epochs they assign is perfectly definite for
any two observers (in uniform relative motion) who stand in the
same relation to the rest of the universe. This relation, predicted
long ago by the special theory of relativity, is derived here from a
different observational basis. It is applicable as it stands to the
different bodies forming constituents of the expanding universe,
which presumably contains, and on a reasonable basis for extrapola-
238 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

tion certainly contains, particles moving with all speeds up to that of
light, and, moreover, an infinite number with speeds lying within
any arbitrarily small fraction of the velocity of light. Such particles,
in the worldwide instant of an observer near ourselves, estimate the
world far younger than we do. For them the world has scarcely
begun to run down. Particles, nebulae, or observers can be specified
arbitrarily near to the event of creation, in their own reckoning, at
the worldwide instant corresponding to any specified event in the
history of any other observer. The world is thus running down,
ageing, and decaying for each separate observer, but contains an
infinite sequence of observers for whom it is arbitrarily young. The
world is thus a continuing system; each particle or nebula has an
evolutionary experience behind it and in front of it, with ultimate
decay as its goal, yet the world as a whole cannot be said to decay.
It is not the same in an observer’s today as in the observer’s yesterday,
but it is the same forever. Creation never recedes into the past; it
is only just beyond the limit of observability in our own present.
Time advances for each separate observer, but the universe as a whole
knows no definite age at an assigned event; the worldwide instant
of the observer to whom this event occurs contains experiences which
assess the age of the world at all values from that assigned by the
given observer down to zero. Each observer may legitimately count
himself, and will in fact reckon himself, as the world’s oldest
inhabitant.

I believe that these various considerations go far toward removing
the apparent contradictions between thermodynamics and relativity
to which we earlier drew attention. Though I have been led to these
conclusions by studying one particular possible model for the uni-
verse, the same conclusions, or substantially similar ones, probably
follow on any model, in particular on those which make use of a
conceptual curved, expanding map—so-called expanding space—to
represent the world. The main points are the existence of nebulae
moving with all speeds up to that of light, so that all possible smaller
time reckonings are existent in the world-instant of a given observer
at a given time reckoning; the inevitable running-down of the uni-
verse for each separate observer, with the existence of all lesser
degrees of run-downness in the same world-wide instant; and the
existence of a singular condition for nebulae at the maximum dis-
tance, such that the singularity in our past experience which we
call creation reproduces itself at, and is all but observable near, the
apparent boundary of the system. I commend to philosophers the
idea that creation is ever present in the universe; not a new idea,
but one to which, in my opinion, we are led by the strictest inter-
pretation of modern physics and astronomy in the light of their
philosophies.
STANDS SCIENCE WHERE SHE DID??*

By Ivor THOMAS

The 1933 meetings of the British Association, held last month at
Leicester, formed a convenient halting place for men of science to
look back upon ground definitely won and to survey further territory
upon which an attack may be expected imminently. Already they
have struck their tents, and are again moving toward the enemy
ranks. The attack is being made along the whole line, from the very
small to the exceedingly great. But it is at the extremities that the
big battalions are concentrated, and reconnoitering parties are daily
bringing more and more information both of the structure of the
atom and of the nature of the universe as a whole.

Science thus offers us a kind of Platonic Dyad of the Great and
Small, but it is not wholly undetermined. Taking the smaller end
first, we may now be fairly confident that there exist four funda-
mental particles out of which the whole material universe is com-
pacted. There may be others as yet undiscovered, but of these four
we may now be quite certain. There is the negative electron, discov-
ered in 1897 by Sir J. J. Thomson, which bears, or rather is, a nega-
tive charge of electricity. Secondly, there is the proton, discovered
in 1911 by Lord Rutherford, which is positively charged and has
a mass about 1,840 times that of the negative electron. It was
thought for a long time that these were the only building bricks in
nature, that out of them in suitable numbers and combinations the
atoms of all the 92 elements could be formed. The model atom was
a miniature solar system with a central nucleus consisting of protons
and embedded electrons with a number of electrons circulating in the
manner of planets. The number of orbital electrons was such that
their electric charge would just cancel out the resultant positive
charge on the nucleus, the whole atom being in a state of electrical
equilibrium. This theory was worked out for every element, includ-
ing 2 that had not then been discovered, from hydrogen with 1
circulating electron to uranium with 92. It was proved that the
orbital electrons were arranged in groups, and the theory beautifully
explained many spectroscopic phenomena and such properties as
the conductivity of metals.

1 Reprinted by permission from the Nineteenth Century and After, October 1933.
239
240 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

The theory appeared to be so perfect that the goal of physical
research seemed in sight. But theoretical minds were not content to
accept the proton and negative electron simply as brute facts. They
asked: Why not an elementary particle without any charge at all?
Why not an electron with a positive charge? Why not a proton
with a negative charge? Moreover, a theory elaborated by Professor
Dirac, which had won the admiration of the whole scientific world
by the ease with which it accounted for several “brute facts”,
seemed to demand the existence of positive electrons.

What the theoretical mind demanded has at last been found by
the empiricist. No negative proton has yet been discovered, but the
existence of an uncharged elementary particle, or neutron, and of a
positively charged electron, or positron, has now been placed beyond
question. The isolation of the former was the work of Bothe in
Germany, Curie and Joliot in Paris, and Dr. Chadwick at Cam-
bridge; that of the latter was achieved by Anderson in the United
States and Mr. P. M. 8S. Blackett and Dr. Occhialini at Cambridge,
and in the last few weeks M. Jean Thibaud, of Paris, has confirmed
their work by a new method. It was suggested that the neutron
was composed of a proton and negative electron, but the view now
generally held is that the neutron is sui generis. The mass of the
neutron is certainly not far removed from that of the proton. It
is believed that the neutron plays no small part in the constitution
of atomic nuclei. The positive electron, on the other hand, does
not appear to form part of the nuclear structure. Positive electrons
seem to be generated as twins with negative electrons near, but not
in, the nucleus during atomic collisions. A reason has to be given
why neutrons and positive electrons are so rare in nature. In the
case of positive electrons, the answer was given by Professor Dirac
when as yet they were undiscovered; he showed that almost as soon
as they are formed they must be destroyed. But they live long
enough for their tracks to be photographed by Mr. Blackett.

Now that so much is known about the ultimate structure of mat-
ter, the dream of the transmutation of the elements has been realized.
The history of alchemy affords not a little justification to the Hege-
lian belief that history is a process of affirmation, denial, and syn-
thesis. Many of the best minds of the Middle Ages favored the
idea that other metals could be transmuted into gold, an idea most
elaborately presented in the Summa Perfectionis of Geber. St. Al-
bertus Magnus did not disbelieve it, though he characteristically
thought that gold so produced was different from gold won from
the earth. The “experimentis of aleonomye ” of which Piers Plow-
man spoke in the next century were universally practiced, and faith
in them survived even the upheaval of the Renaissance and Reforma-
tion. The immortal Sir Isaac Newton believed in transmutation,
STANDS SCIENCE WHERE SHE DID?—THOMAS 241

though there is no evidence that as master of the mint he produced
gold by any means other than were customary. But the tide was
turning. The Honorable Robert Boyle initiated an age of sceptical
chemists, and Edward Gibbon could write with that supercilious-
ness which no one else has ever approached :

Philosophy, with the aid of experience, has at length banished the study
of alchymy; and the present age, however desirous of riches, is content to
seek them by the humbler means of commerce and industry.

That, however, was not the end of the story. Depth in philos-
ophy, and greater experience, have brought back from exile the
idea of transmutation banished by Gibbon. Toward the end of
the nineteenth century it was found that certain elements were
actually being transformed into other elements without man’s aid;
in fact, man could do nothing to accelerate or even hinder the
process. They were the radioactive elements, whose atoms were
very heavy and complicated, and therefore unstable, with a tend-
ency to break up into simpler atoms. In this way lead was left
behind when uranium disintegrated. Man could only watch the
process, but it furnished him with the means by which he himself
could transmute one element into another. For radioactive sub-
stances emitted alpha-particles, or helium nuclei, at enormous veloc-
ities, and these could be used as projectiles to bombard matter in
the hope of transmuting it. The hope was realized; thus when
Lord Rutherford fired alpha-particles into nitrogen a form of oxygen
was obtained. This was not a disintegration of matter, as in radio-
activity, but a building up of atoms, the oxygen atom being heavier
than the nitrogen.

But there was still a weakness in this process—man had no con-
trol over the source of his projectiles. Another step forward was
taken last year by Dr. Cockcroft and Dr. Walton when protons
obtained by the passage of electricity through hydrogen were fired at
a lithium target. Sometimes, apparently, a lithium nucleus would
capture a proton and would spht up into two helium nuclei. The
process, which was wholly under the control of man, has subsequently
been extended to other elements, and alchemy may now be said to be
a well-organized science. The newly discovered neutrons have also
proved themselves excellent projectiles for transmuting matter by
bombardment. (It should perhaps be pointed out, in view of popular
beliefs to the contrary, that the “splitting of the atom” holds out
no immediate hope of a new source of power. It is true that when
a single atom is transformed more energy is obtained than is put
into it; but only a small fraction of the projectiles fired into atoms
are successful in making hits on nuclei, and on the whole far more
energy is put into the process than is obtained out of it.)
242 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

A few more comparisons between the medieval alchemists and the
modern physicists may be not inapposite. Medieval alchemy was
guided by the principle that underlying all the different substances
was a prima materia, the specific differences being due to the addition
to this prima materia of different sets of qualities. The problem of
transmutation was therefore a problem of removing one set of quali-
ties and substituting another. At the beginning of the last century
Prout suggested that hydrogen was the basis of all matter. That
has been proved to be not precisely true, but all forms of matter are
made up of protons and electrons, with a sprinkling of neutrons, and
hydrogen is the simplest of those forms. Transmutation has there-
fore become a problem of rearranging protons and electrons. This
is not fundamentally different from the medieval idea. Moreover,
by a happy inspiration the medieval alchemists were obsessed with
the idea that gold could be obtained by somehow treating mercury
with sulphur—a happy inspiration, for we now know mercury to be
next after gold in the periodic table of the elements—i.e., to have just
one more orbital electron. Finally, it is worth noting the part that
England has played both in alchemy and in the modern way of trans-
mutation. Robert of Chester, Roger of Hereford, and Richard of
Wendover have their successors in Lord Rutherford, Dr. Cockcroft,
and Dr. Walton.

So much for the present state of microscopic physics. A conven-
ient bridge to the macroscopic world is provided by the cosmic rays;
they were the means by which the positive electron was discovered,
and on one theory they are the cause of the expansion of the universe.
They were called cosmic rays because they appeared to come from
all directions in outer space; but men of science now confess they
know far less about cosmic rays than they formerly thought they
did, and in view of doubts about their cosmic nature some workers
prefer to talk about “ the penetrating radiation.” Of its penetrating
nature there can be no two opinions. The rays were first discovered
about 30 years ago when a physicist found that an electroscope round
which he had piled lead sufficiently thick to shield it from all known
forms of radiation was nevertheless discharged. Since then a vigor-
ous attack on the problem of their nature has been made, an attack
which has increased in intensity of recent years and is now one of
the most fascinating of scientific pursuits.

It is no armchair or laboratory task. The first essential is a
knowledge of the intensity of cosmic rays at as many times and
places as possible. Accordingly a great variety of observations has
been made. Professor Regener, of Switzerland, clearly sharing
Gray’s faith that—

Full many a gem of purest ray serene
The dark unfathom’d caves of ocean bear,
STANDS SCIENCE WHERE SHE DID?—THOMAS 243

has measured the intensity of cosmic radiation 750 feet below the
surface of Lake Constance; and he has sent up balloons with self-
recording instruments to a height of 1714 miles. Professor Piccard,
of Belgium, has himself made two personal ascents into the strato-
sphere at great risk to his life. Professor Compton, of the United
States, has organized expeditions to 81 stations all over the world
at heights from sea level to 20,000 feet. Professor Kolhorster has
gone down into a Prussian salt mine and brought back evidence
of cosmic rays, four times as hard as the most penetrating discov-
ered by Professor Regener, which are capable of maintaining the
electric charge of the earth.

But the mystery of the cosmic rays is still unsolved. A few years
ago it was confidently thought that cosmic rays were of the same
nature as light, only with very much shorter wave length. They
were placed at the lower end of the gamut of radiation which was
thought to run: wireless waves, heat waves, infrared rays, light,
ultraviolet rays, X-rays, gamma rays, and cosmic rays. On this basis
several novel theories to account for their origin were proposed.
Sir James Jeans thought they were the product of the complete
transformation of matter into energy “annihilation.” Professor
Millikan thought they were liberated when helium was formed out
of hydrogen somewhere in space. The Bishop of Birmingham
thought it “ not wholly improbable ” that mixed up with the cosmic
rays were messages from beings on other planets in a more advanced
state of development than ourselves.

Since then physicists have become less confident of the nature of
cosmic rays. Most investigators now think they are not of a wave
nature, but consist of electrified particles, possibly electrons. That
takes away the ground from under those who would see in cosmic
radiation the birth-cry or death-rattle of an atom, or an interstellar
broadcasting service. If cosmic radiation does consist of electrified
particles, it will be attracted towards the earth’s magnetic poles,
and it becomes important to decide by experiment whether that is so.
Professor Compton’s expeditions do show that the intensity of cosmic
radiation is greater in temperate than in tropical latitudes. The
result is not wholly decisive, but what we know as cosmic radiation
is almost certainly a mixture. Apart from the primary cosmic rays
there are the secondary rays formed when the primary rays strike
the earth’s atmosphere. Cosmic radiation may consist not only of
many rays of different intensity, but may include corpuscular and
wave parts. The radiation, it may be added, appears to be nearly
constant in time at any one place; as it is the same by night as by
day, the sun can hardly be its origin.

Another reason for the indecisiveness of the theory of cosmic rays
is the comparative rarity of the rays on the earth’s surface. But when

727748517
244 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

they are detected they make their presence felt by their extraor-
dinary penetrating power. On account of this power they make
good projectiles for bombarding atomic nuclei. Mr. Blackett and
Dr. Occhialini were using them to bombard copper when they ob-
tained a shower of about 30 particles, among them several positive
electrons. But though the rays are comparatively rare upon the
earth, they are probably very important in the universe taken as a
whole. That is because the matter in the universe is aggregated
into lumps at great distances apart, but the cosmic rays appear to
be spread out all over space. Hence, their total effect is likely to be
very great.

This line of argument gives plausibility to the cosmological specu-
lations of the Abbé Lemaitre, a Belgian priest who has recently
joined the staff of the Catholic University at Washington. The
Abbé Lemaitre believes that the whole universe began as a sin-
gle atom a few astronomical units in diameter. That allows for
all the nuclei of all the atoms in the universe to be packed closely
together. This primeval atom possessed a tendency to disintegrate,
and finally did burst with explosive violence, sending forth streams
of cosmic rays and showers of particles. Their pressure has caused
the universe to expand, and it is still expanding. Observational
evidence of this expansion is thought to be provided by the spiral
nebule. We live in an island universe or nebula called the Milky
Way, and there are many similar nebulae, only smaller ones for the
most part, scattered about in space. When the light from these dis-
tant nebulae is split up by a spectroscope into its component colors,
the colors are shifted toward the red end of the spectrum compared
with the standard position. The most natural interpretation of this
shift is that the spiral nebulae are receding from us; it corresponds
precisely with the fall in the note of an engine’s whistle as it passes
an observer. The velocity of recession can be measured by this
means as well as detected, and appears to be proportional to the
nebula’s distance. A nebula whose light takes 3.26 million years
to reach the earth gives a velocity of 344 miles a second; one whose
light takes 150 million years on the journey gives a velocity of 15,000
miles a second. Of course, the shift to the red may be interpreted
in other ways, but that is how it would be interpreted usually. Sir
Arthur Eddington observed at Leicester that the Lick Observatory
catalog spoke of “ radial velocities” in general, but cautiously used
the term “ apparent radial velocities ” for the spiral nebulae; that,
he said, reminded him of the clergyman who said he would arrive
(p.v.) on Friday, and on Saturday in any case. It should be noted,
however, that loss of energy by light in its passage through space
would account for the shift to the red, but such an explanation would
be entirely ad hoc.
STANDS SCIENCE WHERE SHE DID?—THOMAS 245

The Abbé Lemaitre’s is but one of several theories of the expand-
ing universe. It may seem that there is an obvious self-contradiction
in the notion of the universe expanding. If it expands, it must be
into something, which ex hypothesi is in the universe. But when
physicists talk of the expanding universe they mean the material
universe consisting of the galaxies and the space in which they are
contained, not strictly the sum of all things. In this sense an ex-
pansion of the universe is certainly possible. Such explanations will
remove most of the paradoxes associated in the popular mind with
astronomical theory. When in a recent paper Professor de Sitter,
to give another example, spoke of the stars being older than the
universe, he did not mean by the beginning of the universe what
most people understand by that term, but the minimum of a certain
quantity entering into his theory. At Leicester he explained this
paradox by the analogy of the Californian trees, which are much
older than California !

Having admitted the idea of a universe changing in size, many
types of change are theoretically possible. The universe can expand
continually, it can contract until it shrinks to a minimum size, or
it can go through alternating periods of expansion and contraction.
The different versions of the expanding universe theory can best be
examined historically.

The roots of the theory go as far back as 1916, when Professor
Einstein had just published his general theory of relativity. In
that theory space and time were on an equal footing, and the space-
time universe was supposed to be infinite in every direction. But
Professor Einstein quickly became dissatisfied with the universe,
chiefly, it would seem, because he did not understand what happened
to his equations at infinity, and in 1917 he introduced the notion of a
universe that was finite but unbounded—i.e., a universe with a finite
volume that could be measured in cubic miles. This universe was
supposed to be full of uniformly diffused matter. It had many
peculiar properties. A ray of light, for instance, would return to
the point from which it set out unless deviated by some means from
its natural path. The reader of Emerson’s Uriel may recall a
prophetic anticipation of this Einstein universe:

Line in nature is not found,
Unit and universe are round;
In vain produced all rays return.

Our actual universe, of course, is not like the Einstein universe
because matter is aggregated into stars and nebulae and not spread
homogeneously through space. Professor de Sitter capped Dr. Ein-
stein’s theory with a world empty of matter. The actual universe
would, of course, be intermediate between the worlds of Einstein and
246 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

de Sitter. The interest of Professor de Sitter’s theory for us is that
any particles introduced into it would tend to run away from an
observer stationed at the origin; and the ight from distant objects
would give a spectrum shift toward the red. In a sense, therefore,
the notion of an expanding universe is to be found in Professor de
Sitter’s theory.

But it was not until 1922 that the theory as strictly understood
was founded. A. Friedmann then pcinted out that the Einstein
universe was unstable, so that if once disturbed it must go on ex-
panding or contracting. Although he published his proof in one of
the best-known German scientific periodicals, it fell completely
unnoticed. Independently the Abbé Lemaitre was developing a simi-
lar theory, and in 1927 he published his results, only to find that
they also were unnoticed. But in 1930 the ground was better pre-
pared, chiefly owing to the growing evidence for the recessive mo-
tions of the nebulae. Sir Arthur Eddington expressed the wish that
a certain mathematical result had been worked out; Lemaitre, who
had previously been a pupil of his, wrote to say he had already ob-
tained it. From that moment the theory of the expanding universe
leaped into prominence. Sir Arthur Eddington has himself been no
mean contributor to it. Although most men of science do not believe
he has completely justified his particular form of the theory, all are
forced to admire it by its extraordinary elegance and power. He
obtains by pure theory a value for the expansion of the universe
which does not differ so very much from the observed value of the
recession of the nebulae. In the course of the working he obtains
a quadratic equation whose roots are in the ratio 1,846 to 1, which
is the ratio of the mass of the proton to that of the electron. And he
is able to prove that on his theory the total number of particles in the
universe is 107° (10 followed by 79 noughts).

Dr. MeVittie and Dr. McCrea have done some valuable investi-
gation of the effect of condensation in the matter filling the Einstein
universe. But the most original contribution to the theory recently
has been that of Professor Milne, of Oxford. At first it seemed to
knock the bottom out of theories of expanding space, because Pro-
fessor Milne explained the recession of the nebulae by using ordinary
kinematics and Euclidean space. Consider a number of billiard balls
moving on an indefinitely large table. If any point be taken on the
table, there comes a time when all the balls will seem to be moving
away from it. Some will always have been moving away; others will
first come near the point and then pass away; but given sufficient
time all will appear to be moving outwards, and the fastest-moving
will naturally be farthest away. Professor Milne seemed to have hit
on an absurdly simple explanation of the recession of the nebulae,
STANDS SCIENCE WHERE SHE DID?—-THOMAS 247

the only difficulty being that it presupposes the nebulae have had
their great velocities from all time, whereas most of us like to think
of all the stars being formed out of one primeval mass. But
Professor Milne has elaborated his theory to a form in which very
strange things happen. In his universe all observers in uniform rela-
tive motion observe identical world pictures. The observable volume
of the universe is finite, but the system has no age and no radius—
only an age and a radius when a particular observer is specified at a
particular stage of his experiences. What we call “ creation ” in the
past history of any one observer reappears on the confines of the
observable system, where, however, the particles become invisible
owing to recession with the speed of light. It is all passing strange.

Such in broad outline are some of the problems the physicists of
today are trying to solve. They will be solved only by the closest
cooperation of experimenter and mathematician, theoretician, and
empiricist. The way in which fact and theory are intertwined was
well shown by a paper read by Prof. Dayton Miller. Given on the
last day, and unentered on the original program, it has not secured
the attention it deserves. As is well known, the theory of relativity
is based ultimately on the Michelson-Morley experiment of 1887.
Professor Miller showed that even Michelson and Morley did not get
the completely null result assumed by the theory of relativity, while
he and Morley have repeated the experiment since and have always
obtained a positive effect, which appears to vary with the time of
day. Unless some explanation is forthcoming, the theory of rela-
tivity will need considerable modification in the light of these experi-
ments. At Leicester, Lord Rutherford suggested that the facts are
all-important, and theory must be kept in its place. Sir Arthur
Eddington seemed to suggest that if the facts do not agree with the
theory, tant pis pour les faits. Lord Rutherford is not so obviously
right as appears at a first glance, for facts are generally discovered
only under the guidance of some theory. But we may rest assured
that if the difficult but entrancing problems of modern physics are
to be solved, it will be by the perfect union of fact and theory, and
that alone.
Ee) a sealants i

ire pea Lae <r é |
yer udaiduy ont weed? a OGrosdt Oh Bareedaleees Bai
absent iat ditt ait ste

cataitak: aagchan euelea! bee fthovepirocthient, sift
wire buitiders ai nerrisediiia tii aaty a asthe
at Spelt revise Pull be, oar, a: catts
ib Toc aemtitoy oa ae, 21 iy
Uidideene! Veiivered hetnenciasy) sass
loninie gaidenip inal, Precise piety

56, theiotanaly Kah esistdong adh te yntog aa wating igodd pie |
Uimidalpatene ‘ul bees Seitibee oat! baer int 8

asin WSiibur esha Sa pete! Lene Piet Ry i
lah hh eo PELE ute pakl orioyd analenbepee man |
UPPiee Ion wider esiotg Eadliyirn ‘aga ee Hirota SCD ie pep Wael
Netivabalier 28 apron Mods sin! ewan ahn! sav saahiea ene yoebirste yey
RAY Tu ddaiereehyy s. Pf -abdtouoehe arias Oe fat bie
-  SayPiole BEB pio Bae Adio ave ta roti wane
sul ppelelen Re giuet of ir bsalidGhesd tie Roe
Sepsed sl aoied! Prk shpes HK ERS hii Saree ais on peta be
Reh seis I WaT PE 08 singular grote onigidodem: pantliot

alee Yor een dade aor ‘Lt wobtancet sth giles jot 4 te
aefianpan paslines. FE LS moti bare abd eten Mane: sabe VE

lapel be orl at nee anise Dal eo Bade ated |

serene ae? Senlipt at) et agai! ne? anideodpstbenhe Bake ees

aio: ial ear comers HAD et: ae

; NED 3 fc |

| iy arene 4

|

Raph’ nate par Pras ends “Epa eed piimber. ; Je
srrhner Unt an Andetig tale | ine iadlge, Filet Pye.
bade, SaeHe Paes trees eae Ay ini ahh the Bis ea +6 be ag ee Re
SPU RIN Ee Relate wis alvays Hewes’ i wae
post: dnt ian pie ena aus i. Rs :
Gare gil will wpe ty he aoe on twaiis
aie Saya Pala a hye £4, eh) Leite hia ee ese sont ERLE te
RG hadith era exp oni of, ie he erty :

we ee a ee a,
HIGH VOLTAGE’

By Kart T. CoMpTon
President, Massachusetts Institute of Technology

[With 1 plate]

While there is much truth in the statement that necessity is the
mother of invention, it has often been pointed out that it is far from
true that necessity is the mother of discovery. Discoveries come often
most unexpectedly, in the pursuit of knowledge by the curious and
observant. The great background of natural phenomena which have
thus been discovered form an immense reservoir from which may be
drawn natural laws or combinations of phenomena which can be
made to work for the solution of men’s needs or desires when necessity
arises.

One of the most excellent examples of the fact that necessity is the
mother of invention is found in the great number of applications of
science which were made during the past war to cope with situations
which never before had challenged the ingenuity of man. Such situ-
ations were the detection and location of submarines or of airplanes
flying by night. There were also the location of underground mining
operations or of enemy artillery by sound, or the direction of counter-
battery artillery fire, also by sound. Such examples could be multi-
plied almost indefinitely, but the interesting feature of them all is
that every one was handled by the application of some scientific phe-
nomenon which had been known in the laboratory for many years.
The necessities of war brought forth the means of applying these
phenomena for particular purposes.

It is to a very recent example of this natural sequence of events
that I will call your attention in this paper, an example taken from
the field of electricity, the chosen field of Joseph Henry in whose
honor this lecture has been named. It is a modern application of
one of the oldest branches of electricity, a branch so old that some
ultramodern textbook writers have advocated omitting it entirely
from textbooks on account of the academic and impractical character
of its subject matter. But let me first lay the groundwork for this
new development in the field of high-voltage electricity.

1The third Joseph Henry lecture delivered before the Philosophical Society of Wash-
ington on Mar. 11, 1933. Reprinted by permission from Journal of the Washington

Academy of Sciences, vol. 23, no. 6, June 15, 1933.
249
250 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

While electricity can be produced in a variety of ways, and it was
some time in the history of the subject before it was realized that the
electricity was the same kind of thing in all of these cases, neverthe-
less there are but three principal means of generating electricity.
The first is static electricity, first discovered by Thales of Miletus as
early as 600 B.C. Thales found that amber, when rubbed against
other substances, had the power of attracting fragments of straw or
leaves or feathers. In fact, the word electricity is derived from the
Greek word electrum, meaning amber, and was first so used by
William Gilbert in about 1600.

The second great step in the production of electricity was the inven-
tion by Volta of the voltaic cell in 1799, and from that time until the
time of Faraday in 1831, the great development of electricity was in
the production of batteries of various kinds. Volta was able to gen-
erate several hundred volts by piling up alternate layers of copper
and zinc, separated by paper which had been moistened with acid,
thus creating, in effect, a battery with a large number of cells in
series.

When in 1831 Faraday made the discovery of electromagnetic in-
duction and about the same time Joseph Henry discovered self-
induction and independently repeated a number of Faraday’s dis-
coveries in mutual induction, the modern science of electricity and
art of electrical engineering were born.

It is a striking fact, which perhaps we do not stop to think about,
that this so-called “electrical age ” has grown up during a period of
one working lifetime, since men like Elihu Thomson are still living
and men like Edison have just died, who built upon these scientific
discoveries of Faraday and of Henry the modern art of electrical
engineering.

With the development of electromagnetic devices, dynamos, mo-
tors, and transformers, the use of batteries, except for very special
purposes, has largely been discontinued. Static electricity, which
had been developed from the study of frictional charges and charges
of conductors by induction, was relegated almost to the field of
scientific but useless curiosities. The efficiency of electromagnetic
generating apparatus has been developed to a remarkable degree, so
that for the practical purposes of our industrial needs and our home
needs the modern science of electricity has appeared to be eminently
satisfactory.

It is true that there have been some other new developments of
first importance in the electrical field, notably electronic devices, such
as radio-tube detectors, amplifiers, and transmitters or devices which
operate with ionization of gases, such as the mercury-arc rectifier and
the glow discharge tube. These things, however, are more in the
HIGH VOLTAGE—COMPTON 251

nature of electrical instruments or electrical control devices, and it
still remains true that the production and distribution of electricity
are basically carried on by means of the electromagnetic induction
devices developed from the work of Faraday and Henry.

Let us follow the development of high voltage by electromagnetic
induction. In this, as in all other fields, the first developments were
crude, as was necessarily the case because instruments and methods
had not been developed and everything had to be taken up de novo.
When Joseph Henry wished to build his great magnet with several
coils of wire he had first to invent insulated wire, which he did by
wrapping strips of his wife’s dresses and petticoats covered with
shellac around the wire. When Henry wished to measure the voltage
of the current produced in a step-up transformer he had no ammeter
or voltmeter capable of detecting the small current at high voltage
and had to substitute for them the students in his class, judging the
voltage by the number of students who could be shocked when con-
nected hand to hand in series across the terminals of the secondary
of his transformer. ‘Thus a voltage that would shock 30 students he
estimated to be twice as high as one which would shock 15 students,
and in this way he was able to arrive at a very crude but correct idea
of the relationship between the number of turns of wire in the sec-
ondary of a transformer and the voltage which was produced therein.

The story is told of a striking lecture demonstration given by
Henry while at Princeton. He hung a secondary coil of a large num-
ber of turns of wire on the inside wall of his classroom and had the
students of his class join hands in series across the terminal of the
coil. he primary coil of this transformer was concealed from the
students, being suspended on the outer wall of the building from
wires passing out through an attic window and connected with a
large voltaic battery in the attic. When Henry rapped against the
wall his assistant in the attic plunged the copper and zinc battery
plates into the acid, thus sending a current through the primary,
which induced a high voltage in the secondary and shocked the
students of his class.

It is probable that Henry, burdened as he was with administrative
duties and the difficulties of finding the means wherewith to carry on
his experiments, did not realize so clearly as did his contemporary,
Faraday, the ultimate practical value of these things which he was
doing. Faraday, when once asked by the King, “ What is the use of
these things?” replied, “ Your Majesty, of what use is a baby?”
And another time, when he was asked by the Prime Minister this
same question, “ Of what use are these things which you are doing? ”
he replied, “ Your Excellency, some day you may be able to tax these
things.” Henry, however, was so wrapped up in his scientific pur-
252 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

suits that he gave little thought to the possible practical application
of his work. It is said that when he was once urged to press his
claim as inventor of the telegraph and other instruments, he replied
that there were far too many interesting things to be done in the
laboratory to permit him to take time with such matters.

There has been a practical urge for the development of high
voltage power from three different points of view. The first and
most important of these is for the transmission of electric power
over large distances. It is much more economical to transmit power
at high voltage and small current than at low voltage with large
current, because the resistance losses depend upon the current and
not the voltage. For this reason the voltage of high-power trans-
mission lines has continually risen from first a few hundred volts,
then a few thousand, not many years ago 60,000, and now upwards
of 200,000 volts. The losses of power and the necessity of auxiliary
equipment are such that, according to a practical rule, it is not
economical to transmit electrical power farther than 1 mile for every
1,000 volts. From this we see that a modern 200,000-volt trans-
mission line could be economically used to transfer power from
the power-generating station to distances of about 200 miles, but
beyond these distances such transmission of power is not economical.
For that reason, in any area requiring the use of electricity, power-
generating stations must be located at distances of not more than
200 miles from each other.

The question may be asked as to why the voltage is not raised still
higher than 200,000 volts; and the answer to this is found in the
fact that, with higher voltages, the electric field in the air surround-
ing the wire becomes so intense as to ionize the air, causing a leak-
age of electricity from the wire into the air in the form of an electric
discharge known as a “corona.” This phenomenon of corona is one
of the facts which set the practical upper limit to the voltage which
can be used for transmission.

It is not feasible to generate directly voltages in the range of
several hundred thousand volts, because the difficulty of insulation
becomes too great, and an electric dynamo with insulation adequate
to withstand even several thousand volts would have to be so large,
to include the necessary insulation, as to be unwieldy and inefficient.
Consequently, the power is generated at relatively low voltage,
usually a few hundred volts in alternating current, and this is sent
through a step-up transformer insulated in oil, in which the second-
ary has a hundred or a thousand times more turns of wire than the
primary. In this secondary coil the very high voltage is generated
for transmission over the power lines. Then at the other end of the
line the power is fed through a similar transformer in the reverse
HIGH VOLTAGE—COMPTON 253

order and comes out of that secondary as a very large current at
relatively small voltage.

There has been no really fundamental difficulty to be overcome in
these power transmission lines, although there have been very many
interesting problems of science and engineering to be solved. The
proper design of a transformer to be efficient and to be sufficiently
well insulated is one problem. Perhaps the most difficult problem has
been that of proper switching devices so that these high-voltage cur-
rents can be started and stopped without excessive arcing at the
switches. It is such developments as these which have made the great
generating stations at Niagara Falls and the many other hydro-
electric or steam-electric generating stations such an important
feature in our present industrial life.

The second thing that has stimulated high-voltage developments
of the electromagnetic type has been the X-ray. For ordinary pur-
poses, from 30,000 to 100,000 volts are adequate for either diagnostic
or therapeutic purposes. Of recent years, however, in the endeavor
to find the most effective methods of treating internal cancerous
growth there has been an increasing desire to go to much higher
voltages, and consequently X-ray tubes operating on as much as a
million volts have been developed at the General Electric Co., at the
California Institute of Technology, and elsewhere.

To generate the high-voltage power for these X-ray tubes, recourse
has been had to transformers connected in series, the primary of one
transformer being connected with the secondary of the other, and all
transformers after the first being insulated. By such means, large
power can be delivered and high voltages obtained, although a million
volts appears to be about the practical limit, because there are para-
sitic currents known as “ charging currents ” which drain a great deal
of energy uselessly from the system when an alternating or “ varying
current ” is used at such high voltages. Furthermore, the equipment
becomes tremendously expensive on account of the requirements for
insulation.

The third thing that has led to high-voltage developments of the
electromagnetic induction type has been the study of the effect of
lightning on transmission lines and the desire of electrical engineers
to duplicate as nearly as possible the effect of lightning by means of
high-voltage sources for laboratory study. For this purpose there
has been developed the impulse generator, in which a series of con-
densers capable of storing electric charge at high voltage are charged
in parallel from a high-voltage transformer and are then connected
in series, so that the overall voltage delivered is the sum of the volt-
ages across the separate condensers. By such means impulsive or
momentary voltages of 10 or 15 million volts have been obtained.
254 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

These are exactly right for studying transient effects like those of
lightning, but the impulse generator is inherently incapable of serv-
ing’ properly any purpose which requires a steady and reasonably
constant source of high voltage. The discharge in this impulse gen-
erator lasts only a few hundred thousandths or millionths of a
second.

This impulse generator represents the peak of high-voltage accom-
plishment by the electromagnetic method, and you will notice that
this is accomplished by combining with the electromagnetic device,
namely, the step-up transformer, a series of condensers which are
essentially electrostatic instruments.

Let us return now from the high-voltage developments, based
on principles of electromagnetism, to the historically earlier type
of electric generation which falls within the general field known as
electrostatics.. The characteristic of these devices has been the rela-
tive ease of producing high voltages, but with an exceedingly
minute quantity of electricity.

The first electrical machines of which we have any knowledge
were frictional electrical machines constructed about 1663 by Otto
von Guericke. They consisted of globes of sulphur made to rotate
about an axis so as to rub against the hands if held against them.
In this way the globe of sulphur became electrically charged, and
the charge of the opposite sign appeared on the person who touched
the globe. Isaac Newton appears to have been the first person to
use a glass globe instead of sulphur, but it was Ramsden in 1768
who really constructed the first object that might really be called
an electrical generating machine.

The Ramsden machine consists of a glass plate which can be
rotated by a winch and which passes with rubbing contact between
two leather pads. By friction the glass becomes positively charged
and the pads are negatively charged. These positive charges are
taken off the glass disk as it passes in rotation between combs of
sharp points. Similarly the negative electricity from the pads is
collected from them and delivered to another terminal. For a num-
ber of years the only development of the art of electrical generation
consisted in finding various materials which might be put on the
glass or on the leather pads to increase their effectiveness in separat-
ing frictional electricity.

A later development of a frictional machine is that invented by
Lord Armstrong of Newcastle, England, in 1841. Lord Armstrong
was experimenting with steam boilers. By accident one of his assist-
ants received an electric shock when he touched a piece of metal
against which a jet of steam from a leaky boiler was striking. This
led Lord Armstrong to further experiments leading to the steam
HIGH VOLTAGE—COMPTON 255

electrostatic generator. The action of this generator consisted in

a series of nozzles against a neighboring metal plate. The droplets
of water were charged by frictional contact against the walls of the
nozzles. The electrical power was created by the work done in
moving the charged droplets against the electric field which devel-
oped between the nozzle and the plate on which the droplets struck,
and, of course, this power was in turn derived from the driving
power of the steam, which carried the droplets out and away from
the nozzle.

Another whole series of electrostatic generators was built upon the
principle of electrostatic induction. Perhaps the simplest of these
was the Belli doubler, which was devised in 1831 and operated on the
same principle as a later
device designed by Lord
Kelvin and better known
as the ‘“ Kelvin replen-
isher ”, described by him
in 1872. This action is
shown schematically in
figure 1. When the rotat-
ing member with the in-
sulated plates # and F is
at the position shown,
positive and negative
charges are separated B

a oie.

|
from the connecting wire, : ee a
which brushes lightly Wicgure 1.— Schematic diagram of Kelvin replenisher.
against /’ and /, by means
of the electrostatic forces arising from the charges on the neighbor-
ing metal armatures C and D. As the rotating arm turns and breaks
contact with these brushes the charges are carried on /' and F and,
when they touch the springs C and D, respectively, these charges are
communicated to the armatures, thus increasing the charge already
existing on these armatures. Then at the next contact with the
brushes at #' and F the process is repeated. Consequently the charge
on the armatures continually builds up until it reaches such magni-
tude, or rather until the voltage rises so high that the charge leaks
away as fast as it is produced, leaking away either through the insula-
tion or by a corona discharge produced by breakdown of the
surrounding air.

A large variety of instruments, some simple and some very compli-
cated, have been developed to carry on the idea of the Belli doubler

in a more efficient manner. Such instruments were devised by Varley
in 1860, by Toepler in 1865, and by Holtz between 1864 and 1880, but
256 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

by far the most successful of these devices is the well-known Wims-
hurst machine, which was first invented in about 1878. This ma-
chine is well known to everybody, I think, as the “influence ma-
chine ”, whose action may be described as follows:

Imagine that, in some way or other—for example, by friction—a
small negative charge is located on the metal sector of the rotating
disk opposite the point @ of figure 2. This negative charge will

Ficurp 2.—Schematic diagram of Wimshurst influence machine.

induce the separation of positive and negative electricity in the metal
rod CD, drawing positive charge to the point C and forcing negative
charge to the point D. At these two points the charges are collected
on the metal sectors of the second glass disk which is rotating in the
opposite direction. Thus all the metal sectors to the right of C carry
positive charge collected from @ and they all deliver it to the sharp
needle point at F,
HIGH VOLTAGE—COMPTON 257

At the same time these positive charges on the metal sectors to
the right of @ will similarly induce negative charges in the metal rod
AB, which charges will be deposited on the metal sector to the left
of A and will in their turn be collected by the sharp point at #.
Thus the process is a continuous one, # and F collecting negative and
positive electricity, respectively, from the metal sectors on both of
the revolving disks. By having a multiplicity of revolving disks
these Wimshurst machines may be made to deliver a considerable
amount of power and were in fact
at one time quite largely used in
the X-ray art until they were sup-
planted by the more powerful and
much more convenient electromag-
netic induction devices described
previously, including set-up trans-
formers, induction coils, and the
like.

One of the most ingenious types
of electrostatic induction machines
is the famous Kelvin water-dropper
which is shown in figure 3. Here
perhaps more easily than in any
of the other induction machines
can be seen the way in which a
small charge once produced may
result in the continual building up
of an indefinitely large charge, if
the arrangement of apparatus and
connections are suitably arranged.
Assume for a moment that for some
cause, such as friction of the wind
or anything else, there happens to
be a small charge on the cylinder A.
Every drop of water leaving the outlet in A will therefore carry a
small induced negative charge which will be delivered to the cup
below, thus raising the cylinder at B to a negative charge. All of
the drops of water which come from the outlet inside of B will there-
fore carry the positive charges which will be collected in the trap
below and serve still further to increase the positive charge on A.
So the process goes on, the charges building up until through leakage
or through a corona discharge to the air, they leak away as fast as
produced.

At this point I am minded to make a confession regarding my
first experiment in physics. I conceived the idea of producing

Figurb 3.—The Kelvin water-dropper.
258 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

electrolysis by the use of gravitational energy alone, and set up a
device somewhat similar to the Kelvin water-dropper. My device
consisted of drops of copper sulphate coming from an outlet lke
that in the cylinder A and falling into a platinum funnel lke that
directly below A. I charged the cylinder A with a large negative
charge from a static machine, and this charge remained on the
cylinder, which was well insulated. Consequently, every drop ot
copper sulphate that dropped carried an induced positive charge and
delivered it to the funnel 6, which was earthed. This excess positive
charge would of course be in the form of copper ions which would
be deposited on the platinum in the process of neutralization of the
drop. After running the apparatus for an hour or so, I looked at the
platinum cylinder to see whether I could see any copper deposited
on its inside, and finding none, I set the apparatus going in the late
afternoon and let it run automatically until the following morning.
Again examining the funnel, I found no deposit of copper and, some-
what surprised, [ sat down to figure. I soon discovered that the
copper would be present in far too small a quantity to detect. In
fact, if every drop were charged with the largest amount of elec-
tricity which it could carry without losing it by corona to the sur-
rounding air, and if the drops had fallen as fast as possible begin-
ning with the time of Christ, I would by this time have collected
barely enough copper to be shown by the most sensitive known
chemical test. This little experience illustrates the vast difference
in magnitude between the kind of currents that we are accus-
tomed to deal with in electromagnetic induction devices, dynamos and
motors, and these relatively very feeble currents of electrostatics.
These drops were charged with high electrostatic voltage, and the
device was a fairly efficient electrostatic generator, and yet 2,000
years would have been required to deposit an amount of copper such
as would appear in a fraction of a second with only a moderate
current of the type that we ordinarily use in electromagnetic
instruments.

In recent years an interesting development of the Kelvin water-
dropper has been proposed by Dr. Swann, of the Bartol Research
Laboratory, in which the water drops are replaced by steel balls
which fall under the action of gravity, and in order to make the
process continuous, there is the suggestion that these balls may be
carried back again to the upper container by means of magnetic
control. In this way the succession of falling balls behaves some-
what like a continuous belt containing metal sections separated by
insulated regions of air and driven by gravity. In the absence of
leakage this kind of a generator should be capable of developing such
a high voltage that the electrostatic attraction of the falling balls
HIGH VOLTAGE—COMPTON 259

would just compensate gravity. This would be an extremely high
voltage such as could be obtained only if the apparatus were oper-
ating in a vacuum, and, in fact, Dr. Swann suggests that it may be
operated in this manner.

With this historic survey of electrostatic generators, let me now
return to the text of my address, “ Necessity is the mother of inven-
tion.” Until very recently there was no compelling need to force
physicists to seek ever higher and higher voltages in electrical gen-
erating devices. ‘Their needs were met by existing devices of the
electromagnetic type. Within the past dozen years, however, it has
become evident that a whole new range of fundamental investiga-
tion into the properties of atoms will be opened up by a suitable
source of high potentials.

This new inducement may be said to have arisen with Rutherford’s
discovery that it is possible to transmute one chemical element into
another by bombarding it with the fast electrified particles known
as alpha particles, which are spontaneously given off by radioactive
materials in the process of their disintegration. These brilliant ex-
periments opened up a whole range of new explorations into the
structure of the atomic nucleus and stimulated the imagination of
scientists in regard to what might be done if only they had available
some more powerful and better controllable source of high-speed
missiles to shoot at the atomic nuclei. The alpha particles from
radium do have tremendous velocities, but they are relatively few in
number, and all the radium that could conceivably be gathered to-
gether in the world would not produce a stream of electrified parti-
cles comparable to that which can be obtained in an ordinary
discharge of electricity through a vacuum tube. If only the voltage
as applied to a vacuum tube could be made high enough to give the
ions in a vacuum tube speeds comparable with or even exceeding
those of alpha particles from radium, what a powerful attack could
be made upon the nucleus. Not only could particles in billionfold
larger numbers be used, but different kinds of particles could be
tried, such as hydrogen nuclei, helium nuclei, lithium nuclei, neon
nuclei, and so forth, and these could be given any desired speed up
to the maximum limit determined by the highest voltage available.
So for the past dozen years, thoughts of scientists have again been
turned to means for producing ever and ever higher voltages.

It was to this end that the million-volt installation at the Cali-
fornia Institute of Technology was designed. It was also to this
end that a system of high-potential transformers and condensers
was built by Cockcroft and Walton in Cambridge, with which they
were the first successfully to disintegrate atoms by means of elec-
trified particles produced from an artificial source and speeded up

727743518
260 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

by an applied voltage. However, the necessities of the case have
led to other suggestions for securing high voltages, because the
inherent limitations of electromagnetic induction devices lead to
prohibitive expense and complexity if voltages much above a million
volts are sought by such means.

There have thus been three very interesting new developments in
the art of securing high voltages, or perhaps more generally, elec-
trified particles with those speeds that would be acquired with tre-
mendously high voltages. Of these, in order of apparent utility,
are the devices of Brasch and Lange in Germany, of Lawrence at
the University of California, and of Van de Graaff at the Masschu-
setts Institute of Technology.

The greatest natural source of high voltage of which we have any
knowledge is the thunderstorm. It is estimated that the voltages in
lightning flashes frequency exceed a billion volts; consequently it
was natural for Brasch and Lange to look to the lightning flash as a
source of high potential and to set up what may be considered as a
glorified Franklin kite. Their apparatus consisted of a pair of long
cables suspended between mountain peaks in that region of the Alps
where thunderstorms are most frequent. These cables may be
thought of as huge wireless antennae for receiving the electrical
impulses of nearby lightning flashes. This was an installation of
real engineering proportions, since the porcelain insulators alone at
each end of the cable weighed upward of 2 tons. The terminals of
the two conducting cables consisted of large spheres, whose distance
apart could be varied by drawing in or letting out cable. The volt-
age obtained was estimated by the sparking distance between these
spheres and voltages were obtained ranging between 8 and 15 million
volts.

Although the voltage was tremendously high, its erratic occur-
rence and uncontrollable nature has led Brasch and Lange to give
it up in favor of somewhat more conventional means of producing
their high voltage, and at present they are working with an impulse
generator.

An extremely clever device is that invented by Prof. Ernest Law-
rence, of the University of California, by means of which electrified
particles may be given energy characteristic of several millions of
volts with the application of a much smaller voltage. The principle
is that of repeated impulses, analagous to the way by which the
amplitude of swing of a child in a swing may be made very great by
a succession of small pushes, properly timed. In Lawrence’s appa-
ratus an oscillating voltage is applied to the ions, first in one direc-
tion and then in the other, while they are moving in approximately
circular paths in a magnetic field and conditions are adjusted so that
HIGH VOLTAGE—COMPTON 261

every time the voltage is applied the electrons are speeded up by just
that amount. Thus, by applying only a few thousand volts, protons
have been obtained with energy corresponding to nearly 21% million
volts.

Figure 4 shows a diagram of the apparatus. The protons or other
ions are liberated, by a suitable device, near the center of a flat,
hollow cylinder, which is divided into two parts separated from each

|

|
to

high freguency
oscrf/lefor

|

Ficurp 4.—Diagram of Professor Lawrence’s apparatus for producing high speed
electrified particles.

other. The oscillating high-frequency voltage is applied to these
two parts, and at the same time the whole cylinder is placed between
the poles of a powerful magnet. An ion starting at @ is pulled by
the momentary electric field across the gap and it takes, in the mag-
netic field, a circular path around to 6. The frequency is adjusted
so that by the time it reaches } the direction of the voltage has re-
versed so that the ion is again speeded up as it crosses 6 back into
the half-cylinder from which it started. Then by the time it reaches
¢ the voltage has again reversed to its original direction and it is
262 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

given another push, and so on. The few-thousand-volts push is
given to the ion every time it crosses the gap. It proceeds in ever-
widening circles, attaining a speed limited only by the dimensions of
the apparatus. With this device, Lawrence and his colleagues have
reason for hoping that the speeds may ultimately be increased up to
perhaps the equivalent of 10 million volts.

The currents are not very large, being reported of the order of a
thousandth of a microampere. Nevertheless, these currents are tre-
mendous in comparison with anything that can be obtained from
radioactive material, and this source of high-speed, electrified par-
ticles will evidently be an important tool in nuclear investigation, as
is in fact evident from very recent reports from Professor Lawrence’s
laboratory in which the experiments of Cockcroft and Walton in
disintegrating lithium nuclei by means of high-speed protons have
been confirmed and extended.

In the construction of this apparatus, the largest magnet ever built
in this country has been put into use.

We come now to what I believe to be the most important develop-
ment that has ever taken place in the field of extremely high voltages,
namely, the Van de Graaff generator, invented by Dr. Van de Graaff
as a result of considerations which were developed while he was a
Rhodes scholar in England and which first took shape in the form of
physical laboratory experiments at Princeton and which are now be-
ing developed and extended in the laboratories of the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology.

From every point of view it is advantageous for very high voltages
to have direct uniform currents. Van de Graaff was therefore led to
develop an electrostatic generator, since electrostatic methods yield
directly a steady unidirectional voltage such as is desired. Maximum
simplicity was sought in the design. The simplest terminal assembly
appeared to be a sphere mounted on an insulating column. Since the
sphere must be charged and since the process should be continuous,
the charge carrier should approach the sphere, enter it, and, after de-
positing its charge inside, should return parallel to its path of ap-
proach. This immediately suggested the action of a belt, a device
long used for the transmission of mechanical power.

The logic of the situation therefore pointed directly to a generator
consisting of a hollow spherical conducting terminal supported on an
insulating column, a moving belt to carry electric charge to the
sphere, a device for depositing the charge onto the belt in a region of
low potential remote from the sphere, and a device for removing this
charge from the belt inside the sphere and transferring it to the
sphere. A refinement of these essentials was the addition of an in-
duction device whereby charge of the opposite sign was carried by
HIGH VOLTAGE—COMPTON 263

the belt on its return journey, thus doubling the current output. A
second refinement consisted of a self-exciting charging device
whereby the entire generator could be made to operate independently
of any external source of electricity. Not only does this device attain
the desired result in what appears to be the simplest possible manner,
but it is also interesting to note that the energy transformations in
its operations are exceedingly simple, consisting only in the trans-
formation of the energy required to drive the belt into work done in
separating and transferring electric charge from earth potential to
sphere potential. Figure 5 shows, schematically, the operation of
this generator.

i = 4

TS
>

PRP owt

Amann
SS

\ BARRA AAA
WE Soe a>» e

a SE = =
Cae a ee
WANA S

SSS

4 ee en ie ae
\ % WAN BES EN CNN
\ SX. AS WOQQAAAA \
. —_w
A
Ppme— typ p tea rete

—
WON

\
>.

Diets, h hE

; ' "a ia Sa RT We Tur YW TE 1
Oe

’
NN
8

RSLS Fig hl ae ies |

he
ry

Ficurge 5.—Schematic diagram of Van de Graaff electrostatic generator.

By this means electricity is continually conveyed to the spherical
terminal, whose potential consequently rises until limited by the
breakdown of the insulation of the air in the form of a corona
discharge at the surface of the spheres. This breakdown voltage
depends on the size of the sphere, being approximately 750,000 volts
for a 2-foot sphere and increasing to 5 million volts for a 15-foot,
264 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

sphere. Thus the attainable voltage depends upon the size of the
spherical terminal.

The current, on the other hand, is simply equal to the rate at
which electricity is carried to and from the sphere by means of the
belts, and this in turn depends upon the size, speed, and number
of belts and the quantity of electricity which can be placed on a
unit area of the belt. This latter quantity is also limited by the
breakdown voltage of the surrounding air, to an amount of about
5X10 coulombs per square centimeter of belt area. Under these
conditions it is readily shown that a belt running at 6,000 feet per
minute could theoretically carry a maximum current of 150 micro-
amperes per inch width of belt. Actually, the best adjustments have
given about half of this theoretical maximum, probably because the
breakdown strength of the air is reduced by the mechanism whereby
charge is sprayed onto the belts.

Theory and practice also show that these belts may be placed as
close together as is geometrically possible, in fact, practically in
contact, without interfering with their capacity to carry charge.
By packing many belts together it is therefore possible to produce
very sizeable currents. For example, a small laboratory model for
demonstration purposes, constructed this year in the laboratories
at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, develops 144 million
volts between a pair of 2-foot spherical terminals and delivers a cur-
rent of 600 microamperes carried on two 8-inch belts in each sphere.

Even in this small model the currents are approximately a million
times greater than those which have been obtained in the high-speed
ion source designed by Lawrence.

The first model of such a generator that was actually constructed
was built in Princeton in the fall of 1929, being built out of a tin
can, a silk ribbon, and a small motor, at no expense. This model
developed 80,000 volts, being limited by the corona discharge from
the edges of the can.

The next model was designed and built for operation in a vacuum
tank for reasons to be outlined later.

The third model was built to give a quick and easy demonstration
of the possibilities of the machine, using 2-foot spherical terminals
supported on pyrex rods, and supplied by current carried on silk
belts 214 inches wide, driven by small motors. This apparatus was
demonstrated successively in Princeton, New York, Washington,
Boston, and elsewhere. Although built at a total cost of less than
$100, it developed more than twice as high a voltage as any direct
current generator of which we have knowledge.

Encouraged by the success of this model, plans were immediately
made for the construction of as large a generator as seemed practical
HIGH VOLTAGE—COMPTON 265

for operation in air, the limitation being placed by the size of the
house in which it must operate. The largest place available was a
dock built for a Goodyear dirigible on the estate of Col. EK. H. R.
Green at South Dartmouth, Mass, and which Colonel Green kindly
put at the disposal of the Institute. Ten million volts was selected
as the highest voltage that could be used in a building of this size
without excessive loss of current through the air to the roof and walls.
For this voltage, therefore, there has been built a generator with
15-foot spherical terminals made of welded aluminum, mounted on
24-foot textolite insulating columns in the form of 6-foot cylinders,
and carried on large fabricated steel trucks, running on a 14-foot
gage railway track in order to vary the position of the terminals
when desired.

In this construction the Research Corporation gave invaluable
aid through assistance in the engineering drawings and through a
grant of $10,000, which defrayed approximately half the cost of the
generator.

Plate 1 is a photograph of this generator, taken on the day before
Christmas. In using this generator for experimental purposes it is
planned to use the inside of the spheres as laboratory rooms, and to
mount the discharge tube, suitably designed for producing high speed
ions, between two spheres.

Every feature in the construction and operation of this large gen-
erator has gone as expected, and a few days ago the first belt was
put into operation and voltage generated as expected. This belt is
made of paper 3 feet wide and running at about 5,000 feet per minute.
The initial trials gave an output of 600 microamperes, and previous
experience indicates that with the proper adjustments this output
may be increased to a milliampere. The design of the apparatus is
such that a large number of belts may be made to operate in parallel,
so that there will be no difficulty whatsoever in securing an output of
between a tenth and a hundredth of an ampere if such large currents
become desirable. It will be noted, however, that if currents as
large as a tenth of an ampere are used at 10 million volts, the gen-
erator will be delivering 1,000 kilowatts.

The enormous possibilities of this machine become evident when
we compare a possible input of 1,000 kilowatts in the form of 10-
million-volt electrified particles, with the sources which up to the
present have been available for experiments on atomic disintegration
and which have been principally small amounts of radioactive
material.

We come now to a very interesting aspect of this type of generator,
namely, the influence of the surrounding insulating medium. If the
generator is placed in some medium whose electrical break-down
266 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

strength is greater than that of air, then the voltage and the current
both increase proportionately and the power output increases as the
square of the break-down strength. The two media most convenient
are either some gas such as air at high pressure, or a vacuum. With
gas at high pressure, the break-down strength is approximately pro-
portional to the pressure, so that the operation of a generator in a
tank of gas at 30 atmospheres pressure should give 30 times the
voltage, 30 times the current, and 900 times the power of the same
device mounted in the open air. It is relatively easy to build a con-
tainer for compressed gases and to mount a generator in it, and this,
in fact, has been done by Dr. Barton at Princeton, originally with
the collaboration of Dr. Van de Graaff.

By far the most intriguing possibilities of this generator are found
in its vacuum embodiment, because a high vacuum is the best of all
insulators since it offers no “ windage” resistance to the motion of
the belt, and because many of the applications of the high voltage
will themselves be in vacuum discharge tubes which can be built
right into the generating system.

Such a generator has been designed and built. It is still in the
experimental stage, but various complicating factors have one by one
been overcome. Experience to date indicates that there is in sight
no insurmountable obstacle to the construction of generators which
may even reach considerably higher voltages than the generator at
Round Hill.

In conclusion, it is interesting to know that two Van de Graaff
generators have been built and operated in Washington under the
direction of Dr. Merle A. Tuve, of the Department of Terrestrial
Magnetism of the Carnegie Institution. One of these has been
actually used for experiments on atomic disintegration and the other
instrument, a larger one developing upward of 2 million volts, is
awaiting a suitable housing, now under construction, for its satis-
factory operation. Dr. Tuve in Washington, Dr. Coolidge, of the
General Electric Co., and Dr. Slack, of the Westinghouse Co., all
of whom have built and experimented with Van de Graaff generators
subsequent to the demonstration of Van de Graaff’s first air-operated
instrument in the summer of 1931, have been very helpful in report-
ing their experiences with the generators.

In conclusion, it may fairly be said that this new type of generator
as an electrical instrument has already been highly successful and
shows promise of very considerable further development. It remains
to be seen whether the necessity which was the mother of this inven-
tion—namely, the desire for high-speed particles for the study of
atomic nuclei—will lead to important new knowledge of atomic
structure with the aid of this device. Several good men are begin-
Smithsonian Report, 1933.—Compton PLATE 1

Courtesy The Technology Review.

THE LARGE VAN DE GRAAFF GENERATOR OF THE MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF
TECHNOLOGY,
HIGH VOLTAGE—-COMPTON 267

ning work on the application of these voltages to nuclear disintegra-
tion, and it will not be long before some indications, at any rate, may
be obtained as to the significance of the new developments in high-
voltage technique.

Whether or not the apparatus will be successful in opening up
new fields of atomic investigation, it has already opened up the
possibility for electrical investigations and possible practical appli-
cations of electricity in a new voltage range, and it will be surpris-
ing indeed if there are not some developments of scientific and
practical significance that will eventually emerge from this new field
of activity.
t.

se “i baie

wigullat Louise Saal we
‘pos ahs Trew Je eeotyaaI ba — 16
“fis aa wee |
THE BATTLE OF THE ALCHEMISTS*

By Karu T. Compron
President, Massachusetts Institute of Technology

[With 3 plates]

Long, long ago, when gods mingled among men, the god Hermes
established the first laboratory on this earth and discovered many
new and interesting substances by subjecting various kinds and mix-
tures of earth and rocks to the influence of fire or water. Not being
blessed with the protection of the United States Patent Office, he
kept his discoveries secret by putting his products into jars, which
were carefully closed and sealed. Hence arose the term “ hermet-
ically sealed ”, and the chemistry and metallurgy which thus sprang
from the god Hermes was long known as the “ hermetic art.”

According to another legend, a group of wicked angels were ex-
pelled from heaven and settled on the earth, taking unto themselves
human wives. To these wives the fallen angels disclosed the magic
secrets of science, and the wives recorded these secrets in a book
which was called “ Chema”—the first handbook of chemistry.
Thereafter those who practiced this art were called “ alchemists.”
The ancient historian Tertullian tells of these fallen angels who thus
revealed to mankind the knowledge of gold and silver, precious
stones, and medicines.

However these things may be, there is ample documentary evi-
dence from Egypt that alchemy was a flourishing science and art in
Alexandria before the third century, and it is probable that a famous
book whose destruction was ordered by Diocletian in about A.D. 290
was one containing receipts and formulas for producing alloys to
simulate gold and silver and for manufacturing artificial jewels.

These early alchemists, like modern chemists, were guided by a
theory. Like our modern theories, theirs was imperfect, and like
ours it was an attempt to interpret and predict on the basis of a
generalization of experience. They started with Aristotle’s concep-
tion of four fundamental elements—earth, water, air, fire. (These

1The Seventh Steinmetz lecture, delivered before the Schenectady section of the

American Institute of Electrical Engineers, Nov. 18, 1932. Reprinted by permission from
the Technology Review, vol. 35, no. 5, February 1933.

269
270 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

are not so different from, for example, the notion of the four states
of matter proposed by Sir William Crookes, the solid state, the
liquid state, the gaseous state, and the ionized state.) The alchemists
also believed that there was one basic entity—prima materia—which
was identical in all bodies but which took different forms according
as it was brought into combination with one or more of the funda-
mental elements—earth, water, air, and fire. (In our time, we recog-
nize this prima materia to be electricity, existing in two forms as
electrons and protons.) By action of earth, water, air, or fire on
the various manifestations of the prima materia, these alchemists
performed oxidation, reduction, solution, smelting, alloying, and
it is not to be wondered that they interpreted their work as a “ trans-
mutation of matter.” From their standpoint it was transmutation.

On account of the variety of colors which their compounds exhibit
and their ease of chemical change, it is not surprising that mercury
and sulphur were of particular interest to the alchemists, and were
supposed to be quite close to this prima materia which they sought.
It is not so easy, however, to understand their choice of some of the
other substances. Hor example, Beauvais in 1250 classified matter
as consisting of four spirits and six bodies: the four spirits were
mercury, sulphur, arsenic, and sal ammoniac—and the six bodies
were gold, silver, copper, tin, lead, and iron—of which gold and
silver were pure and the rest impure.

In addition to this Greek background, which was gropingly sci-
entific in its approach, the mystery and magic of the Orient were
introduced from Arabia, Persia, and India as a result of the various
wars and invasions. Thence came the notion of the “ philosopher’s
stone ”, whose magic touch would transform common substances into
gold. (I suppose that the philosopher’s stone should be thought of
as the first catalyst—only it was, like the fountain of youth or the
end of the rainbow or Utopia, only a beautiful product of the
imagination. )

We must not despise the efforts of these alchemists. Among them
were numbered such great minds as Newton, Leibnitz, and Boyle,
all of whom studied and practiced alchemy, though they were be-
ginning to realize its defects. But from this mixed ancestry of
legend, experiment, and magic was born the modern science of
chemistry.

In the rapid rise of chemistry during the nineteenth century, a
beautiful and nearly perfect scientific theory of atoms and molecules
was developed as a far extension of the ancient philosophical ideas
of atoms of Democratus. How sound was this theory was demon-
strated by the fact that it was only extended, but not essentially
changed, when physicists devised methods of counting and weigh-
BATTLE OF THE ALCHEMISTS—COMPTON 271

ing molecules individually, measuring their separate velocities and
the energy and force required individually to pull them apart into
their constituent atoms. The puzzles of the old alchemists were
solved by the recognition of two classes of substances, elements and
compounds, of which the former retain their identity throughout
all action of earth, water, air, fire—or any other physical or chem-
ical agent. Thus alchemy, which sought to transmute the elements,
became supplanted by chemistry, which occupied itself with the
various combinations of these elements to form chemical compounds.
“Alchemy was dead! Long live chemistry!” But is this the end
of the story?

The textbook in which I first studied chemistry in 1904 defined an
atom as “ an indivisible, indestructible, and unchangeable unit of mat-
ter.” Yet 5 years earlier J. J. Thomson and his colleagues had spht
up atoms into electrons and positive ions, and within 20 years it had
come to be realized that the atom could be very changeable—could,
in fact, exist in any one of an infinite variety of conditions commonly
termed “ excited states.” Thus the atom is not indivisible and is not
unchangeable. But these changes do not really affect the identity
of the atom. ‘The electrons which it loses come back to it or others
take their places; it does not stay in its excited states very long, but
reverts to its normal state, usually within a hundred millionth of a
second. So, after all, the atom is still the same old atom, and its
new attributes which have been discovered by the physicists, while
they add to its versatility, do not undermine its fundamental charac-
ter of good old-fashioned chemical respectability.

In its ionization and its excited states the identity of the atom is
like that of a man. You may cut off his hair or his nails, but they
come back. You may even amputate a finger or a leg, but he is
still the same man. Or you may excite him to a fit of anger or
activity, but he cools down again. ‘Through it all he retains his
identity through that mysterious something that we call his soul.

Now the soul of an atom is its nucleus. Through ionization and
excited states this nucleus remains, so far as we know, unchanged.
Until we know the nucleus of the atom we no more know the atom
than do we know a man by his hair, nails, fingers, or legs. What do
we know about the nucleus ?

Beyond a doubt we know very exactly the mass of every kind of
atomic nucleus and that it is composed of a definite number of pro-
tons and electrons, which we know, and that it has a positive electric
charge, which we know accurately. Thus the hydrogen nucleus con-
sists of a single proton; the helium nucleus consists of 4 protons and
2 electrons and has a mass which is 0.77 percent less than the sum
of 4 hydrogen nuclei; the uranium nucleus consists of 238 protons
272 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

and 146 electrons, etc. We also know that the nucleus is very small
in comparison with the overall atomic dimensions, 1.e., much smaller
than 10-?° centimeters in diameter—probably less than 10-™* centi-
meters.

We have good reason for thinking that some atomic nuclei are
magnets, with a magnetic moment equal to that of one electron, and
that this is true if there is an odd number of electrons in the nucleus.
But there are some phenomena that have not as yet been reconciled
with this idea of the magnetic properties of the nucleus. Further-
more, there is reason to believe that the proton configurations in the
nucleus may also contribute a magnetic moment far smaller than that
due to the electrons.

We know that atomic nuclei are deformable under the action of
intense forces, such as can only be exerted by electrified particles,
like alpha particles from radium, which are shot toward the nuclei
with such tremendous velocities that they may come very close before
being deflected away by the repulsive force between nucleus and
alpha particle. When their distances are greater than 107° centi-
meters, this force varies inversely as the square of the distance, as
nearly as we can tell, which shows us that the nuclei are practically
electrified points so far as distances greater than 10-'° centimeters
are concerned. With closer approach, however, the force departs
more and more from the inverse square law, showing that the nuclei
have a structure or arrangement of electricity within their tiny do-
main, and that this structure may be deformed by strong electrical
forces. All this information is inferred from studies of the angular
distribution of scattering when alpha particles pass through thin
films of matter.

We know that the nuclei are the seats of tremendous energies, as
evidenced directly by phenomena of radioactivity and indirectly
by certain aspects of the theory of relativity to which I will refer
later. From radioactivity, also, we find that groups of 4 protons
and 2 electrons (helium nuclei) appear to be particularly stable con-
figurations within the larger structure of the nuclei of heavy atoms.
We call these groups “ alpha particles.”

Having said these things, we have told almost everything that is
known about atomic nuclei. Many other things we would tremen-
dously like to know. How are the protons and electrons arranged
in the nucleus? What is their state of motion? What forces hold
them together? How is their energy stored away? Under what
conditions can the nucleus be disrupted or this energy released, or
the configuration changed? To all of these questions we must con-
fess almost total ignorance.
BATTLE OF THE ALOHEMISTS—COMPTON aie

Think for a moment what this ignorance implies. All of the
positive electricity, most of the negative electricity, most of the mass,
and by far the greater part of the energy of the world reside in
atomic nuclei. We must therefore confess that we know as yet very
little about most of the world of matter, electricity, and energy.
This should make us rather careful about making such statements as
one recently published by a leading exponent of the new school of
theoretical physicists, who wrote: “The underlying physical laws
necessary for the mathematical theory of a large part of physics
and the whole of chemistry are thus completely known. * * *”
It should also warn us against such rash statements as “the break-
down of the law of causality” and “the law of conservation of
energy does not apply to individual processes but only statistically as
an average.” It would be far better simply to admit that, successful
as we have been in describing by equations much of the behavior of
those extranuclear electrons that move in orbits far outside the
nuclei, we are still grossly ignorant of the most powerful elements
of our material world.

A very crude analogy will illustrate the relative advancement of
our present state of knowledge of atoms. Liken the nucleus to a
building and the extranuclear electrons to a group of pebbles resting
on the steps of a fire escape on the outside of the building. As
we observe these pebbles, we notice that, from time to time, a pebble
falls from one step to another. We do not understand why it falls,
and make various attempts to hypothecate some model or mecha-
nism which will explain the dropping of these pebbles. Bohr, Som-
merfeld, Langmuir all take their turn, but none of them invents a
mechanism that satisfies all of the observations. We become dis-
couraged with model building. Finally a brilliant young man,
Heisenberg, proposes that we do away with models entirely and con-
centrate entirely upon the observable quantities—the steps, the
pebbles, and their falling. He finds a mathematical expression which
accurately correlates the height of the steps (energy levels) with the
probability that a pebble will fall (radiate) from one step to an-
other. To the mathematician this accurate formulation of the mathe-
matical relationship between the observable quantities is a complete
and satisfactory explanation or theory. The physicist, however,
guided perhaps by instinct (which is the accumulated wisdom of the
ages) rather than by formal logic, is not satisfied. He feels im-
pressed but a bit confused by the logic of the mathematician, and
also a bit distrustful. Down in his heart he feels that there must
be something more than a law of probability which makes those
pebbles drop. He goes to investigate. He finds the door of the
274 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

building locked. He pushes; he knocks; he gets help; he rigs up a
machine to batter down the door; he makes a small hole through
which he sees signs of activity within the building; he builds a
bigger and better battering ram; he finally breaks down the door
and goes in. Within the building he finds a huge factory; giant
cranes carry around great masses of material; enormous machines
press, hammer, and draw this material into various shapes. Stu-
pendous forces are at work. The building shakes, and from time
to time a little pebble on the fire escape is shaken down from one
step to another.

So, I suspect, may sometime be resolved the peculiarities and puz-
zles of our present quantum theory—by small external manifesta-
tions of the enormous energy which we know to exist within the
nucleus, but about which we now know too little even to make a
guess as to how it may influence our present theories.

Be this as it may, where have we left the alchemist? We left him
dead, killed by the chemist who had destroyed his hopes of effecting
the transmutation of elements. But now the physicist has brought
him to life again, with renewed vigor and enthusiasm. For if the
atomic nucleus is a structure of electrons and protons, it should be
possible to break up this structure or to add to it, and thus to change
one chemical element into another. The agencies are no longer earth,
water, air, and fire, but electricity and probably electrical particles
shot with tremendous speeds into nuclei. The goal is not gold and
silver but energy. And with the alchemist, who is a practical man
trying to get something, is working the physicist, who is not an
impractical man, trying to learn something. In fact, they are one
and the same man.

A most significant event in this story was the discovery of radio-
activity by Becquerel 36 years ago. Its significance became evident
when Rutherford showed that the alpha and beta particles are, re-
spectively, helium nuclei and electrons which are shot out of the
nuclei of radioactive atoms with tremendous speeds, approaching
that of light. Its significance became greater when Rutherford
further showed that the parent atoms, in thus ejecting these particles,
transform into atoms of different chemical elements. The law of
this transmutation was thus stated by Fajans: Expulsion of a beta
particle changes the atom into the next higher one in the periodic
table, and the expulsion of an alpha particle changes the atom into
one which is two steps lower in the table. Here, for the first time,
were authenticated cases of transmutation of elements.

The energies liberated in radioactive transformation are prodi-
gious, In comparison with the amount of material involved. For
example, radium continually gives off about enough energy to raise
BATTLE OF THE ALCHEMISTS—COMPTON 275

its own weight of water from freezing to boiling temperature every
hour. By the end of 2,000 years it will be only half used up. By
the time it is completely transmuted into its final products, helium
and lead, any given amount of radium will have generated an amount
of heat equal to that from the combustion of 500,000 times its weight
of coal. One pound of radium gives off enough energy to heat to
boiling more than 13,000 tons of melted ice.

At first sight it appeared that here was at last in sight the goal of
the alchemists. But alas there was one difficulty, the process is so
slow. Suppose you have a gram of radium (which is a notable
amount). You would have to wait 2,000 years to get half of its
energy, another 2,000 years to get half of what is left, and so on.
By that time you and your grandchildren will long have ceased to
worry about a source of heat. Great as it is, the energy comes off
so slowly that it leaks away and cannot be stored up for use when
wanted. As a practical source of energy it is useless. Alchemists
and others have tried every physical and chemical agency that they
could devise in an effort artificially to speed up radioactive processes,
but without avail. The process of radioactive transmutation pro-
ceeds in its own characteristic slow and sure manner most provok-
ingly unaffected by man’s best, but puny, efforts.

There are, however, some very decided rays of hope, for artificial
transmutation has been produced in three distinct ways on a small
scale. One of these dates back to about the time of the war, while
the others have both been achieved within the past couple of years.

During the war I was charged with arranging for the demonstra-
tion of a French device for locating submarines for the benefit of
British and American scientists who were engaged in the same prob-
lem. One of the British experts was Sir Ernest Rutherford. He
sent word by the late Professor Bumstead, however, that he would
be delayed through the necessity of completing certain laboratory
experiments in which he thought that he had split hydrogen nuclei
into two parts. “If this is true ”, he said, “its ultimate importance
is far greater than that of the war.” With true scientific caution,
however, he asked us to keep this matter confidential, since he was
not yet sure of his interpretation. This caution was justified, for
his subsequent work showed that he had not broken up hydrogen
nuclei; but what he did find was equally significant—he had suc-
ceeded in knocking protons out of the nuclei of nitrogen, aluminum,
and various other light atoms. This was the first success in man’s
long struggle by his own efforts to change one chemical element into
another.

Rutherford’s success came not by luck and persistence, but by
trained physical insight and persistence. Realizing that the possi-

72774—35——19
276 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

bility of success lay in bringing the largest possible electrical forces
to act on the nucleus, he first found that radioactive substance which
shot out alpha particles with the highest speed, and then he let them
shoot at the nuclei of light atoms, such as nitrogen and aluminum.
He chose these because of the relatively small electric charges of their
nuclei which repelled the oncoming alpha particles less strongly and
therefore permitted them to come closer than the nuclei of heavy
atoms would have done.

Under this vigorous electrical bombardment, some of the nuclei
gave out protons. These were detected by the sparks of light which
they produced on striking glass plates coated with special fluorescent
materials. Their speed and their identification as protons were de-
termined by measuring how far they would shoot through air and
how much their paths were curved in a magnetic field. These pro-
tons may have been literally knocked out of the nuclei by the im-
pinging alpha particles, but from some nuclei, as for example alumi-
num, the protons were shot out with much greater speeds than they
could possibly have acquired from such impacts. It, therefore,
appears that the bombarding alpha particle distorts the structure of
the nucleus, which settles down into a new state of stability,
shooting out the proton in the process. The alpha particle, there-
fore, serves as a sort of key to unlock the nucleus and release some
of its energy. Ah, here we would seem to have achieved our goal,
but no, the process is hopelessly inefficient as a practical source of
energy. Only about 1 alpha particle in 600,000 happens to strike
a nucleus in such a way as to produce a transmutation. The other
599,999 are simply scattered without apparently exerting any perma-
nent effect on the nuclei with which they come in contact.

The second authentic type of transmutation is associated with the
discovery of the neutron by Chadwick of Cambridge less than a year
ago. For many years physicists have been led by logic to search for
this neutron, and they have predicted some of its properties. For
example, we have atoms of atomic numbers from 92 down to 6, 5, 4, 3,
2, 1—uranium to carbon, boron, beryllium, lithium, helium, hydro-
gen—whose nuclei have positive electric charges of 92 down to 6, 5,
4, 3, 2, and 1 units, respectively. Why should there not exist an
atom of atomic number zero, with no charge on its nucleus? Such
an atom would have no extranuclear electrons, and its nucleus would
consist of equal numbers of protons and electrons (probably one of
each) packed very closely together.

This atom would have no chemical properties and no physical
properties of the usual type, which depend principally upon the
electric field of the extranuclear electron. It would obviously be
hard to detect, would penetrate easily through even the densest
BATTLE OF THE ALCHEMISTS—COMPTON 277

materials, might readily penetrate through even the nuclei of other
atoms. The one thing it could do would be to “bump”, for if it
happened to strike head-on some other particle, such as a proton or
an electron, it could deliver momentum to that particle by impact.
If such a neutron particle should exist, it would not only be of the
utmost interest as a new “ building block” of atomic structure, but
it would also be a most interesting tool, for it alone of all known
particles could penetrate unopposed the sacred structure of nuclei
and perhaps knock out a key stone or foundation stone of their
structure, causing their collapse. But the neutron would be a most
unmanageable tool, since, having no electric charge, we could not
speed it up or control it by an electric field as we do electrons,
protons, and other ions. We would have to take it as we get it and
simply watch to see what it does.

Well, Chadwick discovered this neutron and found that it con-
sisted of 1 electron and 1 proton. It is ike a hydrogen atom whose
orbital or valence electron has been completely captured by the
proton nucleus—a hydrogen atom shrunk down to almost nothing.
For the preceding 4 years Bothe and his German colleagues had been
playing with neutrons but did not know it, considering them to be
photons, i.e., radiations of wave length even shorter than the gamma
rays of radium. Chadwick showed that, if the law of conservation
of energy is true, they cannot be photons, and that their action on
other atoms like nitrogen or argon is exactly what would be ex-
pected if they are neutral material particles of mass 1, i.e., neutrons.
When these neutrons bump into nitrogen, argon, and other atoms,
they knock them forward by just the amounts that would be calcu-
lated from the laws of impact of balls of mass 1 against balls of
mass 14, 40, etc.

This is how the neutron was produced. The Kelly Hospital in
Baltimore gave Chadwick a lot of old radium emanation tubes
which had lost their activity for therapeutic purposes but which
contained the radioactive residues. From these tubes Chadwick
extracted polonium, an element which ejects alpha particles of
extremely high speed. This polonium was spread over a small plate,
which was placed about 2 centimeters away from a plate of beryllium,
so that the beryllium was subjected to bombardment by the fast
alpha particles from the polonium. It was then found that the
beryllium emitted rays of a tremendously penetrating nature, which
had the power of ionizing any gas through which they passed and
of knocking forward those atomic nuclei which they happened to
hit. All this was studied by means of ionization devices known as
“Geiger ion counters”, or by scintillations produced on fluorescent
screens. These rays are the neutrons.
278 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

Written as a chemical equation, the process is
Be(9) +He(4) >C (12) +n(Z) (1)

Similarly boron behaves like beryllium in giving off neutrons accord-
ing to

B(11) + He(4) >N (14) +n(Z) (2)

Here the alpha particle is, of course, a helium nucleus of mass 4,
and the products of transmutation are carbon, nitrogen, and
neutrons.

One striking feature of this transmutation is that the products
are heavier atoms than the original atoms. This is a process of atom
building and not atom disintegration as in the previously known
cases of transmutation, radioactivity, and Rutherford’s artificially
produced nuclear disintegration. It is highly important to know
that atoms may be built up as well as broken down.

The third and last success of the modern alchemists, to date, was
the transmutation of lithium when bombarded by swift protons by
Cockroft and Walton about 6 months ago. Here the reaction is

Li(7) +H (1) >2 He(4) (3)

This is peculiarly interesting for several reasons. In the first
place it is the first instance of transmutation produced by a particle
whose speed had been produced by laboratory methods. In the
previous cases the bombarding projectiles were alpha particles whose
speeds were fixed beyond man’s control by the inherent nature of the
radioactive process—except that man could slow them down as
desired by interposing absorbing screens in their path. In the pres-
ent case, however, protons produced by ionization of hydrogen and
speeded up by applied voltages up to 600,000 volts were used as the
bombarding agents.

In the second place, such a source of bombarding particles may
be made ever so much more powerful than the previous sources of
alpha particles, for currents of microamperes or even milliamperes
of protons may be used instead of the tiny natural currents of alpha
particles which, from the high-speed sources like polonium, come
out at the rates of only a few thousand or hundred thousand particles
per second. Thus we may hope to carry on these transmutation
processes on a chemical rather than an atomic scale.

In the third place, the proton has only half the charge of an alpha
particle and therefore suffers only half the repulsive force as it
approaches an atomic nucleus. For this reason we can hope to shoot
protons much farther into nuclei than alpha particles can penetrate.
Protons thus have in a certain measure the advantage of neutrons,
BATTLE OF THE ALCHEMISTS—COMPTON 279

which are not repelled at all, and the great advantage of their
capability of use at controllable speeds and quantities.

The final interest to me, personally, in this type of transmutation,
is the fact that it was the first of a group of transmutations pre-
dicted by Dr. Van de Graaff in a report which he made to me about
3 years ago, and on the basis of which he sought further facilities
for developing the high-voltage generator on which he was then
experimenting. He not only predicted the transmutation, but also
the resultant energy liberation of 16 million volts. He did not pre-
dict, for there was no basis for calculating it, how speedy the protons
would have to be to effect this transmutation, and I think everyone
was surprised to learn that Cockroft and Walton detected it with
proton energies as small as 125,000 volts. At 250,000 volts about 1
atomic transmutation was found for every thousand million protons
which were shct into the lithium. At higher proton velocities the
number of transmutations increased. In every case, however, the
helium nuclei which were produced had about 8 million volts energy
apiece, or 16 million for the pair. It was as if the proton, on
entering the lithium nucleus, combined with it to produce 2 helium
nuclei with repulsive forces between them so great that they flew
apart with this tremendous 16-million-volt energy.

How was Van de Graaff able to predict this energy? How, in
fact, can all the energies in atomic transformations be predicted—
for they can be predicted in radioactive processes and in the other
cases such as described in equations (1), (2), and (3)? The answer
to this question les in an equation, the product of Einstein’s genius,
perhaps the most important aspect of his whole theory of relativity.
Contrary to the much publicized statement that only 12 people in
the world could understand his theory of relativity, this part of the
theory is very simple and I think that everyone in this audience
can understand it—though perhaps not understanding the argument
through which the conclusion was reached.

The equation is, simply,

E=M oc (4)

or, Energy=Mass X (velocity of light)?
or, ergs=grams X 9 (10)?

Being interpreted, this simply means that mass and energy are
interconvertible and that if mass disappears, energy takes its place
in accordance with this equation. In more famaliar terms, 2.13
(10)** calories of energy are liberated for every gram of matter
which vanishes. In still more common language, the annihilation
of 1 pound of matter would create enough energy to heat 100 mil-
280 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

lion tons of water from freezing to boiling temperatures. Such
are the stores of atomic energy. Let us see how this works in refer-
ence to the preceding case of transmutation.

A certain isotope of lithium has atomic weight 7.008, and a proton
has atomic weight 1.0072. Their sum is 8.0152. This splits up into
2 helium nuclei each of mass 4.00. Thus the product nuclei have
mass 0.0152 less than the original combining nuclei. This lost mass
is converted into energy according to equation (4). To calculate
the energy, we first change 0.0152 from chemical units of atomic
weight into grams, which gives a loss of 2.88 (10)-*° @ for every
individual transmutation process. According to equation (4) this
is equivalent to the liberation of 25.9 (10)-° ergs. This is the
amount of energy which would be acquired by an electron in mov-
ing through a potential difference of 16,300,000 volts—which is what
we mean by 16-million-volt energy.

Thus, by considering various atomic weights in connection with
Einstein’s equation, we gain a clue as to which atoms may be ex-
pected to be relatively easily transmuted, and what the resultant
energy will be.

This brings me to the final stage of the discussion. With these
promising beginnings, just recently achieved after centuries of
effort, the alchemist takes renewed hope and enthusiasm in his quest.
He now has some knowledge of how to plan his attack on the atom.
He has at least two proven weapons, or rather missiles to hurl at
atoms, viz, alpha particles from radioactive sources, and ions, swch
as protons, which are given tremendous speeds with high voltages.
He will continue to batter away at the atoms with both of these.
Of the two, the high-voltage ion source is the most intriguing on
account of the almost unlimited possibilities of high speeds, through
the development of high-voltage generators, and of high intensities
through the development of potent sources of protons or other types
of ions.

It is this feature which gives particular interest to the various new
types of high-voltage generators which are now being developed in
various laboratories. Most promising are those of Lawrence at the
University of California and of Van de Graaff at Princeton and the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

Lawrence does not actually use or develop a very high voltage, but
he uses a moderate voltage to give a succession of pushes to the ions
until they get to going with speeds which have considerably exceeded
a million volts, and which may well reach 5 million volts with
apparatus under construction. Without going into technical details,
the idea may be conveyed by likening the operation to a child in a
swing. By properly synchronizing the pushes, the child may be
BATTLE OF THE ALCHEMISTS—COMPTON 281

made to swing very high, even though each individual push would
lift him only a short distance. Similarly, a voltage of 10,000 volts,
applied 100 times in succession to an ion traveling around in a circle
under the influence of a magnetic field, will give it the same final
energy as if 1 millon volts had been applied once.

Van de Graaff has gone back to electrostatic principles and de-
veloped a d.c. generator in which electricity at low voltage is sprayed
onto a rapidly moving insulating belt, which carries it up into a
spherical terminal on which it is deposited. The charge and poten-
tial of the terminal thus rise up to the point at which further increase
is limited by the breakdown of the surrounding insulation. The
voltage limitation is therefore that inherently determined by the
geometry of the electrodes and the character of the surrounding in-
sulating medium, while the current is limited to the rate at which
electric charge is transported by the belts. After successful opera-
tion to 80,000 volts of a small generator made of tin cans, sealing
wax, and a silk ribbon, a larger generator was built to deliver 30
microamperes at 1,500,000 volts. It was successful, as have also been
similar and modified generators built during the past year in several
laboratories.

The most ambitious of these generators is one designed to deliver
30 or 40 kilowatts at voltages calculated to be 15 million volts and
expected to reach at least 10 million. This is nearing completion in
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology experiment station on the
estate of Col. E. H. R. Green at Round Hill, Mass. The terminals
are 15-foot polished aluminum spheres, mounted on 30-foot textolite
insulating cylinders, inside of which run the belts that convey the
charge to the spheres. Each sphere is a laboratory room, within
which the experimenter can assemble and operate the apparatus that
bridges the gap between the positively and negatively charged
spheres.

Although this Round Hill outfit is quite spectacular, it is probable
that the most important developments of this apparatus will be not
in the open air but in some container filled with a medium of
superior electrical breakdown strength. The voltage increases di-
rectly and the power output directly as the square of this break-
down strength. Two such modifications have already been success-
fully operated in small models, one operating in the best attainable
vacuum and the other in gas at about 30 atmospheres pressure.

This is the story of the Battle of the Alchemists to date. They
have matched their skill, strength, and all the resources of science
against the dogged integrity of the atom for many centuries.
Within the last 10 years, but mostly within the last 2 years, it
begins to look as if the atom may succumb all along the battle front,
282

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

even as it has already surrendered three strategic outposts. The
field is open, and relatively so little explored that we cannot predict
what will be discovered. But we should not be surprised if the next
generation should uncover the most exciting and far-reaching de-
velopments in the whole history of science. Meanwhile Rutherford,
Chadwick, Cockroft, and Walton, Lawrence, Van de Graaff, Bothe,
and many others continue the work. They are the modern alchemists,
direct descendants of the alchemists of the middle ages and tracing
their ancestry back to Hermes and the fallen angels.
Smithsonian Report, 1933.--Compton PLATE 1

VAN DE GRAAFF'S FIRST MODEL 1,500,000-VOLT GENERATOR, WITH A DISCHARGE
TUBE OF NEW DESIGN CONNECTED BETWEEN TERMINALS.

The spheres in this model were 2 feet in diameter as compared with the 15-foot diameter spheres in the
new generator at Round Hill.
Smithsonian Report, !933.—Compton PLATE 2

ie

LOOKING UP ONE OF THE TWO GIANT SPHERICAL TERMINALS OF THE MASSACHU-
SETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY’S ELECTROSTATIC GENERATOR,
Smithsonian Report, 1933.—Compton PLATE 3

A MODEL OF THE VAN DE GRAAFF GENERATOR BUILT BY DR. MERLE TUVE AT THE
DEPARTMENT OF TERRESTRIAL MAGNETISM OF THE CARNEGIE INSTITUTION
OF WASHINGTON.

It has a 6-foot sphere and is shown with an X-ray tube connected between the terminal and the earth.
Its outdoor operation has been interrupted by the bugs and fireflies drawn to the sphere.
ROMANCE OR SCIENCE?’

By Pau R. HEYL

U. S. Bureau of Standards

The text for my discourse is taken from the editorial columns of
the New York Times for September 18, 1982.

Your physicist is supposed to be a hard, matter-of-fact measurer who sup-
presses romantic speculation and talks only of energy, volts, ions, and electrons,
Confront him with a mystery and he proves to be as human as the rest of us.
Consider the cosmic rays. For years Milliken in this country and Kolhoerster,
Hess, Regener, and others in Europe have been studying them only to their
own mystification and ours. Measuring instruments are dropped into lakes a
thousand feet or elevated 20 miles above sea level. Piccard imperils his life
to determine the true nature of the rays. Professor Compton and a devoted
band of physicists station themselves at the Equator, in the far north, on
mountain tops, in deep mines to conduct their investigations. And the result?
Romance—sheer romance.

Milliken spins a tale of electrons and protons combining in space, and of
resultant cosmic rays that proclaim the continuous upbuilding of the universe,
contrary to all the laws of thermodynamics. Jeans holds us spellbound with a
poem about stars dying in a fierce radiance and bombarding us with cosmic
rays in the process. Regener, as practical as the Irish foreman of a railway
section gang when it comes to counting ions, looks at his equations as into a
crystal and sees the beginning of things—sees primitive stars shedding cosmic
rays and suffusing a relativistic universe from which they cannot escape be-
cause it is closed and finite. Stimulated by him, others imagine that, just as
the bones of a dinosaur tell us something of the life that was on earth a few
million years ago, so these fossil cosmic rays reveal the Almighty in the act of
fashioning electrons and protons into nebulae, suns, planetary systems, and man
himself.

For all the instruments and methods invented to test the cosmic rays, the
physicist is still the medicine man from whom he is descended, Electroscopes
and ionization chambers and other cosmic-ray measuring instruments seem
strangely like wands and totem poles, and Hinsteinian equations but incanta-
tions that make us believe we know more than we really do. That we are
actually dealing with something like wishfulfillments in the cosmic rays is evi-
denced by the results obtained. Here is Milliken convincing himself that the
cosmic rays prove that the universe is self-perpetuating. And Compton, adopt-
ing precisely the same methods, reaches the conclusion that the rays are only
electrons swerving to the poles because the earth is a great spinning magnet.

1 Address delivered before a joint meeting of the Washington Academy of Sciences and
the Philosophical Society of Washington, Dee. 15, 1932. Reprinted by permission from
Journal of The Washington Academy of Sciences, vol. 23, no. 2, Feb. 15, 1933.

283
284 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

What are the cosmic rays? There is no positive answer. We Simply try to
reconcile what the instruments indicate with our hopes and beliefs and imagine
we understand the cosmos.

The same issue of the Times contains an editorial note entitled
“It Is Done with Mathematics ”, which reads:

It is a relief to read that Professor Compton is back from studying cosmic
rays in the Arctic region with the definite report that Professor Millikan is wrong.
The cosmic ray, says Professor Compton, is not a wave, as Millikan thinks,
but a particle.

It is a relief to find that when two men in the high realms of science hold
opposite views one of them is right, and the other is wrong. Hitherto the
public has had to get used to the idea that when two great physicists differ
radically about something in the universe the answer is that both men are
right.

What is the electron, a wave or a particle? It spreads after going through
a hole, like a wave. It hits other electrons like a particle. An electron is both
a wave and a particle. That would be nonsense by the rules of common sense,
but it makes sense in the new sciences. There is a formula for it.

Some people think that the universe is expanding. Some people think that
the universe is contracting. They are both right, says science. Professor
Eddington can think of its being an expanding universe and a contracting uni-
verse Simultaneously. Or, rather, he can find a mathematical formula that
will describe that startling situation.

In the same manner space is finite, and space is infinite. There is a formula.

Obviously it is a delightful world in which you can have the coffee simul-
taneously hot and iced and out of the same cup, your egg simultaneously hard-
boiled and scrambled, and the griddle cakes at the same time round and oblong.

But occasionally it is a relief to find black as the opposite of white and right
as the counterpart of wrong.

Speaking to an audience of scientific men, we may pass with brief
mention that portion of what I have read which deals with the dis-
agreement of doctors. This is no new thing in science, and whenever
it has occurred it has always been a passing phase characteristic of a
stage at which our knowledge on a certain point was for the time too
incomplete for unanimity of opinion. But beneath this good-
humored banter there is to be discerned a serious undercurrent to
which we may well direct our attention.

The unsettled condition of modern physical theory has become «é
commonplace among physicists. It now appears that it has sufh-
ciently penetrated the nonscientific world to produce a state of
mingled wonder and bewilderment, suggestive of those earlier days
when men began to doubt the authority and infallibility of the
Church. Moreover, it is noteworthy that this bewilderment of the
editorial mind seems to be caused wholly by the doings and think-
ings of physicists, if among these we may include astronomers, for
what is astronomy but celestial physics? Chemists, engineers, geol-
ogists, and biologists seem to call for no special mention. They are
taken for granted as steady-going fellows, cobblers with eyes not
ROMANCE OR SCIENCE?—HEYL 285

above their lasts, from whom society is in no danger. But physicists,
it appears, are of different clay—iconoclasts, crack-brained theorists,
ay, even writers of romance! And, if I guess rightly, this attitude of
the editorial mind is not without a measure of instinctive sympathy
on the part of many scientific men not of the physical persuasion.

Here is something for us physicists to think about. We are dis-
tinctly on the defensive on all sides. Why have we excited this
suspicion? Why have we not been able to keep to the straight path
with our fellows? If we are no longer regarded as safe and sane, is
it our own fault, or that of the subject with which we have to deal?

It must be admitted that among the different conventional divi-
sions of science physics occupies, indeed, a unique position. Ask the
chemist the nature of the atoms and molecules with which he deals
and of the forces which rule their reactions and he will refer you to
the physicist for an answer. Ask the biologist concerning the proc-
esses of the living tissues which he studies, and he will be apt to tell
you that they are but complicated chemical reactions; and the psy-
chologist, if his opinion be asked, will likely say that the subject mat-
ter of his study is the most complicated kind of physiology. The
psychologist leans upon the biologist, the biologist upon the chemist,
and the chemist in turn upon the physicist; but between the physicist
and nature there is no intermediary.

It is the task of the physicist to learn what he can about the funda-
mentals of nature, matter, and energy and their reactions, which as
they rise in complexity form the subject for the study successively of
the chemist, the physiologist, and the psychologist. Nor does the
engineer, the geologist, or the astronomer make use of any principles
which may be called distinctively his own; all these merely apply the
fundamental principles of physics or chemistry on a large scale. The
physicist is, in the best sense of the word, a scientific fundamentalist.
If, therefore, there comes about any change in basic scientific con-
cepts, it is the physicist in the front line who first feels the shock.

Now it happens that much of the new and strange in modern
physical theory is bound up with two very fundamental concepts—
matter and the atom. In particular, it is noteworthy that a large
majority of the published physical work for the last 20 years has
been directly or indirectly connected with atomic theory. In this
connection there comes to mind the exhortation of President John
Adams to the chemists of his day:

Chymists! pursue your experiments with indefatigable ardour and persever-
ance. Give us the best possible Bread, Butter and Cheese, Wine, Beer and
Cider, Houses, Ships and Steamboats, Gardens, Orchards, Fields, not to mention
Clothiers or Cooks. If your investigations lead accidentally to any deep dis-

covery, rejoice and ery “ Eureka!” But never institute any experiment with a
view or hope of discovering the smallest particles of Matters,
286 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

Is it the old story of Eden? Have we physicists eaten of the for-
bidden fruit of the tree of knowledge, and are we now suffering the
consequences? However this may be, we will maintain, despite all
accusations to the contrary, that our plight is not to be ascribed to
original sin or to total depravity, but that the changes in funda-
mental concepts that are causing all the stir have been forced upon
us as the logical result of approved methods of scientific study. And
so compelling have been the reasons for these changes that there
seems to be no more turning back possible for us than for our tradi-
tional first parents. We are thrust out of Paradise into contact with
the bare world of Nature, and whether we like it or not we must
somehow adjust ourselves to the new order of things. Concepts as
old as human thinking are gone forever. Strange substitutes are
replacing them, and until their novelty wears off it is inevitable that
science should for the time appear as romance.

Would that it might ever remain so! But this is too much to
expect. The thing that has been is that which shall be. Through
familiarity we shall in time adjust ourselves to these new concepts
as we have done to the telephone and more lately to the radio, once
things of wonder, illumined by the halo of romance, but now mere
commonplaces of our daily existence, matters of bargain and sale,
at times even degenerating into nuisances and provocations to
profanity.

The roots of the present revolution (or evolution) may be traced
back for two centuries. The student of the history of science can
discern during this period a certain trend of thought of which our
present plight is but the logical outcome. This trend may be de-
scribed as a steady drift away from materialism in our physical
concepts.

The natural philosophers of the eighteenth century followed an-
cient tradition in explaining everything in terms of matter, which was
regarded as a sine qua non, a basic concept without which physical
thought would be impossible. Heat, in the eighteenth century, was
a form of matter called caloric, which differed from ordinary matter
in being unweighable and which could be soaked up by ordinary
matter like water in a sponge. Light was another imponderable in
the form of very minute corpuscles. Electricity and magnetism
were held to be manifestations respectively of the electric and mag-
netic fluids. Added to these was another imponderable called
“ phlogiston ”, which was supposed to account for the phenomena of
combustion. These five imponderables, together with ordinary
matter, formed the stock in trade of eighteenth-century physics.

The physical science of that period was a rather loose and dis-
jointed affair, consisting mainly of uncorrelated facts about these six
ROMANCE OR SCIENCE?—HEYL IR 7

supposed entities. But within this chaos there was working the
leaven of a principle stated by Newton in his “ Principia ” as the first
of four “ Rules of Reasoning in Philosophy ”: “ We are to admit no
more causes of natural things, than such as are both true and suffi-
cient to explain their appearances. To this purpose the philoso-
phers say, that Nature does nothing in vain, and more is in vain,
when less will serve; for Nature is pleas’d with simplicity, and affects
not the pomp of superfluous causes.”

In this Newton was but repeating a rule of philosophy laid down
3 centuries earlier by one of the medieval schoolmen, William of
Occam: “Essentials are not to be multiplied beyond necessity.”
This in its Latin form was a famous saying in the Middle Ages, and
was known as “ Occam’s razor.” In modern parlance it would prob-
ably be called a pruning knife. In obedience to this principle the
nineteenth century reduced these six essentials to three, and the
twentieth century went still further.

It is to be noticed that all the fundamental concepts of eighteenth
century physics were regarded as material, whether they were weigh-
able or not. The nineteenth century retained the concept of ordinary
ponderable matter but did away with the imponderables, replacing
them by two new concepts, distinctly immaterial in their nature—
energy and ether. Light now became a vibration of the ether; heat
was regarded, according to circumstances, either as an ethereal vibra-
tion like light (radiant heat), or as a mode of motion of the mole-
cules of matter; and according to a textbook of the period electrical
phenomena were to be explained either as ether stress or ether flow,
while magnetism was a matter of ether vortices. Thus at the end
of the nineteenth century matter had been dethroned as sole monarch
but had been given a place as a member of a triumvirate—matter,
energy, and ether—to which were entrusted all the affairs of the
universe.

It remained only to take the final step, which was done in the
twentieth century. Up to this time the application of Occam’s razor
to scientific philosophy had been universally approved as conducive
to economy of thought and general solidification of theory. But
when Einstein pointed out that the concept of matter was not an
independent necessity but could be merged with that of energy, the
razor began to cut deep enough to hurt.

Einstein’s argument was a strong one, for he showed clearly, and
without any reference to relativity, that we must either regard mat-
ter as a form of energy or else disregard the experimental evidence
for hight pressure and also abandon Newton’s laws of motion. As
the latter alternative was more painful than the first, physical
theory accepted the new cut of Occam’s razor, eliminating the tra-
ditional concept of matter.
288 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

With the disappearance of matter as a basic entity the funda-
mentals of physics can best be described as disembodied ghosts mas-
querading under mathematical formulas.

“Hindsight is better than foresight.” We could hardly expect
this crash to have been foreseen, yet it is now clear that the concept
of matter was doomed from the time that the trend set in against it.
The progress of human thought is like that of some mighty glacier,
slow but irresistible.

The atom has always been a subject of interest to physicists, and
many speculations as to its nature have been advanced. When mat-
ter was an unquestioned axiom, the atom was explained on a ma-
terial basis. Newton says in his “ Opticks ”:

All things considered, it seems probable to me that God in the beginning
formed matter in solid, magssy, hard, impenetrable, movable particles, of
such sizes, figures, and with such other properties, and in such proportion
in space as most conduced to the end for which He formed them, and that
these primitive particles, being solids, are incomparably harder than any
porous bodies compounded of them; even so very hard as never to wear or
break to pieces; no ordinary power being able to divide what God himself
made one in the first creation.

With the growth of the concept of the ether there was a parallel
tendency to explain atoms as ethereal phenomena. Kelvin suggested
that an atom might be a vortex ring in the ether, something like a
smoke ring in air. With the merging of matter into energy the
difficulty of explaining the nature of the atom increased greatly, yet
the interest in the subject has shown no sign of diminution.

Twentieth-century experiment indicates that the atom is built up
in some way of positive and negative charges of electricity. The
present tendency is to regard the atom as electrical in its essence
without committing ourselves to any definite hypothesis as to the
nature of electricity. This electrical structure has taken several
forms. Bohr’s “ solar system ” model of the atom has “ had its day
and ceased to be.” As far as our present ideas are capable of non-
mathematical expression, the atom is to be considered as a collection
of probabilities that an electric charge will be found here or there
at points in a definite space pattern.

Nebulous and hazy as are our present ideas of the atom, it 1s
evident that this condition is but a corollary to the parallel change
that has taken place in our concept of matter, for if we have no clear
idea of the whole, how can we know more about its parts? We have
seen that this change has come as the consequence of an attempt to
apply the principle of simplicity and economy in thought as laid
down by Occam and Newton. We physicists submit therefore that
as far as matter and the atom are concerned the present state of
physical theory is not our fault, but is the result of attempting to
apply to our subject the most approved rule of philosophy.
ROMANCE OR SCIENCE?—HEYL 289

The second editorial which I have quoted raises a new question.
The bewilderment of the editorial mind is caused here by the bizarre
results obtained from mathematical formulas. Here again we may
disregard the disagreement of doctors and focus attention on the
point of basic importance.

We physicists have used mathematics freely since the time of
Newton, and the results obtained have until lately always been
regarded as regular and orthodox. It is only in the twentieth cen-
tury that our mathematical conclusions have begun to appear
fantastic.

The reason for this is not far to seek. There has been introduced
into mathematical physics a body of doctrine which, while familiar
to mathematicians for upwards of a century, had never been taken
seriously by physicists prior to Einstein. I refer to the geometry
of curved space and of space of more than three dimensions.

Perhaps nothing could be more transcendental and inconceivable
than this hypergeometry, but mere inconceivability has never both-
ered mathematicians; nothing but inconsistency can do that. And it
is a fact that once we admit the fundamental postulate of a fourth
dimension it becomes possible to build up a hypergeometry as logical
and consistent as that of Euclid.

The introduction of these novel concepts into physics has not taken
place without a struggle. Much of the opposition disappears, how-
ever, when one realizes that Einstein did not propose these hypothe-
ses as physical facts, but merely as a sufficient, though not necessary,
mathematical description of certain phenomena. He himself regards
this child of his brain quite sanely. ‘“ No amount of experimen-
tation,’ he is reported to have said, “can ever prove me right. A
single experiment may at any time prove me wrong.” Yet the
theory of relativity has gradually gained a hearing and a growing
acceptance because of performance, by its ability to do things a little
better than was possible before. Though its conclusions often ap-
pear strange, some of them have been experimentally verified, and as
a result we have added to our stock two new phenomena—the
deflection of light rays passing close to the sun and the shift of the
Fraunhofer lines in an intense gravitational field. With these prac-
tical results to support us, I think we may maintain that hyper-
geometry and the theory of relativity have justified their provisional
acceptance as working tools, no matter how romantic their conclu-
sions. Even the concept of an expanding universe may yet be
experimentally verified. Things equally strange have happened.

We may now consider another possible item in the indictment
against us, one of which we shall have to accuse ourselves, as it ap-
parently had not yet reached the editorial mind. Physicists them-
selves have been much concerned over an attack by certain of their

290 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

own number upon nothing less than the law of cause and effect. It is
truly remarkable that such an attack should have come not from the
antiscientific but from the high priests of science themselves.

This latest skepticism concerns itself with the behavior of the elec-
trons. The phenomena exhibited by these minute bodies have always
been in some respects puzzling and incalculable, but scientific thought
has been steadily optimistic, confidently awaiting the ultimate solu-
tion. The essence of the new view is that the behavior of an electron
is incalculable, not because the problem is as yet too complicated for
us, but because, to state it baldly, the actions of individual electrons
are not governca by the ordinary law of cause and effect. The new
philosophy recognizes that where an individual electron may be at
this moment is a matter of observation, more or less imperfect; it ad-
mits that where the electron has been in the past is a matter of his-
ory; but it asserts that where it will be in the future is a matter not
for definite prediction but only of statistical probability.

This doctrine appears to strike at the root of all law and order, and
yet, curiously enough, its protagonists recognize the existence of a
kind of law on the large scale, but deny that it extends to individual
units. The new philosophy is not such a complete reversion to
primitive type as might be hastily concluded.

Perhaps the best illustration that we can give of this new thought
is one based upon the behavior of units large enough to be familiar if
not altogether comprehensible—human individuals.

The behavior of any individual under given conditions is, rigidly
speaking, unpredictable. For your belief that I will react in a cer-
tain way to my environment you have nothing but a probability,
perhaps a very high one, amounting to what you may consider practi-
cal certainty, but never more than a probability. No one can say
with absolute certainty that I will not, let us say, steal money during
the coming year. It may be in the highest degree unlikely that I
will, so unlikely that you may consider it insulting to harbor any
suspicion of me, yet experience shows that occasionally an ordinarily
well-behaved man may do a most unexpected thing. While no one
can say definitely just what you or I or he or she will do, yet with
several millions of such individuals to serve as a basis for prediction
it is possible to estimate just how many of them will depart from
rectitude during the next year and how much money will be in-
volved in the total sum. Such is the accuracy of this prediction that
bonding companies risk their capital on it year after year, and make
money. Individually, man is more or less of an enigma; in the mass
he is a mathematical problem.

Something very like this is the latest turn of scientific thinking.
It asserts that the future behavior of a single electron is incalculable.
We cannot tell whether it will turn to the left or to the right, whether
ROMANCE OR SCIENCE?—HEYL 291

its velocity will be accelerated or retarded. All that we can say is that
there is a certain percentage probability of any particular behavior,
and that such a prediction is always verified by the result when a
sufficiently large number of electrons is taken into consideration. In
the electronic realm there is no individual causal certainty. Instead
there is something which is a conscious organism we would call
caprice. Dirac even uses the term “the free will of Nature.” Yet
as we pass from the individual to the crowd, certain laws begin to
appear, but they are no longer causal laws; they are only laws of
probability.

There is a certain measure of experimental support for this posi-
tion. The evidence is rather involved, and is circumstantial and
cumulative rather than direct and specific, but this is not a fatal
objection. And there is an imposing array of authority which has
accepted this evidence—Bohr, Heisenberg, Dirac, Jordan, Born,
Eddington, Bridgman, and others. The situation has been well
summed up by De Broglie in one of his essays, from which I quote the
following sentences:

Causal laws replaced by laws of probability, physical individuals well
localized and of well-defined movement replaced by physical individualities
which refuse to let themselves be simply represented and can never be more
than half described: such are the surprising consequences of the new theories.
In digging under these laws of probability, shall we succeed in refinding
causal laws as we have found recently behind the statistical laws of gases the
causal laws of the movement of molecules? Certain arguments would lead to
this belief, but it would be indeed imprudent to assert it.

What we have said suffices, we think, to show the importance of the change
in the point of view which has recently taken place in physics. Whatever may
be the final fate reserved for these new doctrines it is of infinite interest to
philosophers that physicists have been led, even though but for the moment, to
doubt the determinism of physical phenomena and to question the possibility
of describing them in a complete fashion within the frame of space and time.

Perhaps it would be well now to pause, to catch our breath and see
where we stand, if indeed we have anything left to stand on. Well
may we echo the dismayed queries of Macbeth and Banquo after the
disappearance of the three weird sisters:

The earth hath bubbles, as the water has,
And these are of them. Whither are they vanish’d?

Into the air; and what seem’d corporal melted
As breath into the wind. Would they had stayed!

Were such things here as we do speak about
Or have we eaten of the insane root
That takes the reason prisoner?

I think that we may feel safe as to the answer to the last question.

The reassuring thing about all these new and strange theories is that

they work. By means of them we are able to cut a little more closely
727743520
292 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

to the line than was possible under the old regime. Practical physics
was never more satisfactory; theoretical physics never less so.

This divergence between theory and practice is not to be under-
stood as meaning that practice is being divorced from theory to its
own advantage. On the contrary, there never was a time when prac-
tice was more closely dependent upon theory than today. New re-
searches are almost invariably suggested by theory, and their results
in a reasonable number of cases are confirmative of the theoretical
prediction. Never was theory more fruitful. If we were totally on
the wrong track, would Nature give us the abundant encouragement
that she does? ‘ By their fruits ye shall know them.”

The difficulty with modern physical theory is not a lack of con-
sistency; that mathematical requirement it possesses in abundance.
It is the elusive and unreal nature of its fundamental concepts that
gives us pause. But who are we that we should reproach Nature
with being unreal? Perhaps the fault lies in our definition of
reality, and of that Nature herself is the final and supreme judge.
Guided by her answers to a century of experimental question, we
have drifted steadily away from the material toward the immaterial
in our fundamental concepts. If as a consequence science assumes
an aspect of romance, perhaps this is because for the first time in
the history of human thinking we have come close enough to reality
to catch a glimpse of it. The picture is very different from that to
which tradition has accustomed us, but so thought the contempo.
raries of Columbus and those of Galileo. And if the more closely
we study Nature the more romantic she appears, perhaps we are but
rediscovering something which the poets have always known and
have not hesitated to utter.

And like the baseless fabric of this vision,

The cloud-capp’d towers, the gorgeous palaces,
The solemn temples, the great globe itself,

Yea, all which it inherit, shall dissolve

And, like this insubstantial pageant faded,
Leave not a rack behind. We are such stuff

As dreams are made on, and our little life

Is rounded with a sleep.

Romance or science—which shall we call it? It matters little,
once we have been granted the vision to see that the two are not only
consistent but inseparable.
ORIGIN OF FOLDED MOUNTAINS’?

By W. F. Proury
University of North Carolina

I have chosen the origin of folded mountains as a subject for dis-
cussion for the reason that these great earth structures are of interest
to all of us, and because the theories of their origin are many and
widely divergent. For most of us the mountains are a great source of
inspiration and pleasure. Whether we see them from afar or near at
hand, there is always something about them that holds our attention.
We see in them the ever active forces of nature; the rushing stream,
the avalanche, the massive glacier, the jagged peak, the lightning
flash, the ever-shifting clouds. From the earliest time man has
opposed his strength to the mountain mass and frequently he has
fost.

Much of the history of the earth is written in the mountain rocks
and their structure. Man has learned much from this source but
he has yet much more to learn. Leonardo da Vinci, the great artist,
architect, and scientist, was convinced that the fossils in the rocks
of the high Alps were once sea shells. We know now that he was
right, that these shells were buried in the sands, clay, and ooze of
the sea bottom and later were elevated to their present position. Not
only were these sediments hfted, but they were folded, buckled,
sliced, and mashed, and in places greatly altered and injected by
igneous rock, so that the present mountain mass is a great structural
complex. Some mountains are less intricate in their structure than
the Alps, but others are even more complex.

From the study of mountains we get many facts. We find that
there are many active, unbalanced forces in the earth. The elevation
of the Colorado Plateau from below sea level to more than 8,000
feet above sea level shows a tremendous, persistent, and widespread
vertical force. The rise and fall of many parts of the coast line
of Italy in historic time is a good example of the less constant ver-
tical forces. The folding, mashing, slicing, and shearing of the
rocks in many of the mountains is ample proof of the lateral com-
pressional forces in the earth’s crust. Tensional forces, elsewhere,

1 Presidential address delivered before the North Carolina Academy of Science, May 8,

1931. Reprinted by permission from the Journal of the Elisha Mitchell Scientifie Society,
vol. 47, no, 1, January 1932.

293
294 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

have pulled the rocks apart, allowing great wedge-shaped blocks to
sink into troughlike areas, as that of the Great Basin, the Rhine
Valley, and our own Triassic structural basin between Chapel Hill
and Raleigh. By the use of the pendulum man is able to measure
the relative mass of the various earth segments. It is found that
the mountain masses are made of material lighter than the average
of the earth’s crust, and observations show that wherever the earth
is receiving a load it tends to sink, as at present in the Mississippi
Delta region, or in the northern United States during the ice inva-
sion; also where load is being removed the earth’s surface rises, as
in many mountain areas losing weight by erosion, or as in the
northern United States after the retreat of the great ice sheet. These
compensating movements are very slow and have a considerable lag.
Following the retreat of the ice sheet the Lake Champlain region,
for example, was buried at first several hundred feet beneath sea
water. Compensating forces (isostasy) have but recently finished
returning this area to its normal elevation.

A study of the earth’s mountains shows:

1. Mountains have generally been formed along the border of the
land mass which furnished the sediments now found in them. (The
sediments in the Appalachian Mountains came from a great land
mass, Appalachia, now occupied by the combined Piedmont, Atlan-
tic Coastal Plain, and the Continental Shelf.)

2. Young mountains are usually nearer the present border of the
continent than the older mountains. (In western North America
the Coast Ranges are younger than the Sierras or the Rockies.)

3. All older mountains, which have been deeply eroded, show a
core of igneous or metamorphic rock.

4. Youthful, growing mountains are usually earthquake and vol-
canic zones, as witness the borderlands of the Pacific and Mediter-
ranean areas. i

5. Growing coastal mountains usually have great ocean deeps in
front of them, the so-called “ ocean foredeeps ”, as, for example, the
six different foredeeps west of the Andes, the Supan foredeep of the
Aleutian Islands, and the Tuscarora foredeep of the young moun-
tain range of the Japanese Islands.

6. Mountain-making is going on seemingly with as great force as
ever in the earth’s history. All about the Pacific, lands are being
elevated, and in many places the ocean foredeeps are sinking, fre-
quently with sudden slips and violent earthquakes.

7. Mountain-making, accompanied by great continental emergence,
has brought to a close each of the great geologic eras.

8. Many of the great mountains are curved or arcuate in character.
All the present-day growing mountain-arcs, as the Aleutian Arc, the
ORIGIN OF FOLDED MOUNTAINS—PROUTY 295

Kurile Arc, and the Japanese Arc, have their convex side toward the
ocean foredeep.

9. Most folded mountains have thrust faults and unsymmetrical]
folds.

10. All old mountains have been worn down, and most of them
have been reelevated—some many times.

One of the questions most frequently asked is in regard to the
origin of these earth highlands. Before we attempt to answer this
question we must understand that mountains are of different origins.
We have mountain peaks of the type of Vesuvius or Shasta, which
have been built up from the earth’s surface by volcanic ash and lava
flow. Others like the Hawaiian Islands have been built up by a
succession of lava flows from the ocean floor, in this case to a height
of over 30,000 feet.

We have mountains made of great blocks of the earth’s crust,
faulted and tilted on edge and raised relatively above the blocks
which have been down-faulted. The High Sierras, the Wasatch, and
many of the mountains in the Great Basin area are examples of
these so-called “ block mountains.”

We have the so-called “laccolithic mountains ”, which have been
formed by the injection of great masses of igneous rock into the
earth’s crust and the arching of the earth’s surface above such in-
jected masses, as for example the Henry Mountains of Utah or the
Crazy Mountains of Montana.

All elevated land masses are being constantly reduced by the agents
of erosion, chiefly running water and glaciers. The least eroded por-
tion of such elevated land masses, irrespective of cause of elevation,
are left as so-called “erosional mountains”, as Mount Mitchell,
Monadnock, and the Matterhorn.

The most general type of mountain, however, is the one which is
made up mostly of folded rock. All the great mountain ranges of
the world belong to this type, though they may be locally modified
by injection, faulting, or erosion into other types.

The origin of these great folded mountains has engaged the atten-
tion of many men of science. Strong differences of opinion have led
to controversies, and these in turn have led to detailed studies of
“Mother Earth.” This study has been carried on by men of various
sciences, but chiefly geology, physics, mathematics, and astronomy.
The field is too broad to be mastered by any one group of scientists.

Before we undertake to discuss the origin of folded mountains, let
us review briefly some of the known facts and current opinions con-
cerning the nature of the earth’s interior:

1. Under the influence of tidal forces the earth is at present as
rigid as glass or as steel, and therefore largely a solid.
296 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

2. The density of the surface rock is about 2.7, while the density
of the earth as a whole is about 5.52. This means that the density of
the core is necessarily very high. Both the density and the character
of the earth’s interior have been computed from the behavior of the
different earthquake waves in their passage through the earth and as
recorded on seismographs in many parts of the world.

3. It is the general opinion of scientists that the outer crust of the
earth is a highly siliceous material, largely granitic in character, ex-
tending to a depth of 35 to 40 miles in the continental areas. Under
the shallow ocean basins it extends less deeply and is probably entirely
absent in the deeper portion of the Pacific. Below the granitic layer
and reaching to a depth of about 1,000 miles is basic igneous rock.
This basic division increases in density with depth and reaches at
base a density of about 4.5. The upper part of this division is basalt
and the lower part is peridotite. The basalt portion has in general,
at the present time, a crystalline upper layer, which is thicker under
the ocean, where heat escapes more rapidly than under the continents.
Beneath this crystalline layer the basalt is thought to be in a glassy,
highly heated, solid-fluid condition.

From 1,000 miles to 1,800 miles there seems to be a gradual transi-
tion from peridotite to nickel-iron, with density increase from 4.5
to 9.

From 1,800 miles to the center of the earth, at 3,980 miles, the
material is thought to be largely nickel-iron of a nonelastic character
and possibly fluid, since transverse earth waves do not pass through
it. At the center of the earth the density is estimated to be about
11.6. At the surface of the earth an equal mixture of iron and nickel
would have a density of about 8.3.

4. The temperature in the crust of the earth, as recorded in deep
borings, shafts, and tunnels, shows an increase with depth at the rate
of about 1° Fahrenheit for each 60 to 70 feet. If this rate of increase
continues with depth, which is improbable, the center of the earth
would have a temperature of about 350,000° Fahrenheit.

5. The outer portion of the earth is a poor conductor of heat; thus
the surface temperatures are mostly controlled by the sun’s heat.
The amount of heat radiated into space by the earth is greatly
increased by the close approach of the molten rock to the earth’s
surface or during periods of vulcanism.

6. Radioactive materials in the earth occur in all types of rock but
more largely in the acid or granitic types. It is thought by many
that sufficient heat is derived from the slow decomposition of radio-
active minerals to melt periodically a considerable portion of the
basaltic layer, and locally the lower part of the siliceous crust.

7. At the earth’s center there must be a pressure of about 45,000,-
000 pounds, or 22,000 tons, per square inch. Under this heavy
ORIGIN OF FOLDED MOUNTAINS—PROUTY 297

pressure all substances would be considerably reduced in volume,
and it is not unlikely that there is in the earth a gradual molecular
change of the lighter minerals into the heavier minerals, thus caus:
ing earth shrinkage. This molecular change is known to have oc:
curred in the once more deeply buried portion of the visible crust.
With release of pressure in surface layers of the earth, minerals
tend to form with less density.

8. The amount of yielding of the earth in response to load is much
too great to be explained by the elasticity of the rock. It can best
be explained by the settling of the crystalline surface portion of the
earth into the glassy, solid-fluid deeper portion, as a mass of soft,
though elastic, beeswax will hold its shape and settle into a much
harder, though solid-fluid pitch. We may think of this deep-lying,
glassy, solid-fluid mass as the ocean on which ride the more rigid and
elastic, crystalline rock-ships of the continents. When heavy load-
ing occurs, a ship sinks deep in the water, and when unloaded, it
displaces less water and rises. The geologist speaks of this com-
pensation for load as isostatic adjustment. The glassy basaltic
layer is highly sensitive to sudden transverse earthquake waves,
thus appearing as an elastic body, but at the same time it yields
readily to small, slowly applied forces.

In discussing the origin of folded mountains we must bear in
mind that a number of the above conclusions concerning the earth’s
interior are relatively new and not fully proved.

Since most folded mountains are near the borders of continents
and since most of them are made up in large part of great thick-
nesses of sedimentary rock, deposited in shallow water, it is ap-
parent that the mountains have developed where once there was a
slowly sinking basin of marine sediments (a geosyncline). In most
theories of origin, therefore, the geosyncline is the controlling factor
of location. Any theory to explain folded mountains must, of
course, meet all the conditions of location, extent, characters of
folding, amount of earth shortening, and sources of materials.

In considering present-day theories let us confine ourselves to
those most generally accepted.

SINKING GEOSYNCLINES

One of the older theories is the so-called “ geosynclinal theory ”,
which holds that in regions of extensive sedimentation, usually along
the border of continents, the slowly sinking geosynclines carry the
unconsolidated and water-soaked sediments to great depths. These
sediments become greatly heated by the ascending isogeotherms.
With the increase in temperature and probable partial fusion in
depth comes increase in volume, which finally more than offsets
the slow sinking. This zone of highly heated and relatively weak
298 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

sediments, having displaced the stronger rock by isostatic adjust-
ment, is in condition to be readily folded by the lateral compression,
exerted in the crustal portion of the earth, due to the shrinkage of
the earth’s interior through loss of heat or otherwise.

In the early days of this theory shrinking through loss of heat
seemed ample to account for the known amount of lateral compres-
sion. Later, when larger horizontal movements were recognized,
increasing earth density, through recrystallization, was added as
another cause of radial earth shortening and compression. It has
been apparent, also, that the wedge action of igneous masses, pushed
up through the strata and forming great laccoliths in the strata,
has been in some regions an added source of lateral compression.
This theory is advanced by Arthur Keith, of the United States Geo-
logical Survey in accounting for the great amount of lateral com-
pression in the Appalachian Mountains. We find that wherever in
the Piedmont we have great masses of late Paleozoic igneous rock we
have also to the northwest of these areas a marked bulge or salient
in the Appalachian folds, as though the introduction of this igneous
rock had pushed the folds to the northwest beyond their normal
position. Such an igneous mass is to be found extending from
Danville, Va., through Greensboro and Charlotte, and on into South
Carolina.

According to this geosynclinal theory all continental borders
should show parallel mountain growths. While this is generally
true, there are glaring exceptions. For the most part the Arctic and
Atlantic Ocean borders are relatively free from such parallel moun-
tains. Along the border of these two ocean basins, mountains, where
present, approach the shore at such angles as to suggest that they
continue beyond the continental border. The Appalachians, for
example, pass into the Atlantic from Newfoundland as though they
are headed straight for Great Britain.

In brief, this geosynclinal theory explains the chief cause of zones
of crustal weakness and supplies a few of the many possible reasons
for crustal buckling. It leaves unexplained many facts connected
with folded mountains.

CONTINENTAL-DRIFT THEORY

The second theory to be considered is the so-called “ continental-
drift” theory. It is one of the younger and more spectacular
theories, which has a strong appeal to the imagination. If true, it
would explain in a simple way many perplexing facts formerly
explained in various ways. This fact alone has brought it many
defendants.

According to this theory, in late Mesozoic time all the now sepa-
rated continents formed one great continent, Pangaea, in the Greater
ORIGIN OF FOLDED MOUNTAINS—PROUTY 299

Pacific Ocean. Owing to unusual tidal and centrifugal forces, not
successfully explained, this great unit mass broke up into the present
continents, which drifted westward and Equatorward, Africa re-
maining relatively fixed in its present position. To account for the
peculiarities of drift and the position of climatic zones, the position
of the pole of the earth must be shifted through many degrees.
According to this theory, the folded mountains were formed by the
buckling of the sea sediments and subocean crust in front of the
continental ship slowly plowing through the solid-fluid subcrust.

This theory is substantiated by the more or less perfect fit of the
continents when restored to their theoretical former positions. The
close fit of South America and Africa is obvious. The other con-
tinental masses do not fit so well. Greenland and North America
were supposedly in contact with the west coast of Europe and the
northwest coast of Africa. The west coast of India fitted along
the east coast of Africa to the north of Madagascar. Antartica and
Australia together overlapped the southeast coasts of South America,
Africa, and India.

Professor Taylor,? of the United States, and Professor Wegener,’
of Austria, are the principal advocates of the continental drift
theory. Professor Taylor emphasizes the equatorward (centrifugal)
forces, while Professor Wegener emphasizes the westward (tidal and
precessional) forces.

The theory of continental drift explains the lack of coastal moun-
tains on the Atlantic and Arctic borders and the apparent break
of continuity of certain east-west mountains, as between North
America and Europe, northern South America and the Mediterra-
nean region, Argentina and South Africa. This theory might also,
uccording to R. A. Daly, “ make plausible Plato’s account of the lost
Atlantis, off the Pillars of Hercules.” The mid-Atlantic ridge is
thought to represent a parallel strip of land left behind in the con-
tinental migration and, later on, modified by vulcanism along the
rift zone.

Against these major appearances and minor facts, in support of
the theory, we find an equal or larger number of facts diametrically
opposed to it. There is, for instance, insufficient space in the Arctic
Ocean to account for the assumed southward migration of Asia and
the westward migration of North America. The shifting of the
poles could not have occurred as conjectured, because of the fact
that large glacial areas are known to have existed in the postulated
Tropics. Further, without polar shift, the theory does not account
for the present position of Australia and Antarctica. When detailed
structure and rock character of the corresponding coast lines of
South America and Africa are examined they do not show the ex-

2See references at end of article.
300 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

pected relationship. It is further objected that we do not know
of an adequate force for moving the continents over a solid-fluid
subcrust.

While the theory accounts for the formation of the Tertiary moun-
tains of the Pacific and the Mediterranean and also accounts for
the lack of mountains bordering the Arctic and the Atlantic, it falls
down in its explanation of so many other facts that we must reserve
judgment as to its merits and accept it at present only as a brilliant
attempt to give a general explanation for many scientific facts.

GRAVITATIONAL SLIDING OF CONTINENTS

Some years ago Eduard Suess put forward the idea in his epoch-
making book, Das Antlitz der Erde, that the mountains of southern
and eastern Asia have resulted from the slow creep or gravitational
sliding of the great continental mass of Asia toward the bordering
deep Pacific Basin. It was in part from this suggestion that F. B.
Taylor, of the United States, and Alfred Wegener, of Austria, drew
their elaborate continental-drift theories.

In recent years R. A. Daly, of Harvard, has elaborated on the
probabilities of folded mountains resulting from the gravitational
sliding of continents. He has cleared up a number of points of op-
position and has added much new material. According to his theory
the geosynclines bordering the continents cause the crystalline rock
crust, composed of the granite shell and the upper frozen layer of
basalt, to sink deep into the glassy basalt layer, which has less den-
sity than the crystalline rock above. Tension cracks allow the glassy
basalt to work up through the crystalline belt and cause it to founder,
thus removing the chief source of resistance to the gravitational] slid-
ing of the continent toward the ocean basin. The light, unconsoli-
dated sediments, therefore, resting on the readily deformed basaltic
glass, are easily folded and thickened by the advancing continental
mass. The more rapid movement of the lands nearer the ocean than
of the lands farther inland would cause tension cracks to develop
some distance back from the continental border, with block faulting
and depression, as, for example, the Great Basin in relation to the
Sierras and the Coast Range, and the Triassic basins to the Appa-
lachians. Also, the more rapid advance of the continental mass
toward a great ocean deep than elsewhere explains the arcuate char-
acter of such island festoons as that of the Aleutian Arc and the
Japanese Arc.

Further, according to this theory, as folding of the weak sedi-
ments continues, more and more of the underlying crystalline rock
is foundered. As time goes on the lower portion of the zone of
crumpled sediments is melted, and the great masses of foundered
ORIGIN OF FOLDED MOUNTAINS—PROUTY 301

crystalline rock are either melted or turned to glassy material. Be-
cause of the advance of the continental border over the area of
foundered rock, the increase in volume of the foundered rock through
melting or vitrification would cause a gradual elevation of both the
geosynclinal and the adjacent continental areas.

This theory, then, accounts for the formation of the arcuate moun-
tain pattern, the folding, the tensional faulting farther inland, and
the later uplift of the folded mountains and the bordering conti-
nental areas such, for instance, as the Colorado Plateau. This
theory, along with that of Joly’s, favors the possibility of a certain
amount of continental drift.

The weakness of the theory lies in its assuming such great mobility
for the glassy basalt and in the nonconformity of the theory with
the structure of the tensional basins.

JOLY’S RADIOACTIVE THEORY

According to the Joly radioactive theory all known rocks have
radioactive substances chiefly in the form of uranium or thorium.
These two heavy atomic weight elements are slowly changing to sub-
stances of less atomic weight and finally to lead. In the change heat
is given off. Man has been unable in any way to change the rate
of decomposition by extreme temperature and pressure changes. At
the known rate of decomposition one-half of the uranium will have
disappeared in 5,000 million years and one-half the thorium in
13,000 million years. Granites and acid igneous rocks contain about
twice as much radium as the basic igneous rocks and the sedimentary
rocks. The loss of heat at the earth’s surface is known to be about
the same as the computed amount generated by radioactive substances
in the 35-mile crust. In the thicker continental crusts more heat is
generated than is lost, and everywhere in the earth beneath the
crust, radioactive heat is constantly accumulating. The latent heat
of fusion of basalt is 100 calories per gram. It would, therefore,
take about 30,000,000 years for sufficient heat to accumulate to
bring the subcrustal basalt to the melting point.

Radioactive substances have been undergoing decomposition and
causing rise in temperature since the earliest geologic times as shown
by radioactive haloes in Archean rocks, nearly two billion years old.

When fusion of the basaltic crust takes place, convection currents
concentrate the heat on the crystalline rocks of the overlying crust.
This crust is gradually thinned by melting from below, until the more
rapid loss of heat, through the thinned shell, checks the process. If
we assume with Professor Joly a 70-mile thickness of melting, the
general 10 percent volume increase will lengthen the earth’s radius
by 6.5 miles. This elevation would cause general tension and crack-
302 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITU'TION, 1933

ing, especially of subocean crust and continental borders, with the
outpouring of much lava.

Since the continents are in isostatic equilibrium (floating in a sea of
lava), with decreased lava density they would stand relatively less
high above the sea than formerly, provided the lava could escape, and
we would have a period of ocean-basin spread and shallow sea trans-
gression. With such expansion, the circumference would be, accord-
ing to Joly, between 30 and 40 miles longer than normal.

When crystallization and shrinkage begin, as a result of cooling,
the geosynclines are folded and pushed deeper into the earth. With
continued crystallization and differential settling, the ocean basins are
depressed more than the lands and are underthrust against the
continental borders. With the return of the magma to a denser con-
dition, the greatly thickened zone of relatively ight sedimentary rock
in the geosyncline is slowly elevated to a lofty mountain range, while
the continents are considerably elevated. According to this theory
the folding occurs during the late molten and early crystalline stages
and most of the elevation comes later.

During the molten stage the tidal and precessional forces cause the
crustal masses to have a slow migration westward, thus allowing the
highly heated subcontinental magma to be carried into the ocean basin
segment, and the continents to come to rest over the somewhat cooler
subocean portions. It is thought that this relatively westward drift
of the crust accounts for the great outpouring of basalts usually on
the western side of the continental masses, as that of the Columbia
River Plateau of western North America, the Deccan Plateau of
western India, the Hebridean area west of Europe, and the Disco
Flow west of the mountains of Greenland. By this same force, the
continent with the deepest keel and the greatest frictional resistance
to drift would have the least westward displacement. Asia, with the
highest mountains, and therefore the deepest keel, should in the next
molten period migrate less than the rest, as indeed it may have done
in the former molten periods. The fact that South America has a
deeper keel than North America would also explain its less westward
migration.

According to the Joly theory the earth is now in the solid crustal
stage, with continental growth not yet completed.

This theory has the advantage over all others of logically explain-
ing the periodic flooding and elevation of the continents. It also
successfully explains the folding of the mountains and the igneous
activity associated with the early part of mountain building. It
also supplies a logical explanation for the elevation of the mountains,
long after their folding.

If the continents are shifted to the west during the hypothetical
molten stage there should be an accumulation of acid rock material,
ORIGIN OF FOLDED MOUNTAINS—PROUTY 303

originally molten, on the east side of the continents, and, through this
action they should be building out a thinner crust toward the east.

Since the acid rocks of the continents contain about twice as much
radioactive material as the basic rocks of the subcrust, the thicker
continents should reach, in their basal portion, a condition of fusion
before the basic rocks of the subcrust. This would bring about an
elevation of the continent, followed by injection and ultimate spread-
ing of the continent, with folding of the continental borders; all
entirely independent of the general basaltic fusion. This source of
folding has been emphasized by both G. R. MacCarthy and W. F.
Prouty in recent articles.

ASTHENOLITHS

Bailey Willis in his recent articles on Continental Genesis and
Metamorphic Orogeny, has laid stress on the importance of crystal
growth in the metamorphic rocks as a source of lateral compression
in mountain building. According to his theory, tidal and rotational
forces have developed diagonally orientated strain zones in the earth
outside the inelastic core. These strain zones in the deeper earth are
favorable to rock fusion. The magma thus formed tends slowly to
melt its way toward the surface along the zone of strain and to pond,
along with other magma locally formed, beneath the poorly heat-
conducting, crystalline outer crust. These local pockets of molten
rock may reach dimensions of several hundred miles. The cumula-
tive shearing stresses, associated with the growth of such an astheno-
lith, ultimately cause eruption around its border. This is followed,
finally, by a central collapse. According to Bailey Willis, some of
the extinct asthenoliths are marked by the larger depressions in the
ocean basins, while the present active forms are marked by certain
deeps “ characterized by great seismic activity and beside which rise
great mountain chains of voleanic or intrusive formations.” During
the life of this molten pocket, metamorphism of the surrounding
rock is taking place with the formation of a flock of new minerals.
The growth of these new minerals is largely in the horizontal plane,
the direction of least resistance, and as the crystal growth exerts a
pressure as great as the crushing strength of the crystal, and, there-
fore, the rock, we have here a tremendous lateral force in the areas
of metamorphism. Such asthenoliths tend to form under both ocean
and continent, but those which form under the continents have a
stronger tendency to approach the surface along the continental
borders than elsewhere.

The above theory of asthenoliths would explain both the igneous
activity and the formation of the arcuate folds in the coastal island
mountains of Asia. While the assumptions of the theory do not
seem to be necessary to account for local pockets of molten rock
304 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

beneath the earth’s crust, the application of the force of growing
crystals, in association with molten areas, explain certain facts in
orogeny better perhaps than any of the other theories.

CONCLUSIONS

The foregoing brief discussion of some of the better-known theories
of the origin of folded mountains shows that the question of origin
is far from being settled. Some of the newer and more startling
theories, such as the continental drift theory, have been carried to
absurd extremes by some of the more enthusiastic and less well bal-
anced advocates. On the other hand, a number of ultraconservative
scientists, believing in absolutely fixed continents, can see no value
in the drift theories. These reactions are according to the laws of
human nature. I think it can be said in truth that none of the
newer theories is completely in the right and that none is completely
wrong. Here again we are traveling the same old scientific path.

No one, at the present, questions the truth of great horizontal and
vertical movements in the earth’s crust, in the formation of folded
mountains, but only the causes back of such movements. Most geol-
ogists who believe in fixed continents and ocean basins think also of
the horizontal movements largely as the result of differential settling
of continental and subocean masses in a radially shrinking earth; or
they think of them as due to actual enlargement of the crust by
wedge action of igneous injections or by the pressure exerted by
great numbers of crystals growing, in horizontal orientation, in the
zone of metamorphism.

As a result of lateral compression from one or many causes, the
rigid crust of the suboceanic section is gouged into the continental
section, beneath its more rigid superstructure. This underthrusting
by the ocean segments results in an overthrusting by the continents.
Since the Pacific Basin is larger and deeper than the other ocean
basins, it has a greater and more unbalanced underthrust than other
ocean segments, and we have, therefore, the greatest foredeeps in the
Pacific.

The geosynclines provide the location for the maximum buckling.
Their elevation provides sediments for new geosynclines.

The theories of drifting and of sliding continents give us addi-
tional causes for horizontal compression. They also give reasons for
directionally variable forces of tension and compression.

Arcuate mountains are best explained by either the gravitational
sliding of continents or by Bailey Willis’ theory of asthenoliths.

The Joly hypothesis of a periodically molten subcrust removes one
of the chief objections to the theory of continental migration, namely,
the nonmobility of the earth. It also makes possible the explanation
of a number of facts previously unsatisfactorily explained.
ORIGIN OF FOLDED MOUNTAINS—PROUTY 305

The present-day theories taken as a whole account for all the
observed facts in connection with mountain building, but it will be
many years before there can be a general agreement as to the most
important cause of either mountain folding or mountain uplift.
Fortunately some of these theories can be tested. Exact longitudi-
nal determinations, by use of radio, over a period of years, should
give definite information concerning the drift of continents. Inten-
sive geophysical tests should continue to yield facts about the earth’s
interior. Tidal and precessional forces are being checked by the
mathematicians. Geologic materials and structures are being scru-
tinized, with the new theories in mind. In short the subject is under-
going a rigid quantitative analysis.

We shall probably find that in the great work of mountain build-
ing, not one or two causes, but many causes, are active, and that
not all folded ranges are built in the same way.

LITERATURE
IDATY, Re A
1926. Our mobile earth. Charles Scribner and Sons, New York.
JOEY-+

1925. Surface history of the earth. The Clarendon Press, Oxford.
KEITH, ARTHUR.
1923. Outlines of Appalachian structure. Bull. Geol. Soc. Amer., vol. 34,
pp. 3809-380.
MacCarTHy, G. R.
1928. The origin of folded mountains. Journ. Elisha Mitchell Sci. Soc.,
vol. 44, pp. 14, 15.
Prouty, W. F.
1931. Triassic deposits of the Durham Basin and their relation to other
Triassic areas of eastern United States. Amer. Journ. Sci., vol.
21, pp. 473-490.
TAYLOR, F. B.
1928. Sliding continents and tidal and rotational forces. [In] Theory of
continental drift, pp. 158-178. Amer. Assoc. Petr. Geol., Tulsa,
Okla.
WEGENER, ALFRED.
1928. Theory of continental drift. T. Murby and Sons, London.
WILLIS, BAILEY.
1929. Continental genesis. Bull. Geol. Soc. Amer., vol. 40, p. 281.
1929. Metamorphic orogeny. Bull. Geod. Soc. Amer., vol. 40, p. 557.
i" J ia
jit 3

? i 1, y
ee i Bh, c
C4 i
=
; : .
t :
Pen hore ‘
“4 Y) i

. i.
{7 ; fis

us mot P Way) ey

> 2 is : Reet & yes

; pa geo Ma 189 olin 190 Oe

$7 1407s Preah iat

ft! Spa Eg s/n Re
s Be hoon aehy 4

METEORITE CRATERS AS TOPOGRAPHICAL
FEATURES ON THE EARTH’S SURFACKH*

By Dr. L. J. Spencer, F.R.S.

[With 5 plates]

The problem of meteorite craters is quite a new one. Until 1927
the only known example was the “ Meteor Crater ” in Arizona, which
since 1892 has been the subject of much discussion and controversy.
Various theories have been put forward to explain its origin. ‘The
one most generally accepted at the present time is that the crater
was formed by the impact of a gigantic meteorite on the earth’s sur-
face, but this view still finds some opponents. Strong support was
given to this theory by the discovery made in 1931 of a group of
craters near Henbury in Central Australia.? But definite proof was
finally given by the remarkable discovery made by H. St.J. Philby
during his crossing of the Arabian Desert early in 1932. The search
for the legendary city of Wabar was graphically described by him
at a meeting of the Royal Geographical Society on May 28, 1982.
The “walls” of the city were found to be the rims of a series of
craters, and the abundant “ cinders” of the city “ destroyed by fire
from heaven” proved on examination to be a nearly pure silica
glass. Nearby, rusted pieces of meteoric iron were also found, the
largest remnant weighing 25 pounds.

The finding of the silica glass as cindery and slaggy masses and
as complete “bombs” was in itself a remarkable discovery, for no
similar material had ever been found before, and it was found in
great abundance. Silica glass is, in fact, of rare occurrence in na-
ture. It is best known in the form of fulgurites or lightning tubes,
which are formed when sand dunes are struck by lightning.* Since
a temperature of about 1,700° C. is required to melt quartz sand, the
development of a large amount of heat is here indicated. Further,

1A paper read at the afternoon meeting of the Royal Geographical Society on Jan. 16,
1933. Reprinted by permission from the Geographical Journal, vol. 81, no. 8, March 1933.

2 Alderman, A. R., The meteorite craters at Henbury, Central Australia. Mineralogical
Magazine, vol. 23, pp. 19-32, 2 pls., 1932. Spencer, L. J., Meteorite craters. Nature,
vol. 129, pp. 781-784, May 28, 1932.

3Mr. Philby’s collection, from localities other than Wabar, includes a few small frag-

ments of fulgurites, which were found in hollows between the sand dunes. An interesting
fact is that the Arabs regard them as indications of the presence of water.

72774—35 21 307

308 | § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

the smaller pieces of meteoric iron from Wabar when sectioned, pol-
ished, and etched show a partial destruction of the characteristic
structure such as can be brought about artificially by heating the
material to about 850° C.

Now the close association of silica glass and meteoric iron with a
group of craters in a sandy desert can be accounted for in no other
way but by the impact of a shower of large meteoric masses. We
have, in fact, at Wabar a typical example of meteorite craters.

It is my present purpose to give some account of the few meteorite
craters or supposed meteorite craters that have so far been discov-
ered, in the hope that the scanty information at present available
may be of some help to travelers in recognizing further examples.
There are many craterlike depressions on the earth’s surface, but it
would be rash to assume that all have been formed by the fall of
meteorites. Some other pieces of evidence must be sought for. Noth-
ing is yet known of the mechanics of the formation of such craters.
They are not merely dents or holes made just by the projectile force
of the meteorite as hitherto supposed. They appear, rather, to be
explosion craters due to the sudden vaporization of part of the
material, both of the meteorite and of the earth, in the intense heat
developed by the impact.

The meteorite craters so far described may be easily remembered
by the following classification, with two examples in each class:

Single craters with associated meteoritic material (Arizona and
Texas).

Groups of craters with associated meteoritic material (Central
Australia and Arabia).

Groups of craters without associated meteoritic material (Estonia
and Siberia).

Single craters without associated meteoritic material (Ashanti and
Persia).

This makes a total of eight examples. It seems a pity to disturb
this beautifully symmetrical arrangement, but farther on I shall add
a third example to the second class, while the third and fourth classes
are not proved, and the last example is more than doubtful. That
leaves only five more or less certain examples of known meteorite
craters.

The Arizona crater (pl. 1) was first brought to notice in 1891 by
the discovery of many masses of meteoric iron scattered around the
crater. The finding of diamond in this iron aroused a considerable
amount of interest and not much notice was at first taken of the

*Foote, A. E., A new locality for meteoric iron with a preliminary notice of the
discovery of diamonds in the iron. Amer. Journ. Sci., ser. 3, vol. 42, pp. 413-417, 2 pls.,

1891; and Proc. Amer. Assoc. Adv. Sci., vol. 40 (for 1891), pp. 279-283, 1892.
Accounts of the crater have been given by:
METEORITE CRATERS—SPENCER 309

crater itself. It was known locally as “ Crater Mountain ” or “ Coon
Butte ”, and was afterward called “ Meteor Crater.” The irons are
known as the “ Canon Diablo meteorite” from the Cafion Diablo
nearby. ‘The locality is situated in Coconino County in the desert of
north central Arizona and close to the Santa Fe railroad.

The crater is a basin-shaped depression approximately circular in
outline with a maximum diameter of 3,950 feet and a minimum
diameter of 3,850 feet, or three-quarters of a mile. Its depth is 570
feet. The outer slopes rise gently from the surrounding desert
plain to a height of 1380 to 160 feet at the rim, while the inner slopes
are steep and precipitous, and partly covered with talus. The bot-
tom is level (410 feet below the plain) with an area of over 300
acres, and was once occupied by a lake as shown by the presence of
lacustrine deposits up to 88 feet in thickness. In the surrounding
country the beds of sandstone and limestone (of Carboniferous age)
are horizontal, but in the walls of the crater they dip radially out-
ward at angles of 10° to 80°, and in one place are faulted. The
outer slopes are covered pell-mell with fragmentary material rang-
ing in size from blocks of rock estimated to weigh over 4,000 tons
down to the finest “ rock flour.” Fragments are littered about for
a distance of 6 miles from the center, and they were evidently
ejected from the crater, the largest blocks being nearest the rim.
Indiscriminately mixed with this material, and also buried in it,
have been found thousands of pieces of meteoric iron ranging in
weight up to 460 kilos (1,014 pounds) and also pieces of laminated
iron shale resulting from the weathering of the iron. About 20
tons of the iron has been collected, but inside the crater only four
small pieces have been found and relatively little of the iron shale.
It is obvious that this meteoritic material must have been ejected
from the crater at the same time as the blocks of sandstone and
limestone.

Gilbert, G. K., The origin of hypotheses, illustrated by the discussion of a topo-
graphical problem. Science, vol. 3, pp. 1-13, 2 pls., 1896; and Presidential Addresses,
Geol. Soc., pp. 2-24, 18 figs., Washington, 1896.

3arringer, D. M., Coon Mountain and its crater. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia,
vol. 57 (for 1905), pp. 861-886, 1906.

Tilghman, B. C., Coon Butte, Arizona. Ibid, pp. 887-914.

Fletcher, L., A search for a buried meteorite. Nature, vol. 74, pp. 490-492, 1906.

Merrill, G. P., The Meteor Crater of Canyon Diablo, Arizona; its history, origin, and
associated meteoric irons. Smithsonian Mise. Coll., vol. 50, pp. 461-498, 15 pls., 1908.

Barringer, D. M., Meteor Crater (formerly called Coon Mountain or Coon Butte)
in northern central Arizona. Paper read before the National Academy of Sciences, Nov.
16, 1909; privately printed, 24 pp., 18 pls. [Philadelphia, 1910.J Further notes on
Meteor Crater in northern central Arizona. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, vol. 66
(for 1914), pp. 556-565, 3 pls., 1915; vol. 76 (for 1924), pp. 275-278, 1 pl., 1925.

For more recent short notes see Nat. Geogr. Mag., vol. 53, pp. 721-730, 1928. Science,
vol. 69, pp. 485-487, 1929; vol. 72, pp. 463-467, 1930; vol. 73, pp. 38-39, 66-67, 1931.
Scientific American, July, August, and September, 1927; June 1932, p. 363. Eng.
and Min. Journ., vol. 133, p. 392, 1932.
310 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

Besides diamond, the Cafion Diablo meteoric iron contains 7.33
percent of nickel and small amounts of the precious metals platinum
and iridium. One assay gave platinum 3.65 and iridium 14.95 grams
per metric ton. It therefore seemed to offer a promising mining
venture, the supposition being that the main mass of the large mete-
orite, perhaps 500 feet across® and weighing over 14 million tons,
that formed the crater would be found buried inside. Mining claims
were taken out by the Standard Iron Co. in 1903 and many trial
shafts (6) and bore holes (23) were put down at considerable ex-
pense, but nothing of value was found. After passing through
crushed and metamorphosed sandstone and abundant rock flour, un-
disturbed sandstone was met at a depth of 620 feet. The meta-
morphosed sandstone shows a partial fusion of the grains of quartz
and grades into a friable and porous silica glass.°

Another company, the Meteor Crater Exploration & Mining Co.,
was formed in 1927, and a new drill hole was put down through the
southern wall of the crater (under the supposition that the meteorite
had entered at a slanting angle). After passing through 30 feet of
iron shale cementing fragments of metamorphosed sandstone, the
drill stuck at a depth of 1,376 feet, presumably against some hard
object, which was believed to be the main mass of the meteorite.
An attempt was then made to sink a shaft outside the crater to a
depth of 1,500 feet from which the mass could be reached by a cross
cut, but at a depth of 640 feet a heavy flow of water was encountered
and the work had to be abandoned after the expenditure of $293,000.
Attempts are now being made to raise funds for further exploration.

All this work, which has added much valuable detail to a knowledge
of the crater, was carried out by the late Daniel Moreau Barringer,
of Philadelphia, who was an enthusiastic supporter of the meteorite
theory; and it is now being continued by his son, D. M. Barringer,
Jr. Under the guidance of Mr. Barringer the crater was examined
in detail by the late Dr. George P. Merrill, of the United States
National Museum, and eventually he became an adherent of the
meteorite theory. Previously this theory had been rejected by G. K.
Gilbert, of the United States Geological Survey, in favor of the
theory that the crater had been formed by a volcanic steam or gas
explosion without the extrusion of any lava. Although there are no
volcanic materials in the immediate neighborhood of the crater, yet
there are extensive basaltic flows at a distance of 10 miles, and the
extinct volcanoes of the San Francisco Mountains are only 30 miles

5A small asteroid of 1,500 feet diameter has also been suggested. This, composed of
meteoric iron, would have a mass of 378 million tons.

® Rogers, A. F., A unique occurrence of lechatelierite or silica glass. Amer. Journ. Sci.,

ser. 5, vol. 19, 195-202, 9 figs., 1930. This silica glass is more like a sintered sandstone:
it does not show the effects of complete fusion, as at Wabar.
METEORITE CRATERS—SPENCER 311

away. There are still supporters of this theory; but it does not
explain the intimate intermingling of shattered terrestrial rocks with
meteoritic material, nor the presence of silica glass. It would be a
strange coincidence for such a volcanic outbreak to take place just at
the spot where masses of meteoric iron had previously fallen, and
they certainly could not have fallen afterward.

Further, the temperature of a steam explosion would not be high
enough for the production of silica glass. The same, and more,
objections would apply to the theory that the crater has been formed
by the solution of lmestone, being of the nature of a sink hole.’
The crater extends downwards into sandstone, far beneath the base
of the bed of sandy limestone.

The Arizona crater, like the craters of Henbury and Wabar, shows
an intimate association of meteoric iron and silica glass with frac-
tured terrestrial rocks, and it was undoubtedly formed by the fall
of a large meteorite. But whether the main mass of this meteorite
still hes buried in the crater is extremely doubtful. More probably
such portions as were not vaporized by the intense heat developed
by the impact were shot out by the gaseous explosion and scattered
around the crater.

The Texas crater ® is situated about 9 miles southwest of Odessa in
Kcetor County. It is a shallow depression roughly circular in outline
with an average diameter of 530 feet. The rim is about 18 feet above
the bottom of the hole, but only 2 or 3 feet above the surrounding
desert plain where horizontally bedded limestone is exposed. The
steep inner slopes show the lmestone dipping at 20° to 30° away
from the center. A much-rusted fragment (1,120 grams) of meteoric
iron was found here in 1922, and the crater was first mentioned in
1927. Amongst the fragments of limestone and sandstone forming
the rim of the crater a few more small pieces of iron have been
found together with numerous pieces of iron shale. The various
suggestions made to account for the origin of this crater are discussed
by EK. H. Sellards, namely: (1) volcanic explosion; (2) salt dome;
(3) expansion by hydration of anhydrite; (4) explosion of gas;
(5) fall of a meteorite. The last is considered to be the most prob-
able, and this view is supported by D. M. Barringer.

The Henbury craters (pl. 2) in Central Australia, known locally
as the Double Punchbowl, are situated 7 miles west-southwest of
Henbury cattle station on the Finke River, about 50 miles south of

7 Dellenbaugh, F. S., Meteor Butte. Science, vol. 73, pp. 88-39, 1931.

§ The only known case of a meteoric iron found inside a crater is mentioned below under
Henbury.

® Sellards, BD. H., Unusual structural feature in the Plains region of Texas. Bull. Geol.
Soc. Amer., vol. 38, p. 149, 1927.

Barringer, D. M., Jr., A new meteor crater. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, vol. 80
(for 1928), pp. 307-311, 1929. No pictures are available of this crater.
312 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN iNSTITUTION, 1933

the MacDonnell Ranges. Pieces of meteoric iron having been sent
from there to the University of Adelaide with the statement that
they had been found around craterlike depressions, A. R. Alderman
at once proceeded to the locality in May 1931, when he was quick to
recognize the importance of the discovery.*® Within an area of half
a mile square he mapped 18 craters, and around them he collected
more than 800 pieces of meteoric iron, together with much iron shale
and some black glassy material. At one spot over an area of 6 by 6
feet more than a hundred small pieces of iron were picked up. The
largest crater is oval in outline, 220 by 120 yards across, and 50 to 60
feet deep. The others are approximately circular with diameters
ranging from 10 to 80 yards and depths from 8 to 25 feet.

With their gently sloping outer surfaces the craters are not very
conspicuous until one stands on the rim, when the steep inner slopes
come into view. The craters are, however, marked out by the growth
of mulga trees, acacias, and coarse grass, since they act as collecting
pans for rainwater in this arid region (average rainfall, 6 inches
per annum). The steep inner walls consist of powdered rock and
shattered blocks of sandstone, quartzite, and slate of Ordovician age.
Only at one spot in the walls were the rocks seen to be apparently
in situ and with the same dip as in the surrounding country. A
feature that may perhaps be of some significance was noted by Mr.
Alderman around two or three of the craters, but best seen around
crater no. 8, which is 45 yards in diameter. Here, radiating from
the rim, are five or six low ridges of sandstone, only a few inches
in height and varying considerably in length, the average length
being about 30 yards. It is suggested that these may have resulted
by the percussion of the meteorite. Only two pieces of iron (one
of 18 pounds) were found inside one of the craters, and these on the
surface just inside the rim. A boring in the floor of crater no. 5
(25 yards diameter) passed through 8 feet of fine silt down to rock
fragments, but no iron was found.

A large amount of material, together with much valuable infor-
mation about the Henbury craters, has been sent to the British Mu-
seum by R. Bedford, of the Kyancutta Museum, in South Australia,
who visited the locality in June 1931 and May 1932. This includes
642 pieces of the iron with a total weight of 891 pounds (405 kilos).
The largest pieces weigh 292, 17014, and 120 pounds, but the majority
are small and curiously twisted and curved. A selection of this
material is on exhibition in the Natural History Museum at South
Kensington. Most interesting is a group of four irons with a total

104 preliminary illustrated account was published in the Adelaide Chronicle of July 16,
1931, and a more detailed account in March 1932 (op. cit.). A few further details

respecting the craters are given by A. R. Alderman, The Henbury (Central Australia)
meteoric iron. Rec. South Australia Museum, vol. 4, pp. 555-563, 9 figs., 1932
METEORITE CRATERS—SPENCER 313

weight of 440 pounds, excavated in 1932 from a depth of 7 feet inside
the smallest crater. They were found in contact and with much flaky
rust between and around them, and they are evidently the weathered
remnants of a single mass. Immediately around and beneath the
iron were broken blocks of rock, while the overlying material was fine
grained and free from big stones. This crater (no. 13 on Alderman’s
map) is only 10 yards in diameter and 3 feet in depth; and in this
case the explosion was evidently not sufficient to “ backfire ” the main
mass out of the crater. Around the crater 60 small twisted pieces of
iron were found, together with fragments of iron shale, but no silica
glass. Excavation of the rather larger 15-yard crater (no. 11) gave
a negative result.

The larger blocks of the Henbury iron when sectioned, polished,
and etched show the normal lamellar octahedral structure (Widman-
stiitten figures) of a medium octahedrite. In the smaller twisted and
curved pieces the lamellae are bent and twisted. Further, the kama-
cite is granulated, proving that here the temperature exceeded
850° C. Oxidation of the iron has proceeded along the curved
cracks, along which the pieces eventually break up. These curiously
twisted and curved pieces therefore seem to be weathered remnants
of pieces of the iron which were torn, perhaps in a plastic condition,
from the main masses by the force of the explosions. The corroded
surfaces and the normal internal structure shown by the larger
pieces of the iron indicate that these also are only weathered rem-
nants of still larger masses, in fact merely the cores to which the
intense heat had not time to penetrate by conduction. Pieces of iron
shale are also found in abundance around the craters. These,
especially when found buried, are sometimes clustered together in
the form of “ shale balls ”, in which occasionally a core of unoxidized
iron still remains.

Silica glass has so far been found only around the largest crater
at Henbury, but not in the same perfection and abundance as at
Wabar; and, being formed by the fusion of a ferruginous sand-
stone, it is less pure. It shows a curious distribution on the ground,
for which no explanation can be offered. On the west side of the
crater larger cindery and cellular masses and pieces of partly fused
sandstone are found close to the rim; while on the east side small
tear-shaped drops and threads with a smooth, glossy surface are
found along a narrow strip of ground extending eastwards a mile
from the crater.

At Henbury there must have been not a single mass but a shower
of large masses of iron that formed the group of craters. The large
oval crater, which shows a promontory on its longer side, was
doubtless formed by two masses falling close together at the same
time.
314 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

The Wabar Craters, discovered by Mr. Philby *! in February 1932,
are in the Rub‘ al Khali at 21°2914’ N., 50°40’ E. (pls. 3 and 4).
Two distinct craters were mapped with indications of two others
buried in the sand. Isolated patches of the slaggy material suggest
that still more craters are buried. The larger crater is approxi-
mately circular in outline with a diameter of 100 meters and a depth
of 40 feet (1014 meters). It shows a long gap in the rim on the
northern side. ‘The smaller crater, 200 meters distant from the first,
is oval in outline with dimensions of 55 by 40 meters. The outer
slopes are gentle and the inner slopes steeper, and the bottom is filled
with drifted sand. For a distance of about 40 meters from the rim
the outer slopes are thickly strewn with cindery masses of silica
glass and smaller complete bombs of the same material, ranging in
size down to small “black pearls”, which were picked up in large
numbers.

The rims of the craters appear to be built up mainly of this silica
glass. There are no rock fragments except as small angular pieces
of a sintered sandstone enclosed in the larger masses of silica glass.
Near the craters there is a small outcrop of a friable cream-colored
sandstone composed of small shattered grains of quartz, and this
presumably extends beneath the desert sand and the craters.

On the outer slopes of the craters there were also collected a few
small pieces of meteoric iron and fragments of iron rust. A much
rusted mass of meteoric iron weighing 25 pounds was found about
200 meters northwest of the smaller crater and nearer one of the
buried craters. This must be only a weathered remnant of a much
larger mass, as it shows the normal octahedral structure unaffected
by heat. In the smaller pieces the kamacite is granulated. The
group of craters indicate that here there must have been a shower of
large masses of iron.

The reason for the unique development of silica glass at Wabar
is no doubt that the large masses of iron fell on clean desert sand.
A remarkable feature of the bombs and black pearls is their extreme
lightness. Inside they consist of a very cellular white silica glass,
and they are coated with a thin skin of black glass, usually with a
highly glazed surface and often beset with minute pimples. The
black glass is brown and transparent, with only a few minute bub-
bles, when examined in thin sections under the microscope. Chem-
ical analysis shows it to contain some iron and a small amount of
nickel in addition to silica. These structures suggest that there was
a pool of molten and boiling silica (the silica vapor causing the
highly cellular structure), and that a rain of molten silica was shot
out from the craters through an atmosphere of silica, iron, and nickel

11 Geogr. Journ., vol. 81, January 1933; and his book, The Empty Quarter, Constable
& Co., London, 1933.
METEORITE CRATERS—SPENCER 315

produced by the vaporization of the desert sand and part (perhaps a
large portion) of the meteorite. The minute pimples on the surface
were dewdrops from these vapors formed in the last stages.

The group of craters in Estonia are on the Baltic island of Oesel
(=Saare Maa) at 20 kilometers northeast of Arensburg (=Kure-
saare) on the farm Sall (=Kaali) (58°24’ N., 22°48’ K.). They
have long been known and often described, first by J. von Luce in
1827. They have been thought to be earthworks made by man, and
they have been compared with the crater lakes of the Eifel and the
Campi Flegrei. Other modes of origin that have been suggested
are that the craters were formed by (1) gas explosions, (2) oozing
out of a bed of clay, (3) weathering of limestone, (4) solution of
salt or expansion of anhydrite. In 1922 J. Kalkun compared them
with the Arizona meteorite crater. Recently, in 1927 and again in
1929, a detailed survey with borings and trenches has been under-
taken by J. A. Reinvaldt, Inspector of Mines in Estonia, and he
comes to the conclusion that the craters were formed by the fall of
a shower of iron meteorites. While his work was in progress a
visit was made to the locality by E. Kraus and R. Meyer, of Riga,
and Alfred Wegener, of Graz, and he freely supplied them with full
details and drawings. Asa result they published a long joint paper,
which appeared only shortly after Reinvaldt’s own paper.’* Kraus
inclines to the view that the craters were formed by the solution of
the salt in saltdomes; but Meyer and Wegener, while considering
this mode of origin to be possible, favor the meteorite theory as the
more probable.

The main crater, which is occupied by a lake, is nearly circular in
outline with a diameter of 92 to 110 meters. Its rim is 6 meters above
the surrounding ground, while inside the depth is 15.5 meters. The
steep inside walls show beds of dolomite (Silurian age) dipping
away from the center at angles of 30° to 40°. Beneath this there is
a zone of pulverized rock containing rock fragments; and the rocks
at the bottom of the crater are shattered. Five other smaller craters,
irregularly distributed over an area of three-fourths of a square
kilometer, are described in detail. Four of these are circular in
outline with diameters of 10 to 39 meters and depths of 1 to 4
meters. The fifth is oval, 53 by 36 meters, suggesting that two masses
of iron fell together. In the bottom of one of these smaller craters
the shattered bedrock shows an impression which is believed to rep-

“ Reinvaldt, L., with Luha, A., Bericht tiber geologische Untersuchungen am Kaalijiirv
(Krater von Sall) auf Osel. Tartu Ulikooli juures oleva Loodusuurijate Seltsi Aruanded
(Sitzungsber. Naturfors. Gesell. Univ. Tartu), vol. 85, pp. 30-70, 8 pls., 1928. Separate
as Publ. Geol. Inst. Univ. Tartu, no. 11, pp. 1-42, 8 pls., 1928.

Kraus, E., Meyer, R., and Wegener, A., Untersuchungen tiber den Krater von Sall auf

Osel. Gerlands Beitriige zur Geophysik, vol. 20, pp. 312-378, 1 pl., 10 text-figs., 1928;
Nachtrag, pp. 428-429.
316 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

resent the dent made by the meteorite. Reinvaldt supposes that the
craters were formed by violent steam explosions, steam being sud-
denly generated from the ground water in the rocks by the heat of
impact of the meteorites, and that the meteoric iron was shot out
from the craters together with rock fragments. There are indica-
tions of other small craters that have been filled with stones col-
lected from the land. A mantle of glacial deposits about a meter in
thickness covers the ground. This in intermingled with the rock
debris of the craters, proving that the craters are postglacial.

No meteoritic material has been found at this locality. The ab-
sence of masses of iron is explained by the fact that the ground has
been tilled since time immemorial.!? But pieces of iron shale should
have been found in the excavations in the rims of the craters. Silica
vlass would, of course, not be found, as the surrounding rock is
dolomite.

The Siberian craters (fig. 1, pls. 4 and 5) are rather disappointing,
showing only as a series of small pools ina swamp. It is certain that
some catastrophic event occurred there on June 30, 1908, but its exact
nature still remains doubtful. Unfortunately no good and connected
account has yet been given, but sensational reports appear period-
ically in the newspapers. The best account, collected from the avail-
able scraps of information, is that recently given by Dr. Whipple."
Only after a lapse of several years, in 1921, were inquiries made in
the neighborhood of Kansk by Dr. Leonid A. Kulik, who is curator
of the meteorite department in the Mineralogical Museum of the
Academy of Sciences at Leningrad. A fireball had been seen and
loud explosions heard over a wide area, blasts of hot air were felt,
and an earthquake recorded at Kansk and Irkutsk, as well as at
Tashkent, Tiflis, and Jena. Air waves had also been recorded on
the microbarographs at Cambridge, London, Reading, and Peters-
field in England, though they were not deciphered until 1930 by Dr.
Whipple. Then it was remembered that remarkable midnight glows
and twilight had been seen in Europe and Siberia on June 30, 1908,
and the following nights. Mention of a “ meteorite” [1.e., meteor,
for no meteorite has even yet been found] was made by Dr. Kulk
and others.*®

13 A similar explanation is given for the absence of meteoric iron in India (as contrasted
with the United States of America and Australia). Of the 106 recorded Indian meteorites
only 1 is a found iron.

44 Whipple, F. J. W., The great Siberian meteor and the waves, seismic and aerial, which
it produced. Quart. Journ. Roy. Meteorol. Soc., vol. 56, pp. 287-804, 4 figs., 1950.

18 Tschirwinsky, P., Meteorit vom 80. Juni 1908 im Ausfiussgebiet der Fliisse Tunguska
ni Sibirien. Centralblatt Min., p. 550, 1923.

Voznesensky, A. V., Fall of a meteorite on 30 June 1908 in the upper course of the
Khatanga River [Russian]. Mirovédénié, Bull. Soc. Russ. des Amis de Il’ftude de
l’Univers, vol. 14, pp. 25-88, with small sketch map, 1925.

Obruchev, S. V., On the place of the fall of the great Khatanga meteorite in 1908
[Russian]. Ibid., pp. 38-40, with small sketch map.
METEORITE CRATERS—-SPENCER 317

In 1927 and 1928 Dr. Kulik ® was able to locate the place of the
fall, being led to the spot by the devastated forests. Pine trees are
felled radially outwards for a distance of 60 kilometers (37 miles)
from the center, the area of devastation covering several thousand
square kilometers. A fourth expedition was made in 1929-30, when
Dr. Kulik spent 20 months at the locality, but his new results are not
yet published. He has, however, generously imparted some of the
information,’ and I have to thank him for a long letter of Septem-
ber 1932 and several photographs.

The spot is on the watershed between the streams Khushmo and
Kimchu, which flow respectively into the Chambe and Chunya, both
tributaries of the Podkamennaya (Stony) Tunguska, at 60°55’ N.,
101°57’ ES The nearest settlement is Vanovara, on the Stony
Tunguska, 80 kilometers to the southeast. The center of the fallen
forest is near the southern limit of permanently frozen ground.
which is here at a depth of half a meter. In winter there is a half
meter covering of snow, and the minimum temperature recorded in
December 1929 was minus 56° C. In summer it is a region of peat
bogs and mosquitoes. The rocks of the region are fine-grained and
coarse basalts overlain by glacial deposits and peat. Only on the
hills are rock exposures occasionally seen.

In the swamp are numerous round depressions—10 according to
some accounts and 200 according to another—ranging in diameter
from 10 to 50 meters and up to 4 meters in depth. Around the area
of these “craters” the peat is thrown into concentric ridges. <A
trench cut through one of these ridges showed contorted folds of
peat, clay, and ice. Three borings were made to a depth of 31.5
meters at the edge and in the center of one of the round depressions.
Under the covering of peat there was permanently frozen clay down
to 25 meters, and below that a sandy deposit which was not
penetrated.

Kulik, L. A., On the connexion of meteorites and comets. Ibid., vol. 15, pp. 173-176
[Russian], pp. 177-178 [English], 1926. Les météorites Gu 30 juin 1908 et l’orbite de la
cométe Pons-Winneke [Russian]. C.R.Acad.Sci. U.R.S.S., ser. A, pp. 185-188, 1926. Here
is also described the fall of a meteoric stone of 1.9 kg. at Kagarlyk, 60 km. from Kiev,
Russia, at 7 a.m. on June 50, 1908. The Siberian fall was at Oh. 15m. (G.M.T.) on the
same day.

16 Kulik, L. A., Sur V’histoire du bolide du 30 juin 1908. C. R. Acad. Sci.
U.R.S.S., ser. A, pp. 393-398, 1927. Sur Ja chute de la météorite ‘“ Podkamennaja
Tunguska 1908.” Ibid., pp. 899-402, with sketch map. Auffindung des tungusischen
Riesenmeteors vom 30 juni 1908. Petermanns Mitt., 1928, vol. 74, pp. 338-341, with
sketch map, 1928. [Translation from Krasnoyarsk Workers’ News of Aug. 9, 1927.] A
notice of this appeared in the Geogr. Journ., vol. 73, p. 296, 1929. Abstracts of these
papers and of all other recent Jiterature on meteorite craters are given in Mineralogical
Abstracts issued with the Mineralogical Magazine. Min. Abstr., vol. 5, p. 302, 1933.

An’, primary anus; Bpr, blastopore; Mth’, primary mouth.

17 Crowther, J. G., More about the great Siberian meteorite. Scientific American, vol.
144, pp. 314-317, 9 tigs., 1931. Osiris and the Atom, pp. 23-39, 4 figs., London, 1932.

Olivier, C. P., Comets, pp. 198-205, 2 pls., London, 1930.

These differ from the latitude and longitude previously stated. In his letter of

September 9, 1932, Dr. Kulik gives the position of “ Mount Farrington,” determined by
him asironomically in 1929, as ¢ 60°54’58.98’’, \ 101°56’59.79’’.
318 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

One view is that these depressions are formed by the freezing of
water in cavities between the permanently frozen ground and that
frozen only in winter, causing expansion and afterwards bursts. They
are said to be of normal occurrence at the southern limit of perma-
nently frozen ground. This view is opposed by Dr. Kulik. Another
view is that they were formed by the solution of limestone, salt, or

—
<Vanovara
ska

VEREA Do +

1?
J,

wEw4

___ Irkutsk

Scale of Miles

0 100 150 200 250
EE De

Position of Meteorite Craters ©

5 a 3 ms = <a

Ficure 1.—Place of fall of the Siberian meteorite of June 30, 1908.

gypsum '*; but this is at once ruled out by the bedrock being only
basalt. Dr. Kulik believes them to be really meteorite craters, though
he himself suggests some alternative explanations. They may have
been formed by the folding of the surface layers by the blast of hot
air, or by flooding following the melting of the frozen ground, or by

19 Tschirwinsky, P., Ueber die Pseudometeorkrater in Arizona und auf der Insel Osel.

Mém. Soc. Russe Min., ser. 2, vol. 60, pp. 1385-44, 4 figs. [Russian with German
summary], 1931.
METEORITE CRATERS—SPENCER 319

smaller still warm masses of meteoric iron lying on the frozen
ground. None of these explanations, however, appears to be satis-
factory, and it is indeed doubtful whether these small depressions
are at all comparable with those of Henbury and Wabar. No trace
of meteoric material has been collected by Dr. Kulik, but he was told
by the natives that pieces of iron were formerly found in the central
area of the fallen forest.

The Ashanti crater®® occupied by the large circular lake of
Bosumtwi lies on a watershed at 6°30’ N., 1°25’ W. It is roughly
circular in outline with a diameter of about 614 miles and a depth
to the surface of the lake of 900 to 1,200 feet. The gentle outer
slopes merge into the surrounding upland 300 to 600 feet below the
rim, which is higher on the south side. The lake is nearly 5 miles
across and 240 feet in depth, and its surface is 600 feet below the
surrounding country. Pre-Cambrian phyllites exposed in places
in the steep inner slopes show the same strike and dip as in the
surrounding country. Granitic rocks, but no volcanic rocks, are
present in the neighborhood. The view of the Gold Coast Geolog-
ical Survey that the crater is due to faulting is not accepted. A
gas explosion is not probable, and Dr. Maclaren suggests that the
crater was formed by the fall of a large meteorite. But no meteori-
tic material has been found, and there is no shattering of the rock
walls, and no fragmentary material in the rim.

The supposed crater in Persia was shown to General Dyer ** in 1916
by his native guide Idu as a curious hole ina level plain near Gwarkuh
(28°30’ N., 60°40’ E.) in the Sarhad district of Persian Baluchistan.
The hole was then 150 feet long, 120 feet wide, and 50 feet deep
with absolutely perpendicular sides. Idu said that it had been only
half its present size, but twice as deep, and that his grandfather
remembered how and when it was made. The old man told him
that one night, when he was a youth, something exploded in the
sky, and falling to the earth had punched a hole 100 feet deep in
the plain. The spot was visited by C. P. Skrine * in 1921, who
gives the dimensions as 95 by 70 feet, with a depth of 35 feet. At
the time of a later visit in 1929 it had silted up by 3 feet. The
picture given by Skrine shows a vertical hole through horizontal
strata (apparently alluvial deposits), and it does not in the least
suggest a meteorite crater.

The Campo del Cielo craters (fig. 2) in Argentina may now be
added to the list of known meteorite craters. The locality is sit-
uated in the Gran Chaco on the border between the Province of
27 Maclaren, Malcolm, Lake Bosumtwi, Ashanti. Geogr. Journ., vol. 78, pp. 270-276,
pls., 4 text-figs., 1931.

21 Dyer, Brig.-Gen. R. E. H., The Raiders of the Sarhad, pp. 85, 86, London, 1921.

2 Skrine, C. P., The Highlands of Persian Baluchistan. Geogr. Journ., vol. 78, p. 328,
1931.

ho
320 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

Santiago del Estero and the Chaco Nacional, and around the rail-
way station Gancedo (27°28’ S., 61°30’ W.). Native iron has been
known from this district since 1576, when it was discovered by
Hernin Mexia de Miraval. Rubin de Celis ?* in 1783 saw a mass
which has been variously estimated to weigh 1314 to 45 metric tons,
and a few large masses have since been collected. One weighing
1,400 pounds was presented to the British Museum by Sir Woodbine

\Aerol ito

Otump2y

ase,

}

Scale of Miles C2
15 0 15 30-4560 { San SS

——— aS 2 f

eo a SGristoball

TEE a a saa
{L CAO UIREA DIF Ole yA 62 d

Ficurm 2.—Place of fall of the Campo del Cielo meteoric irons, showing numerous small
lakes in the vicinity ; stars indicate where masses of iron have been found.

Parish in 1826. At the place is a group of round and shallow
depressions (hoyos or pozos), the largest, 78 by 65 meters, being
occupied by a lake, the Laguna Negra, the rim of which rises only
4 feet above the surrounding level pampa. These have recently
been examined by Dr. J. J. Nagera,?4 the chief geologist of the

*3de Celis, Michael Rubin. An account of a mass of native iron, found in South
America, Phil. Trans. Roy. Soc. London, vol. 78, pp. 37-42, 183-189, 1788.

*4 Nagera, J. J., Los hoyos del Campo del Cielo y el meteorito. Direccién General de
Minas, Geologia e Hidrologfa, Argentina, Buenos Aires, publ. no. 19, 9 pp., 19 pls., 1926.
This report is reprinted with some of the plates by Antenor Alvarez, El meteorito del

Chaco, 222 pp., 2 maps, 16 figs., Buenos Aires, 1926, where a detailed historical review
is given.
METEORITE CRATERS—-SPENCER 321

Argentine Survey, and excavations were made in the hoyo called
“ Rubin de Celis” (also called “ Pozo del Cielo”).

This is circular with a diameter of 56 meters and a depth of 5
meters. Pits dug in the rim and in the center of the depression
showed disturbed beds of sandy loess mixed with “ white volcanic
ashes” and “transparent glass in angular, curved, and striated
pieces.” There are no volcanic rocks in the surrounding pampa, and
the Andean volcanoes are 500 miles away. This transparent glass,
if examined, would most probably prove to be silica glass. Small
fragments of rusted meteoric iron were found in one of the pits near
the rim of the hoyo. <A piece of typical iron shale (very similar to
that from Henbury) from this excavation was presented to the Brit-
ish Museum by Dr. Antenor Alvarez in 1927, but unfortunately none
of the glass was sent. Dr. Nagera concludes that the hoyas were not
formed by the fall of the masses of meteoric iron, but that they were
made by man. There seems, however, little doubt that they are
really meteorite craters. They are easily accessible and close to the
railway, and should certainly be further investigated. There are
other suggestive features worthy of investigation in this district.
Many small lakes and pozos are scattered around; and in particular
a chain of small lakes extends southward from the spot where the
large masses of meteoric iron have been found for a distance of nearly
100 miles into the province of Santa Fé.

SUMMARY OF CHARACTERS OF METEORITE CRATERS

The following tabulation of the dimensions of the described craters
shows that there is a very wide variation in the ratio of width to
depth. This ratio must be rapidly affected by denudation, and
perhaps gives some indication of the relative age of the craters.
This ratio will also depend on the type of rock, as shown in the two
mine craters of La Boisselle and Hill 60.

width to

Width, | Depth, | Ratio of
feet depth

TEXAS ee a: aceon sepeernawscndse nn aedescas canassSansaseesasenasiaseess-ss 530 18 29. 4
SST aE ec eee eae 34, 300 1,300 26. 4
s\ioVig be ee Eee Sse eee ee ee ae oe 164 12.5
Campo del’ Cleloos.~25525<2 2 50cs-c2-—c Seucsucasshnes—xsoas Scewesseucas 183 16 11.4
dof] 0) 00 ee a a a oe al et eae ee een 33 3 11.0
DR) eee Ba ee aaa eo oe So ee eee ie eee 128 13 9.9
1) eee ee ne So neese so enee ao eee ee eee een ene sree 300 50 6.0
13-14] 0) Fey Anes See ee rear oO See ee ee ly ee me Sy 30 3 10.0
ee ee eee ee aes one eee aes ae 240 25 9.6
WD OMe aeh aaa se Aw cic secede scene setae ee nce enced ote cdo cbs sesocce 360 60 6.0
WARD Anne eee eet ene nee Soho e tees ie ee oeat becca ua eae ese Eee 328 40 8.0
ATIZO0G sociose rs esa e as oa cose cew elon ee apdtmewes See eeeeeer oon bee 3, 900 570 6.8
IH GOR DIGS esses ccacscconscocdencccs~cnseenceaoscaewacs=as= nseiaaiw aa 340 67 e

LES 15 {) KOCVCRY SC) orf: ee ee ee Se Se ER eae 270 70
322 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

From the above accounts it will be seen that a certain amount of
direct evidence is supplied only by the craters of Arizona, Henbury,
and Wabar, and this has to be supplemented by a considerable amount
of speculative deduction. Direct observation of how such craters are
formed is, of course, quite out of the question. Meteorites of which
the fall has been actually observed have always been of comparatively
small size, and their velocity has been reduced by the resistance of
the air to that of an ordinary falling body of about 70 meters per
second. They make small holes, usually of not more than 1 or 2
feet in depth, in the ground. The largest meteorite of which the fall
has been observed is a stone of 820 pounds, which fell at Paragould
in Arkansas on February 17, 1930. ‘This penetrated clayey soil to a
depth of 8 feet, scattering clods to a distance of 50 feet in the pasture.
On the other hand, the largest known meteorites, all of which are
irons and none observed to fall, have been found by reason of their
being partly exposed at the surface of the ground. The 60-ton Hoba
meteorite discovered in South-West Africa in 1920 has its upper sur-
face level with the surrounding ground, and around it there is no
sign of a crater. The large masses of iron near Cape York in the
north of Greenland were found loose on the rocky surface.

It seems therefore that meteorite craters are not merely dents in the
ground made by the percussion of a meteorite; but that they are
explosion craters due to the sudden vaporization of part of the
material, both of the meteorite and of the earth, in the intense heat
developed by the impact. When a large mass of iron traveling with
planetary velocity is suddenly stopped, the kinetic energy (14mv’)
is transformed into heat at a localized spot with the development of
a very high temperature. Simple calculations give very high figures.

The materials from the Henbury and Wabar craters give ample
evidence of high temperatures. The transformation of kamacite
from «-iron to y-iron at 850° C. and the melting points of iron at
1,530° C. and silica at 1,700° C. are definite points on such a “ geo-
logical thermometer.” We may further add the boiling point of
iron at 3,200° C. and that of nickel at 3,377° C. The boiling point
of silica has been estimated at a minimum of 2,590° C., but this is
probably too low. These are the boiling points calculated for the
pressure of one atmosphere, but under the enormous pressures pro-
duced by the explosions at the meteorite craters they must have been
considerably higher.

The upward force of the explosion must be very much greater
than the downward force of percussion; and for this reason the beds
exposed on the inside crater walls will dip radially outwards from the
center (fig. 3a), instead of inward toward the center as might at
first sight be expected. The outward dip could also perhaps be
METEORITE CRATERS—SPENCER 323

explained as in figure 3), where a ring anticline has been formed by
the percussion. The inner walls of the crater are always much
steeper than the outer walls. The rim and outer slopes are formed
of the fragmentary material shot out from the crater, and the
amount of this material and the size of the blocks will show a gradual
decrease with the distance from the center. Some of the fragmen-

@. Meteorite Crater: fracturing and tilting of strata
by outward explosion

C Mine Crater at La Boisselle, France, 1916

Ficurp 3.—Diagrammatic sections of craters.

tary material would also fall back into the crater and so cover up the
shattered rock at the bottom. The known meteorite craters are all
approximately circular in outline and their inner and outer slopes
are symmetrical about the center; that is, the craters are figures of
rotation about a vertical axis. This is as would be expected in the
case of an explosion crater; but in the case of a percussion crater
it would happen only when the projectile strikes the surface
normally.
727748522
324 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

The most likely place to search for meteoric iron would be on the
rim and outer slopes, where much will be buried, perhaps to be
exposed later by weathering processes. Meteoric iron readily oxi-
dizes and breaks up. Buried fragments will give rise to the forma-
tion of more or less compact iron shale and shale balls, and these may
be expected to be more persistent than the iron itself. Silica glass
can be formed only when the rocks surrounding the crater are highly
siliceous, such as quartz sand or sandstone.

NATURAL AND ARTIFICIAL ANALOGIES

Basin-shaped depressions, often occupied by lakes, are common
enough on the earth’s surface, and they may be formed in several
different ways. Volcanic craters and especially caldera (formed
when the upper portion of a volcano is blown away by a violent
explosion, or by subsidence of the cone) may be very similar in
form to meteorite craters, but being composed of volcanic materials
they are quite distinct. But in the case of explosion craters (or
“embryonic volcanoes”) an explosion of steam and volcanic gases
may give rise to a crater consisting entirely of fragments of sediment-
ary rocks without the outpouring of any lava. Examples of these are
the “ maars ” of the Eifel. The Pretoria salt-pan ?° (3,400 feet across
and 400 feet deep), 25 miles north-northwest of Pretoria, and Lonar
Lake on the basalt plateau of the Deccan, have been thought to be
such explosion craters; but the former presents more points of
resemblance to a meteorite crater than does, for example, Lake
Bosumtwi. Explosions of gas may also take place in oil-bearing
regions, sometimes with the formation of mud volcanoes.

The craters on the moon are usually thought to be of volcanic
origin, but the suggestion has also been made that they were formed
by the fall of meteorites. Their large size is perhaps related to
the smaller force of gravitation. If the meteoritic theory is here
true, we can only hope that the earth is not approaching the same
stage.

Craters may also be formed on the earth’s surface by the solu-
tion of beds of limestone, or of pockets of rock salt or gypsum.

As noted above, the craters of Estonia and of the Campo del Cielo
have been considered by some authors to be earthworks made by man.
This suggests that some other supposed earthworks may possibly be
really meteorite craters. Many dew ponds are clearly artificial, but
some supposed to be of Neolithic age may possibly have been formed
by the fall of meteorites. As examples of large holes made artificially
in the earth’s surface mention may be made of the diamond mines

25 Wagner, Percy A., The Pretoria salt-pan, a soda caldera. Mem. Geol. Survey South
Africa, no. 20, 186 pp., 19 pls., 1922.
METEORITE CRATERS—SPENCER 325

at Kimberley and the still larger Premier diamond mine near
Pretoria.

A closer analogy is given by the craters formed by military
mines *° and high-explosive shells. The mine crater of La Boisselle,
on the Somme (fig. 3c, pl. 2), exploded on July 1, 1916, was 270
feet in diameter from rim to rim and 70 feet deep. The rim con-
sisted of debris piled up to a height of 15 feet above ground level
and the outer slopes extended to 90 feet beyond, the total diameter
being 450 feet. In this mine two charges of 36,000 and 24,000
pounds, laid at 60 feet apart and 52 feet deep, were fired together.
The positions of the two charges are shown on figure 8c by the
dotted squares. They formed a circular crater of greater depth
than the charges. One of the craters on Hill 60, near Ypres, was
340 feet across the rim, and 67 feet deep; here there was one charge
of 70,000 pounds of ammonal. These dimensions are comparable
with those of the Henbury meteorite craters, but the craters here
were in much softer rocks—chalk at La Boisselle and Eocene sand
and clay at Hill 60. A photograph ** of a devastated area on the
Aisne in France, showing numerous water-logged shell holes and
stripped trees, is extraordinarily similar to one of Dr. Kulik’s photo-
graphs of the Siberian craters, only much more impressive (pl. 5).

As examples of much smaller craters produced by artificial means
mention may be made of the splashes of drops ** (also rain on mud
flats), clay balls thrown on a slab of clay, and shots on armor plates.

Note added September 15, 1954.—Since the above paper was written, a more
detailed investigation has been made of the materials from meteorite craters.”
Further evidence is forthcoming that very high temperatures prevailed at the
time the craters were formed. The meteoric iron was vaporized in large
amount and condensed as minute spheres; those which fell into the boiling
silica were preserved. Some of the vesicular silica glass from Wabar is esti-

mated to contain as many as 2,000,000 of these minute polished spheres of
nickel-iron per cubic centimeter.

% Military mining, work of the Royal Engineers in the European War, 1914-19. Insti-
tution of Royal Engineers, Chatham, 1922,

27 War Museum photograph no. Q387361.

% Worthington, H. M., The splash of a drop and allied phenomena. Proc. Roy. Inst.
Great Britain, vol. 14 (for 1894), pp. 289-303, 15 pls., 1895. Cole, R. 8., The photog-
raphy of the splash of a drop. Nature, vol. 50, p. 222, 1894. Worthington, A. M., and
Cole, R. S., Impact with a liquid surface studied by the aid of instantaneous photography.
Phil. Trans. Roy. Soc., London, ser. A, vol. 189, pp. 137-148, 8 pls., 1897; vol. 194, pp.
175-199, 6 pls., 1900. Worthington, A. M., The splash of a drop. London, 1895;
A study of splashes. London, 1908. Numerous interesting photographs are given in
these books and papers, some of which bear a certain resemblance in form to meteorite
craters,

29 Spencer, L. J., Meteoric iron and silica-glass from the meteorite craters of Henbury
(Central Australia) and Wabar (Arabia). Mineralogical Mag., vol. 23, pp. 887-404,
8 pls., 1933.
Smithsonian Report, 1933. —Spencer PLATE: 1

Carnegie Institution of Washington

1. AiR PHOTOGRAPH OF THE METEORITE CRATER IN ARIZONA.

D. M. Barringer,

2. ARIZONA CRATER: EJECTED BLOCKS FORMING RIM.
“OL6L ‘SONVYA ‘SWWOS ‘371esSsiog V1 ‘YALVYD ANIW “2%

*qySt1Adoo Unesnyy IBAA [eIIeduy

*ZEGT OUIZBSBIY [VOIFO[VsIUTTY

c 3ALV1d saouedS—"e eo} "PUoday URIUOSY ATC
Smithsonian Report, 1933,—Spencer

6 Ga mp

AB Exposed craters Seale 1:7,

CD Submerged craters” Yards
50

Ko Keputed site of targe iron block
Latches of slag Metres

H. St.J. Philby.
1. PLAN OF THE WABAR CRATERS, ARABIA.

50
EE

OOO

100

eet

100
—t
Smithsonian Report, 1933.—Spencer PLATE 4

H. St.J. Philby
1. METEORITE CRATER AT WABAR, ARABIA

Dr. L. Kulik.
2. FALLEN FOREST 10 MILES FROM CENTER OF EXPLOSION, SIBERIA.
Smithsonian Report, 1933—Spencer PEATE.

Dr. L. Kulik.

1. SIBERIAN EXPLOSION, 1908: CRATERS IN SWAMP.

*

oe. ra ea
ge oS SS) ae ae

Imperial War Museum copyright

2. SHELL HOLES, AISNE, FRANCE, JUNE 1918.
A GEOLOGIST’S PARADISE

By R. 8S. BASSLER
Head Curator, Department of Geology, United States National Museum

[With 4 plates]

Paradise to the geologist is not only the traditional far-away
heaven with its gates of pearl and jasper and streets of gold, all
precious minerals of interest to him, but it is also right here on
earth where these minerals and many interesting earth problems are
to be found. Ordinarily people think of Washington as a city of
museums and libraries and governmental activities, but here in the
Capital City we have one of the most favored areas of North America
for the study of geology—a paradise for both teacher and student.
Just what is geology, and why should a geologist find his paradise
on earth? Geology, briefly, is the study or science of the earth and
its inhabitants. The period covered by this study starts from the
time our planet was a fiery mass revolving in its course through the
heavens, subject only to physical laws, on down through eons of time
to the present, when life has become such a predominant factor.
Geology is all-inclusive, not only in the length of time it covers but
also in the various sciences it comprises. For it embraces phases of
the physical sciences, such as astronomy, physics, and chemistry, con-
cerned mainly with early earth history, and the biological sciences,
zoology and botany, studies dealing with the life of the earth.

Although a paradise for study may be found by the geologist in
almost any place, naturally to the specialist one region may offer
greater interest than another. The Bad Lands of the Dakotas—
lands practically barren and deeply gullied by occasional heavy
rains—reveal to the physiographic geologist, or student of land
forms, a story, to express it scientifically, of the erosion of unequally
resistant sedimentary rocks occurring in a semiarid region.

On the other hand, the sturdy granites of New England tell a far
different story of earth history, for they were originally molten
rocks formed deep in the earth’s crust but now exposed at the surface
by weathering. A striated or scratched boulder from New York
State brings before the student of glacial geology a vivid picture ot
the ice age. And so on—each section of the country has its own
geological formations, problems, and interest.

327
328 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

Like most other large cities on the Atlantic slope from New Jersey
to Alabama, Washington is located at the fall-line, the name given
to the junction of the flat-lying Coastal Plain to the east, composed
of sands, clays, and gravels rather recently deposited, and the
hilly Piedmont region to the west made up of granites and other
ancient hard rocks. It was at the fall-line that the early settlers,
pushing their way westward across the Coastal Plain by way of the
Susquehanna, Potomac, and other waterways, found their progress
impeded by rapids where the hard granites of the Piedmont were
encountered. Since these places afforded many natural advantages
such as water power, a purer water supply, higher and, therefore,
healthier situation, and waterway transportation, they usually
marked the beginning of settlements which have since grown into
important cities. From north to south these cities—Trenton on the
Delaware, Philadelphia on the Schuylkill, Baltimore on the
Patapsco, Washington on the Potomac, Richmond on the James,
and Augusta on the Savannah—clearly mark the line of contact of
the plains and hilly regions.

Although from the original settlement at Georgetown, Washing-
ton might have grown into an industrial city, its selection for the
location of the National Capital changed its reason for growth.

The Atlantic Coastal Plain, including the alluvial valley of the
Anacostia River excavated in it, upon which the downtown business
section and eastern half of Washington are built, really continues
on east beyond the Atlantic seashore resorts and out into the ocean
for a distance of 100 miles to the edge of the continental shelf. The
sediments which make up the deposits of the entire coastal province
have been so recently washed down from the higher lands to the
west that the material has not yet had time to consolidate into rock.
The process of building up the Coastal Plain still continues. Dur-
ing Revolutionary days the American Navy anchored at Bladensburg
on the Anacostia River, a side estuary of the Potomac near Wash-
ington. Today, however, the water is here scarcely deep enough to
reach the hubs of an automobile, and in a few years, unless man
intervenes, the area will be dry land. The Coastal Plain has also
alternately risen and fallen. Its northern portion has been sub-
merged since its first general uplift, so that rivers such as the Po-
tomac and Susquehanna, which cross it, were drowned and now
occur as wide estuaries, in some instances extending back to the fall
line.

This is the case of the drowned river valley of the Susquehanna
known as Cheaspeake Bay, whose beaches offer the geology classes
of the Washington schools many geologic phenomena for study.
The classic Calvert cliffs, which outcrop for many miles along the
A GEOLOGIST’S PARADISE—BASSLER 329

picturesque bay shore, stand as an excellent example of the cutting
and wearing away of the strata by wave action. Approach to the
cliffs south of Chesapeake Beach can be had only by the water, and
accordingly the student who wishes to search for fossils in the richly
fossiliferous Miocene strata here exposed finds a bathing suit more
appropriate than the characteristic hobnailed boots of the geologist.
In the constant wearing away of the cliffs the waves also separate
countless numbers of fossils from the sediments and strew them
along the shore, where they are readily accessible to the collector.
These fossils range from the microscopic foraminifera, shells of
1-celled animals, to the enormous vertebrae of extinct whales. Fos-
sil sharks’ teeth, some as much as 4 inches across, belonging to fish
living some millions of years ago, are rather common, and it is no
difficult task to secure a handful for stringing into a bizarre necklace.
Searching for these teeth by digging along the strand line and al-
lowing the next wave to spread out the material, thus exposing the
specimens, is a rare form of fishing.

But one does not have to leave Washington to find fossilized
marine animals. Sea shells and sharks’ teeth found in the sedi-
mentary sand and clay formations outcropping in the hills east of
the Anacostia River prove that these deposits are likewise of marine
origin. Good exposures of these strata, made up of Upper Creta-
ceous and Tertiary greensands capped by Miocene white clays
formed of diatomaceous earth, may still be seen at various points
along Good Hope Hill. The diatomaceous earth beds, composed
almost entirely of microscopic siliceous plant remains, are of eco-
nomic importance, particularly as a basic constituent of scouring
powders. Above these two formations is the Pliocene formation of
gravel and sand 20 to 30 feet thick containing pebbles of various
rocks, minerals, and fossils which afford the student many oppor-
tunities to add to his collection. This formation is well shown in
the earth mounds at Fort Totten, of Civil War fame, now overgrown
by vines and trees, located at the northern end of the Soldiers’ Home
grounds. It is also to be seen in the gravel pits at Good Hope and
at Tenleytown. The number of minerals to be found in these gravels
and in the other rocks around Washington is astonishing, ranging
from small gold nuggets, if you are lucky, to the fool’s gold or iron
pyrite which the earlier settlers shipped back to England by the
shipload.

In the eastern part of Washington the Anacostia River, a trans-
verse tributary of the Potomac, parallels the fall line and cuts
through the oldest strata of the Coastal Plain where they overlap
the granites of the Piedmont Plateau. The student who discovers
the fossilized remains of land animals and plants, in the sands, red
330 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

clays, and gravels of this formation, the early Cretaceous Potomac
group, must conclude that these deposits were laid down on the ancient
continent in river or swamp beds rather than in the sea. For here
are found bones of dinosaurs, the giant land reptiles of the past;
trunks of trees changed to flint and jet, and many leaf impressions
between the clay layers.

The higher northwestern part of Washington is built upon the
Piedmont plateau, which is the planed-off surface of former moun-
tains whose rocks represent the oldest period of earth history. These
rocks, well represented in Rock Creek and westward toward the
Blue Ridge, have passed through so many changes of structure due
to pressure and fracturing that their original aspect can only be
surmised. They consist mainly of crystalline rocks, so-called because
they were produced by the slow cooling and crystallization of an-
cient lavas or by the remelting and subsequent cooling of sedimen-
tary strata, such as mudstones. Granites, the most common of the
granular crystalline rocks, and schists, made up of thin layers of
changed, compressed sedimentary strata, form here the predominat-
ing outcrops. Besides the characteristic granite-gneiss of the eastern
Piedmont, which is well exposed throughout Rock Creek Park, other
interesting rocks outcrop just west of the park, among them diorite,
which weathers into green soapstone, and which has been used as a
building stone for various houses in Washington.

To study other rocks of the Piedmont, the geologist visits the
Potomac gorge at Great Falls, where a banded granite, called the
Carolina gneiss, outcrops extensively. The Potomac itself follows
the so-called master joint planes of the great blocks into which the
granite is divided, and within a short distance its course changes
direction several times at almost right angles. Kven these very
hard rocks, because of their exposure to the weather for such count-
less ages, usually appear at the surface as crumbling masses of quartz
grains, mica flakes, and clay, but along the walls of the stream gorge
where weathering has not been at work so long, their real nature is
perceptible. In the gorge of the Potomac another erosional feature
is conspicuous, for here the polished rock ledges contain rows of
pot holes, or circular excavations, sometimes as much as 7 feet wide
and 10 feet deep, worn in the hard bedrock by the water whirling
sand and boulders around in crevices until the cavities are produced.
Dikes and quartz veins containing just enough gold to be annoying,
intrusions of igneous rock from deep in the crust, faulting and the
results of long weathering and erosion are other geologic phenomena
plainly visible in the gorge.

Perhaps the most interesting field of geologic study close to Wash-
ington is the region of folded mountains, known as the Newer Ap-
A GEOLOGIST’S PARADISE—BASSLER 331

palachians, which rise west of the Piedmont plateau. These moun-
tains, the Catoctin, the Blue Ridge, and ranges to the west, are com-
posed of sedimentary rocks originally deposited in horizontal beds
under the sea. During the many millions of years since their deposi-
tion, they have been forced by great pressure into a series of north-
east-southwest folds, some extending a hundred miles in length, but
not more than a few miles in width. It is to historic Harpers Ferry,
located in the mountain region a short distance northwest of Wash-
ington, near the point where Maryland, Virginia, and West Virginia
meet, that one may go to study the many phenomena of this region.
So varied are these features that a list of them reads like the table
of contents of a geologic textbook. Among the outstanding features
here are two physiographic regions, the Blue Ridge Mountains and
the Appalachian Valley; two base-leveled regions, or peneplains,
now elevated, one to form the flat summit of the Blue Ridge, the
other the floor of the valley proper; the greatly folded Appalachian
structure; terrace formations demonstrating the former higher levels
of the stream beds; and water gaps, features which give evidence that
the rivers were able by their erosive power to hold their original
courses while the slow process of mountain building was going on.
Of historic, as well as geologic, interest is the series of chambers
dissolved out of the Shenandoah limestone near Harpers Ferry
forming John Brown’s Cave, which remains as it was when used as
a place of concealment for passing slaves to the North. Another
point of historic interest is Jefferson Rock, a mass of lower Cambrian
shale reposing on the high river bank overlooking the Shenandoah
River and surrounding country. It has been named for Thomas
Jefferson, our geologist-President, who frequented it for the inspira-
tion he received from the magnificent view—an inspiration reflected
in his various scientific papers.

But we return to Washington to study more recent geologic his-
tory. Jor here are deposits of the period known as the Quaternary,
when the great ice sheet overspread the country to the north and
reached as far south as the Missouri and Ohio Rivers. Although
the glaciers did not extend to Washington, their effects are exhibited
in the deposits brought down in the rivers swollen by the melting
ice. These deposits are now in the form of flat plains or terraces
along the river banks occurring on each side at definite altitudes,
thus giving evidence of several previous higher elevations of the
streams. The District of Columbia is the type locality for the study
of these terraces, hence the name “ Columbia ” which has been given
to the formation. An extensive development of one of these terraces
exists in the Mount Pleasant plain at Meridian Park and adjoining
upper parts of Washington, where the characteristic gravels can be
332 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

seen. On the middle terrace, about 90 feet above sea level, is built a
considerable part of Washington, including the Capitol. The most
recent terrace, which is at very few places more than 40 feet above
sea level, and the lowest, geologically speaking, contains the long
line of public buildings from the National Museum to the Monument.
In our own time a terrace is in process of formation at the present
level of the Potomac by the gradual deposit of its mud and gravel.

In addition to all these natural geologic phenomena exhibited in
or near Washington, there are other circumstances which make the
Capital City unique in the advantages afforded geology students and
research workers. The various scientific bureaus of the Government:
The United States Geological Survey, Smithsonian Institution, Geo-
physical Laboratory, Bureau of Standards, Carnegie Institution, and
others afford most exceptional opportunities for the student of geol-
ogy, as indeed for students of all sciences. And perhaps in no other
place are there the library facilities which Washington offers. ‘The
Congressional Library with its many thousands of scientific volumes,
so necessary to research workers, cannot be duplicated elsewhere.
Finally there is the National Museum, whose scientists through many
years of effort have collected and classified vast amounts of geologic
material. Minerals and rocks of all kinds, and fossils from the
oldest to the most recent, ranging in size from microscopic diatoms
to huge reptiles 80 feet long, are on display and for study by those
who seek a better understanding of earth history.

Is it, then, any wonder that here at Washington, where both nature
and man have contributed to make conditions ideal for him, the
geologist finds a paradise?
Smithsonian Report, 1933.—Bassler PEATE Wl

1. Washington, viewed from Good Hope hill with the recently elevated Atlantic Coast Plain capped by
Pliocene gravels in the foreground, the Piedmont peneplain forming the skyline, and between them the
alluvial plain of the Anacostia River with its terraces.

2. Calvert Cliffs along Chesapeake Bay, exposing richly fossiliferous marine Miocene strata.
Smithsonian Report, 1933.—Bassler PLATE 2

1. Outcrop of weathered granite blocks along Rock Creek in the National Zoological Park.

2. Great Falls of the Potomac on the Virginia side, showing the master and minor joint blocks in the
granite gneiss, and in the distance an area honeycombed with potholes.
Smithsonian Report, 1933.—Bassler PLATE 3

panier

—<—

= T Pi ie

i

‘

1. The Capitol on the middle Columbian terrace as seen in 1890 from the Bartholdi Fountain on the lower
one.

to

. The lowest Columbian terrace, upon which stand the National Museum, the Monument, and other
buildings of downtown Washington.
Smithsonian Report. 1933.—Bassler PLATE 4

1. Outerop near the National Zoological Park, exhibiting an unconformity or gap in earth history, with
the uptilted granite gneiss succeeded by horizontal beds of Upper Mesozoic sand and gravel.

to

Another unconformity near Washington. The hammer marks the boundary line between the Lower
Cretaceous Potomac formation below containing land plants and dinosaur bones, and the marine Upper
Cretaceous greensands with sharks’ teeth and sea shells.
NATURE’S OWN SHEAPLANES

By Cart L. Husss
Museum of Zoology, University of Michigan

-

Nearly all of the grand, fundamental discoveries and inventions
by which man has lifted himself out of his dark animal past were
but repetitions of discoveries and inventions which nature had made
eras before our anthropoid ancestor first stood erect and looked up
into the sky. The arrow by which primitive man gathered his raw
meat was duplicated early in the course of animal evolution by
the nematocyst—the poisoned arrow of the jellyfish. Fire by which
the human progenitor cooked his food and warmed his body was
paralleled by animal heat and matched more closely by the warmth
produced by decaying matter with which certain reptiles and birds
surround their eggs. High-power electricity, often considered the
symbol of modern civilization, was long, long before utilized by
nature in the electric eel, the electric catfish, the torpedo ray, and
other fishes. Light, which opened up the night for man, was a
frequent invention of nature—witness the firefly and many denizens
of the inky depths of the sea.

Use of light for distant communication has, no doubt, been prac-
ticed for a time so long as to make the whole existence of man seem
but a day. Communication by sound is similarly old. Music is one
of the most primeval of human arts, but insects and birds made
known their presence and desires by song at a far more ancient
time. Even the modulation of the voice to produce language was
incipiently developed in nature, as by certain birds. Modern com-
munication systems in many ways fail to equal the marvelous func-
tions of the nervous system of animals.

The cultivation of crops and the domestication of animals, which
allowed man to settle down from a nomadic existence, merely re-
peated the evolution of analogous habits by certain ants. Slavery is
also a fixed habit with some kinds of ants. Many of our social
ways are but reflections of the habits of social insects.

333
334 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

Even organized warfare was an animal development. Some ways
of modern war are old in nature: smoke screens are rivaled by the
ink clouds by which squids escape their enemies; camouflage is all
but universal in nature. Explosives as a weapon of combat seem to
have been a human discovery not duplicated by nature—hardly a
justification for man’s feeling of supreme superiority over the nat-
ural world. The rocket plane, which some predict as an outstanding
tool of war and peace in the future, will but repeat the mode of
locomotion utilized by squids.

These inventions of nature are not the work of a demigod. They
are the end products of evolution—the adjustment of animals to
their environment. This evolution, it is now generally agreed, is
accomplished by an orderly process: those individuals which are so
constituted, so fitted to their environment, that they survive better
in the intense struggle for existence, produce offspring like them-
selves, multiplying their own kind at a faster rate than do those
individuals not so well endowed with characteristics favoring sur-
vival. Eventually those best fitted to survive breed out those less
well fitted and thus populate their section of the world.

Man himself is a product of evolution. His ability to create ideas
and things has been a leading characteristic fitting him to survive.
The human “creations”, which so clearly parallel the products of
nonhuman nature, are therefore also the result of natural evolution-
ary processes. The distinction between natural and human inven-
tions is consequently a rather arbitrary one, based on differences
of time, of zoological position, and of degree, rather than on inherent
differences in kind.

Probably the most outstanding among the basic human inventions
which was not utilized by prehuman nature was the wheel. True,
the wheel animalcules, or rotifers, produced circular water currents
by movements of the double circle of cilia about the mouth, but this
is not such a movement as would be produced by the spokes of a
true wheel, each advancing independently, in rotation. The turning
of a circular disk on or about an axle is a distinctively human inven-
tion only weakly anticipated (though perhaps suggested) by the
motion of animal, including human, limbs around ball-and-socket
joints. The wheel is not necessary to high human development, for
the American Indians, including even the Mayas and the Incas, seem
never to have known of this basic implement. In one form or an-
other, however, the wheel enters into almost every phase of progres-
sive human activity characteristic of the mechanical age in which
we are living. All current means of transportation, of power de-
velopment, and of machine production somewhere involve rotation
on or about an axis. The release of man from day-long drudgery,
NATURE’S OWN SEAPLANES—HUBBS SoD

the multiplication of power and wealth, the binding together of the
world by instant means of communication, and rapid, facile means
of transportation—all these factors basic to modern civilization are
made possible by the turning of wheels.

II

The whirling motor and the whirling propeller, both involving
the principle of the wheel, are the essential points by which the
airplanes of man differ from flying fishes, nature’s own seaplanes.
With this exception, vital it is true, modern airplanes are marvelously
close reproductions of flying fishes. To offset this defect in the
natural product, the flying fishes are the masters of both water and
air—submarines and seaplanes in one.

Pioneers in aeronautics and designers of early aircraft made the
mistake of neglecting to study the most airplanelike of all animals,
the flying fishes. The idea had become so firmly fixed in man’s mind
that birds are the preeminent animals of flight that they alone were
looked to in the attempt to discover the principles of flight.

This firmly entrenched idea that bird flight is typical of all animal
flight has since the time of early records prevented a large proportion
of observers from appreciating the true method of fish flight. This
erroneous preconception, like thousands of other fixed ideas, has
blinded the eyes of man. It has put into his mental vision move-
ments of the flying fish’s “ wings” which his eyes did not see and
could not see, because they do not exist. ven some scientists, ob-
serving the fascinating flight of fishes, have thus duped themselves
into thinking they saw that which they did not see, allowing their
preconceived ideas of how fishes should fly to prevent them from
seeing how fishes do fly, or rather from registering in their minds
what their eyes must have seen. Most of the scientists who failed
to fight off these blinding effects of preconceived ideas, however,
were laboratory investigators, closet naturalists. Through the long
period when men have allowed their minds to put movements into
the flying fish’s “ wings”, trained field naturalists have seen that
these animals, while in the air, hold their supporting planes, the
greatly expanded pectoral fins, as rigidly as though they were made
of steel.

The question whether fishes flap their “ wings” in flight consti-
tutes one of the longest controversies in the history of natural science,
and is still in dispute, despite the numerous essentially correct obser-
vations noted above. It has been a common tendency to deduce how
fishes must fly, not only from preconceived ideas of the flight of birds
but also from generally erroneous conceptions of the mechanics of
flight. Had half the energy which has been devoted to these profit-

‘
336 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

less deductive studies been expended in inductive research—careful
observations on the flight of fishes—the controversy would long ago
have been settled, or at least would have been rendered very one-
sided. In fact, a few hours of unprejudiced and close observation
would usually have sufficed to prick the bubblelike theories born of
deductions.

Now that the sight of airplanes, fulfilling the prophecies of Lang-
ley, is a commonplace experience of civilized races, the erroneous be-
lief that flying fishes must flap their wings in order to fly is much less
common than in previous years. False deductions that the weight
of the fish’s body can be sustained in the air only by a vibration of
the wings, or that any body—even a moving plane—must continu-
ously fall unless it continues to expend energy to counteract gravity,
are not likely to be made by one who has watched airplanes with
motors shut off, or, better, gliders, soar through the air and often
rise as they proceed, with their planes clearly silhouetted against
the sky.

Til

For lack of space, no attempt is made to review here the very ex-
tensive, though mostly incidental and trivial, literature on the flight
of fishes. This has been attempted by several writers referred to in
the selected references given at the close of this article, notably by a
German naturalist, Fr. Ahlborn (1895), by an American ichthyologist
long associated with the Smithsonian Institution, Theodore Nicholas
Gill (1905), and by an Englishman, E. H. Hankin (1914, 1920). As
I wrote recently in presenting detailed field observations on the
subject (Hubbs, 1933), “perhaps too much ink has already been
used in discussing the flight of fishes.”

Disregarding this voluminous literature, we may proceed at once
to a discussion of just how the typical (“ four-winged” or “ bi-
plane”) flying fishes fly, according to the virtually unanimous
views of recent, critical observers. A brief epitome is given in pic-
torial form. Figure 1, utilized for this purpose, was made by Grace
Eager under my direction, as a substitute for photographs, prefer-
ably motion pictures, which still remain for some skilled wildlife
photographer to contribute. This would be by no means an impos-
sible task in certain tropic seas, where day after day hundreds of
these fishes rise to soar away before a vessel.

UNDER-WATER MOVEMENTS

Under water, flying fishes swim with great speed, with both pairs
of wings folded back against the body so that they resemble a trim
submarine (fig. 1a). This may be seen especially well from a vessel
NATURE’S OWN SEAPLANES—HUBBS 337

FiGurB 1.—Four stages in the flight of a cypselurine flying fish. Reproduced by permission
from Papers of the Michigan Academy of Science, Arts, and Letters.

a, the fish approaches the surface, both pairs of fins folded; b, the fish breaks the
surface and spreads the pectoral fins (upper or anterior planes) to support the anterior
part of the body; c, the fish gains speed by the taxi or surface-skimming. ‘The caudal
beats the water; the body shakes; and the wing tips flutter in response, giving a false
illusion of wing beating; d, the fish takes off by spreading the pelvic fins, thus lifting
the tail out of the water. The planes are now held taut and rigid as the flying fish
dashes through the air.
338 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

plying the clear sea off Santa Catalina Island, where lives in abun-
dance one of the giants of the tribe, the California flying fish, which
attains a length of about 18 inches.

THE SURFACE “TAXI”

On breaking the surface, the huge pectoral fins, the “ wings ”
which function as the upper or anterior pair of planes, are spread
wide and taut. This spreading action is apparently too sudden to
be caught by the eye. Since these main supporting planes lie well
in advance of the fish’s center of gravity, the head of the flying fish
is supported in the air at a slight angle with the surface of the sea,
while the tail droops, because the lower planes (the enlarged pelvic
fins), set behind the center of gravity, at first remain folded against
the belly. For this reason the elongated and strengthened lower
lobe or fork of the caudal fin remains submerged in the water
(fig. 1b).

While a few of the flying fishes—such as the primitive, short-
winged genus Oxyporhamphus, and the “two-winged” or “ mono-
plane” type Ewocoetus (or Halocypselus)—dart directly from the
sea, the typical biplane species normally gain power for their longer
flights by a surface “taxi” movement (fig. 1c), to borrow a term
from aviation.

In obtaining the position just described at the surface of the water,
the biplane flying fishes may suffer some slackening of their speed.
They actually appear almost to balance themselves for a split second
at the inception of their surface movements. At least we may be
sure that at the start of the taxi sufficient velocity is not yet attained
to carry the fish on a very long soar through the air. That this is
true was evident from actual observations. When the taxi was mis-
governed, much abbreviated, or even eliminated, on account of some
condition of wind, wave, or obstacle, the fish was sustained in the
air for only a few feet. And when a very short taxi was employed,
the first flight was not much longer.

I believe that I have been able to observe the acceleration in speed
which may be assumed to be produced by the taxi. In compound
flights it is obvious that the slackened speed at the end of one flight
is greatly accelerated by the taxi intervening directly between this
soar and the following one. At the end of each taxi the fish appears
to be catapulted into the air at a very high speed. What this actual
speed is would be very interesting to know. I assume that it is not
less than about 55 kilometers (35 miles) per hour, my very rough
estimate of the average speed of the whole flights (drawn up from
guesses of the distance traversed in timed flights). This estimate
is in rough agreement with those of Hankin (1914, 1920), who com-
NATURE’S OWN SEAPLANES—HUBBS 339

putes the air speed of flying fishes to be 10 to 20 meters per second.
That an acceleration takes place during the taxi may also be con-
cluded from the fact that my estimate of the speed of the entire
taxi is only 10 meters per second (about 35 kilometers per hour),
which is less than my estimate for the whole flight and therefore
almost certainly less than the speed attained at the end of the taxi
and the beginning of the actual flight, which ends as the speed is
gradually decreased. The taxi may, consequently, be assumed to
accelerate the speed sufficiently to carry the fish for a considerable
distance through the air.

The propulsive power by which this acceleration is accomplished
is derived solely from a violent side-to-side vibration of the tail,
as the fish skims along with only the strengthened lower caudal
lobe in the water. The even, wave-ring disturbances thus produced
on a quiet sea surface indicate that such a movement takes place,
and the actual track which I once saw left on dust-covered water
surface proves the point.

The retention of the propelling organ in the dense medium of
water and the supporting of the moving body in the rare medium
of air permit the attaining of a very high speed. This is the princi-
ple of the speed boat and the hydroplane.

The rapid shaking undergone by the stiff body clearly follows from
the tail movement. The slight movement of the taut pectoral fins
(fig. 1c) during the taxi has been mistaken by uncritical observers
for an actual flapping of the wings, but this rapid vibration of the
fins, like the less obvious but still observable shaking of the whole
body, is solely a response to the violent tail movements. The vibra-
tion of the wing tips, having an amplitude of only a centimeter or
two, and usually lasting a bare second, is certainly insufficient to
give so heavy a body speed enough to carry it through the air. The
hazy outline of the planes becomes transformed into knife-like rigid-
ity, as I have observed hundreds of times for many species and as
most other trained observers have indicated, at the very instant the
tail movements cease when the fish rises into the air.

It is a curious fact that nearly all observers have failed to appreci-
ate the simple reason why the wing tips flutter while the tail is
vigorously beating the water surface. Even those who have taken
the side that flying fishes do not fly by wing flapping explain this
wing vibration as due to the action of the wind on the taut mem-
brane. That this explanation is untrue follows from the fact that
the vibration ceases the instant the tail fin leaves the water, although
neither the wind pressure nor the wing tautness is then materially
altered.

727743523
340 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

The distance covered by the initial taxi is usually about 5 to 15
meters (or yards); some taxis are at least 20 meters long, but the
average is nearly 50 times the length of an average flying fish, or
about 9 meters (30 feet) long. Numerous timings made by me in
Asia indicate that the average time involved in covering this distance
is about 0.9 second. The average speed for the surface period of
movement is therefore about 10 meters per second (386 kilometers
per hour). This is the speed of an athlete on a short dash. But the
speed of the fish, since it is accelerated during the taxi, is probably
greater at the end of the taxi, when the fish hurls itself into the air.
On the basis of some field observations (degree of detail not indi-
cated) and of aerodynamic computations, Shoulejkin (1929) has
concluded that a speed of 16 to 18 meters per second is attained at
the end of the taxi. Like an airplane, the fish probably increases
its power as it approaches the take-off.

To attain this speed the sculling action of the caudal fin must
be very strong and rapid. My observations indicate an average of
about 50 to 70 complete or double vibrations per second and 5 to 7
vibrations per meter.

The biplane flying fishes very often prolong their flight by taking
a new start. Since they expend no energy to increase or maintain
their speed in the air they gradually settle down to the water. They
then either dive into the water or again start violently sculling to
initiate another long leap through the air. The taxis of a compound
flight subsequent to the initial taxi are typically short, seldom
lasting a second and probably averaging half a second.

THE ACTUAL FLIGHT

During both the initial and intermediate taxiings the pelvic fins
must remain folded tightly against the belly, for at these times they
are always invisible. But at the instant the fish leaves the surface
these fins flash into clear view and are very easily seen with binocu-
lars or even with the unaided eye, especially when the pelvics are
blackish. It is assuredly the upward force of air pressure on these
posterior planes that lifts the drooping tail out of the water and thus
actually initiates the air flight proper (fig. 1d). When the fish is
thus forced into a horizontal position it lies at most only a few centi-
meters above the sea. This is probably a main reason why many
flights are abortive, ending almost at once in a steep little wave.

The often repeated claims that a flying fish sustains itself in the
air by flapping or rapidly vibrating the pectoral “ wings” are ap-
parently due, as already stated, to preconceived ideas that fishes must
fly like birds, or to uncritical deductions that the mechanics of flight
demand such movement, or to untrained or inattentive observation.
NATURE’S OWN SEAPLANES—HUBBS 341

‘hese claims have for the most part been made by others than
trained naturalists or by laboratory zoologists equally untrained in
field observation. Such accurate, trained observers as Moseley, Jor-
dan, Gilbert, and many others have been unable to detect any move-
ment of the fish’s main planes while it flew through the air. Neither
for the California flying fish nor for the several species I studied on
the opposite side of the Pacific could I observe any wing movement
which by any reasoning could be thought to sustain the fish in the
air. The vibration of the pectoral tips through a small amplitude
during the taxi, assuredly the mere consequence of the vigorous
sweeping of the tail, as already stressed, ceases instantaneously as the
caudal fin rises clear of the water. And these fins remain stretched
taut and firm until the moment when the fish either dives into the
sea or until its tail fin dips in the water and resumes the violent
sculling, which immediately induces a renewal of the hazy appear-
ance of the fin tips. The frequent naive claims that this secondary
vibration becomes apparent only when the fish is fatigued and that
the wing vibration while the fish had been in the air was too rapid
to be seen by the eye are at once refuted by the fact that the wing
appears as a single blade, whereas if it had been moved too fast to
follow, it would have appeared double like a humming bird’s wing,
with one image at each end of the stroke.

That there is absolutely no vibration of the outstretched pectoral
fins while the fish is in the air is clearly observable, even without the
aid of field glasses. Whenever a fish happens to fly directly away
from the observer, a condition which would make easily evident any
up-and-down movement, the edges of the planes always stand out
clear like knife’s edges, without a trace of doubling or of a blur,
even when the fish flies into a high wind (which some have said
causes a vibration of the fin). It has been with full certainty also
that I have observed the rigidity of the planes hundreds of times as
I have looked down through field glasses at flying fishes close to
the boat. When the pectoral fins are blackish, and, better yet, when
they are marked with an oblique yellow band or by black blotches,
it is especially easy to appreciate that these fins remain motionless
in relation to the fish.

The anatomical researches of Mébius (1878), Ahlborn (1895),
Ridewood (1913), and others have disclosed no muscular or other
modification sufficient to make one suspect that these fishes can flap
their wings sufficiently to maintain their heavy bodies in the air.

The pelvic fins, the lower or posterior planes, likewise are never
seen to vibrate. ‘They remain folded as the caudal beats the surface
and thus do not participate in the slight vibration of the fin tips
induced by this tail movement. Especially when the pelvics are
342 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

black or blackish it is possible to see through the binoculars that
these fins do not vibrate while they are outstretched during the
actual air flight.

The fact that the expanded paired fins do not vibrate after the fish
leaves the water surface proves that the caudal fin does not beat in
the air (another fantasy of some authors). Jurthermore, the edge
of this fin can be seen to be clear-cut while a fish volplanes away in
line with one’s vision.

THE CONTROL OF FLIGHT DIRECTION

I conclude from my observations, therefore, that a flying fish when
in the air makes no effort by any flapping or vibration of the fins
to add to the velocity it gained by the sculling of the tail during
the swimming under water and during the taxi at the surface. That
it does, however, use the fins in the air to control the direction of
the flight is certain. This control is most often seen when a fish
avoids the obstruction of the ship’s bow by flying around it in a
distinct curve, and even more spectacularly when one, headed di-
rectly for the ship’s side, turns off at right angles in a curve of short
radius. When a flying fish approaches even closer to the ship, it
dives into the water, to take advantage of the greater resistance of
that medium in making the shorter turn necessary to avoid a col-
lision with the ship. The control is so nearly perfect that I have
never seen one strike a vessel by day, though they do so when blinded
by a light at night, and I have found one published record of a fly-
ing fish striking the side of a ship. Occasionally I have seen them col-
lide, not with a ship but with one another (as though to heighten
the analogy of their flight to that of airplanes). Flying fishes,
therefore, seem to be lacking either in perfect flight control or in
perfect air vision.

The flying fishes of the Cypselurus type, like airplanes again,
show a vertical as well as a horizontal control of flight direction.
This is beautifully evident as they maintain a course nearly paralle!
with a choppy water surface, just skimming over sharp-peaked
crests and dropping to a lower level over the intervening troughs.
As already noted, the diving to avoid collision with a ship likewise
indicates a vertical control.

The claim has been made that flying fishes invariably take off into
the wind, but I have seen them scoot away toward all points of the
compass, while a strong wind remained in one quarter. The power
and speed of the taxi seem sufficient to hurl them into the air, when
the pelvic planes are expanded, no matter what may be the angle of
the taxi to that of the wind. But after the fishes start their flight,
especially as they begin to lose momentum, their direction is much
NATURE’S OWN SEAPLANES—HUBBS 343

modified by a strong wind. They tilt their plane surface more or
less upward toward the wind and are thus carried off their original
courses in a wide curve. To what degree the wind is so utilized to
prolong or definitely alter the direction of the air journey is a point
worthy of detailed inquiry.

THE DURATION OF THE FLIGHTS

A person’s offhand estimate of the time a flying fish remains in
the air is usually several times too high. During my observations
on the species of biplane flying fishes in Asiatic waters I timed 424
flights or parts of flights. The two longest single flights, during
which the fish remained completely out of the water, lasted only 12
and 138 seconds, respectively. Some flights which I observed among
the Philippines, before I started to use the watch, seemed to be some-
what longer than any of those actually timed. Of 42 compound
flights that were timed the longest lasted slightly less than 30
seconds. It is doubtful whether any flights cover a whole minute.
The record flight actually timed is perhaps one of 42 seconds, re-
corded by Breder (1929) on the authority of a sea captain.

Most flights are short, lasting only 1 or 2 seconds, whether the sea
be glassy smooth or decidedly rough. The average time for the
first flight was 2.7 seconds for the smooth Bohol Strait, and 2.9
seconds for the rough weather on the open ocean. The average
time for compound flights was only 2.6 seconds.

THE NUMBER OF SUCCESSIVE LEAPS

In order to obtain some definite data on the frequency and ex-
tent of these compound flights which characterize the air move-
ments of the biplane flying fishes, I made numerous counts of the
number of successive flights. Slightly more than half of the flights
counted (164 out of 299, or 55 percent) were not continued at all.
About three-fourths (76 percent) ended with either 1 or 2 leaps.
Nearly nine-tenths (86 percent) of the total ended with 1 to 3
leaps, and more than nine-tenths (94 percent) ended with 4 or fewer
stages. Only 1 flight in 16, on the average, was made up of 5 or more
elements. The greatest number of successive flights observed was
12. It is doubtful whether a greater number is often undertaken.
The numbers of successive flights under the different conditions of
sea, weather, size, and species of fish was found to be independent of
these conditions.

THE LENGTH OF THE FLIGHT

How far flying fishes fly apparently remains to be measured.
Simultaneous use of two sectants, or the combined use of a geologist’s
compass and a distance finder, would seem to be a feasible way to
344 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

make approximate determinations from a ship plying through quiet
seas abounding in these fishes. The estimates of observers have been
very indefinite: ‘“‘A surprising distance”; “200 to 400 meters”;
“distances of about a quarter mile are occasionally made.” Ac-
curate estimates of the speed of flight must await determination of
the distance traversed.

IV

Studying the flying fishes from an aerodynamic standpoint justi-
fies the title here given them, “ Nature’s Own Seaplanes.” After
describing the mode of flight in the biplane flying fishes in terms
similar to those here used, Breder (1930) has written:

As soon as the tail leaves the water it immediately stops oscillating, and
the fish becomes a glider. Up to that time they may be considered as a
pusher type of plane.

The lift, of course, as in the plane, is chiefly obtained by means of an an-
teriorly placed pair of wings. These are cambered very much as in the mod-
ern plane and the support is consequently chiefly from above. According to
Dowd, the flying fish wing is so constructed that the upper surface is smooth
and flush while the necessary thickness of the supporting rays is all below,
which causes the lower surface to be ribbed. This is good construction, the
sacrificing of the least efficient surface in the interest of mechanical strength.
In the four-winged flyers considerable added lift is given by the ventral
fins. In these advanced types the section of the body is squarish, the lower
surface acting to increase the lift very much as in a plane built for large
lift in which the fuselage takes part. The Cypselurus type with four wings
and a flattened body seems to have gone in for large lift, whereas the Halocyp-
selus type with but two wings and a more stream-lined body has apparently
gone in for speed. These may be directly compared with corresponding
fuselage types of modern planes (fig. 2, D).

Resistance in the air is considerably less in the flying fish than in the plane.
The fish requires no landing gear whatsoever and there is a complete absence
of external braces and little to produce parasitic resistance. The vertical fins
are necessary as stabilizers. The skin friction must be slight on account of the
wet and mucous-covered surface.

The inherent stability of flying fishes varies with the type considered. Gen-
erally the most advanced flyers show indications of greater stability than the
more primitive ones.

Considering longitudinal stability; that is, in regard to a fore and aft pitch-
ing, without going into the details of the principles involved, the four-winged
types should be much more stable, the ventral fins acting as combination lower
planes and stabilizers (fig. 2, E). They may be considered as stabilizers placed
rather far forward and large in proportion to their decreased leverage incident
upon such a position or as the lower planes of a biplane type with an unusual
amount of stagger. They are set at such a position as to give the proper longi-
tudinal dihedral. Lateral stability is gained as in a plane by some sacrifice of
lift by means of a lateral dihedral; that is, a slight tipping of the wings upward
(fig. 3, A).

The horizontal stability is controlled by the lateral keelage, the total surface
viewed when examined from the side. Most of this is effective posterior to the

1 Dowd, R. E., Aerial Age Weekly, pp. 464, 465, Jan. 10, 1921.
NATURE’S OWN SEAPLANES—HUBBS 345

insertion of the dorsal fin partly because of position and partly because of its
larger area as compared with the remaining anterior part (fig. 2, F). A fish
may be divided into four parts by erecting a vertical at the origin of the dorsal z
intersecting its longitudinal axis (fig. 2, A). Designating these “ anterior
dorsal”, “posterior dorsal”, “anterior ventral”, and “ posterior ventral”, it
is at once evident that “anterior dorsal” and “anterior ventral” are practi-
cally identical, whereas “ posterior dorsal” and “ posterior ventral” are not.

COMPARATIVE CHARACTERUSTICS

G LARGE LIFT
Low SPEED jf
eovy LITTLE yy
GA

% ABOVE
HORIZONTAL AXIS

k
a
ul
&
: » Siam Srreanenes
[xo LOWER CAUDAL, PORTION} Les
€ : CYPSELURUS BELLANCA
w
aioe % ANTERIOR & VERTICAL SMALL LIFT
25s at OORSAL ORIGIN HIGH SPEEDO
iw so eer GODY GREATLY
? STREAMLINED
310 HALOCYPSELUS LOCKHEED
é eee D
ce? OIFFERENCE ———
Wo BETWEEN OORSALS“ VENTRAL
= CAUDAL PORTIONS
<
7 ==
oe i a mL a Per vy PECTORALANGLE | onciTUDINAL
vey ‘7 & ~
IS oe SF” 3S *f INCIDENCE
~ OIHE N
oe an oe & $e SE (" aoe SORAL ANGLE

Ge as {
PELVIC ANGLE AXIS ef MOTION
*f ancioence

MEOIAN
ae pig Si-% ¢ LATERAL

) 49+%es LATERAL
APPROXIMATE KECLAGE
TURNING AXIS PORTION INVOLVED
m HORIZONTAL
STABILITY

Ficurn 2.—The aerodynamics of flying fishes. Reproduced by permission from paper by
Cc. M. Breder, Jr., published in Copeia.

A, graphic comparison of the significant lateral keelage areas in eight species of flying
fishes of various sizes; B, flying fish richocheting from surface; O, flying fish making a
poor “landing”; D, comparisons of greatest mid-sections of flying fishes and standard
airplane types; HZ, diagram of elements involved in longitudinal stability as expressed in
a flying fish. Angular figures illustrative only; F, diagram of elements involved in
horizontal stability as expressed in a flying fish.

The percentage above the horizontal axis, “ posterior and anterior dorsal”, as
compared with that below, “ posterior and anterior ventral”, is about equal in
area, with a slight tendency for that portion below the line to be slightly
greater. The average of eight fishes of various kinds shows 52.25 percent to be
below the axis. Comparative measurements with four modern planes* in com-

2 More properly such a vertical should pass through the center of gravity, but owing to
the difficulty in determining this in preserved material and the fact that the body outlines
are practically parallel between such a vertical and the dorsal intersection, for the
present purposes the latter point will suffice.

* Based on area measurements of lateral keelage, including both sides of landing gear of
Pitcairn PA-7, Uppercu-Burnelli, Belanca 1930 Pacemaker and Lockheed Sirius.
346 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

mon use show that they average 51 percent in this respect, a difference of 1%
percent, which is not as great as the error involved in the methods employed in
making these measurements. Neither the percentage above and below the hori-

‘

Vi \

li _Lirt-$

aC Lif T =t = | “ue t- 4
| ‘

he LIFT = 100% ‘ |

| LIFT =35
Y
,

ya

! [$ sur ost igwiry LieT=$
Vignal

/
| % LIFTS UNEQUAL
| f HIGH WING LOSES uUFT

LOW WING GAINS LIFT
| DIAGRAM *f GAIN »§ STABILITY WITH LOSS
ef hIFT by DECREASING THE LATERAL
OIHEDRAL ANGLE

Figurp 3.—The aerodynamics of flying fishes. Reproduced by permission from paper by
C. M. Breder, Jr., published in Copeia.
A. Diagram of elements involved in lateral stability as expressed in a flying fish,

including front view in flight.
B. Diagram of elements involved which give false impression of wing flapping, including

rear view in flight.

zontal axis nor the lower caudal portion shows a moving trend with size. The
later region bears little relation to the corresponding part of the plane, as it
involves the fish’s power plant, whereas in a plane there is only the tiny landing
NATURE’S OWN SEAPLANES—HUBBS 347

skid. However, if we consider the relation of the part anterior to the vertical
to that posterior to it we find that the percent anterior rapidly rises from being
equal to considerably exceeding the posterior portion in area. In the much
larger planes a similar measurement is still greater, an average of the four
planes measured being 80 percent. The excess of the “ posterior ventral” over
the “ posterior dorsal” appears to increase with size, which is to say that the
lower caudal lobe (the power plant) becomes relatively larger with an increase
in absolute size. Here again we would expect to find no correlation with an
airplane, and there is none.

Horizontal directional stability is attained by vertical vanes as in a plane
and should be much greater in forms with high vertical fins such as Parezo-
coetus than those with low.

After a fish once leaves the water it is able to rise higher, holding its level
with a decreasing speed by altering its camber and lateral dihedral, or in taking
advantage of air currents. There is, of course, a point of maximum efficiency
which could be worked on mathematically and would doubtless be close to that
actually observed. In this respect fish flight is clearly very close to that of
sail-planes. Dowd (1921) has examined exocoetids in great detail and finds
them to be constructed close to the lines used in the best aeronautical engi-
neering.

“ Nature’s Own Seaplanes ” the flying fishes may surely be called.
Flying fishes are indeed an outstanding example of the fidelity with
which nature long ages ago anticipated, in the evolution of animals,
both ancient and modern inventions of man.

SELECTED REFERENCES
AHLBORN, FR.

1895. Der Flug der Fische. Real Gymnasium des Johanneums, zum 70.
Geburtstage Prof. Dr. Karl Mobius, pp. 1-56, 3 figs., 1 pl. Hamburg.

Brepber, C. M. Jr.

1929. Field observations on flying fishes; a suggestion of methods.
Zoologica, vol. 9, pp. 295-812, figs. 301-305.

1930. On the structural specialization of flying fishes from the standpoint
of aerodynamics. Copeia, 1980, no. 4, 114-121, figs. 1-3.

DERJUGIN, K.

1908. Die Entwicklung der Brustflossen und des Schultergiirtels bel

Eeocoetus volitans. Zeitschr, Wiss. Zool., vol. 91, pp. 559-598, pls. 23-26.
GILL, THEODORE.

1905. Flying fishes and their habits. Ann. Rep. Smithsonian Inst., 1904,

pp. 495-515.
HANKIN, HK. H.

1914. Animal flight: a record of observation. Iliffe and Sons, London.

1920. Observations on the flight of flying fishes. Proc. Zool. Soe. London,
no. 2, pp. 467-474, figs. 1-2.

Houpss, Carv L.

1918. The flight of the California flying fish. Copeia, 1918, no. 62, pp.
85-88.

1932. Observations on the flight of fishes, with a statistical study of the
flight of the Cypselurinae and remarks on the evolution of the flight of
fishes. Pap. Michigan Acad. Sci., Arts and Letters, vol. 17, pp. 575-611,
figs, 66-68.
348 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

LULL, R. S.
1906. Volant adaptation in vertebrates. Amer. Nat., vol. 40, pp. 537-564.
MOosrius, KARL.
1878. Die Bewegungen der fliegenden Fische durch die Luft. Zeitschr.
Wiss. Zool., vol. 30 (suppl.), pp. 343-882.
NICHOLS, J. T'.., and Brenper, C. M., Jr.

1928. About flying fishes. Nat. Hist., vol. 28, pp. 64-77, 9 figs., 3 col-
ored pls.

SHOULEJKIN, WAS.

1929. Airdynamics of the flying fish. Int. Rev. ges. Hydrobiol. und
Hydrogr., vol. 22, pp. 102-110, figs. 1-5.
THE MICROSCOPIC PLANT AND ANIMAL
WORLD IN ULTRAVIOLET LIGHT

By FLORENCE HE. MEIER,

Research Associate, Division of Radiation and Organisms,
Smithsonian Institution

[With 1 plate]

The spectrum, seven beautiful colors—red, orange, yellow, green,
blue, indigo, and violet—has always been familiar to mankind as a
rainbow in the cloud or in the dew upon the grass, but it was not
until the seventeenth century that the analysis and synthesis was
made of these colors. In the early part of that century, Father
Grimaldi, an Italian Jesuit physicist, discovered the foundation of
one of the methods of producing the spectrum. Purely by chance
he placed a hair in front of a tiny hole through which a sunbeam
penetrated his dark cell. He was astonished to see that the hair
projected a shadow much larger than his own. He measured both
shadows before he would believe his eyes were observing an actual
fact. Then he made repeated trials in various ways, with always
the same result. Finally, convinced of the truth of his accidental
observation, he gave the name of diffraction to the deviation of rays
of light from a straight source when they graze the surface of an
obstacle. This property is used in the diffraction grating for
the spectrum.

Father Grimaldi also observed with admiration the splendor of
colors resulting from the passage of light through a prism, but he
did not make any scientific study of them.

It was after Father Grimaldi’s death in the same century that
Sir Isaac Newton, then a keen young scholar at Cambridge, with the
attention to details that leads to great discoveries, mused over the
same live, brilliant colors cast on a screen in a dark room by a ray
of sunlight passing through a prism. Each ray, distinct in its
color, is also distinct in its refrangibility or bending. Newton
saw that it was not the glass prism that communicated splendor to
the ray of sunlight. The seven colors were invisibly united in white
light; the prism separating them one from the other made them
visible. By placing screens conveniently, Newton could study each

349
350 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

ray separately and determine the different refraction for each one.
He could reunite the seven rays by a new refraction, thus reconsti-
tuting one ray of white light.

These seven rays of light made visible to us when separated by a
prism from the white light of a sunbeam are not the only rays that
come from the sun; there are other rays that are completely invisible
to our eyes. Beyond the red rays, making no impression on our
eyes, are the so-called “ heat waves ” which have longer wave lengths
than the red waves, and therefore are known as infrared. When the
sun is at an angle of 45°, or midway to the zenith, 60 percent of the
rays that may reach the earth at sea level in the direct beam are
heat waves, and under 40 percent may be light rays.

ELECTROMAGNETIC RADIATION

BROADCAST GAMMA RAYS FROM
BAND SOLAR RADIATION VISIBLE RADIOACTIVE MATTER
AT EARTH’S SURFACE

RADIO WAVES COSMIC RAYS ?

INFRA RED ULTRAVIOLET X-RAY

10 104 102 10 Owes w1Ortas io 108 107 10'* CENTIMETERS
oe Sy
SS
ae SS
we VISIBLE PORTION oa
ee
= ee a
ee ss
5
6100 6470 5860 5350 4920 4220 3900 ANGSTROMS

soe

c ORANGE YELLOW GREEN BLUE VIOLET

FriaurB 1.—Diagram showing the position of the ultraviolet region in the great electro-
magnetic spectrum. Data from W. Edwards Deming and F. G. Cottrell. Arranged by
Earl S. Johnston.

At the other end of the spectrum, beyond the violet rays in sun-
light, there is still another set of rays, invisible to our eyes but of
vital importance to life on the earth. These rays are shorter in
wave length than the violet, so they are called the ultraviolet rays.
(See fig. 1.) Only a very small quantity of them—less than 1 per-
cent—may be present in the sunlight that reaches the surface of the
earth. Outside the earth’s atmosphere there is a much larger per-
centage of them, but the ozone formed from oxygen in the upper
layers of the atmosphere by the action of these ultraviolet rays serves
as a ray filter that protects the life on the surface of the earth from
these shorter rays which have been proved to be very destructive to
tender tissues.

Evidence of the lethal action of these ultraviolet rays was re-
vealed for the first time to the scientific world when Downes and
Blunt (1877) reported that the short-wave-length ultraviolet rays
ULTRAVIOLET LIGHT—MEIER ODL

in sunlight would kill the bacteria present in decaying organic
matter. They erroneously believed that free oxygen was necessary
to accomplish the bactericidal effect, just as Duclaux (1885), Roux
(1887), Ward (1893), and Wesbrook (1895) concluded when they
exposed cultures of disease bacteria to sunlight.

One of the early investigators who attempted an exact quantita-
tive analysis of the biological properties of hght was Hertel (1905).
His monochromator with its quartz prism and lenses was similar to
those now used in ultraviolet microscopy. By means of a thermopile
he determined the relative intensities of four lines of the ultraviolet
part of the spectrum, using the dispersed energy emitted from
various metals under the influence of the electric arc, and he varied
the intensity by regulating the amperage of the metallic arc. He
found that the shorter the wave length, the greater the biological
effect of the light on microorganisms. Hertel found that in the
region of wave lengths around 2800 A, or about the shortest wave
lengths of the sun’s spectrum that can penetrate the ozone of the
atmosphere, and at still shorter wave lengths, there was a very
destructive action on bacteria and paramoecia (single-celled micro-
scopic animals).

Since the pioneer work of Hertel, the lethal action of the invisible
ultraviolet rays on those micro-organisms so small that their outlines
are made visible to the naked eye only with the aid of a microscope
has grown to be a subject of increasing interest to research workers
all over the world. The names of these scientists are too numerous
for individual mention. They have recognized in these short rays
an invisible battalion of death and destruction to microscopic plant
and animal life. With scientific foresight and patience, they are
utilizing the lethal power concentrated in such rays to destroy the
pernicious disease bearers, an invisible but deadly host.

Cernovodeanu and Henri (1910), working with bacteria that cause
typhus, dysentery, cholera, and tetanus, found that the bactericidal
rays were those in the ultraviolet below 2900 A, which are absorbed
by the protoplasm of the cell. These ultraviolet rays produce on
the protoplasm certain chemical and physical transformations that
completely modify all the reactions of coloration. This action of
the rays is quite different from that of heat or oxygenated water, or
the ordinary fixators. Newcomer (1917), and Browning and Russ
(1917) also irradiated plates of typhoid bacteria in a quartz spec-
trograph and found that the micro-organisms were killed by the in-
visible lethal rays ranging from 2100 A to 2900 A.

F. L. Gates (1929, 1930, 1933) one of the most accurate of modern
workers, has emphasized quantitative physical methods in his
studies of the bactericidal action of ultraviolet rays. He showed
352 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

that the course of the reaction of an 18-hour culture of a bac-
terium, Staphylococcus aureus, to the short rays of ultraviolet
was the same at each wave length studied. The reaction followed
similar curves at all the different wave lengths, but occurred at a
different energy level at each wave length. In other words, very
different total incident energies were required at different wave
lengths to produce similar effects. It is true that with young active
bacteria, wide differences in the intensity of the incident ultraviolet
energy could not be accurately compensated for by corresponding
changes in the exposure times to the irradiation.

Gates also has observed a wide reaction zone covering the be-
havior of cells which are not visibly affected and those which seem
to be killed outright by the exposure. Single organisms, appar-
ently unaffected by the irradiation, grow and divide regularly on the
surface of the nutrient agar, forming typical colonies of seemingly
normal bacteria. Other organisms exposed to quickly lethal doses
degenerate into ghosts or shadows that are undoubtedly dead. Be-
tween these two extremes are the organisms that after irradiation
increase in size, especially in length, but do not divide when they
reach the normal adult stage, so that long filaments of clear, highly
refractile protoplasm are formed that look lke spaghetti and may
measure 50 to 150 microns. After 2 or 4 hours of motion these
cells may (1) begin to degenerate and form ghosts, or (2) divide
by cross fission into a number of large or small units which then
degenerate, or (8) pinch off one or more apparently normal daughter
cells at one end, which multiply rapidly to form colonies, while the
original filament degenerates. Gates thus demonstrates that ultra-
violet rays modify two coordinate functions essential to life, namely,
cell division, and growth. By appropriate exposures the one can
be temporarily or permanently suppressed, while the other may pro-
ceed for hours without hindrance until a limit is reached, and unless
the division mechanism is restored, the cell degenerates.

Ehrismann and Noethling (1932), two German workers, irradi-
ated several different species of bacteria under precise experimental
conditions and determined a curve of the lethal threshold in the
ultraviolet. They found that the sensitivity of the different species
of bacteria to the radiation varies; also that there is a variation in
the lethal effectiveness of different wave lengths. They also have
determined that the sensitivity of the single species to the radiation
is less as the bacteria are larger.

Two mysteries of modern bacteriology that the ultraviolet rays
bid fair to elucidate are those of the virus and the so-called “ bac-
teriophage.” The viruses that cause diseases in plants and animals
have long caused heated debate among bacteriologists, as there is
ULTRAVIOLET LIGHT——-MEIER 353

general question as to whether they are enzymatic or chemical in
nature, or whether they are entirely bacterial. The bacteriophage
is maintained by one school of workers to be a living ultramicro-
scopic virus. Another school considers it to be an inanimate agent
developed by the microbe as a result of the reaction between the
invading organism and the tissue of the host, and that by the heredi-
tary vitiation of the organism a lytic or cell-destructive principle is
developed.

An example of the bacteriophage is the filterable substance ob-
tained from patients recovering from bacillary dysentery which will
dissolve cultures of the Shiga bacillus. A few drops of the dis-
solved culture reproduces the same phenomenon on addition to an-
other culture, etc., indefinitely. ‘The lytic property increases by dilu-
tion and retains its activity for several years.

With ultraviolet rays, Zoeller (1923) accomplished the inactiva-
tion of the bacteriophage. Mizuno (1929), a Japanese worker, has
also reported the absolute destruction of the bacteriophage in the
ultraviolet. McKainley, Fisher, and Holden (1926) determined the
lethal effect of ultraviolet light on the bacteriophage and on two
filterable viruses: herpes and Levadti’s so-called “ encephalitis
virus ”.

Numerous workers have made experiments in which the inactiva-
tion of filterable virus diseases is accomplished by ultraviolet irra-
diation. Oblitsky and Gates (1927) studied vesicular stomatitis of
horses and found that the similarity with the response of this virus
to that of a common bacterium to ultraviolet suggests that the sub-
stance of the virus is similar in character and chemical constitution
to bacterial protoplasm.

Rivers, Stevens, and Gates (1928), working with the inactivation
of vaccine virus by ultraviolet rays, found also that rabbit skin
treated for a few minutes with ultraviolet light and then inoculated
at once with vaccine virus is less susceptible to the action of the virus
than is untreated skin.

Since bacteria retain their power to produce diseases and to ag-
glutinate blood even after they have been killed by ultraviolet rays,
an improved method for the sero-diagnosis of typhoid and para-
typhoid fever has been proposed by Lematte. Emulsions of these
disease-producing bacteria that have been killed by the ultraviolet
rays are added to test tubes containing the diluted blood of the
patient to see if agglutination will occur (Laurens, 1933).

A potential side reaction of the ultraviolet effect on bacteria has
been reported by Eberson (1920). He exposed types of meningo-
cocci to ultraviolet irradiation and studied the power of stimulating
in animals the formation of defensive antibodies. He found that the
304 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

treatment with ultraviolet rays diminished the virulence of the or-
ganism but increased the antigenic power. ‘This work suggests a
method for building up an immunity by successive injections of
organisms irradiated for regularly diminishing periods of time.
Evidence has been found that a few strains, or perhaps a single
strain of bacteria may be sufficient for immunization against a
heterogeneous group of types.

Bacteria and their products when sensitized previously are more
easily affected by irradiation. Passow found that the staphylococ-
cus bacteria were more quickly killed by the yellow-green rays, and
in a longer time by the blue and violet rays if they were sensitized
with rose bengal before irradiation. In general, the dyes with sensi-
tizing properties stained the bacteria better than those which did not
possess these properties, and with the exception of toluene red and
indigo carmine, all the dyes which stained the staphylococci well
and were not toxic were sensitizers. In the treatment of bacterial
eye diseases, Passow recommends rose bengal as an aid to photo-
therapy, since it helps render the long rays with deep action bacteri-
cidal as well as the short rays which in themselves possess bactericidal
qualities (Laurens, 1933).

Bovie and Dalland (1923) found that ultraviolet made specimens
of Paramoecium caudatum extremely sensitive to heat, so that sub-
lethal temperatures killed them. Heat following irradiation caused
a greater degree of injury than heat preceding irradiation. If the
temperature remained constant, the degree of sensitization varied
directly with the temperature.

Diseases of plants that affect agricultural economics can also be
treated with ultraviolet irradiation. Mulvania (1926), Newell and
Arthur (1929), and Duggar and Hollaender (1934) have inactivated
the virus of typical tobacco mosaic by ultraviolet irradiation, thereby
gleaning information of value to farmers and horticulturists. The
spores of grain smuts can be kilied by the short rays, as shown by
the work of Pilcher and Wober (1922). The fungicidal action of
the short wave lengths has also been proved by Fulton (1929) with
a number of fungi, many of which cause harmful diseases of plants.

A contribution that promises to be of great value to humanity is
now in progress at the Cancer Research Laboratory at the Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania. By means of microphotography and micro-
moving pictures, Allen, Franklin, and McDonald (1933) show the
effect of ultraviolet rays on living organisms, such as Protozoa and
the correlation of the effects with the absorption. The microscope
used has an all-quartz optical system originally designed to make use
of the higher resolving power obtained by using short ultraviolet
wave lengths to which the glass systems are opaque. The micro-
ULTRAVIOLET LIGHT—MEIER 355

photographs of cancer tissue taken 5 minutes after the death of an
animal, and those of the same tissue taken 3 hours later show a
marked change in the microabsorption spectra of the cells.

By irradiating and photographing with ultroviolet ight in regu-
lar sequence, Dr. Francis F. Lucas of the Bell Telephone Laborato-
ries has made series of photographs that show the cumulative effects
of irradiation on the cells of blue-green algae. He has also made
photomicrographs of living cells from malignant growths.

Paramoecia, 1-celled microscopic animals, have proved a favorite
subject for experimentation in the ultraviolet. The lethal effect of
the rays is preceded by a stimulating effect, according to Weinstein
(1930). Rentschler (1931) describes the destruction of paramoecia
in great detail, beginning with a shortening of the cell, the separa-
tion of the two cell walls to form a blister, the coagulation of the
proteins of the cytoplasm, and finally the breaking of the cell wall,
which allows the coagulated cytoplasm to flow into the surrounding
liquid, where it disintegrates. The moving pictures made by the
Cancer Research Laboratory show these changes in both paramoecia
and Luglena.

Ultraviolet light has also been used by Kohler (1904) for making
microphotographs of living Wostoc, an alga, and bacteria at 2800
A and 2750 A, respectively. Wyckoff and Arian (1931) have made
ultraviolet microphotographs of bacteria also.

The destruction in the ultraviolet of yeasts, tiny colorless micro-
scopic cells, so valuable because of their ability to make ferments,
is not effected as quickly as that of bacteria, probably owing to
the larger size of the yeast cells. De Fazi (1921) reports that the
Peroni Brewery in Rome has an ultraviolet plant for the sole pur-
pose of freeing the yeast from bacteria. ‘I'wo yeasts that were
producing spoilage in a carbonated beverage were destroyed in a
short time by ultraviolet light, according to Feuer and Tanner
(1921).

Lindner (1923), using a bottom-fermentation brewery yeast,
greatly increased the velocity of the fermentation of dextrose by
exposure to ultraviolet rays. Thus fermentation of 80 grams of
dextrose yielded 199 cubic centimeters of carbon dioxide in 24 hours,
and under irradiation by ultraviolet the yield was 2,748 cubic centi-
meters of carbon dioxide. The exposure of the yeast cells under
fermentation conditions favored the activity of the yeast, but the
exposure of the cells in a shallow layer of liquid was fatal.

Because of the bactericidal action of these ultraviolet rays, it is
possible to make use of them in the sterilization of large quantities
of water. During this process a complete destruction of animal

7277435 ——24

356 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

and plant life is accomplished, but the gases and salts are not de-
stroyed, reports Nogier (1910) among other authors.

In recent years the method of sterilization of water by ultraviolet
irradiation has not been very widely used, owing to the competition
of cheaper and somewhat simpler chemical processes such as
chlorination for drinking water and coppering for swimming pools.
There are, however, fields of usefulness in smaller-scale operations
where the chemical processes are objectionable, especially where in-
jury might be caused by an overdose, and in these the ultraviolet
method is preferable. Some of these smaller-scale operations are
the preparation of water for surgical purposes; sterilization of water
for bottling, or for the supply of small consumers, such as individual
homes; sterilization of water for washing butter, for the margarine
industry, and wherever the water is to be incorporated in food; and
the sterilization of water on shipboard, especially on ships navigat-
ing inland waters (Ellis and Wells, 1925).

Wine and cider can also be quickly sterilized by ultraviolet irra-
diation and, according to Maurain and Warcollier (1910), the wine
has the greater transparency for the ultraviolet rays. Before the
war, according to Henri, Helbronner, and von Recklinghausen
(1915), the method of “ageing ” wine by means of ultraviolet irrad-
iation was utilized to a great extent in France. The ultraviolet
changed the taste and color of the wine, and in a few minutes the
new wine had assumed the characteristics of old wine.

The sterilization of milk is difficult because its flavor and food
value must not be injured in any way during the process. These
properties have always been injured in a small way no matter what
means of sterilization is employed, and ultraviolet has not proved
to be an exception. Ultraviolet rays are desirable for milk steriliza-
tion because when the milk is incompletely sterilized by irradiation,
the noxious bacteria are more affected than the relatively desirable
members of the lactic acid group. Helbronner and von Reckling-
hausen (1915) have found that complete sterilization by ultraviolet
alone is difficult and that the necessary prolonged treatment has
deleterious effects upon the flavor and digestive qualities of the
liquid. For this reason, they have proposed the use of a combination
of heat sterilization together with ultraviolet rays. When milk is
given a short heat treatment at a temperature of about 60° C. the
bacteria in it become so weakened that ultraviolet rays destroy them
very readily. It is claimed that by this combination treatment the
milk is not heated sufficiently to alter the flavor and that a very short
irradiation time completely sterilizes the milk.

Monvoisin, Barret, and Robin (1914) have a patent on the use
of ultraviolet irradiation for the process of sterilizing the surface
ULTRAVIOLET LIGHT—MEIER 357

of freshly killed meat and hardening it before dessication. This
seems to be the only commercial use of the coagulating power of
ultraviolet exposure found by Dreyer and Hansen (1907). ‘They
found that the ultraviolet coagulates the ‘‘ coagulable ” proteins,
some in neutral or even in alkaline solution while others require
acidification; and in all cases the reaction is accelerated by
acidification.

Experiments with microscopic green plants have also been made
in the ultraviolet. Gibbs (1926) studied filamentous green algae in
the short wave lengths. He noted that a latent period occurred
before death in his irradiated filaments of Spirogyra nitida affinis.
The limits of the toxic action were the wave lengths 3126 A and
2378 A. The chloroplasts (green pigments in the plant) were ob-
served to clump characteristically, owing to the great difference in
intensity of radiation reaching the “near” and “ far” sides of the
filament. The behavior of the filaments was variable. Some died
while apparently perfectly normal in appearance, while in the others
there was coagulation of the protoplasm and a brown pigment that
exhibited Brownian movement was formed.

Here at the Smithsonian Institution we have irradiated algac,
unicellular green plants, with ultraviolet rays, and found that in the
regions where the ultraviolet waves shorter than 3022 A (the approx-
imate limit of ultraviolet irradiation in nature) were directed on the
culture, the green algal cells were killed. The certainty of the lethal
action as well as the quickness of the attack of the rays has also
been studied (Meier, 1934). Plate 1 shows a photograph of a typi-
cal agar plate that had been covered with green algae and then
exposed in the spectrograph for 74 minutes. The radiotoxie regions
are indicated by the decolorized sections where the algae were killed
at 2652, 2699, 2753, 2804, 2894, 2925, 2967, and 3022 A. This photo-
graph is superimposed on a diagram of the intensities of the wave
lengths. It should be remarked that a greater intensity of radiation,
according to thermocouple measurements, was directed on the cultures
at 3180 A, even though it did not prove lethal. Throughout the
ages the plants that have survived on the earth have become attuned
to solar radiation as it is received on the earth’s surface and very
possibly with the same spectrum limit as at the present time due to
ozone. It is, therefore, not astonishing that the radiations shorter
than the solar limit produce unusual effects.

In figure 2 are shown curves of reactions of different biological
materials to ultraviolet compiled by Duggar and Hollaender (1934).
In comparison with their own curves for the lethal effect of the short
wave lengths on viruses and bacteria are the curves of protein coag-
ulation from Sonne (1928) ; lethal effect on paramoecium, Weinstein
358 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

(1930) ; erythema production, Hausser (1928), and Coblentz, Stair,
and Hogue (1931); and hemolysis, Sonne (1928). The curves rep-
resenting bacterial action, virus inactivation, lethal effect on para-
moecium, and protein coagulation are of the same general type. The
curve in figure 3, showing the radiotoxic spectral sensitivity of a
green alga, Chlorella vulgaris, for which the data were collected here
at the Smithsonian Institution (Meier, 1934), resembles the other
lethal curves.

Arnold (1933) reports that the photosynthetic mechanism of a
unicellular green alga was destroyed when irradiated at 2537 A.

in Per Cent

3

Erpect

2709 2800, 2400
Wave Length in A
Figure 2.—Relative biological effects with respect to wave lengths, in the ultraviolet below

3100 A. Selected from various authors by B. M. Duggar and Alexander Hollaender.

The chlorophyll either remained unchanged chemically or there was
a change so subtle as to escape detection or possibly the ultraviolet
rays destroyed a substance other than the chlorophyll.

The Henris (1912) found that if the action of ultraviolet is not
lethal, it may cause profound alteration in the constitution of the
organism. They report observations on two new stable forms of
Bacillus anthracis, the carrier of anthrax, that were produced by
ultraviolet irradiation. One of these two new forms sets up an in-
fection that is totally different from that of anthrax.

Several observers have reported changes in the morphology of
bacteria due to ultraviolet irradiation. Generally there is an atten-
uation, or, in colored bacteria, a change in the pigment-forming
function (Arloing, 1885).

The stimulative effect of ultraviolet on micro-organisms is more or
less obscure at present. Petri (1929) reports that the development
ULTRAVIOLET LIGHT—MEIER 359

of two fungi was vigorously increased when they were grown on car-
rot medium that had been irradiated with ultraviolet light.

Bailey (1931) reported that the ultraviolet rays increase the
formation of reproductive bodies in certain lower forms of plants.
A bulb-rotting organism that never had been known to produce
spores by which the proper classification of the organism might be
made was induced to form these bodies after irradiation with ultra-
violet light. Coblentz and Fulton (1924) found some indication of
stimulation in their irradiation work at very low intensities. In this

2500 2500 2700... + 28CO0 2900. 3000 3100
Ficur® 3.—Radiotoxic spectral sensitivity of the alga Chlorella vulgaris to ultraviolet rays.
The abscissae are wave lengths in Angstroms. The ordinates are relative lethal effec-
tiveness in arbitrary units. Black line, smooth curve; dash line, actual values; dot line,
curve obtained by Meier (1932).

work they studied the effect of ultraviolet hght when the exposure
was applied continuously and intermittently with long or short in-
tervals of rest. No differences in the density of the growth could be
observed, whatever the method of exposure. This evidence seems to
indicate that the intermittent exposure does not have a latent effect
in stimulating growth or in continuing the lethal action during the
intervals of rest, and that the lethal effect is cumulative. When the
intensities were reduced the lethal action was greatly retarded; for
example, using an intensity reduced to 1/50 it was necessary to expose
the inoculated plate of bacteria for 75 to 80 seconds instead of 50
seconds in order to secure the same lethal effect. At still lower
intensities there were some indications of stimulation instead of
lethal action.
360 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

The real action of irradiation on the living cell is still unknown.
The irradiation has two effects, stimulative and lethal. In general,
the stimulative effect is caused by the wave lengths longer than
2900 A. The lethal effect is caused by shorter wave lengths, pos-
sibly because of the production of a toxic photoproduct which in a
small quantity may act as a stimulant to cell division. Finsen
(1900) at first thought that the irradiation with which he caused
lupus acted as a bactericide. Later there was question as to whether
the irradiation did not act as a stimulant to the tissues rather than
as deadly to the bacilli. There are two elements in the action of
the irradiation, a photochemical one and a biological one. The
photochemical effect ends with the production of the dermatitis and
the activation of substances in the skin and possibly in the blood,
while the biological effect on metabolism, growth, and circulation
lasts a longer period (Laurens, 1933).

An almost magical effect of these invisible rays is their ability to
cause fluorescence in ordinarily pale, colorless microscopic organisms.
Paramoecia and Owytrichia (protozoans) fluoresce in all the ultra-
violet lines of the quartz mercury arc. Giese and Leighton (1933)
report that at 3660 A the fluorescence is of a pale greenish gray
shade; at 3350, 3130, 3020, and 2537 A the animals are a pale greenish
blue; at 2804 and 2654 A they have a more whitish ight. Darting
about in the ultraviolet rays, these habitually drab little creatures
are transfigured with gorgeous, brilliant colors for their brief dance
of death.

Bacterial colonies fluoresce according to their kind in different
colors and different intensities of the ultraviolet, so that Stiibel
(1911) has thus proved that ultraviolet can be used as a means of
identification of various colonies and races of bacteria. Under the
microscope, as shown by the work of the Cancer Research Laboratory
(1933) as well, larger micro-organisms are recognized more readily
not only by their outlines, which by their own fluorescent light are
made visible, but also by the details, such as the nourishment vacu-
oles of a paramoecium which can be perceived with perfect dis-
tinctness.

Thus, beyond the band of familiar visible colors that we see in the
rainbow lies another band nearly five times as wide of invisible
ultraviolet rays which have a profound and mysterious effect on
microscopic plant and animal life and which therefore hold promise
of great potential benefit to mankind. Physicists, biologists, bac-
teriologists, and medical men are uniting to expand our knowledge
of these invisible rays, and as that knowledge increases, we shall
doubtless be able to record many other beneficial uses of ultraviolet
light. ,
Smithsonian Report, 1933.—Meier

PLATE 1

NO Tt tion A O
in Oo 5 O ANON . I
oO nr OO Onn O 7 fa)
NAN WN ON ANA ~) Y)

AN ALGAL SPECTROGRAM, OBTAINED BY EXPOSING AN AGAR PLATE COVERED
WITH GREEN CELLS OF THE ALGA ‘'‘CHLORELLA VULGARIS'’ TO ULTRAVIOLET
RAYS FOR 1 HOUR AND 14 MINUTES, SUPERIMPOSED ON A DIAGRAM OF THE
INTENSITIES OF THE WAVE LENGTHS.

The abscissae are wave lengths in Angstroms. The ordinates sre intensities in ergs/sec. cm,
<i a ue

.
e

ULTRAVIOLET LIGHT—MEIER 361

LITERATURE CITED

(References to other work cited in this paper will be found in the various
articles here listed.)

BAILEY, ALICE A.

1931. Ultra-violet light increases sporulation, says pathologist. U.S. Dep.

Agr. Off. Rec., Feb. 26.
DEMING, W. Epwarps, and CorTrety, F. G.

1932. Chart of some electromagnetic relations. Rey. Sci. Instr., vol. 3, no.
6, pp. 296-297.

Duaaar, B. M., and HoLLaAENDER, ALEXANDER.

1934. Irradiation of plant viruses and of microorganisms with mono-
chromatie light. I. The virus of typical tobacco mosaic and Ser-
ratia marcescens as influenced by ultraviolet and visible light.
Journ. Bacteriol., vol. 27, pp. 219-256.

ELLIS, CARLETON, and WELLS, ALFRED A.
1925. The chemical action of ultraviolet rays. New York.
Fever, BERTRAM, and TANNER, F. W.

1920. The action of ultra-violet light on the yeastlike fungi. I. Journ. Ind.

and Eng. Chem., vol. 12, no. 8, pp. 740-741.
Gates, F. L.

1930. A study of the bactericidal action of ultra-violet light. III. The
absorption of ultra-violet light by bacteria. Journ. Gen. Physiol.,
vol. 14, pp. 32-42.

1933. The reaction of individual bacteria to irradiation with ultra-violet
light. Science, vol. 77, no. 1997, p. 350.

GIkEsE, A. C., and LEIGHTON, P. A.

1933. Fluorescence of cells in the ultraviolet. Science, vol. 77, no. 2004,

pp. 509-510.
LAURENS, HENRY.

1933. The physiological effects of radiant energy. The Chemical Catalog

Co., Ine.
Lucas, FrRANcIS F.

1934. Late developments in microscopy. Bell Telephone System Technical

Publications, monograph B-792, pp. 1-47.
MEIER, FLORENCE E.

1934. Lethal response of the alga Chlorella vulgaris to ultraviolet rays.

Smithsonian Mise. Coll., vol. 92 no. 3.
NEWELL, J. M., and ArTHurR, J. M.

1929. The killing of plant tissue and the inactivation of tobacco mosaic
virus by ultra-violet radiation. Amer. Journ. Bot., vol. 16, pp.
838-354.

PEtrI, L.

1929. Influenca di substrati nutritivi esposti ai raggi ultravioletti sopra le
sviluppo dei funghi. (Influence of nutritive substrates exposed to
ultraviolet rays on fungus development.) Boll. R. Staz. Patol.
Veg., vol. 9, pp. 408-410.

Pivcuer, F., and WoOprr, A.

1922, Experiments with ultra-violet light, Réntgen rays and radium for
the control of plant diseases. Centralbl. Bakt., vol. 2, Abt. 57, pp.
319-327.
ide

all Zl) dalgniotsed eyam jnoksalwagde vgs 4a uit 2 =

ran Penick sy. aaearet
ai Biloy wien! We yen “syuldelie, blsegunbafoste ie: bors 7
Tee-9a8 ge iO a
JAAS weavBaIo BEA ME ee Pre ta
saont ior delingzeersta to fuer wouttiy dni 44 solsthen€- 668 -“S
2 tiia Alannay ootey Inatyed to canyon? 1 tifel! pe reertoraaby i |
tye ofdinie lew teivedig. od feos hdl es soar ae: . Ae
MED-OF2 2) WY do? .loissioe POL ~ «© 2S
A wares 2a fer worquey aut e
fut 04 2a ijn to see Nine eae -
VW AKn eT het. wodaranetl anurt
Kal aivet) I toa oaibasse oth uo dell nit wstid to-cnae edt Oar
JES-O8? coq Bon St lo onto galt hoe
al 4 earn:
ad? 2%! whet Twhde-eritt dy. satiia Uetdobwpiud) Gf) To “DRG SE EE: al
doko inde uctnel kia af yi! teil varciia to coupons. 7
BiGE (0d PET 4
alot?-4al ty Mey patedinvss ) sbleined. Teabty bal 16 ebay og? Beat
ThE ap GL oi fh Ry ese sagt
; A FT aerial toa 2 A in "
Me mn AY. ae, sugsiod) stolid dad wt ailea 3a aniinseymnty. B8ar cae ;
AMAA >
‘Yast oma af
hl fisiaiad Abe agen tanta), Yr gioco toakyge liga, oat LERL ee
nat Be ; : a

baste! tinyeakt enqospatat! ele. “ty santoliaat iaoumebaials siale: e

TEL a LETT de wagpeeny eaoltratitgtc

 eyetonyé | 4

Ab Ast aes yatebeieet ts PY Weqias pilnou) 2ftn oft do sunnest ii

2 cat SY Jo? 10D ee ois, |

Mma siren bom. dA Th att

Kina coendoy te deliwitone Gad) from uveatt qubkt Io igen AE |

GG-.8E) love diet ap Oh ante. ~ uve eallel -delolyesaiie i, gate -
7 * 7

af erqen Haniadht (eget ie ieee ivitiaton timiedoe ay pi =

«i byeeqa pripineaey egtiniod-t0 saoubal) tdgaeh dap aus
Howl 2aeie ef: (jnentquigrals mupaut 10 ep, 7914

101 mpi Dan woe covgtatist sdgir jylony-eatin 2
A Pee & dow lait Adiwarne’> aneusaiby
THE HISTORY OF AN INSECT’S STOMACH

By R. B. SNopGRAsS

Bureau of Entomology and Plant Quarantine, United States Department of
Agriculture

There is nothing that more strongly attests the kinship of all
things living than the common function of feeding. The Brother-
hood of the Animal Kingdom is established on the stomach. The
history of the stomach is little less than coextensive with the history
of animal evolution.

The fundamental nature of the act called “ feeding ”, or, in other
words, the physiological significance of the verb “to feed”, is the
supplying of material to living matter that can replace the material
constantly being discarded as a result of the vital activity in living
matter known as metabolism. The live substance of all plants and
animals is contained in minute structural units called “ cells.” Physi-
ological feeding, therefore, is a matter of attending to the nutri-
tional needs of the body cells, and, on the part of an animal, is not
merely the act of eating or filling a cavity popularly known as the
“stomach ” with a mass of potential food material. In the case of
complex animals this procedure is only the beginning of a long series
of physical and chemical processes that must take place before the
cells are served. The function of filling the stomach, which in prac-
tice we so exalt as a social function while we attempt to hide its
crudity with conventional methods of technique, is physiologically
comparable with the delivery of raw foodstuffs to the kitchen.

The so-called “ living ” substance of the body is protoplasm, but it
is doubtful if any matter itself is “ alive ” in the sense that we vaguely
attribute to the word. The state of being alive, in its simplest phase,
is the unique property of protoplasm by which it liberates energy
and keeps on liberating energy, and includes also the power of proto-
plasm to grow by adding to its own substance. The energy of life
is stored in complex molecules, which either are a part of protoplasm
or are contained in protoplasm, and these molecules must be broken
down in order to set free the stored energy; but immediately a new
reserve of energy must be made available in new molecules built up
in protoplasm to replace those destroyed. Hence, metabolism, which

363
364 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

is the basis of life, is a continuous alternating series of making and
unmaking of complex molecules in protoplasmic substance (fig. 1).
Its constructive phase requires a constant supply of new building
material (food) and new energy; its destructive phase is accom-
panied by a quick union of some of the protoplasmic substance with
oxygen, and results in the liberation of energy and the production
of waste materials. Animal cells require relatively complex, energy-
containing food material, which normally is the source of most of
their energy released. Some of the latter is consumed within the
cells by the constructive processes of metabolism and growth, the
remainder is available for the work of the animal. The green cells
of plants take energy from the sun’s radiation and build up energy-

ag of Oxygen
Constructive raya Destructive
Phase ~~ rol ~ Phase
__Discharge of
Pe Waste Products
Intake of" rier
Fnergy-containing _ Released Energy

Food Materials
eit al sche

Eners-y

FiaureE 1.—Diagram of animal metabolism.

containing compounds from simpler substances. Life is the spark
of surplus energy that escapes at each destructive phase of proto-
plasmic metabolism. The structural organizations of animals are
mechanical devices for the utilization of their vital energies. The
energy of life is not different from the forms of energy existing in
inanimate nature; the feature that distinguishes living matter from
nonliving matter is its chemical mechanism for furnishing a con-
tinual output of energy. A grain of powder once exploded is done
for; the explosions of protoplasmic metabolism began with the origin
of life and will not cease until life is extinct, because each is accom-
panied by a constructive process that builds up a new explosive.
Life, in the physical sense should not be confused with consciousness,
which may or may not be an adjunct of living organisms, but is not
the cause of metabolism.

Protoplasm itself is a soft watery substance, not at all remarkable
in appearance, and it is held in the form of cells only because each
mass is covered by a thin outer layer of denser material having a
INSECT ’S STOMACH—SNODGRASS 365

structure such that the protoplasmic molecules cannot escape
through it. The term “cell”, therefore, might be supposed to mean
one of the tiny capsules in which the substance of life is imprisoned,
but in the biological sense it refers to the protoplasmic mass itself
and its retaining wall. The mixture of things that constitutes proto-
plasm has a physical state in solution of the kind that chemists term
colloidal. ‘The component molecules are of relatively large size and
have a complex structure. Diagrams of these molecules found in
works on chemistry are often very intricate, but it is probable that
the living molecules are still more intricate, because the diagrams are
based necessarily on a study of dead protoplasm—the very methods
of analysis being fatal to live matter, and it seems certain that live
protoplasm must be different from dead protoplasm.

The cell wall, or cell membrane, as the cell covering is called, is a
most important thing for the life of the cell, and it is in itself a
highly remarkable tissue, though its structure is not yet fully known.
Each cell must have a covering capable of retaining its own proto-
plasmic substance, but it must discharge its waste products and
receive its food materials through this same wall. ‘The cell wall,
therefore, must be of such a nature that colloids will not pass
through it, while at the same time it must be freely permeable in
both directions to water and to solutions of chemical substances
composed of relatively small or partially disintegrated molecules.
A thin tissue having this property of being impervious to some
things and freely penetrable by others is called a semipermeable
membrane. The cell wall resembles a semipermeable membrane, but
it has certain properties that no other natural or artificially pre-
pared membrane possesses.

The food material that an animal takes into its stomach must con-
tain substances from which cell food can be prepared. Most ani-
mals consume much material that is useless from a nutritional stand-
point, but they have so adapted themselves to the form of food-
stuffs in. nature that their organization does not function properly
without the nonnutrient parts of their ordinary diet. Hence, animals
have instincts for eating certain things, and few of them can be
made to eat things that their instincts refuse, even though the offer-
ing may contain all the nutritive elements needed to supply the
wants of their cells. This generalization perhaps does not apply to
the young of the human species, or if it does, dietitians do not believe
in instinct, and parents have another word for it.

When it comes to feeding by the cells themselves, there is no ques-
tion of instinct, taste, selectivity, perversity, or any other quality that
might decide what an animal will or will not take voluntarily into
its stomach. The only determining factor here is the physical per-
366 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

meability of the cell wall to the substances provided. If the latter
are of a kind that can penetrate the retaining membrane, they will
enter the cell substance, whether they be foods or poisons. It be-
hooves an animal, therefore, to beware of what it puts into its
stomach. One reason why substances in solution go through cell
walls, or through any animal membranes, if they can, is the same
as that which makes gas molecules in air, or “solid” molecules in
water, spread all through the space available to them. You cannot
put a gas in one corner of a room or salt in one side of a pan of
water and make it stay there. The activities of the molecules make
them go to the places where molecules of their own kind are scarce
until there is an even distribution all through the medium. A per-
meable partition in the latter makes no difference in the final result.
On this principle of diffusion, waste products, with which the cells
become supercharged, pass out through the cell wall, and building

:
/ Dima

ee ; ;)

fe
(Gxe

Ficurn 2.—Diagrams showing the method of feeding by direct ingestion of food material
as practiced by an amoeba,

materials, of which there is a deficit in the cells, pass in if they are
present in the cell environment. The laws of ordinary diffusion,
however, do not account for all the phenomena of diffusion though
cell walls. Some cells of the animal body have the power of con-
verting food substances into a form that will pass the cell wall;
others have not this power and must have their food prepared for
them.

Materials containing the essentials of animal food are abundant
almost everywhere in nature, but unfortunately most foodstuffs in
their native state are not the kind of things that will dissolve in
water and that will go through the semipermeable walls of animal
cells. The first ancestors of all living cells, therefore, must have
been confronted with the problem of devising a means to keep from
starving in the midst of plenty.

Some of the one-celled animals, such as the amoeba, have solved
this problem of feeding in a very simple manner, without reference
to the permeability of the cell wall. The amoeba (fig. 2) being a
soft and plastic creature, simply flows around any mass of food
material in its course (B) until the food is pressed through its
INSECT’S STOMACH—SNODGRASS 367

cell wall, which then closes over it (C). The food material is
thus ingested in its natural state. Once inside the body of the cell
it is there subjected to the processes of digestion. First the food
mass is surrounded by a globule of water (fig. 8 A, a); then there
are discharged upon it from the cell protoplasm substances called
enzymes (6), which have the power of so altering the chemical
composition of at least parts of the food material that the latter
will be dissolved in the water globule; and finally the products of
digestion are absorbed into the body of the cell (¢) and thus become
available as food to the cell tissue. Digestion of food material
inside a cell is intracellular digestion. The amoeba eliminates the
unused residue of its food by reversing the process of ingestion,
that is, it just moves on and leaves the refuse behind.

Ficurn 3.—Diagrams of intracellular digestion (A), and extracellular digestion (B).

It is evident, now, that the method of feeding practiced by the
amoeba would have disadvantages for a many-celled animal com-
posed of cells adherent in masses and having little or no power of
individual activity. But, since intracellular digestion is possible,
there can be also extracellular digestion (fig. 3 B), provided only
that the cell wall is permeable to a water solution (a) of enzymes
(6) formed within the cell. If digestion takes place outside the
cell, however, the products of digestion must be ingested by the
cell (c) through the cell wall, and this process demands that the
cell wall be permeable also to the fairly complex molecules of the
digested food substances, and still be impervious to the colloidal
molecules of the cell protoplasm itself. The development of extra-
cellular digestion with subsequent ingestion, therefore, has involved
a high degree of perfection in semipermeable membranes. Extra-
cellular digestion, it will be seen, includes three essentials: (1) It
must change insoluble parts of the natural food material into a form
that is soluble in water; (2) the substances rendered soluble must also
be in a molecular form that will pass through the cell walls; (3) the
368 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

digestion products must be substances of the kind that can be used
in the constructive phase of protoplasmic metabolism. The inges-
tion of digested food material through the cell wall is generally
designated absorption. In the case of the many-celled animals the
absorbed food materials, furthermore, must pass clear through the
stomach cells (fig. 3 B, d), or through other cells of the digestive
tract, in order to be distributed (¢) in the body liquid (blood) to
the nondigestive cells of the body.

The method of feeding by absorption is practiced by most of the
body cells of nearly all the many-celled animals, though, of course,
all the cells do not do their own digesting—some live in a medium
containing food already digested by some other set of cells or by
some other organism. Certain animals harbor in their food tracts
bacteria or protozoa having the power of digesting certain sub-
stances that they themselves cannot handle, and thus may thrive
on a diet that would mean certain starvation to any ordinary
creature.

A method of accomplishing some particular function in a certain
way having once been adopted and handed down from generation
to generation, an organ is almost sure to be evolved in which the
function becomes localized. In the case of digestion the organ is
the stomach. The stomach is a common inheritance of all the
present-day many-celled animals, which is to say, it originated with
the early ancestors of these animals and has been transmitted to all
the descendants, with, of course, various modifications and improve-
ments to suit individual needs. Hence, though our particular sub-
ject is the history of the insect stomach, the same history in a gen-
eral way applies to all stomachs, including our own. Let us see,
then, how stomachs began.

When an habitually scientific writer starts out to write a “ popu-
lar ” article, the first thing he thinks he must do is to adopt the first
person plural; it makes him feel chummy with the reader, and he
assumes that the reader will now easily understand all he is writing
about. Then he plunges ahead in the most technical kind of lan-
guage about things most people never saw or heard of. It is, there-
fore, somewhat disconcerting, now that after a long preliminary we
have reached a point where the real subject of this story might be
introduced, to realize that the history of stomachs is involved in
zoological matter that a considerate writer should not assume to be
perfectly well known to the reader. Hence, it will be appropriate to
explain here a few important things about animals in general, and
about certain groups of animals in particular, in order to define some
technical words and in order to make certain ideas appear more
reasonable than they might otherwise seem.
INSECT’S STOMACH—SNODGRASS 369

First, it must be understood that there is a pretty sharp division
in the animal kingdom between the one-celled animals and the many-
celled animals. The first are the Protozoa, the second the Metazoa.
The Metazoa are the true stomach animals; they include everything
from the sponges to us. Being confronted at the very outset of their
career with the necessity of feeding a mass of cells that had lost
their individualities, the Metazoa proceeded at once to the organi-
zation of a community dietary department.

There are three groups of metazoic animals that we shall mention
particularly in connection with a study of the evolution of the
insect stomach. ‘The first group is the Coelenterata, which includes
the hydras, the sea anemones, the coral polyps, and the jellyfish.
These animals are principally double-walled stomachs. They seem
to live very well without complicating themselves with other organs
of any consequence; they have only the simplest kind of nervous
system and a contractile tissue that passes for muscle, but they have
no legs or other external appendages except a circle of soft tentacles
around the mouth. The second group to be mentioned is the seg-
mented worms, or Annelida, including the earthworms and many
kinds of worms that live in the ocean. The ancestors of the worms
apparently were too progressive to put up with the simple equipment
of a coelenterate. They started new ways of doing things and
equipped themselves inside and out with new apparatus that com-
plicated their anatomy and raised their rating in the scheme of
zoological classification, but it is not clear that they gained any
material advantage over the coelenterates or added to their own
happiness in any way. A curious land animal named Peripatus
that looks like a worm with a long series of caterpillar legs is
probably a relative of the annelids. The third principal group is
the Arthropoda, the members of which we know more familiarly as
the spiders, centipedes, shrimps, crayfish, lobsters, crabs, and insects.
The arthropods adopted most of the ideas and organs of the anne-
lids, but added to the worm equipment a double series of jointed
legs. The arthropods have become so efficient in a mechanical way
that some scientists think there is danger of their being eventually
masters of the earth. Evidently they have at least found a modus
of living with their own machinery, while ours, it is said, threatens
to displace us. The secret of the arthropods is that each individual
is his own machine.

Lest the reader begin to feel that this digression about jellyfish,
worms, and arthropods has nothing to do with the subject of
stomachs, it must be explained at once that all the important struc-
tural features of animals have been evolved around the stomach;
that is, they have been developed as adaptations to feeding, or its
370 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

accessory functions, such as the procuring of food, the distribution
of food within the body, and the elimination of waste products of
metabolism. The necessity of protection and the reproductive func-
tion have, it is true, had their influence on bodily form, but their
effects are not so far-reaching or so deeply stamped in the body struc-
ture as are the characters that pertain directly or indirectly to the
function of nutrition.

It is probable that in a very early stage in the evolution of the
Metazoa the animal consisted of a mere sphere of cells, but that the
cells later became arranged in a single layer on the outside, forming
thus a cellular sac filled with liquid. The embryonic representative
of this evolutionary stage is called a blastula (fig. 4 A). Its outer

Ficurn 4.—Diagrams of early stages of general embryonic development, and the forma-
tion of the first stomach, or archenteron.

A, the blastula. B, differentiation of the digestive cells of the bastula. C, the gastrula,
produced by invagination of the digestive cells to form an endodermal stomach (End).

Ble, blastocoele; Bld, blastoderm; Bpr, blastopore; F, food material; Gc, gastrocoele ;
He, haemocoele; Hed, ectoderm; Hnd, endoderm,

cell layer is the blastoderm (Bld.). In this stage the animal has no
true stomach, and it cannot be said just how a free-living creature
in the blastula condition obtained its food. Perhaps, however, all
its cells were individually ingestive and digestive.

If embryonic development may be taken in a general way as a
guide to the history of evolution, it becomes apparent that the
blastula soon concentrated its digestive and absorptive functions in
the cells of one particular area of its surface, probably the area most
likely to come into contact with food material, for in the next stage
of embryonic development it is usually found that the cells of one
side of the blastula have become larger than the others (fig. 4 B),
and subsequent history shows that these cells form the digestive
surface of the animal. In the blastula this surface is often somewhat
flattened or slightly concave. The ancestral representative of the
blastula almost certainly inhabited water, and, if it lived mostly on
submerged surfaces, it is much to be suspected that, when hungry,
it simply sat down on any convenient mass of food material (/)
and consumed it. Whether it practiced internal or external diges-
tion we cannot pretend to decide, but in any case the digestion
INSECT’S STOMACH—SNODGRASS 371

products were probably absorbed into the body cavity and there
distributed to the other cells that had given up the power of individ-
ual digestion. Life must have been indeed sublime in those days
before stomachs, when one could literally wallow in his food or even
sleep in it—unless something disturbing happened in the environment.
Unfortunately, however, something is always likely to haj»pen to an
animal in repose, and none of us likes to be disturbed during meals.

The ancestral blastula, pressed by the necessity of removing the
hazards to its digestive composure, hit upon the simple expedient of
withdrawing its digestive surface into the interior of the body.
Here, in a sheltered food pocket (fig. 4 C, @c.), digestion could
leisurely go on, and there would be no danger of loss of food to a
stronger competitor or by adverse currents of water, for the creature
could simply swim away with its food inside it. By this evolution-
ary act, which was an anatomical involution but amounted almost to
a physiological revolution, the blastula invented the first stomach.
The organ was found to be so successful that it has come to be a
standard part of the equipment of all the metazoic animals. Be-
cause of its great antiquity, and because of its historic importance,
embryologists have commemorated this primitive stomach by giving
it the fitting title of archenteron (7.e., most ancient intestine). Fur-
thermore, by this same act of establishing an internal stomach, the
blastula, in terms of embryology, changed itself into a gastrula, and
differentiated its single cell layer into an outer ectoderm (C, Eed.),
and an inner endoderm (Hnd.). It now became necessary to take
food into the stomach, and thus true eating began. The hole where
the stomach was drawn in (C, Bpr.) became the first mouth, though
it is called the blastopore, and served also for ejecting refuse. The
stomach cavity is known as the gastrocoele (@c.).

The establishment of the stomach was a great event in the history
of us metazoans; nothing quite so important has happened since.
Little thought was given then to the sufferings we should later
endure in trying to keep the organ decently filled, or the evils that
would come upon us from having it overfilled or improperly filled.

When it is understood now that the word “ gastrula” is the
diminutive of the Greek gaster, meaning “a stomach ”, it is evident
that the word gastrulation may be applied to any process of stomach
formation. The particular method above described is gastrulation
by invagination, and most zoologists regard invagination as the
probable historic way of stomach formation. Embryos and other
young stages of animals, however, and we shall see more evidence
of it, have a vexing habit of distorting history for their own con-
venience, when they are expected to repeat it. Embryologically,
therefore, gastrulation may take place in other ways than by

72774—35——25
372 |§ ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

invagination. A common substitute is the multiplication of cells
at some point on the inner surface of the blastoderm, followed by
an inward migration of these cells to form a stomach that never
was a part of the exterior animal. This plan of stomach building
is distinguished as gastrulation by proliferation. But in general
invagination and proliferation are interchangeable processes in
embryonic development, so it is nothing to worry about if an animal
in its growth adopts either one in place of the other. Where gastru-
lation takes place by proliferation there is, of course, no blastopore,
though there is sometimes an external depression opposite the area
of internal proliferation, suggesting that this is the site of a formerly
open ancestral blastopore, which has simply been closed to accom-

Ficur® 5.—The fundamental structure of coelenterates.

A, the polyp type. B, the jellyfish, or medusa, type.
Ecd, ectoderm; End, endoderm; Gc, gastrocoele; Mth, mouth; 71, tentacle.

modate the conditions of development. An animal with a closed
blastopore eventually acquires one or two secondary openings into
the stomach.

At this point it is of interest to note that the Coelenterata have
never evolved beyond the 2-layer stage of structure. They consist
essentially of an outer ectodermal body wall, and an inner endoder-
mal stomach wall (fig. 5 A), though there may be a few accessories
such as nerves, motor tissue, and stinging organs, all developed
from the ectoderm. The coelenterates are either cylindrical animals
attached by one end to a support (A), or they are disk-shaped and
float free in the water (B). Those of the first kind are known as
polyps, the second are in general termed jellyfish, or medusae. In
each form there is a mouth located axially; in the polyps it is at
the free end of the body (A, MtA), in the jellyfish it is at the end
INSECT’S STOMACH—SNODGRASS 373

of a short tube on the under surface of the body (B, Mth), and
in both forms it is usually surrounded by a circle of tentacles (77).
The entire inside of the body is occupied by a large stomach cavity,
except that the jellyfish have a mass of transparent gelatinous ma-
terial between the ectoderm and the endoderm. ‘The stomach cells
of the coelenterates are said to retain the primitive function of
intracellular digestion; by extending protoplasmic arms they grasp
and engulf food particles in the manner of the amoeba, and then
eject the refuse back into the stomach.

The other metazoic animals are typically elongate in form but the
elongation appears to be crosswise through the blastopore instead
of through its axis. The lengthening of the animal, therefore, has
drawn the blastopore out into a narow slit on the under side of the
body. This conclusion, at least, appears to be warranted from a

eS An

Ficurp 6.—Diagrams showing the probable evolution of the blastopore in the arthropods.

An’, primary anus; Bpr, blastopore; Mth’, primary mouth.

comparative study of embryonic development, but, as in other things,
the embryo is so prone to depart from its race history that its story
may require a considerable amount of interpretation. Yet there are
some forms that adhere very nearly to what we might expect to be
a close approximation to historic truth. For example, the wormlike
animal mentioned above, known as Peripatus, at an early stage of de-
velopment has an open blastopore slit on the under side of its body,
which gradually closes in the middle until only the two ends are left
as openings into the stomach. The usual arthropod development, in
which the blastopore is closed from the beginning, may, therefore,
be interpreted in the light of Peripatus as shown diagrammatically
in figure 6. The anterior remnant of the blastopore becomes the
primary mouth (D. Mth’), the posterior remnant the primary anus
(An). The gastrulation cavity, or archentron, is thus converted
into an elongate stomach sac open to the exterior at each end (fig.
TA).

The primitive mouth and the primitive anus (fig. 7, A, Mth’, Av),
however, do not remain at the surface of the body. Each is carried
internally by an inward growth of the ectoderm (B), and the outer
374 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

openings of these two ectodermal invaginations added to the food
canal become the permanent mouth (Mth) and anus (An). The
entire alimentary canal, it is to be seen, consists now of three parts,
cf which only the middle one (d/ent) is derived from the primitive
endodermal archenteron. The new anterior ectodermal part is
called the stomodaeum (Stom), the posterior part the proctodaewm
(Proc). The middle part, which is still the true stomach, is rechrist-
ened the mesenteron (Ment). It should be observed that, while the
anal opening is terminal on the rear end of the body, the mouth aper-
ture (Mth) is on the ventral surface a short distance behind the
anterior pole of the animal. The part of the trunk before the mouth
is termed the prostomium (Prst). This condition holds for all the
Annelida and the Arthropoda. Some of the unsegmented worms

have the mouth situated near the middle of the under surface of the
body.

———_ ee SS, Certo —————
/ Prst / aes \

Mtr A Mth Mth B Art

Ficurb 7.—Diagrams of the probable evolution of the alimentary canal in the ancestors

of the arthropods.

An’, primary anus; An, definitive anus; Arc, primitive brain, or archicerebrum; Hcd,
ectoderm End, endoderm; Ment, stomach, or mesenteron; Mth’, primary mouth; Mth,
definitive mouth; Proc. proctodaeum; Prst, prostomium; Stom, stomodaeum.

The elongation of the body in the direction of movement has had
a profound effect on the general organization of all animals that
have evolved from this basic principle of structure. It has led
particularly to many features characteristic of the annelid worms
and the arthropods. The elongate form in itself is clearly an
adaptation to greater efficiency of movement. Habitual movement
in one direction has established one end of the trunk as the head
end, and the other as the tail end. For this reason the nervous
system originates at the same end as that containing the mouth,
since the forward pole is the best place for the food intake orifice,
and is also the end chiefly in need of sensory perceptive organs,
from which the brain (fig. 7 B, Arc) has had its inception. This
explains why with all us elongated animals, vertebrates and inver-
tebrates, our eyes, organs of smell, and the brain are in our heads
along with the intake aperture of our food canal. It explains also
many of our habits and social customs. Of course, in our own
particular case, since we as human beings have departed from the
horizontal position, except for purposes of repose, it would be quite
convenient for us now to have our mouth located somewhere nearer
INSECT’S STOMACH—SNODGRASS 315

the stomach, say just above the level of the table; but, thanks to our
horizontal animal ancestors, we are able to take our food without
embarrassment in family groups and social gatherings. In short,
it is much better that we have evolved from worms than from jelly-
fish. Such considerations may seem frivolous, but many ideas are
funny to us simply because we take our accustomed facts too se-
riously. Historians are often given to speculating on what might
be true today if something had not happened in the past that did
happen. When we begin to inquire why we are not lke what
human beings might have been, we are likely to find that in most
ways we are simply made-over animals, that we have very little
in our organization that was designed in the first place for our
particular use.

4
He B
Figure 8.—Diagrams illustrating in cross-section the probable historic, or ancestral,
method of formation and growth of the mesoderm in invertebrate animals.

A, the mesoderm being formed as hollow ingrowths along the lips of the blastopore.
B, the blastopore closed and the mesoderm sacs extended upward around the alimentary
canal, C, a later stage in which the walls of the mesoderm sacs form an inner lining
(EMsd) of the body wall, and an outer covering (JMsd) of the alimentary canal, their
cavities united ventrally with the blood cavity to form the definitive body cavity (BC)
of the arthropods.

BC, definitive body cavity; Bpr, blastopore; Coel, mesoderm cavity; Hed, ectoderm ;
EMsd, outer mesoderm layer; End, endoderm; Gc, stomach cavity, or gastrocoele; HC,
blood cavity, or haemocoele; Imsd, inner mesoderm layer; Msd, mesoderm; VNC, ventral
nerve cord.

Another feature common to all the metazoic animals other than
the coelenterates is the possession of a third fundamental cell layer
interposed between the ectoderm and the endoderm. This layer is
the mesoderm. The mesoderm gives rise to the muscles, connective
tissue, heart, blood vessels, fat, excretory organs, bones, and other
internal parts that the coelenterates do not have. It originates as
ingrowths of cells in each side of the body along the margins of the
blastopore, or of the blastoporic area when the blastopore is closed.
The history of the mesoderm is usually more or less obscured in
embryonic development, but the probable primitive method of
mesoderm formation in annelids and arthropods is well shown in
Peripatus, and is here illustrated in a series of diagrams (fig. 8).
376 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

At A the mesoderm (Msd) is seen growing inward as a hollow
fold on each side of the blastopore where the ectoderm was first
continuous with the endoderm. ‘Typically, the mesoderm forms a
series of paired pouches, called coelomic sacs (Coel), corresponding
with the segments of an annelid or an arthropod, for the body of
these animals behind the mouth is always divided into consecutive
parts, or segments (but segmentation is a topic we must omit from
the present history). The mesodermal layers grow upward around
the alimentary canal as the blastopore closes (B); their cavities
(Coel) may remain distinct, but in the arthropods the coelomic
walls partly break down and the contained spaces unite with the
surrounding blood spaces (Hc) to form the definitive body cavity
(C, BC). The outer and inner layers of the mesoderm, however,
form respectively a lining to the body wall (Come iene EM. ed).
and a covering around the alimentary canal (splanchnopleure, IMsd).

The foregoing sketch gives probably an approximately true ac-
count of the historic method of mesoderm formation as it can be
deciphered here and there from the incomplete and modified stories
related in embryonic development. As we have seen, the embryo
is always prone to get results by short cuts and adaptations to suit
its own convenience, and therefore, while the embryo is commonly
said in its development to repeat the history of its race, this state-
ment is far from being literally true in most cases. The embryo,
however, is not deficient in “ biological memory ”’; it adheres closely
to the general scheme and sequence of historical events, but we must
consider the fact that it is usually shut up inside an egg, and is
thus cut off from the outside world by an egg shell. Naturally,
therefore, it cannot carry on its life functions in the way its free-
living ancestors did, and as a consequence it has to adapt many
events in its development to the way of living that is forced upon it.
Then too, the embryo must complete its development in a very short
time, often in a few weeks or a few days in the case of insects, while
its ancestors took millions of years to cover the same ground.
Hence, the embryo cannot be bothered with details, and it must
attain its ends by expedient processes. Furthermore, the farther
its immediate progenitors have departed from the structure of their
early ancestors, the more difficult becomes the task of recapitulation,
and the less likely is the embryo to follow the traditional path.

Let us now consider specifically the case of the insect embryo,
some of its developmental problems, and particularly the way in
which it builds up a conventional alimentary canal in spite of the
roundabout methods it is forced to adopt. The egg of an insect is
like that of any other animal in that it is a single cell, but the eggs
of most insects are relatively very large because each contains an
INSECT’S STOMACH—SNODGRASS 377

ample amount of food material for the future embryo (fig. 9 A).
The food material is called yolk (Y). The first historic develop-
mental stage that the egg must form is the blastula, but also the
yolk must be available at once to the blastula cells, and later to the
stomach cells. Hence, the first cells formed by the division of the
egg nucleus (A, Vw) disperse to the surface of the yolk and there
form a layer surrounding the latter (B). This cell layer is the
blastoderm (/d) and constitutes the blastula of insect development.
The future insect, however, is not a product of the entire blastoderm,
but of an elongate patch of thickened cells soon differentiated on
the under surface of the blastoderm, known as the germ band (C,
D, GB), which is the beginning of the true embryo.

FicurE 9.—Diagrams of early stages in insect development.

A, an egg of the usual type containing a large quantity of food material, or yolk
(Y). B, the enclosure of the yolk in a layer of cells, the blastoderm (Bld), formed
by division of the egg nucleus and migration of the resulting nuclei to the periphery
of the egg. C, D, cross-section and lengthwise section of the egg at a later stage
showing the thickened germ band (GB) on the under surface of the blastoderm.

Bld, blastoderm; Cho, the egg shell, or chorion; DBI, dorsal blastoderm; GB, germ
band; Nu, egg nucleus; Y, yolk.

One of the first events, now, in the further development of the
insect embryo is the formation of a groove along the under surface
of the germ band (fig. 10 A), the walls of which either sink in
bodily (B), or proliferate a mass of cells internally. In either case
the germ band becomes two-layered (C). This developmental process.
looks like the formation of an endoderm from the ectoderm, but
future events show that the inner layer thus formed is mostly meso-
derm (C, Msd). However, it has been observed in some cases that
from its median part certain cells (B, Vph) migrate into the yolk
and appear to have a digestive action on the latter. These cells,
therefore, are called “ yolk-eaters ”, or more technically are known
as vitellophags. Moreover, there are also cells distributed along the
inner surface of the mesoderm (A, Hnd), or particularly aggregated
378 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

in clumps at each end of it, that will later multiply and again enclose
the yolk in an internal sac, which becomes the stomach of the mature
insect. These dormant cells associated with the mesoderm, therefore,
must be the endodermal cells of the embryo, and, if so, the vitello-
phags dispersed from them are also endodermal.

Here, then, clearly is a striking example of apparent utter disregard
on the part of the embryo for the historic method of mesoderm and
endoderm formation. Yet, we must admit that the insect embryo is
true to its ancestral history insofar as it does develop each of these
layers from what ought to be the blastopore area of its body, and in
that it turns over the business of digesting the yolk to at least some
of the endoderm cells, namely, the vitellophags. It is quite evident

Fieurp 10.—Diagrammatic cross-sections of three early stages in the developing insect
embryo showing one method of mesoderm formation, with accompanying endoderm
cells.

A, the germ band divided into a middle plate (MP) and lateral plates (LP) ; gastru-
lation represented by internal proliferation of endoderm cells (Hnd) from the middle
plate. B, the middle plate becoming invaginated, most of the endoderm cells being
dispersed in the yolk as vitellophags (Vph). C, the middle plate transformed into
mesoderm (Msd) by the closure of the ectodermal lateral plates (Hed); a remnant
of the endoderm (MR) left on the inner surface of the mesoderm.

that if the embryo developed its endoderm by the traditional method
of invagination, its stomach would become a sac surrounded by the
food material. A stomach, however, is not designed to work from the
outside, for in such a case it might digest the animal instead of the
food. Stomach cells dispatched into the yolk, however, may digest
the latter and render it available to the growing tissues of the embryo.
Hence, while the insect embryo adheres to the fundamental principle
of gastrulation, it discards of necessity the idea that stomach forma-
tion must proceed in one particular way.

Let us see now just how far the insect embryo has departed from
the ancestral path in the matter of gastrulation. We first go back to
the typical open gastrula (fig. 11 A) with the mesoderm forming
along the sides of the elongate blastopore. If then we assume that
the blastopore has closed, we arrive through B at the condition in C,
which clearly suggests the developmental process that takes place
INSECT’S STOMACH—SNODGRASS 379

in insects. With a closed blastopore the apparent gastrulation pro-
duces mesoderm (C, Msd) externally beneath the ectoderm, and
endoderm (/nd) internally, but most of the endoderm is at once
disintegrated to scatter its cells in the yolk as vitellophags (D, Vph),
which lose no time in beginning their business of digestion. There
is finally left only a remnant of the endoderm in the form of a layer
of dormant cells resting on top of the mesoderm (D). ‘Thus we see
that the insect embryo has violated no fundamental law of develop-
ment, and that its deviations from the conventions are necessary

Ficgurp 11.—Diagrams interpreting the formation of the inner germ layers in insects
as modified gastrulation,

A, primitive gastrulation and mesoderm formation. B, the blastopore closing. C, the
blastopore closed, the mesoderm covered by the ectoderm, the endodermal stomach
(End) in process of disintegration. D, most of the endoderm cells scattered in the yoke
as vitellophags (Vph), leaving a ventral remnant (Hnd) resting on the mesoderm.
E, lengthwise section of the embryo showing the three remnants of the endoderm (AMR,
IMR, PMR) that will later regenerate the stomach.

adaptations to proper development within an egg filled with yolk.

The vitellophags are an emergency crew; they have only tempo-
rary employment, since a dispersed stomach could not function as
a digestive organ for food coming in from the outside. The young
insect is destined to live a free life; it must eventually, therefore,
have a stomach of the usual kind provided at least with an intake
orifice for receiving food material. Hence, it is quite necessary that
the embryo should soon begin the building of a conventional gastric
organ in order to meet its destiny of hatching and being left to
its own resources in the outside world.

It is claimed by some investigators that in some of the arthropods,
including certain insects, the wall of the definitive stomach is formed
380 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

by a reassembling of the scattered vitellophags on the outside of the
undigested remnant of the yolk. ‘There is nothing improbable about
this method of reestablishing a disintegrated stomach, but its actual
occurrence is perhaps not fully substantiated, and some embryologists
claim that if a stomach is thus formed it is a transient structure.
There is, on the other hand, no doubt that the final stomach of most
arthropods is a structure regenerated from the temporarily dormant
remnant or remnants of the endoderm left at the two ends of the
mesoderm, or forming a median strand of endodermal tissue along
the length of the mesoderm (fig. 11 E). These regenerative endoder-
mal remnants, since they form the definitive stomach, which is
termed the mesenteron, are known as the anterior mesenteron rudt-
ment (AMR), the posterior mesenteron rudiment (PMP), and the
intermediate mesenteron rudiment (IMR).

The final process of the stomach regeneration is fairly simple and
direct. The several mesenteron rudiments (fig. 12 A) begin a pe-
riod of active growth. Their cells multiply and spread outward from
their margins around the yolk. The anterior and posterior rudi-
ments form cup-shaped extensions that approach each other from
the opposite ends of the body (B, C), the intermediate rudiment, if
present, contributes to the space between them, until finally the
yolk is completely invested in a covering consisting of a single layer
of endodermal cells (D). The embryo now has acquired its defini-
tive stomach, or mesenteron, which proceeds to digest the yolk
within it, and later takes care of the food that enters by way of the
mouth. The vitellophags appear to be out of a job. Some investi-
gators claim that they perish by degeneration, and are absorbed.
The blood of adult insects, however, contains free cells that are sus-
piciously like the vitellophags; they devour and digest loose matter
and possibly disease germs in the blood, and thus resemble the white
blood corpuscles of vertebrate animals. These insect blood cells are
known as phagocytes (1.e., eating cells). Perhaps they are descend-
ants of the wandering vitellophags.

The mesenteron of the embryo is yet a closed sac. A stomach
without an inlet or an outlet would be a useless luxury for a free-
living animal, but it is entirely appropriate to an embryo confined
within an egg shell. During the process of the stomach formation
two pockets of the ectoderm grow inward at opposite ends of the
body (fig. 12 B, C, D), the first carrying the anterior mesenteron
rudiment, the second the posterior mesenteron rudiment. When the
mesenteron is completely formed (D), therefore, it is suspended
between two ectodermal tubes which are open to the exterior but
closed at their stomach ends. Shortly before the insect hatches,
however, the partitions between these tubes and the stomach sac
INSECT’S STOMACH—SNODGRASS 381

are broken down, and now at last the creature has a continuous ali-
mentary canal. Thus by a round-about path of embryonic develop-
ment, this important organ has resumed the conventional form and
structure that the alimentary canal must have acquired at an early

Ficurb 12.—Diagrams illustrating the regeneration of the stomach from the endoderm
remnants, and the formation of the alimentary canal.

A, lengthwise section of the embryo, showing the endoderm remnants, known as the
anterior, intermediate, and posterior mesenteron rudiments (AMR, IMR, PMR), and
the beginning of the stomodaeal and proctodaeal ingrowths of the ectoderm (Stom,
Proc.). B, the endoderm remnants beginning to grow around the yolk to form the
stomach. C, a more advanced stage in the stomach formation. D, the endodermal
stomach, or mesenteron (Ment), completed as the middle section of the alimentary
canal, the ectodermal stomodacum (Stom) and proctodaeum (Proc) forming its anterior
and posterior parts.

period in the ancestral history of the free-living progenitors of the
insects (fig. 7 B). Throughout the life of the insect the food tract
preserves the evidence of its triple origin, since its three parts, the
stomodaeum, the mesenteron, and the proctodaeum, are always dis-
382 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

tinct in their structure and function (fig. 18). The stomach of the
adult insect is commonly called the ventriculus.

Before going on, it should be mentioned that the stomach in some
insects does not open permanently into the proctodaeum until the
end of the larval stage. The larvae of such insects are mostly
parasites living in the bodies of other insects, or are the young of
wasps and bees that live in cells containing their food supply. Here
again is a case of adaptation to local conditions, for, just as the
embryo has a closed stomach to retain its food, so the larvae of these
insects, in order to avoid contamination of their food, have a closed
intestine.

The ways in which young animals in their development depart
from the ancestral structure, as represented in that of their parents,
and then revert to the parental form is a most interesting field of

SoeGny

Figure 13.—Lengthwise section of a caterpillar showing the alimentary canal and
other internal organs.

Alnt, anterior intestine; An, anus; Br, brain; Or, crop; DV, dosal blood vessel;
Mal, Malpighian tubules; Mth, mouth; Oe, oesophagus; Phy, pharynx; Proc, proc-
todaeum; Py, pylorus; Rect, rectum; SkGI, silk gland; SoeGny, suboesophageal ganglion ;
Stom, stomodaeum; Vent, stomach, or ventriculus; VNO, ventral nerve cord.

study. In general, this temporary assertion of anatomical inde-
pendence on the part of young animals, and the breaking away from
ancestral conventions only to go back to them again, is termed
metamorphosis. The phenomenon is particularly prevalent among
the invertebrates, and, from what we have seen of the development
of the insect stomach, it is clear that there may be embryonic
metamorphosis as well as postembryonic metamorphosis. When
metamorphosis is very pronounced it is usually found, as in the case
of the insect stomach, that the primitive cells of an organ divide
into an active erratic group that form the temporary structure, and
an inactive conservative group that will later restore the organ in its
adult form. Without this provision, an overambitious larva might
get so far from the beaten path that it could not get back again. The
reason for metamorphosis is usually to be found in a different way
of living, a different habitat, or a division of labor between the
young and the adult stages of the same animal.
INSECT’S STOMACH—SNODGRASS 383

Now that we have carried the young insect through its development
to a point where it has acquired a complete digestive apparatus, it
must not be supposed that the story is ended. The insect stomach
keeps on having history to the end of its career. When the insect
has once consumed the embryonic food supply that was enclosed in
its stomach, it becomes from now on dependent upon food materials
taken into the stomach by way of the mouth. During postembryonic
life, therefore, the function of feeding becomes greatly augumented
since it must include the acquisition of food, the reduction of the food
mass, when necessary, to a form that may be taken into the mouth,
and its passage from the mouth to the stomach. All these accessory
functions involve the development of complicated mechanisms, a
study of which would be pertinent and extremely interesting in
connection with the stomach, but would lead us too far afield from
our immediate subject.

The first use the young insect makes of its new feeding organs may
occur while it is still in the egg, for many insects, when the time for
emergence has arrived, swallow a liquid that fills the space between
them and the egg shell. This swells out the body and gives the insect
closer contact against the shell, so that by contortionistic movements,
or by pressing a spine or a sharp ridge on the head against the shell,
the latter is split and gives the confined creature a means of exit.
The head protrudes first from the egg, and then a still further infla-
tion of the body may be accomplished by swallowing air, giving an
increased pressure that assists in the final escape. Young insects
with well-developed jaws, however, may simply gnaw a hole in the
egg shell, and leisurely crawl out. Such insects are very likely then
to turn around and make their first meal on the rest of the shell.

In the matter of eating, insects are hard to understand. ‘They have
dietary laws that they follow scrupulously. While some of them will
eat almost anything, the majority confine themselves to some partic-
ular kind of food, and plant-eating species often refuse almost every-
thing but the leaves of a definite species of plant, though they will
make a few concessions in cases of emergency. As an example of
this trait we have only to recall the silkworm, which, as is well
known, must be fed on mulberry leaves or it will not spin a cocoon,
though when young it may be induced to nibble some lettuce or dan-
delion leaves to avoid starvation. This finickyness about food on the
part of insects is not a matter of “taste”, for they will not even try
the things they refuse. In this they resemble children, except that
they never grow out of their perversity. The insect mothers in
most cases know enough to lay the eggs where their brood will find
on hatching the kind of food they will eat. Entomologists would
like to know the reason for these dietary whims of the insects; they
384 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

might turn a knowledge of it to advantage in the war against agri-
cultural pests, but so far investigations have not revealed the secret.

Young insects are particularly constructed for the function of
feeding. The period in an insect’s growth from the embryo to the
adult is above all else a digestive stage. The stomach is exalted over
the other members, and all activities are devoted to keeping it full of
food. The stomach itself at this period is a large, active, and ener-
getic organ (fig. 18,Vent) ; its cells are constantly pouring out diges-
tive juices, and absorbing the products of digestion. The latter are
used partly by the growing insect, and partly are stored in the body
as reserves for the use of the adult.

CP csp A
Coo LOTR
BED ii

S\ sce Oi
XSi

Figure 14.—Diagrammatic cross-section of the mature stomach, or ventriculus, of an
insect.

BMb, basement membrane; cmel, circular muscles; dg, digestive cells; Hpth, endo-
dermal epithelium; #, food material; Imcl, lengthwise muscles; PMb, peritrophic mem-
brane ; rg, regenerative cells; sb, striated border of epithelial cells,

The structure of the stomach is best seen in a cross-section (fig. 14).
The principal part of its wall is a cellular layer, the epithelium
(E'pth), which is bounded externally by a thin basement membrane
(BMb). On the outside is a muscular sheath composed of inner
circular fibers (emcl) and outer lengthwise fibers (/mcl). The inner
margin of the epithelium has the appearance of being penetrated by
numerous fine pores perpendicular to the surface, and for this reason
it is called the striated border (sb). Within the cavity of the stom-
ach is the mass of food material (/’), but usually it is to be seen that
the food is enclosed in a sack formed of a delicate film, the peritrophic
membrane (PMb), which is given off from time to time from the cell
surface, and probably serves to protect the latter from direct contact
with the food. The peritrophic membrane, however, must be pene-
INSECT’S STOMACH—SNODGRASS 385

trated on the one hand by the digestive secretions from the stomach
cells, and on the other by the digested products in solution which are
to be absorbed by the cells.

The process of secretion in any gland cell is a chemical activity in
the cell protoplasm by which certain substances are produced from
the food materials brought to the cell by the blood. The nature of
the secretion products differs according to the function of the gland;
the principal products of stomach cells are digestive enzymes. The
secretion materials accumulate in the cells until, at the proper time,
the cell is flushed with water and the products are carried out in
solution through the cell wall.

The digestive secretions formed by the epithelial cells of the in-
sect’s stomach are probably ordinarily discharged through the stri-
ated border. In many cases, however, it is to be seen that the inner

nim Win
Ru
cana De 4 erie

A a

Ficurn 15.—Diagrams illustrating physical changes that take place in the digestive cells
of the stomach wall.

A, cells in a “resting’’ condition. B, inner ends of cells protruding as swellings
containing material supposed to include digestive enzymes. C, a swellng disrupted
scattering its contents in the stomach cavity. D, globules separated from the cells,
followed by disintegration.

ends of the cells have a spongy appearance, owing to the accumula-
tion here of a clear liquid containing a coarse granular material,
and that small swellings charged with this material push out from
the cell surfaces (fig. 15 B). In other parts of the specimen these
swellings may be globular outgrowths and some of them may be seen
to be ruptured (C), scattering their contents in the stomach lumen.
Or again, the globules may be drawn out on the ends of long necks,
and then cut off as free bodies (D), which float off and distribute
their contents by a final dissolution of their delicate wall. It has
usually been supposed that these observed activities in the stomach
cells constitute a drastic means for discharging quickly large quanti-
ties of digestive products; in other words, it would appear that the
ordinary processes of diffusion are too slow, and that more effective
results are obtained by an explosive disruption of the cells when once
the Jatter are fully charged with digestive enzymes. Certain recent
investigators, however, are inclined to think that these visible phe-
386 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

nomena of cell disruption are dissolution processes of cells that have
been exhausted by a period of intensive secretion, during which the
secretion products were discharged through the cell walls in the ordi-
nary manner. The question can be settled only by more extensive
studies from a physiological standpoint.

Whatever may be the truth concerning the nature of the observed
facts of disruption in the stomach cells, it is undoubtedly true that
the process is a destructive matter to the cells themselves. Many of
them eventually are entirely used up by these activities, and if there
were no provision for their replacement by new cells the stomach
itself would soon be exhausted. ‘The digestive cells are too exclu-
sively occupied with secretion duties to be able to reproduce them-
selves; a cell, once exhausted, has reached the end of its career. In
examining the section of the stomach (fig. 14), one thing we did
not observe is that in addition to the large cells (dg) forming the
principal part of the stomach wall, there are other small and incon-
spicuous cells (7g) lying outside the others against the inner surface
of the basement membrane. These small cells are regenerative cells.
They have conserved their vitality by taking no part in the exhaust-
ing secretion business, and as a consequence their reproductive pow-
ers are unimpaired. When new digestive cells are needed to take
the places of those worn out in the service, it is these regenerative
cells that by division furnish the recruits. But the parent cell in
each case remains behind always ready for further procreation.
Thus there goes on throughout the digestive periods of the insect’s
life a continual process of destruction and regeneration of the cellu-
lar lining of the stomach. The regenerative cells may be scattered
as shown in the diagram (fig. 14), but in many insects they are col-
lected in groups, or nests (called nidi), or again they occur in small
pockets of the epithelium (crypts), which may project in the form
of slender processes on the outer surface of the stomach.

At the time that secretion is in progress, or following periods of
intensive secretion, the same cells, in most cases, that furnish the
secretion products must absorb the digested food materials and pass
them through their inner surfaces into the blood of the body cavity.
Fortunately, however, the stomach does not have to work all the time.
Growing insects, as is well known, have periods when they cease from
feeding activities and cast off the outer layer of their skin. This
process is called moulting, or ecdysis. The time that intervenes
between periods of feeding, when the outer skin is shed, is often
spoken of as a “resting period.” The appearance of resting, how-
ever, is quite superficial, except in the sense that the insect ceases to
eat and to move about; physiologically this is a time of greatly
increased activity when the processes of growth are particularly
INSECT’S STOMACH—SNODGRASS 387

rapid. With many larvae, the cellular wall of the stomach is now
cast off entire and a whole new cell layer is generated from the
replacement cells. Thus the insect enters its next feeding stage with
a fresh secreting layer in its stomach, which proceeds to digest and
absorb the cells of the old discarded layer! Here is an example of
economy characteristic of living things, but quite foreign to the
physical world. At the final change of the larvae to the adult the
stomach wall will be again renewed, after which it generally lasts
until death, though certain beetles are said to continue periodically
the shedding and renewal of the stomach epithelium as long as they
live, regardless of the fact that they do not moult again.

In retrospect several points of interest may be emphasized.
The first is that the vital processes of living things depend upon
fundamental properties of inanimate matter. Second, the property
of protoplasmic matter that we term life is a chemical mechanism,
called metabolism, for the continual liberation of energy. ‘Third, the
structural organizations of animals are mechanical devices for giving
the vital process optimum working conditions, and for utilizing the
energy released by the body cells. Fourth, food is material that the
body cells can use for energy production and for growth; digestion
is the rendering of raw food stuffs of nature into a form soluble in
water and suitable for cell food; the stomach is an outside part of the
body turned in to make a pocket in which digestion takes place.
Fifth, the general sequence of developmental processes by which an
individual animal grows from the egg to the adult is determined by
the course of the evolutionary history of the race. Sixth, the details
or actual mode of development does not of necessity repeat literally
the ancestral history of the species, since the young animal, whether
the embryo in the egg or the free-living larva, must adapt its
inheritance to its own way of living. The truth of this is particularly
evident in the developmental history of the insect’s stomach.

72774—35——26
arr jerrandis pirate Seip bahiotadiveliaa steel aaa
sani. Spndl ety yea tas conch eed Le iebsiruyoreitt hak omelet breed tas
peditynyiendeeal, ‘plvicgadle oe orp el meron oo wununta.
ald i RRC ‘eh Vines chan »pllaw ybod adh yd badarali,
_ engidearet’s «pal ivtewna” ro} huis. noltombotay menue tind ware wave gustabey etiod
_orpi uldishw sigtaks pio ulM ose det 2p Rane og rat Ay pgaiciaiaaes tabiial
ult Ma dancp Shido moet ‘dowimdtodiabeet ey en} shimiea i aeeneg,
carahiienstyr ynesgll avid Mtirdestocep an ofan Se om inated
ae lait adee-vondet talgsinnpgle ah he abwonpae hemp gone
Tidobsasoruoinatibhisan es hosancnlesuithay
cee pe ortadie We ym tae rhea
t roe: pine are : |
sis he

Pe ashi iW enka wh hi way eta oe
ue desiuvenhyy ea ania, cant hort fia ie sa my,
bier Marna pine : wa ey ae ate, seas
iapsyarsty xe i ea! aber . ‘Poi ¢ } fi .

(La ad ta Maal Mlb eh SN ae hy ease syns
Ginga tinue, eg a eto TEE te AOL ouler, lay:
eo ce ae ge Wa eUbedtrge ony wegen Ale wane A
ir tiles peer: avi bbe Meg ihe oxyer —, ‘te dal i ;

ane rf OiEhG: 4 panties, ‘eaceyh an A
Sept Ady Cee ROME 5 Paes
Asean, aly way oe
TICKS AND THE ROLE THEY PLAY IN THE
TRANSMISSION OF DISEASES

By FI. C. BIsHoPpP

Principal Entomologist in Charge, Division of Insects Affecting Man and
Animals, Bureau of Entomology and Plant Quarantine, United States Depart-
ment of Agriculture

[With 9 plates]
INTRODUCTION

Ticks rank among man’s worst enemies. Some of the most deadly
diseases of the human race and of domestic animals are borne by
these creatures. Furthermore, all ticks are parasitic and weaken
their hosts by sucking their blood and also irritate them by their
bites.

While generally regarded as insects, ticks are not true insects, but
are more closely akin to the mites and spiders. They constitute a
separate superfamily, known as the Ixodoidea, almost world-wide
in distribution. In this country there are about 40 species, nearly
half of which are known to be of more or less economic importance.
The diseases now known to be carried largely or wholly by ticks
make a formidable array. Four different types of disease organisms
are known to be conveyed by ticks, namely spirochaetes, piroplasms,
rickettsias, and bacteria. They also carry certain parasitic worms
and virus diseases such as heartwater of sheep, cattle, and goats and
Nairobi sheep disease, and other maladies of man and animals the
causative agencies of which are unknown, such as tick paralysis and
certain tick fevers. Apparently ticks are of relatively little im-
portance in the transmission of bacterial diseases, although in tula-
remia they appear to play a rather important part. The Protozoa of
the family Babesiidae are ordinarily transmitted solely by ticks.
Fortunately the diseases due to this group of organisms do
not appear to attack man, though many species of mammals are
affected by them. Among the rickettsia diseases Rocky Mountain
spotted fever of man is carried exclusively by ticks, and apparently
this is true of Rickettsia ruminantium of cattle in South Africa. A
number of spirochaetoses of fowls, mammals, and men are tick-borne.
Tick bites are annoying to most people, and certain individuals are
especially sensitive tothem. Furthermore, they often serve as points

389
390 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

of ingress of secondary infection. Thus ticks are of distinct impor-
tance aside from the part which they play in transmitting specific

diseases.
LIFE HISTORY AND HABITS

The life histories and peculiar adaptations of ticks to various con-
ditions are interesting, and a knowledge of them is of much im-
portance in studying their relations to disease transmission, and
in devising methods of control.

In general ticks have four distinct developmental stages; the
egg, the larva, or seed tick, the nymph, and the adult, male and
female. All ticks require blood for their development and repro-
duction. The eggs are usually about one-fortieth inch long, oval
and yellowish to dark brown in color. The eggs are laid in masses
of a hundred or so up to 10,000 or 11,000. As the embryos develop,
the eggs show a distinct whitish spot on one side. This becomes
more pronounced as development progresses. The eggs hatch into
six-legged seed ticks which are active in most species. After a meal
of blood the seed ticks molt their skins and gain a fourth pair of
legs. They are now known as nymphs. In some species there are
two or three nymphal stages, the molts following blood meals. At
the final nymphal molt the adult males and females are produced.
In the family Argasidae, or soft-bodied ticks, the sexes are similar
in size and general appearance, and both, with few exceptions, en-
gorge with blood. In the other family, known as Ixodidae, or hard-
back ticks, the males may or may not attach to animals. The fe-
males attach, and the rear portion of the body, being elastic, stretches
so that when fully engorged the female is little more than a bag of
blood, the head and legs appearing relatively small. Mating usually
takes place on the host. When replete with blood the females let
go their hold on the host and seek a protected place for laying their
eggs. Attachment to a host and feeding are accomplished by in-
serting the beak or hypostome into the skin. The beak is provided
beneath with rows of backward projecting spines which serve to
attach the parasite firmly. Near the tip, on the upper side, are two
cutting jaws or mandibles which work sideways. These are the
principal cutting organs. The palpi, which are sensory organs
forming a sort of sheath at the sides of the hypostome, are bent
aside as the mouthparts are inserted.

There are many interesting modifications in the life cycles and
habits of the different kinds of ticks by which they have adjusted
themselves to the habits of birds or animals upon which they feed,
and to the conditions under which they live and develop. One way
in which the ticks vary greatly in habits is in connection with the
number of times they leave the host to molt their skins, This has an
TICKS—BISHOPP 391

important bearing on the disease-transmitting possibility of a given
species, and on methods of control. For instance, some ticks find a
new host each time they feed, after dropping off the previous host to
molt their skins. This allows a given tick an opportunity to pick up
an infection from one host and transmit it to another. Some adults
also have the habit of engorging with blood several times at inter-
vals of a few weeks to several months, using a different host for each
engorgement.

The habit of engorging quickly and dropping for each molt makes
control more difficult. Again, we find some ticks, such as the cattle
fever tick, that have the habit of remaining on the host during
molts. In the case of ticks with this habit such diseases as are
carried must be transmitted hereditarily, i.e., from one generation of
ticks to the next, through the egg. Some species of ticks wil)
engorge on many different kinds of animals, while others are very
restricted in this respect. This question of host preferences and
host restriction is also an important one both from the standpoint of
disease transmission and that of susceptibility to control. It is
apparent that a species of tick which attacks only a few kinds of
animals is likely to be more easily controlled or eradicated than a
species which will feed upon any animals which come in contact with
it. The cattle tick is a form which is restricted in the number of
hosts upon which it will feed. This fact has made its eradication
possible by regularly dipping its usual hosts, i.e., cattle, horses, and
mules, or by keeping these animals out of pastures infested with
the tick. These methods, put into effect by the Bureau of Animal
Industry in cooperation with the various States, have resulted to
date in the eradication of the tick from 651,311 square miles of terri-
tory in the United States, or about 89 percent of the area originally
infested. (See fig. 1.) Many other kinds of ticks in this region
which feed on a greater variety of animals and drop for their molts,
were not materially affected or were only temporarily reduced in
numbers by these eradication practices.

Some of the more interesting and economically significant of these
habits will be brought out under the discussion of the different
species.

FEEDING HABITS

Ticks will not develop without partaking of blood. Most ticks
attach firmly to their host while feeding, and the blood is taken up
slowly. The nymphs of the spinose ear tick, for example, may take
as long as 7 months to become engorged. The time for engorgement
of each of the different stages in most species, however, usually
ranges from 8 to 12 days. Certain species engorge with extreme
rapidity, and attachment in such cases is less firm, so that the ticks
ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

392

(‘Aajsnpuy [wuruy jo nesaing AsejJan0D) ‘EEé6Tt
JoqMeseq Ul OUTJUBAEND JOpUN SZuruyeusdl varie po}IUI] PUB YT} 9[}}vd og] JsuyEsV pourjuvienb sajB1g peu UT VoIv [VUISIIO SurMoys dey{—'T Wan

coe) 1 squad
JILLVI JO VGATI MOL UO’ INILNVUVNAD

DG 'NOLONINEWN'
Ayih 0 40 000 WOMB foo

AMLSNGNI WWWINY JO NWaUN
BYNLINDINOV JO LNAWLeyd320 SALVLS C3LINN

cd] mare vm de) wEnvI | wire loRerW PTBaTr| as

TICKS—BISHOPP 393

may let go and crawl away to avoid danger. This habit is found
among certain of the leathery-bodied ticks, such as the fowl tick and
the relapsing fever tick. These ticks usually engorge at night and
hence remain in close proximity to their hosts. In the case of the
adults of the hard-backed ticks, such as the common wood ticks, little
engorgement takes place during the first 2 or 3 days, but toward the
end of the feeding period the bodies of the females distend with
blood very rapidly. During feeding salivary secretions are injected
into the host, and in some species these are very irritating. This
secretion and the beak of the tick, which is sometimes broken off and
left in the skin when a long-beaked species is removed, are respon-
sible for the local lesions which may be inflamed and itch for weeks
or even months after the tick is gone. As the ticks of species of
Ornithodoros become distended with blood, a copious excretion of
clear fluid is thrown out by glands near the base of the legs. In
ticks infected with relapsing fever this excretion carries the disease
organisms, and the fluid entering the wound made by the beak may
be a medium of infection.

Some kinds of ticks attach to only certain parts of animals, while
others are not particularly restricted in this respect. The spinose
ear tick is a good example of the restricted attachment habit. This
tick occurs deep in the external ear. The tropical horse tick,
Dermacentor nitens Neum., has similar habits but does attach occa-
sionally in the mane and elsewhere on horses. Most ticks attach to
various parts of an animal but prefer the dewlap, shoulders and the
region between the legs.

LENGTH OF LIFE

In general ticks are relatively very long lived. The length of life
without food of the different stages of ticks is of considerable econo-
mic importance, as it must be taken into account in efforts to destroy
these pests by starvation. Many species will live for upward of 8
months shut up in pill-boxes or tubes without food or water. This
is true of the seed ticks, nympths, and adults. The greatest longevity
recorded is in the case of the adult fowl tick which we have found
to live for nearly 2144 years with no food whatever.

TICKS AND ROCKY MOUNTAIN SPOTTED FEVER

Rocky Mountain spotted fever is a very serious human disease
which is carried to man exclusively by ticks. There are probably 700
to 800 cases a year in this country, and the mortality in parts of Mon-
tana is over 70 percent. (See pl. 1.) More cases occur in Idaho
than any other State, but the virulence of the disease is much lower
there, the mortality running from only 5 to 8 percent.
394 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

As is well known, the Rocky Mountain spotted fever tick, or wood
tick of the Rocky Mountains (Dermacentor andersoni Stiles), con-
veys this disease to man in that region. For many years this disease
appeared to be limited to the northern Rocky Mountain States, the
intermountain region, and the eastern slope of the Cascades. This
distribution of the disease was less extensive than that of the trans-
mitting tick. In recent years, however, the disease has been recog-
nized in many parts of the country far beyond the limits of distribu-
tion of the Rocky Mountain spotted fever tick. Obviously, other
transmitting agencies are concerned in the region where Dermacentor
andersoni does not occur. In the east the American dog tick, Derma-
centor variabilis Say, carries the disease. This is the common wood
tick of that region. The mortality in cases in Maryland, Virginia,
and the District of Columbia exceeds 20 percent.

Dr. M. B. Maver, as early as 1911, showed that the western
strain of Rocky Mountain spotted fever could be transmitted from
diseased to healthy guinea pigs by ticks other than D. andersoni.
Her tests were positive with nymphs of the western rabbit tick,
D. parumapertus marginatus Banks, the lone star tick, Amblyomma
americanum Linn., and the American dog tick, D. variabilis, and
also with the adults of the latter. Dr. R. R. Parker has shown that
the disease may be transmitted by the rabbit tick, Haemaphysalis
leporis-palustris Pack. Positive transmission tests with species rep-
resenting such a wide range in relationships and in habits strongly
indicate that many other species may be capable vectors. Even
though these are the only carriers, their distinction and host rela-
tions provide abundant opportunity for the transfer of the disease
in every State in the country.

While no two of the species are exactly coextensive, there are
many overlappings in distribution, and in most areas two or more
suitable vectors are to be found. The relatively low percentage of
individual ticks which become infective would indicate, however, that
in many parts of the United States where ticks occur in relatively
small numbers, the disease may not become established, even though
introduced.

The bite of a single tick is sufficient to infect a person with the
malady. Fortunately, however, the ticks must feed for some time
to produce an infection. This time seems to vary from 2 to 8 hours
or even longer as shown by experiments carried out by the United
States Public Health Service.

The principal methods of preventing this disease are to avoid tick
bites by wearing clothing calculated to exclude the pests, by fre-
quent examination of the body for ticks, and by using prophylactic
TICKS—BISHOPP 395

vaccine which has been developed by the Public Health Service.
Naturally the reduction of the number of ticks will decrease the
hazard of the disease. This matter is discussed in subsequent pages
under ticks which serve as carriers.

TICKS AND SPLENETIC FEVER

One of the earliest demonstrations of the disease-transmitting role
of insects and related forms was that of tick transmission of sple-
netic fever of cattle by Drs. Theobald Smith and F. L. Kilborne, of
the Bureau of Animal Industry in 1893. This work has been of un-
told benefit to man because it pointed the way to the solution of other
disease problems.

In the United States splenetic fever is carried solely by the com-
mon cattle tick known scientifically as Boophilus annulatus Say.
The disease is caused by a microscopic single-celled organism known
as Piroplasma bigeminum. This organism enters and destroys the
red blood cells, and its multiplication is so rapid that it soon depletes
the blood of red corpuscles, and often causes the death of the infected
animal, particularly if the animal is mature. The organism is
passed from one generation of the tick to another through the egg.
This is necessary for the perpetuation of the disease because this
species of tick remains on the same animal from the time of its
attachment as a seed tick to its death as a male or its dropping as an
engorged female.

Soon after the demonstration that this disease is carried by the
cattle tick the life cycle and habits of the vector were studied inten-
sively and much attention was given to ways of destroying it, both
on account of its seriousness as a parasite and the role it played
in the transmission of splenetic fever. As a result the possibility
of eradicating the species from a given area was conceived, and
finally the widespread eradication program was begun in 1906.
That the tick will be entirely wiped out of the United States is now
the belief of all progressive stockmen. With the elimination of the
cattle tick splenetic fever vanishes, and improved livestock and
better economic conditions follow almost immediately.

ANAPLASMOSIS OF CATTLE IN RELATION TO TICKS

For many years the disease of cattle known as anaplasmosis was
confused with splenetic fever. The fact that it continued to occur
in cattle in areas where there were no cattle ticks helped to direct
attention to the fact that a malady distinct from splenetic fever
was present. This disease occurs sporadically in many parts of the
country and often takes a heavy toll among the infected herds. Its
396 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

distribution does not appear to tally exactly with that of any one
species of possible vector, but experimental work indicates that the
disease is carried by several species of ticks and probably by other
arthropods, notably flies. The investigations of Dr. Gerald Dikmans
of the Bureau of Animal Industry showed that anaplasmosis can be
carried by the cattle tick. In the case of this tick the malady is trans-
mitted through the egg to the next generation. Dr. C. W. Rees, also
of the Bureau of Animal Industry, has demonstrated the transmis-
sibility of the disease by the brown dog tick, Rhipicephalus sanguin-
eus Lat. While this is interesting scientifically, apparently it has
little practical bearing, as this tick, especially in this country, is re-
stricted very closely to the dog as a host, although it can be forced to
attach to cattle. It is markedly domestic, being closely associated
with the habitat of dogs. Rees’ subsequent demonstration that ana-
plasmosis can be conveyed by the American dog tick is more signifi-
cant, as that tick freely attacks cattle and has a rather wide distribu-
tion in nature. Rees has also shown that the disease may be con-
veyed by B. annulatus australis Fuller and by Iaodes recinus
scapularis Say.

The results thus far obtained in transmission experiments strongly
suggest that many species of ticks may be concerned in the trans-
mission of this disease and that any of those commonly attacking
cattle should be regarded with suspicion.

TICKS IN RELATION TO TULAREMIA

Tularemia or rabbit fever is widespread in this country, and it is
regarded as a serious malady. While it is most commonly contracted
by handling diseased rabbits, ticks are clearly of importance as car-
riers of it. Parker and Spencer, of the United States Public Health
Service, have established the fact that the Rocky Mountain spotted
fever tick and the common rabbit tick can transmit the disease, and
that these ticks are the chief carriers of it among rodents in the
Northwest. Parker and Green and Wade have also shown that
the disease occurs in quail and other game birds, and it may well be
the cause of the epizootics which devastate the wild bird and animal
life from time to time. Since these ticks are biological hosts for the
disease organism, Pasteurella tularense, that is, the infection acquired
in one tick stage is passed on to the next, they constitute a sure means
of perpetuating and spreading the disease among lower animals,
thus increasing the danger to man. A number of instances where
human cases have been contracted from the bite of the American dog
tick and the Pacific Coast tick (Dermacentor occidentalis Neum.)
have been found. Probably a number of other species of ticks play
a part.
TICKS—BISHOPP 397

TICK PARALYSIS

In the Western States and in western Canada a number of children
have died from a form of ascending paralysis induced by the Rocky
Mountain spotted fever tick. This same species has been proved to
be capable of causing paralysis in sheep and dogs. While this dis-
ease is not common, it is one which is worthy of consideration.

In Australia a distinct species of tick (Jvodes holocyclus Neum.)
has been found to cause a similar malady in man and sheep. In
South Africa still another tick, 7vodes pilosus Koch, causes a para-
lytic disease in sheep, and in Crete still other kinds of ticks appear
to be involved in the same way.

The nature of the causative agent of tick paralysis is not known.
Some think this disease is due to a specific organism, and others that
a toxic material is introduced by the tick during its engorgement.
The symptoms usually develop during the latter part of the period
of engorgement, at the time blood is being taken in rapidly by the
parasite. Apparently only the adult ticks cause the malady. In
many cases the symptoms subside if the tick is removed before the
paralysis has progressed too far.

OTHER TICK-BORNE DISEASES

Ticks have been convicted of carrying many other diseases of ani-
mals. Fortunately a number of these do not occur in this country.
However, it is likely that some of them such as bilary fever of dogs
and spirochaetosis of chickens are present in this country and have
not been identified. It should be pointed out that we have well
established in this country the fowl tick and the brown dog tick,
which are carriers of these respective diseases. Through rigid quar-
antine some of the dangerous diseases have been prevented from
gaining a foothold in the United States.

East Coast fever, one of the most formidable diseases of cattle in
South Africa, is carried by several distinct species of ticks. The
African disease known as heartwater of cattle, sheep, and goats is
transmitted by the so-called bont tick, Amblyomma hebracum Koch.
Fortunately the virus of this disease is not retained in the blood of
the animals after they recover.

Other diseases related to splenetic fever of cattle and spirochaeto-
sis of fowls are transmitted among horses, sheep, and goats through
the agency of ticks. In India a disease of dogs known as canine
anemia has been shown by Dr. S. R. Christophers to be carried by
the brown dog tick, in the body of which the causative organism
goes through a portion of its life cycle.

No attempt is made herein to catalog all of the diseases in the
transmission of which ticks play a part. It should be pointed out
398 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

that in the case of most tick-borne diseases the disease organism
passes a portion of its developmental stage in the body of the tick,
and hence the tick is the usual, if not the only, means by which the
disease is spread.

THE FOWL TICK

The fowl tick or blue bug, as it is popularly known, (Argas
miniatus Koch) is one of the most persistent and serious pests of
poultry in the Southwest. It is widely spread in Texas, New Mexico,
Arizona, and California, and also occurs in destructive numbers in
Florida. Although the spirochaete disease which this tick carries
is not known to be present in the United States, the tick itself is so
insidious in its attack that it is much dreaded by poultry owners.
The facts that it can live more than 2 years without food and that
it is very hard to destroy with ordinary insecticides adds to its
seriousness as a poultry pest.

This tick always provides for its next meal, keeping in close asso-
ciation with its hosts. After the first or seed tick stage it attacks
the poultry or birds at night and remains hidden in the cracks and
holes near their roosting places during the day. It attacks chickens,
turkeys, ducks, and other domestic fowls, and has been found on
vultures, quail, and certain other wild birds. Occasionally man is
bitten by it, especially when chickens are kept immediately adja-
cent to sleeping quarters.

The seed ticks immediately after hatching from the eggs are
rather active and crawl about at night to seek a host. They attach
on various parts of the body, and require from 4 to 8 days to be-
come engorged. In 4 to 10 days they molt their skins and gain
a fourth pair of legs. These nymphs, as they are called, feed
but a few hours and hide in cracks or under bark, where they
again molt. After a third or fourth engorgement they molt to adults.
The adult ticks also feed for only short periods, after each of which
the females lay from 100 to 250 eggs in the cracks in which they are
hidden. (See pl. 2, fig. 1.) Females lay 4 to 7 successive batches
of eggs, each preceded by a blood meal. The eggs hatch in 10 days
during warm weather.

The methods of combatting the pest are based on its life history.
They consist in making all fowls roost on perches which are so
arranged as to be easily examined and treated (pl. 2, fig. 2). Nests
are constructed which are readily accessible for treatment. The treat-
ment consists of painting or spraying the roosts and nests or the
entire inside of the chicken house, if it is generally infested, with
the wood preserver known as anthracene oil or with crude petroleum.
The introduction of the pests into uninfested houses can be avoided
by proper quarantine methods.
TICKS—-BISHOPP 399
THE SPINOSE EAR TICK

The spinose ear tick, known scientifically as Ornithodoros megnini
Dugés, derives its common name from the spine-covered body of the
nymphal stage (see pl. 3, fig. 1) and the fact that it attaches and
develops deep in the external ear. This species is a serious pest of
cattle and horses in the semiarid portions of the Southwest. It also
freely attacks mules, goats, sheep, hogs, dogs, cats, and even man, A
single tick attached deep in the ear will cause considerable irritation
and pain, particularly in the case of man, and when the infestations
in livestock become heavy they cause the ears to droop and a general
unhealthy condition to become manifest.

The small six-legged seed ticks are found crawling rapidly about
on fence posts, trees, and other objects, and when they are brushed
off by a passing animal they soon find their way into the folds at
the bottom of the external ear where they attach. The larvae be-
come engorged in about a week. In this stage they are peculiar-
looking pear-shaped objects, with legs scarcely visible. The molt
takes place in the ear, and the spiny nymphal stage attaches in the
same region and begins engorgement. They require from about 3
weeks to as long as 7 months to become fully engorged. They then
detach, fall to the ground, and crawl upward on fence posts or trees
where they find protected places, molt their skins, mate, and begin
laying eggs. Unlike any other tick, this species does not feed in
the adult stage, there being sufficient nourishment carried forward
from the nymphal stage, to produce its quota of about 800 eggs.
The egg-laying habit of this species is rather remarkable in that it
is very intermittent. Oviposition usually begins within 8 to 15
days after the nymphs leave the ear of the host, and small batches
of eggs may be deposited from time to time over a period of more
than six months. This perhaps is an adaptation of the tick to the
hot dry condition of the arid Southwest and doubtless helps to in-
sure the perpetuation of the species.

The best method of destroying the ticks in the ears of livestock
is by injecting into the outer ear a mixture of 2 parts of commer-
cial pine-tar oil and 1 part of cotton-seed oil. Where the ticks are
abundant in the posts of corrals and fences near the congregating
places of livestock they may be destroyed by spraying such fences
with creosote oil.

THE RELAPSING FEVER TICK
The leathery-bodied tick, known scientifically as Ornithodoros tur-
icata Duges, is related to the two preceding species. (See pl. 3, fig.

2.) It has been definitely connected with the transmission of re-
lapsing fever of man, and very likely is the most important, if not
400 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

the only species concerned in the transmission of this disease in the
United States.

It is found in great numbers in caves in the Southwest from Texas
to California and it often inhabits the holes of burrowing animals,
and not infrequently invades the habitations of man, particularly in
camps. It will undoubtedly feed upon any warm-blooded animal
or bird which may come in contact with it, but it is likely that the
ticks feed mainly upon rodents or bats.

The eggs are laid in the hiding places of the tick and hatch in about
13 days. The seed ticks, nymphs, and adults are all rather active,
and in most cases only a short time is required for engorgement on
blood. The females deposit several lots of eggs, each being preceded
by one or two meals of blood.

It is obviously impossible to treat the breeding places of this tick
with any degree of success, and since it is only occasionally found in
the habitations of man about all that can be done is to destroy rodents
near camps and other habitations. Occasionally dwellings become
heavily infested with this tick on account of the proximity of suit-
able hosts, and in such cases spraying with tick-destroying materials,
or fumigating with hydrocyanic-acid gas must be resorted to.

THE RABBIT TICK

The rabbit tick, known scientifically as Haemaphysalis leporis-
palustris, is one of the most widely distributed species in this
country. It is briefly referred to here because of its importance
as a carrier of Rocky Mountain spotted fever and tularemia among
rabbits and other animals to which it attaches. It does not attack
man and therefore would not transfer a disease directly to him.
It is not unusual to find upwards of 1,000 ticks attached to a single
rabbit. Undoubtedly the blood loss and irritation due to these
pests must have a distinctly adverse effect on the infested animals
and birds. This tick also freely attacks quail, meadow larks, and
certain other birds. In the case of birds it usually attaches on the
head and neck. On rabbits it is found mainly on the ears and about
the head. This tick drops from its host for each molt, and this gives
ample opportunity for a specimen to pick up an infection in one
animal and transfer it to another.

While the females do not lay many eggs, the maximum observed
being only shghtly over 2,000, all of the stages are relatively long-
lived, and the fact that they will engorge upon so many different
animals and birds maintains the species in goodly numbers.

Control of the rabbit tick appears impractical on account of its
wide distribution and the fact that it feeds exclusively on wild birds
and on rabbits.
TICKS—BISHOPP 401

THE LONE STAR TICK

The lone star tick, Amblyomma americanum, derives its common
name from the single white spot which appears in the center of the
back on the female (pl. 4, fig. 1). This tick is widely distributed
in the United States and extends its range into South America. It
freely attacks man and various wild and domestic animals. Al-
though it has not been proved to carry any specific disease, its long
mouthparts and the fact that it occurs in great numbers in certain
areas make it a troublesome pest. Suppuration often follows the
bite of this species and, in the case of man, it is not infrequent that
the mouthparts are pulled off when an effort is made to remove the
tick. This frequently leaves an inflamed and itching spot which
may persist for weeks or even months. In Texas the species often
becomes very troublesome on goats. Dairy cattle are also seriously
affected and the milkers are constantly annoyed, particularly by the
males, which crawl off the cattle and attack them. Reports have
come to the Bureau of Entomology of serious losses among chickens
and turkeys from the attack of the immature stages of this species.

The lone star tick drops from the host for each of its molts, and
the seed ticks, nymphs, and adults are all long-lived. The seed ticks
have been observed to live more than 9 months, the nymphs more
than 16 months, and the adults 18 months. Females deposit from
5,000 to more than 8,000 eggs.

THE WINTER TICK

The species known as the winter tick, or elk tick, Dermacentor
albipictus Pack., is an important pest of horses, cattle, elk, moose,
and deer in many parts of the United States. Recently Drs. Cahn,
Wallace, and Thomas carried on experiments which indicated that
this tick is responsible for the death of moose in the North Central
States, probably through its ability to transmit a specific disease
of those animals. In recent years this tick seems to have become
more abundant in the Southwest, and is now a troublesome pest of
horses and cattle on the ranges in western Texas and New Mexico.

One of the peculiarities of the species is the fact that it is never
found on animals during the summer months. The seed ticks at-
tach to their hosts in the fall or in warm periods during the winter
and spring. They remain on the animal for each of their molts.
The seed ticks refuse to attach to an animal during warm weather
but remain more or less dormant in dense clusters until the cool
weather of fall when they will readily attach to passing animals.

The fact that this tick develops often in tremendous numbers on
elk and moose, and the further fact that it feeds only during the
winter time when dipping is difficult, makes control a real problem.
402 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

Undoubtedly the pest can be greatly reduced in numbers by dipping
infested domestic animals during warm periods at intervals not to
exceed one month. Proper pasture rotation will no doubt also tend
to reduce its abundance.

THE AMERICAN DOG TICK OR EASTERN ROCKY MOUNTAIN SPOTTED
FEVER TICK

In recent years the American dog tick, Dermacentor variabilis,
has earned the sobriquet of the Eastern Rocky Mountain spotted
fever tick. Until this tick was definitely connected with the trans-
mission of this dread disease of man in the East the species was
generally regarded as of little economic importance, although at
times it becomes quite troublesome as a parasite of dogs, horses, and
cattle.

It is widely distributed over the eastern two-thirds of the United
States and also occurs in California. In distribution, therefore, it
almost occupies the portions of the United States not covered by the
Rocky Mountain spotted fever tick. It is especially abundant along
the coast from Cape Cod to extreme southern Texas.

It has been found to pass the winter succesfully in the seed tick,
nymph, and adult stages. It is very little affected by low tempera-
tures and the immature stages may become attached to animals dur-
ing mild periods in midwinter at the latitude of Washington. In
the spring all the stages of the tick become active and the adults are
prone to attack the larger domestic animals and man, although they
clearly prefer the dog and its relatives as hosts. The various stages
are shown in the accompanying plate (pl. 4, fig. 2, to pl. 7, fig. 1).
The ticks drop off the host for each molt. The seed tick and
nymphs are found on various small wild animals but appear to pre-
fer meadow mice, pine mice, and white-footed mice. (See pl. 7,
fig. 2.) These little animals are very abundant in the wooded
country and doubtless the young ticks have little difficulty in finding
a host upon which to engorge. It is not unusual for the females to
lay from 5,000 to 7,000 eggs, and all of the stages are very tenacious
of life. It has been found that the seed ticks, for instance, live at
least as long as 12 months, the nymphs 12 months, and the adults 14
months.

The fact that the species feeds upon a number of different animals
gives abundant opportunity for them to pick up the organism of
Rocky Mountain spotted fever from any susceptible host. This
generalized feeding habit also makes control very difficult. The
number of the ticks can be distinctly reduced in a given area by
dipping infested dogs and other livestock in a suitable tick-destroying
material or, in the case of pet dogs, by systematically picking the
TICKS—BISHOPP 403

ticks from the animals to prevent the dropping of any of the
engorged females. In removing ticks from dogs it should be borne in
mind that there is danger of becoming infected even through the
unbroken skin by crushing the ticks in the process of removing them.
Therefore, it is advised that the ticks be picked off with forceps and
that the hands be thoroughly washed after the operation.

It is advised that tick bites be avoided as much as possible by
wearing clothing calculated to keep the ticks off. High-topped
shoes laced over army-type trousers help to exclude them. Too much
dependence, however, should not be placed upon the exclusion of the
ticks, and the body should be thoroughly examined at frequent inter-
vals when a person is working or walking in tick-infested areas.
Special attention should be given to the examination of the scalp as
the ticks seem to prefer such a location for attachment.

This tick is especially abundant in wooded areas which are heavily
grown up with vines and underbrush. This condition not only gives
the ticks protection but it also protects the small wild rodents upon
which the young ticks feed. This at once suggests the desirability
of cleaning out undergrowth and destroying small wild rodents in
the vicinity of habitations and camps. In areas where hawks, owls,
and other predatory birds abound all that is necessary is to remove
the brush cover and thus expose the mice and other rodents to the
attack of these birds. Fortunately this disease carrier does not
appear to feed to any great extent upon the game birds and animals.

THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN SPOTTED FEVER TICK

In the Rocky Mountains and the intermountain area wood ticks
are very abundant. This species has been given the name Rocky
Mountain spotted fever tick because it is the principal carrier of
this terrible disease of man in that region. This species (Derma-
centor andersont) is related to the American dog tick. In general
appearance it is not unlike the American dog tick, the body color
being a rich reddish-brown and the back of the male tick being deco-
rated with a network of lines. (See pl. 8, fig. 1.)

In addition to its importance as a carrier of Rocky Mountain
spotted fever, this tick, as has been indicated, also produces tick
paralysis in man and domestic animals and acts as a transmitting
agent of tularemia. Furthermore, it is a serious pest of livestock.
Its bites are a source of considerable annoyance to people and not
infrequently produce rather serious local lesions.

The habits of this tick are very similar to those of the American
dog tick. It has been found to feed in its various stages on a large
variety of animals, the most important hosts of the immature stages

72774—35——2T
404 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

being the mice, ground squirrels, and pine squirrels, while the adults
feed mainly upon the larger wild and domestic animals.

Winter is spent in the nymphal or adult stages. The adults appear
very early in the spring, often while snow is yet on the ground, and
they decline very markedly in numbers during midsummer, relatively
few of them being abroad after the 1st of August. The seed ticks
usually do not live more than 2 months, but often nymphs survive
for nearly a year and apparently the adults often live for more than
a year and ahalf. The entire life cycle usually requires from 2 to 3
years.

The habits of the ticks make their control very difficult. A num-
ber of years ago the Bureau of Entomology and the Public
Health Service in cooperation with the Montana Board of En-
tomology attempted to control this pest in the Bitter Root Valley of
Montana where spotted fever was extremely virulent. The control
efforts were directed against the ground squirrel and other small wild
animal hosts, and special attention was given to the systematic
dipping of the horses, cattle, and dogs during the spring months for
the purpose of destroying the adult ticks. While the tick popula-
tion was undoubtedly decreased by these procedures it did not elimi-
nate the ticks from any given area. In addition to these control
steps it is important to avoid being bitten by these ticks, and par-
ticularly not to allow ticks to remain attached more than a few
hours at most. As has been pointed out short periods of feeding are
not likely to induce the disease.

The Montana Board of Entomology, and subsequently the United
States Public Health Service, have done considerable work with the
propagation and liberation of a minute wasplike insect which attacks
and destroys the nymphal stage of certain ticks. While the results
thus far have not been especially encouraging, the importance of
this tick as a transmitter of disease would seem to warrant the taking
of any steps likely to reduce the number of ticks in a given locality.

THE BROWN DOG TICK

For a number of years many of the dogs in certain parts of Texas
and Florida have been greatly annoyed by the attacks of the brown
dog tick, Rhipicephalus sanguineus. More recently this tick has
been spread, largely through the movement of dogs, from infested
areas into many parts of the United States. While normally it
thrives only in the tropics and sub-tropics, it has been found that
where introduced into northern latitudes on dogs which are kept
more or less constantly indoors the tick will live and multiply at
least for a time in any part of the United States. The species is
not only an annoying pest of dogs but is also a troublesome house-
TICKS—BISHOPP 4AQ5

hold pest. Where dogs are allowed indoors the ticks drop off and
crawl upward, hiding in the curtains, around the window casings.
and in protected places about the cornices, behind pictures, ete.
It is seldom found attached to any other animal than the dog. It
drops off the host for each of its molts. Eradication of the tick
from a premises, particularly in the warmer parts of the country,
is not an easy matter. It requires constant vigilance and persistent
effort. The dogs must be treated systematically with derris powder
or some other tick-destroying material at least every 5 or 6 days to
prevent the ticks from becoming engorged and escaping. The free
use of one of the standard fly sprays which consist largely of kero-
sene extract of pyrethrum will do much to reduce the number of
ticks in living quarters. Infested out-buildings and kennels are best
treated by spraying them with creosote oil.

THE CATTLE FEVER TICK

The losses in this country caused by the cattle fever tick have
been variously estimated at from $40,000,000 to $100,000,000 annu-
ally. These losses come about in a number of different ways, the
more important of which are the death loss and stunting effect of
the disease itself, the reduction of milk flow, and general condition
of cattle due to blood loss and irritation, the inability to bring
in well-bred animals from areas where the disease does not occur,
and the adverse effects of the disease on the industry due to the in-
ability to move cattle to markets and to feeding areas outside the
quarantine line.

The original area normally infested by these cattle fever ticks
covered practically the entire southern United States and a consider-
able portion of California. But asa result of eradication efforts this
area has now been reduced to a relatively small number of counties
in Florida and portions of Louisiana and Texas.

This species is primarily a pest of cattle but it also attacks horses
and mules and is occasionally found on deer and a few other animals.
It remains on a single host for each of its molts, the developmental
period requiring from 20 to 60 days. (See pl. 8, fig. 2, and pl. 9,
fig. 1.) The females usually begin laying eggs in 2 or 3 days after
they drop off the host. These hatch in about 20 days into seed ticks,
which crawl on the grass or shrubbery and await the passing of a
suitable host.

In hot dry weather the seed ticks may perish in a month, but in
cooler and more favorable weather they have been known to live as
long as 246 days.

By studying the habits of this tick it has been found possible to
destroy it either by systematic dipping of all infested animals at
406 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

intervals of 2 to 8 weeks or by removing the normal hosts of the ticks
from the pastures for a sufficient length of time for the seed ticks to
hatch from the eggs and die of starvation. (See pl. 9, fig. 2.) The
eradication of this tick from 650,000 square miles of the area origi-
nally infested is a monumental accomplishment. The success of this
program carried out by the Bureau of Animal Industry, in coopera-
tion with the various States concerned, has been dependant upon the
rigid enforcement of quarantines, the education of the people to the
benefits to be derived from the elimination of the pest, and a sus-
tained drive from many quarters which has not abated since the
eradication program was initiated in 1906.
Smithsonian Report, 1933.—Bishopp PLATE 1

TYPICAL VALLEY IN MONTANA WHERE ROCKY MOUNTAIN SPOTTED FEVER OCCURS
AND THE TICK WHICH CARRIES IT ABOUNDS.
Smithsonian Report, 1933.—Bishopp PLATE 2

1. FOWL TICK AND EGGS.

Note the flattened body which enables the tick to hide in cracks.

2. APPLYING ANTHRACENE OIL TO DEMOUNTABLE ROOST TO CONTROL THE
FOWL TICK.
Smithsonian Report, 1933.—Bishopp PLATE, 3

1. NYMPH OF THE SPINOSE EAR TICK.

Note the spines especially on the forward end

2. THE RELAPSING FEVER TICK, MALE,
Smithsonian Report. 1933.—Bishopp PLATE 4

1. LONE STAR TICK, FEMALE ABOVE, MALE BELOW.

Note the white spot on the female which gives the tick its common name.

2. SEED TICKS OR LARVAE OF THE AMERICAN DOG TICK.
(Much enlarged.)
Smithsonian Report, 1933.—Bishopp

tT

UNENGORGED NYMPH OF THE AMERICAN DOG TICK.

(Much enlarged. )

2. MALE OF THE AMERICAN DOG TICK.

(Much enlarged.)

PLATE

5
Smithsonian Report, 1933.—Bishopp PLATE 6

1. UNENGORGED FEMALE OF THE AMERICAN DOG TICK.
(Much enlarged.)

2. ENGORGED FEMALE OF THE AMERICAN DOG TICK.
(Much enlarged.)
Smithsonian Report, 1933.—Bishopp PLATE 7

1. FEMALE OF THE AMERICAN DOG TICK, WITH MASS OF EGGS.

The tick dies after depositing a single mass like this. (Much enlarged.)

2. PINE MOUSE WITH A NUMBER OF ENGORGED NYMPHS OF THE AMERICAN DOG
TICK ATTACHED.
Smithsonian Report, 1933.—Bishopp PLATE 8 |

1. THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN SPOTTED FEVER TICK, UNFED FEMALE ON LEFT, MALE
ON RIGHT.

(Much enlarged.)

2. THE CATTLE FEVER TICK, UNENGORGED FEMALE ABOVE, ENGORGED NYMPH
LOWER LEFT, AND MALE LOWER RIGHT.

(Magnified about 8 diameters.)
Smithsonian Report, 1933.—Lishopp

UNDERSIDE OF A MALE OF THE CATTLE FEVER TICK

Macnified about 16 diameters

2. COW ENTERING A DIPPING VAT CHARGED WITH ARSENICAL SOLUTION FOR THE
PURPOSE OF DESTROYING THE CATTLE TICK
- eA
vs ow
i)

. s. poe
>

: @ 1 es eae oe oe
7 ; : ng Ny el Oy Se ORL 2 ie
_ —
er

oP vo

|
:
THE FOREHEAD’

By ALES HrpDLicKa
Curator, Division of Physical Anthropology, United States National Musewm

One of the chief features of man in esthetics, in the popular mind
and popular literature, in art, and in the mistaken old doctrines of the
“ phrenologists” and “ physiognomists ”, the forehead has received
unexplainably little attention in science, save as to an occasional
descriptive characterization.

In anthropometry, outside of my own work, the only measure-
ments taken on the forehead, and they but occasionally, were those
of the minimum frontal diameter and those relating to frontal bulg-
ing or slope. The sloping forehead, regarded generally as a sign
of inferiority, received especial attention, though mostly only de-
scriptively. The most important dimension of the forehead, its
height, was almost totally neglected. The only data on its measure-
ment are those of the artists and are embodied in a few of the artists’
“ canons.”

The oldest of these canons or artists’ standards in which the height
of the forehead is dealt with is that of Jean Cousin and dates from
the latter half of the sixteenth century.” In this the height of the
forehead, between the eyebrows and the hair line, is given as equal
to the length of the nose, which equaled one thirty-second of the
stature. This canon, modified somewhat by Blanc, became the last-
ing standard of French artists.* In this eventual form it stipulated
that the forehead, from hair line to the root of the nose, was equal
to one nose length, which in turn equaled one-thirtieth, or 3.33 per-
cent, of the stature.

The reasons why workers in anthropology failed to measure the
height of the forehead was the uncertainty of the landmarks.
Whether one should choose the line of the eyebrows or the root of
the nose for the lower limit, the point was more or less indefinite,
and the same appeared to be true of the upper limit, which was con-
siderably affected by the variation in hair insertion, and in whites
by the early loss of hair in that region in many male individuals.

1Reprinted by permission from Proceedings American Philosophical Society, vol. 72,
no. 5, 1938.

2 Livre de Pourctraiture, Paris, 1571.
®Topinard, P., Eléments d’Anthropologie gén., Paris, 1885.

407
408 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

My own interest in the measurement began almost with the com-
mencement of my anthropometric work, in the middle nineties of
the last century. Feeling the value of this determination I en-
deavored so to regulate the landmarks that they could always be
followed with the least possible difficulty. The precision of the
upper landmark was fairly easy. It was seen that in the majority
of people the hair line over the forehead formed a fair arch on
which it was easy to mark the point needed and which corresponded
to the meeting of this arch and the central vertical line of the front.
In numerous individuals, however, particularly males, the hair in
the median line extends more or less downward in the form of an
angle; where this exists it is disregarded, the hair arch being com-
pleted above it and the median point marked on it as usual. As to
the lower landmark, I tried simultaneously both the interbrow point
and nasion, which led to the final adoption of the nasion. Here a
considerable uncertainty was met with and had to be overcome.
There are many living of both sexes in whom the nasion can be
detected certainly neither by sight nor by touch. The only way to
determine its location with sufficient accuracy was found to be a
thorough acquaintance with it in skulls, and through extended direct
comparison of the skulls with the living. In that manner alone can
proficiency be gained and a generally reliable measurement be as-
sured. Even then there will doubtless be occasional errors, but
these will not be large and will tend to compensate each other in the
larger series.

It was on this basis that measurements of the height of the fore-
head have been carried on in all my anthropometric work since 1898.
The procedure was and is to determine carefully and mark the hair-
line point as well as the nasion, and then to measure with the head
calipers from the lowest point of the chin the two heights of the
face (menton-nasion, menton-crinion) ; the difference between these
gives the height of the forehead. When the observer is well expe-
rienced, after years of effort, he may do away with the marking,
but this is safer and to those with less experience indispensable.
Under such conditions the results of the measurements on adequate
series of subjects are quite reliable.

My accumulated data on height of forehead extend now to many
groups of the Indians, to some Egyptians,* to old American and a
number of groups of the Old World whites,> some Negroes * and the
Alaskan Eskimo.? The most recent series of whites is a highly inter-
esting and representative group of prominent brain workers, mem-

4The natives of Kharga Oasis, Egypt. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 59, 1912.

'The Old Americans. Baltimore, 1925.

®The full-blood American Negro. Amer. Journ. Phys. Anthrop., vol. 12, pp. 15-33, 1928.
7 Unpublished.
THE FOREHEAD—HRDLICKA 409

bers of the National Academy of Sciences. The subject is thus so
advanced that it justifies a summing up and a presentation of the
results.

The data at hand are to be considered in relation to three chief
problems. The first of these is that of the correlation of the height
of forehead with intellectuality; the second is that of racial differ-
ences; and the third that of differences in the two sexes.

FOREHEAD AND INTELLECTUALITY

Thanks to the measurements taken recently on the members of
the National Academy, men who unquestionably represent the intel-
lectual leaders in their lines, it is now possible to get some fairly
definite light on the mooted question of the relation of the height
of the forehead to brain superiority.

There are four excellent groups for comparison. The first is
the standard group of old Americans,’ comprising normal men in
all walks of life. The second is that of the old American high-
landers of northeastern Tennessee—one of the most belated groups
educationally and otherwise in this country. The third group
comprises old American members of the National Academy,
and the fourth takes in members of the Academy regardless of
derivation.®

The data on these four groups follow:

Height of forehead, males

Centimeters

HO Old Americans at large: 2 a Se eae 6. 59
118 Old Americans: Tennessee Highlands______-_--------------------- 6. 57
; 25 Old Americans, members of the National Academy ----------------- 6. 57
32 Members National Academy, irrespective of nationality ___---------- 6. 58

If the height of the forehead is any index whatever of brain ac-
tivity and grade, some material difference should certainly appear
in the dimension between the mountaineers and the members of the
Academy; but there is no such difference. Instead, the two groups,
so far apart in mental differentiation, have foreheads of the identical
mean height. And this is true of all the four groups under consider-
ation. The agreement is in fact most astonishing and beyond nor-
mal expectation with a measurement of such a nature. Yet it is no
accident, for the proportions hold steady when tested on fair subdi-
visions of the groups.

There are few if any occasions when anthropology could dispose
of data of such a very desirable nature. Groups were studied of

8 At least 3 generations American-born on both sides of the family.

®As many of the members of the Academy are advanced in years, the numbers of

those in whom no hair had been lost over the forehead is not large. There were 118,
actually, in whom the height of the forehead could not be secured for this reason.
410  #$ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

much the same derivation, much the same mean stature, but from
the extremes of mental training, work, and achievement, and to a
large extent also from the extremes of environment and _ habits.
Yet no difference in the height of the forehead is found—nor, it
may be said at once, in any of its other essential characters. This
permits but one possible conclusion, which is that the lowness or
height of the forehead, in normal human beings, does not express
or have any relation to the kind of brain it helps to harbor. This
will be further confirmed in what follows.

FOREHEAD AND RACE

Equally remarkable and unexpected conditions as those shown in
the preceding section appear from the study of the forehead height
in different races. The next table shows the dimensions in four
important human groups.

Height of forehead, males

Centi- | Relation

No. Group to stature
meters (S=1,000)

O10] HOldeAmericans:atilange i. ses en see si = eee he eer i ME at rate oee eE 6. 59 37.8
239); |AmericanIndianss= 20a Pak eit SRO: Raa Ree Ee eR a ee 6. 62 39.7
19 | Fullblood young to middle-aged American Negroes________-___---_-_--_____-__- 6.98 41.4

18) Alaskan Eskimos) (kuskokwim' repion) Gsesesse ee ee ea 7.16 44,2

All the measurements in the above series were made by myself,
by the same method and with one and the same set of accurate
instruments. Should there be any bias, it would affect similarly
all the groups, for their measurements interdigitated in time; but
the procedure is based too rationally to permit of much bias in any
direction. If the facts are contrary to the anticipation, they are
none the less realities. They do away completely with the idea that
high forehead, in general, indicates a high intellectuality, or that
it is a mark of racial superiority.

In both the absolute height of the forehead and its relative value
to stature, the white old Americans at large—certainly one of the
best of stocks in every way—stand not at or even near the head but
at the foot of the four groups. They are surpassed in height of
forehead by the Indian, still more so by the Negro, and most by the
Eskimo. In the absolute measurements the differences in males in
favor of the Indian are only one-half of 1 percent, but in favor of the
Negro they amount to nearly 6, in favor of the Eskimo nearly 9
percent; and the last column of the table shows that these differ-
ences are even more marked in the relative height of the forehead
to stature.
THE FOREHEAD—HRDLICKA 411

It is regrettable that there are no comparable data on the Asiatic
yellow-browns, on the Negrillo and Negrito, and on the Australian.

HEIGHT OF FOREHEAD IN DIFFERENT BRANCHES OF THE WHITE
PEOPLE

Thanks to the measurements taken since 1910 under my direction
by medical members of the United States Health Service at Ellis
Island, there are now available data on 14 nationalities of male
white immigrants. These data include the height of the forehead,
and the means of these, on the whole, are remarkably uniform, as
well as closely related to those obtained by myself on the old Ameri-
cans; yet there are also interesting differences. The absolute meas-
urement, and its per mille relation to stature, follows:

Height of forehead in Old Americans and in immigrants

. | 4
Aeolitannoasnrenisnts Centi- | Height of forehead relatively to stature | Centi-

meters (S =1,000) meters
TATIONS (20) ere ass Se TER 6:0) |RArimenians:=-- 2s. eee ee ee 35.9
Tae S50) ee es ee ee ee er Gre.) (Bnplishie® 2-222. 2 eee cee ee 37.3
French (64)_-----_-_- a eee to eee Godda RUSSIAS) 22" 2-2-2202 222 ee AF Na 37.4
RETISSIATIS (50) eos 5 eee eens cee eee ae es Se Gncoh | ErOmnCGh] = 2. 64222 aa 37.4
PETS CLO) sean rene ee a 6.35 i - 37.8
Greeks (50) ----------- an 6.4 37.9
Rumanians (50) - - -- Z 6.5 37.9
Croatians (50) -- -_-- 6.5 38.0
RONGSi (0) oo ee ee eee 6.5 38. 2
Northern Italians (50) ....-...-----.-----.---- 6.5 38.3
Russian Jews (50)--------- OE Be se ie 6. 55 38. 4
southern Italians (50)-222-. == eee 6. 55 38.5
GPeriians (05) 2s esa see ee ee (o}atofVAG Ie Big (o) 01 eee ee ro ee Oe eee Eee CE 39. 3
Old a (510) POSES PORE Ce ea ere 6.6 RUSSIAN OW Sao a ee ee 39.7
1 Os] 0 at  )) Sn Se eee a a er cae 6.7 | ‘Southern Ttalians.=_.- 5-22-5225 222 40.1

The lowest forehead, and that both absolutely as well as relatively
to stature, is shown by our group of Armenians, and the differences
are large enough to be significant. ‘The Armenian unit possesses also
the smallest head of the 14 immigrant groups,'® but their forehead
is low even in relation to the smaller head. This may be an accidental
showing. ‘The Armenians are renowned as the shrewdest tradesmen
of the Near East. If their forehead is low it must be, it would seem,
of the nature of a localized racial character.

The next poorest showing is that of the Hungarians, but this is
rather close to that of other white groups.

At the top of the series of forehead heights stand in absolute
measurement the Irish and the Old Americans; relatively to stature,
the short Russian Jews and the Southern Italians. There is a
suggestion in this that the present lowered stature of these two
groups is a secondary acquisition; the slight old Negro admixture in
both the Southern Italians and the Jews could hardly alone account

10 See my Old Americans, p. 235.
412 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

for the conditions. In the Old Americans, owing to their high
stature, the height of forehead-stature relation is below the general
medium. ‘The position of the Irish, of whom only 32 had been
measured, may be somewhat accidental.

While the data on these immigrant series cannot be regarded as
perfectly representative of the different nationalities, owing to the
limited numbers of subjects, with the wholly accidental selection of
these and hence perhaps biased composition, nevertheless it is plain
that barring one real and a few possible exceptions, the groups
reflect a substantial racial similarity.

HHIGHT OF FOREHEAD IN THE TWO SEXES

The height of the forehead, it was seen above, presents unexpected
and interesting similarities as well as differences both socially and
racially; the data to follow demonstrate that it also shows interesting
conditions in the two sexes:

Relation of absolute height of forehead of females to that of males (males = 100)

Percent
OldTAMETI Can syle ee ee SE A ee eee ee ne se ee 97.9
American dnGians 2! Sess eS ee ee ee 92.3
FATNETICAT SINC LT OCS eae sie ae are a ne ene ee 99.1

Height of forehead in the two sexes relative to stature

Grou: Males Females |Females: Males

Pp (per mille) | (per mille) | (males=100)
Old aqaer loan Soe Bee e et we Jone oe oe Be ed Se 37.8 38.0 100. 6
Giansss2 2 See. Eh Pee as Se ee a eee 39.7 39.5 99.6
N Seroes eS See 2 Bes Se Ee ee ae ME Se eee ON ER ee ote 41.4 43.8 105.8

The main result that appears from these figures is that the relation
of the height of the forehead in the two sexes shows distinct differ-
ences in the three main American races. There are not many fea-
tures of the human body that could show such irregularities.

The forehead of a white woman may be taken as a standard. Its
absolute height is 2.1 percent lower than that of the male, but when
compared to the stature (and also the size of the head—see my “ Old
Americans”) it actually makes a better showing than that of the
male.

The forehead of the Indian woman absolutely, as well as relatively
to stature (and size of the head), is decidedly lower than that of the
white woman. This lowness of the hair-free part of the front in
the Indian female is in some instances very striking. It is not due
generally, it may be said at once, to a low vault of the skull, but, to
a low extension of the hair.
THE FOREHEAD—HRDLICKA 413

In the American Negro the female forehead in absolute height is
even nearer that of the male than in the whites, and exceeds con-
siderably that of the male relatively to stature. The small number
of available Negro subjects makes definite conclusions impossible,
but the indications are very manifest.

INDIVIDUAL DIFFERENCES

The height of the forehead in each group examined was found
to show extensive individual variation. The range of this is shown
in the figures below. It exceeds considerably that of facial height
and all other facial and head measurements, except ear length. As
with most other dimensions, it is appreciably greater in the male
than in the female. Racially, though the figures are affected by the
unequal and in one or perhaps two cases by inadequate numbers of
subjects, it is evidently greatest in the American Indian.

CAUSES

The data given in this paper show definitely that, in general, the
height of the forehead is unaffected by mental development, but is
subject not only to large individual but also to substantial racial
and sex differences.

Range of individual variation in height of forehead

| Extent of
Grou Range of | Difference | Mean variation
P variation (d) (m) _4X100 )
m
MALES
Old Americans (510) _--- 5.1 to 8.3 oe 6. 58 48.6
American Indians (1,091) 4.0 to 8.4 4.4 6. 64 52.4
Eskimo (182)_-...--____- 5.3 to 8.6 3.3 7.16 46.1
American Negroes (20).....-.-----.....---.-.-.-------- 5.2 to 8.1 2.9 6. 98 41.6
FEMALES
Old;Americans' (207) <2. 2202.2 S ee eet §.2 to 7.8 2:6 6. 45 40.8
American Indians (453)__..-.--..-.-.-.---.------------ 4.7 to 7.8 3.1 6.11 60.7
WSkimowes 2-3-2. 355s cess eeeS. ce ae eee || oe ie Sl aac oats eae | epee ee ee
PTTIOE I CANIN ORT OCS ae cane ae ee | eee ee ee eee |e eee

Both the race and the sex differences are of a peculiar nature.
The race differences, except perhaps in the Negro, show but little
taxonomic (classificatory) value. They are apparently largely in-
cidental. The sex differences are not harmonious in the different
groups, which is exceptional. In the white and the Negro they
favor the females; in the American Indian’? the condition is re-
versed.

11 See my old Americans, pp. 393-394.
@Ag well as in the Eskimo, according to my impression,
414 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

All this naturally stimulates the inquiry into the causes of these
phenomena. And the first direction of the inquiry turns to the
skull. Is not a low or high forehead conditioned by low or high
frontal part of the skull? Observation shows that exceptionally low
or high front is to some extent attended by low or high forehead
in the living; but if such extremes are eliminated it soon becomes
manifest that there is but little correlation between the two. What
differs is not so much the height of the bony front as the extension
downward of the hairline. The variation in the height of the fore-
head in the living is essentially a variation in the height of the
hairline, regardless largely of the underlying skull.

What causes the variation in the normal hairline can only be de-
termined by further research. It is certain that low or again high
foreheads “ run in families.” And itis plausible to accept that under
the influences of segregation, isolation, and perhaps some form of
conscious or unconscious selection, lower or again higher foreheads
may become generalized in a locality or in a racial group. The case
of the Indians suggests that an important part may have been
played by sexual selection.

In addition, some causes of different lowness or height of hair
insertion over the forehead may possibly lie in the hair system itself,
with its blood supply and innervation; but it would be difficult to
state precisely any definite factors in this connection.
THE HISTORICAL SIGNIFICANCE OF TEPE
GAWRA

By E. A. SPEISER
University of Pennsylvania

[With 6 plates]
I

As recently as the year 1927 the name Tepe Gawra meant nothing
at all to the archeological world. Tf it had appeared in print, Near
Eastern specialists would promptly have recognized in it a designa-
tion of some ancient mound. To many of them the term fepe, instead
of the Arabic ¢el/1, would have conveyed the indication that the
mound in question must be sought in Turkish, Kurdish, or Persian
territory. Not a few might have given gawra its correct equivalent
of “ great.” But all this is purely hypothetical. The “ Great Mound ”
had not been mentioned by name in the scientific literature devoted
to ancient remains.2 Though its location was occasionally noted,
for an artificial hill rising to a height of more than 70 feet is not
easily overlooked, the site remained anonymous even on the most
elaborate survey maps. Only in a few neighboring villages, to the
north of the Mesopotamian city of Mosul (fig. 1), did the name
stand for a definite Jandmark. In the city itself, barely 15 miles
away, the mound is still called after one Ali Beg, a former owner
of the district. The nominal “ greatness” of Tepe Gawra was thus
a matter of strictly local terminology.

Now within the brief space of 7 years the situation has undergone
a startling change. Today Gawra is one of the most frequently
mentioned sites in Iraq. References to this place are to be found not
only in the publications of Mesopotamian archeologists, but also
in general works on the ancient civilizations of the Near East.** Such
a rapid rise to prominence from all but complete obscurity cannot

1In reality, the word tell occurs in the Old Testament, and it goes back to Akkadian

(Assyrian) tillw “ruin.”
2The irrepressible Layard opened some trenches at Gawra three-quarters of a century

ago in search of Assyrian sculptures, which of course were not there. Sut he does not
mention the mound by name. See his Discoveries in the Ruins of Nineveh and Babylon,
p. 1382, 1853.

2a See now Childe, New Light on the Most Ancient East, pp. 260-268, 1934.
415
416 |§ ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

have occurred without adequate reasons. It must be that the story
buried in the long-forgotten mound has proved to be, upon being
pieced together from the various remains recovered, of far more
than local significance. To trace that story in terms of the successive
civilizations preserved in the stratified deposits of Gawra is the pur-
pose of the present paper. Only the principal features can be touched
upon in a general account of this nature, the full details being re-

44 acnte
FicuRE 1.—Map of Mesopotamia.

served for a more technical study. But before we are ready for the
presentation, it will be in order to explain how the mound came to
be dug at all.

Various factors may lead to the excavation of a given site. In
the early stages of Mesopotamian exploration attention centered
on the largest ruins as the most likely sources of sculptural material.
Nineveh, Dur-Sharrukin (Khorsabad), and Calah (Nimrud), all
of them former seats of Assyrian royalty, have their size to blame
TEPE GAWRA—SPEISER 417

for attracting the spade of the excavator; and the British Museum
and the Louvre owe to the same circumstance some of their finest
collections. Historical prominence has also been instrumental in
equipping many an expedition. Once a site has been identified as
that of Babylon or of Ur, there is no lack of bids for excavating
permits; connection with the Bible is in such cases a very powerful
incentive. Other centers come to be uncovered through sheer acci-
dent. The peasant’s plough accidentally striking a buried vessel
may lead to the most important discovery of a decade; the great
finds at Ras Shamra, in northern Syria, which include epics in pre-
biblical Canaanite written in a new form of alphabetic script, are
due to precisely such a strike on the part of an unsuspecting peasant.
In short, expeditions are attracted in the main to sites that have
proved or promise to be productive of museum objects or of inscrip-
tional material. The cost of a modern excavation is considerable,
and reasonable assurance of material results is therefore a not un-
natural prerequisite.

Gawra, however, could never have been started on that basis.
Judging by the above standards, the first examination was discour-
aging. Intrinsically valuable finds were unlikely and only inveterate
optimism could have encouraged an expectation of written records.
But the mound proved fascinating, nevertheless, for a number of
different reasons, and it may not be amiss to give these briefly.
I shall lead up to the subject by stating the occasion which was to
culminate in the excavation of the site.

In the year 1926 the American School of Oriental Research in
Baghdad, cooperating with the Dropsie College of Philadelphia,
undertook an archeological survey of northern Iraq. I had the
privilege of being given the assignment. The task carried me from
the Persian border in the east to the western slopes of the Sinjar
hills which cross the Iraq-Syrian border. In the course of this
surveying tour surface examinations were made of several hundred
mounds, many of which turned out to belong to the prehistoric
period. Conclusive evidence in each case was the presence of a
characteristic type of painted pottery accompanied by implements
and weapons of obsidian and flint. The discovery of a continuous
belt of archaic sites (isolated mounds of that type had been found
several years earlier) was particularly noteworthy in view of the
fact that the relative antiquity of Mesopotamian civilizations was
still very much a matter of dispute. It became thus manifest that
the Chalcolithic age—i.e., the period of transition from Late Stone
to Early Copper—was well represented on the eastern and northern
fringes of Mesopotamia. But what was the length of that Chalco-
418 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

lithic period? The question could be answered only after a brief
dig on some chosen site.

Gawra was visited during one of the concluding stages of the
survey (pl.1). The tall conical mound outlined against the foothills
of southern Kurdistan was bound to impress at the end of a weari-
some Iraqian afternoon. Yet the appeal was not purely esthetic.
My somewhat perfunctory interest gave way to astonishment when
it became apparent that here was beyond any doubt the oldest site
that the country had yet presented. ‘Tell-tale painted sherds and
archaic implements covered the slopes of the lofty mound practically
all the way to the top. If the upper strata contained Chalcolithic
deposits, what date was to be assigned to the lowest layers?

One other factor helped to make fascinating the strictly archeo-
logical prospects of Tepe Gawra. A long series of prehistoric strata
lay here above ground. Their excavation would entail therefore no
serious technical difficulties, particularly since the hill was narrow
and hence suitable for the removal of complete layers. A wide tell
calls for digging in sections, with the inevitable result that the con-
tinuity of the given strata is disturbed to some extent. To obtain a
cross-section of the accumulated deposits one must resort in such
cases to trial “ pits”, digging underground and limiting the area of
the sounding as one descends. This method is of course the only one
that will yield the desired information within a comparatively
brief period of time. But it is cumbersome and costly, imposing
great hardships on the excavator and producing results that are nec-
essarily tentative. It has been employed within the last few years in
Ur, Warka (Erech), and Nineveh; also in such Palestinian sites
as Megiddo and Beisan. In 1927, however, the general interest in
the prehistoric remains of the Near East had not been aroused to a
point where it would warrant such experiments on a large scale.
At Gawra, on the other hand, there was no need of elaborate subter-
ranean operations, and that was one of the reasons why the mound
seemed to be such a valuable find. It represented the contents of an
ideal pit all exhumed, as it were, and arranged neatly in a definite
order; with the added advantage that the oldest remains, preserved
for once at the base of this uninverted cone, were bound to be more
plentiful than the others. The analysis of the contents could be
effected in this case with considerable economy of effort and expen-
diture.

And yet, in spite of all this good fortune which all but betokened
the friendly intercession of some cosmic patron of archeology, the
examination of the site had its discouraging aspects. Were the
prospects of Gawra attractive enough from a practical standpoint

8Cf. Amer. Journ. Archaeol., vol. 36, pp. 465-471, 1932.
TEPE GAWRA—SPEISER 419

to induce a systematic excavation? To be sure, the mound bid fair
to settle some difficult problems of relative chronology. But its
very antiquity seemed to preclude the possibility of discovering writ-
ten documents. By the same token, the chances of finding enough
display objects to make the work worthwhile for a museum appeared
hopelessly remote. Institutions which must depend for their funds
on the enthusiasm of donors are naturally reluctant to undertake a
task that promises no adequate return in tangible results. Museum
directors get little praise for announcements that this or that expedi-
tion has met with pronounced “ scientific success’; and they rarely
control endowments ample enough to liberate them from a measure
of sensitiveness to popular response. This happens to be the sad
truth in the majority of instances.

Before sending my report to the sponsoring institutions at home
I inquired about Gawra in the nearby village of Fadhiliyah. Had
rains ever washed up anything besides sherds and flints? No; the
mound was a total loss, containing no “ treasures” of any sort and
being much too steep for cultivation. This reply was of course incor-
porated in my recommendation to excavate Gawra for the sake of the
information which it contained.

At that time the American Schools had not been favored as yet
with a grant from the Rockefeller Foundation which was shortly
to enlarge considerably the scope of their work in the East; nor
was the Dropsie College in a position to undertake larger archeologi-
cal tasks. When I was informed, therefore, a few weeks later that
a small sum had been set aside for a trial dig at Tepe Gawra, I could
appreciate the effort behind this minor financial operation. The rest
was more or less a matter of routine. A permit to excavate was
promptly granted by the Iraq Department of Antiquities. The owner
of the land, a venerable scion of an old Arab family, generously
ceded the mound to the expedition. Our staff included an architect,
who worked for a practically nominal salary, and a volunteer re-
corder. A small gang of workmen was organized, and in October
of the same year we were ready for the dig. The funds were of
course exhausted before the end of the month, but by that time the
future of the excavation had been assured. For our two trial trenches
not only confirmed our original estimate that the mound would
prove to be a mine of information, but they also uncovered important
architectural remains which included a prehistoric shrine, and a fine
collection of valuable and instructive objects. The results were
published in the Annual of the American Schools of Oriental

Research.*

4In vol. 9 (1929) under the title ‘‘ Preliminary excavations at Tepe Gawra.”
72774— 3528,
420 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

Following a return to teaching duties at the University of Penn-
sylvania, I was delegated to lead another expedition to northern Iraq
in the autumn of 1930, the University Museum and the American
Schools cooperating in the undertaking. Our principal object was
the excavation of Tell Billa, a large mound situated 8 miles east
of Gawra. But the latter site had not been forgotten. Through the
generosity of one of its governors the Dropsie College was enabled to
participate with the two other institutions in further work at Tepe
Gawra, to which we devoted 6 weeks in the spring of 1931 and 5
months in the season of 1931-82. The brief account which follows
is based on the results of these three campaigns which required a
total of 7 months of increasingly intensive work.

I

Owing to its conical shape, the upper stages of Tepe Gawra con-
tained strata that were small in extent and easy to excavate. ‘They
were speedily studied and removed to make room for the layers
below. Nor were the topmost layers notable for their depth. The
later inhabitants of the site were compelled to remove the accumu-
lated debris of the preceding occupations virtually down to their
respective floor-levels, before new structures could be erected; other-
wise the available area would have been too limited for practical
purposes. With each lower level there is an increase in size and
generally also in depth. Stratum VI was a crowded settlement com-
pressed into a space of some 130 by 200 feet. Additional space was
obtained by terracing the slopes of the mound. The buildings were
preserved in several instances to a height of 6 feet, and they generally
bore traces of repeated alterations. Stratum VIII was considerably
larger. It proved to consist of three distinct sublayers, representing
three phases of the same archaic civilization. The latest township
of this stratum had survived to a height of 15 feet, imparting a
remarkable depth to a layer that was to be followed by seven others,
each superimposed on the preceding’ one.

By the end of our third campaign we had succeeded in removing
eight main levels (not counting the substrata), the Gawra cone
becoming truncated down to one-half of its original height. It is
as yet impossible to estimate accurately the total number of layers
that remain to be excavated. The lower and older half of the
mound is known to us so far from the results of our trial soundings,
hence the picture of the period can be given only in the broadest
outlines. The upper half, however, is now exclusively a matter of
record, for it exists no more in reality except in a series of secondary
heaps of recently sifted debris. It is on this period that we shall
naturally wish to concentrate.
TEPE GAWRA—SPEISER 421

EARLY GAWRA

The first settlers established themselves at Gawra at some early
stage of the fifth millennium B.C. This general date is obtained
by counting back from the established age of Gawra VI, which
starts, as we shall see, at about 3000 B.C. The six strata from Gawra
VI to Gawra I cover a span of 15 centuries. From Gawra VI down
to the lowest layer the number of occupations is considerably larger.
It is certainly not less than 10, probably more; a definite number
cannot be given before virgin soil has been reached. At any rate, two
millennia will be considered a conservative estimate for the duration
of the settlements prior to Gawra VI. To come back to the earlest
inhabitants, on present evidence they may be said to have made ex-
tensive use of painted pottery. There may exist still lower layers,
not reached by our trial trenches, in which the pottery will prove to
be undecorated. That reservation must be made. But the earliest
settlers whose remains we have discovered specialized in painted
wares. Their weapons and implements were made of flint, and of
obsidian imported from the Armenian mountains. A certain
amount of commercial travel is thus clearly established for this
remote archaic period.

Who were these pioneer settlers, and from what district did they
arrive to take up habitation in the Middle Tigris valley? The
question is not merely one of local interest. The answer will apply
to the first inhabitants of Mesopotamia as a whole, for related re-
mains have been found recently in other sites of comparable antiq-
uity, in Lower Mesopotamia as well as in the region of Nineveh.
That is, when an answer is at length obtained. For the present it
is a matter of much dispute. The probability is that these visitors
came in from, or by way of, the neighboring mountains of Kurdistan
or Western Persia. Certain it is that the painted pottery technique
maintained itself through many occupations. In the subsequent
stages of Gawra we find parallels with the fabrics of Tell el-Obeid
(near Ur) early Susa, Baluchistan, and even Neolithic China. By
that time, however, many diverse influences were evidently at work.
It is not necessary to assume that the racial stock remained the same
merely because the people continued to decorate their pottery with
painted designs, nor would such an assumption be plausible on the
face of it. If we group together the makers of these early civiliza-
tions on the basis of the general resemblances of their wares, it is
solely because criteria for a finer differentiation are not available
just now. In course of time we shall be able to analyze this com-
posite picture into its component elements. We shall then know
more about the human characteristics behind these very ancient

5 For literature on the subject see Amer. Journ. Archaeol., vol 37, pp. 455-466, 1933.
422 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

cultures. And no site is more likely to shed light on the subject than
the mound whose biograph we are now engaged in following. The
clear stratification of Gawra and the accessibility of its lower
levels should help to settle the problem of the origin of the earliest
Mesopotamians once and for all.

One cultural innovation of paramount significance helps to break
up the early phase under consideration. In the lowest layers of
Gawra there is no trace of the use of copper; the people were mani-
festly in the Neolithic stage. The metal makes its first appearance
towards the end of the painted pottery occupation, thus ushering
in the Chalcolithic era, during which stone was still the mainstay
while copper, in its hammered form, was being gradually popular-
ized. Many centuries were to pass before it ceased to be a luxury.

The stone work, whether in implements or in ornaments, is uni-
formly high in quality. The seal cutter and the maker of amulets
have to satisfy steadily growing demands for their products. Only
stamp seals are in use, pierced for suspension and adorned with in-
cised animal designs. Terra cotta figurines of nude goddesses help
to emphasize the cult of the powers of fertility. Beads are manu-
factured in great quantities.

MIDDLE GAWRA

This period is in some respects the finest that the site witnessed in
more than three millennia of its history. The peak is reached with
Gawra VIII, which may be dated safely to the middle of the fourth
millennium B.C. We are now at the height of the Chalcolithic era,
still some centuries removed from Early Bronze which is introduced
in this instance by Gawra VI. Subsequent epochs may have com-
manded greater wealth as reflected in the abundance and variety of
material objects. But Gawra VIII enjoyed something that was far
more precious; its builders display faultless taste and an unerring
sense of balance. The glory of this age is not its pottery, nor its
jewelry or sculpture; it is in the consummate mastery of architec-
tural design that these prehistoric artists really prove supreme.

Gawra VIII is properly an acropolis, the history of which can be
traced through three structural stages. The successive alterations,
extensive enough to alter the plan of each substratum, reflect accu-
rately the changing social and economic conditions of the period.
The fathers of this occupation built the township around four
temples; each of them shows variations in design, but the whole is
in harmony with a preconceived plan of the site. Spacious ap-
proaches enable the structures to stand out prominently as individual
units, surrounded by gardens and courtyards.

The next generation fails to maintain the same high artistic stand-
ards. The fame of the shrines must have spread abroad and the

TEPE GAWRA—SPEISER 423

site suffers from overcrowding. New buildings are added, detract-
ing from the restful appeal of the acropolis; gone are the gardens and
the spacious courtyards. In course of time, however, a healthy re-
action sets in. The site is rebuilt, the temples alone being rever-
ently preserved or restored. The whole is again pleasing to the eye,
but the original spirit of measured restraint cannot be completely
recaptured.

Many features combine to make this remote archaic stage of fun-
damental importance for the history of architecture. For the pur-
poses of the present account a few details will have to suffice. As
a typical example of contemporary design let us take the Western
Temple (pl. 2, fig. 1) which was built at the very beginning of
Gawra VIII. It is a rectangular structure with its entrance on the
short side. The door is sheltered by an entrance porch or diwan, an
entirely unexpected refinement in prehistoric building. From this
liwan we pass to a central chamber, which communicates with four
smaller rooms, two on each long side. The simplicity of this plan
is a noteworthy achievement and symmetry is its principal character-
istic. The deep porch emphasizes the entrance; the interior doors
balance each other; on the exterior the long walls are decorated by
three, and the short walls by two double-crenelated niches, all
arranged in perfect symmetry. The front niches framed tall and
narrow windows, the oldest improvement of this kind known to
archeology.

Even more surprising is the fact that the builders of Gawra VIII
made use of the true arch in the construction of vaulted halls (pl. 2,
fig. 2). It has been known for some time that the Romans were
not the inventors of the true arch. The Sumerians knew it as far
back as the third millennium B.C. Now, however, the Gawrans turn
out to have anticipated the Sumerians by at least five centuries.

We shall resist the temptation to dwell longer on architectural
details. As it is, little space is available to sketch the material back-
ground of the period. Copper is still rare, and the more delicate
tools as well as many of the ornaments are made of bone and ivory.
Stamp seals have gained in popularity (pl. 3, fig. 1), but the best
work of the glyptic artist is now seen on intricately carved ivory
plaques (pl. 3, fig. 2). Beads are ubiquitous, the finest specimens
being fashioned of a semitransparent obsidian. Painted pottery is
no longer in vogue; the better wares, however, are given a high
polish.

The racial identity of these Middle Gawrans is just as obscure
as was that of the earlier inhabitants. Their undecorated pottery
and distinctive architecture suggest the presence of a new ethnic
element, come perhaps by the same route which the previous invaders
had taken more than a millennium earlier. These gifted settlers
424 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

must give way in turn to yet another group. The displacement is
merely symptomatic of the general run of events at the end of the
Chalcolithic era. For this is a period of migrations on a hitherto
unprecedented scale, which reflect a spirit of all-pervading restless-
ness. Long-established civilizations are uprooted overnight, and a
thick layer of ashes is all that has remained to mark the latest irrup-
tion. The upheaval is in a sense universal, and Gawra VIII is no
exception. Paradoxically enough, the very swiftness with which
the stratum was destroyed contributed to its ultimate preservation.
As the buildings were swept by the conflagration the fallen bricks
formed a protective layer of fused clay which subsequent builders
found too troublesome to cut through.

When the smoke has blown away a new race is found intrenched
on our site, now Gawra VII. This occupation is destined to be of
comparatively brief duration. The destroyers of Gawra VIII were
no more than pawns in the hands of greater powers; they attacked
and destroyed because they had been attacked and rendered home-
less by others. They had barely enough time to get settled in their
new homes before the pursuers had caught up with them. Gawra
VII is thus an ephemeral station, a period of transition between the
old and the new. Archeologically the stratum is characterized by
a new pottery which includes beautifully painted chalice types (pl.
4, fig. 1). But in terms of the cultural cycles of mankind the passage
from Gawra VIII to VI signifies infinitely more than the crossing
of a layer filled with frail ceramic fabrics. The few feet of inter-
posed debris mark in this particular case the boundary between
Chalcolithic and Early Bronze or, in other words, the transition
from prehistory to history.

With this insight into the marginal character of Gawra VII we
have obtained also a clue to the forces behind the contemporary
migrations and upheavals. The underlying cause of all this restless-
ness was man’s decisive conquest of copper. The discovery of certain
fundamental principles of metallurgy had precipitated an industrial
and social revolution of awesome proportions. Mere stone users were
no match for the men who had stumbled somehow upon means of
casting the metal and making it pliable. But the number of copper
bearing ores being limited, access to such deposits became a matter of
vital importance. Violent ethnic shifts and transpositions were thus
the inevitable corollary of the new order of things.

In this manner was ushered in what we now call the historical age.
“ Not without heat and dust ” we may repeat with the poet, nor, we
may add, without sacrifice of much charm and beauty. Progress
always seems to exact a heavy toll.
TEPE GAWRA—SPEISER 425

LATE GAWRA

In our gradual ascent of Gawra we have covered so far more than
two-thirds of the way to the top. All that has remained is the
rapidly narrowing cap of the old cone. Taking the mound as an
archeological unit, we have made a hasty survey of Early and
Middle Gawra and are now prepared to review the last stage, which
is the least substantial of the three as regards respective occupa-
tional areas. In terms of ancient history, we have passed through
the archaic, or prehistoric, occupations and have arrived in the Early
Dynastic period. It is an indirect indication of the great antiquity
of Gawra that its career is about to terminate at a time when history
has barely begun.

By the Early Dynastic era is meant the period when the south of
Mesopotamia was under the rule of the first authentic kings of Sumer.
This is the time of the “ Royal Tombs” and the First Dynasty of Ur,
of the princes and priest-kings or patesis of Kish and Lagash, and of
the dynasts recorded on inscriptions from a number of other places.
It embraces several centuries prior to the advent of Sargon the Great.
The commencement of this period has been placed at about 38000
B.C. on the basis of most recent archeological results.* The contem-
poraries of this age in the north are the people of Gawra VI. This
synchronism is clinched by a long series of correspondences in weap-
ons, cylinder seals, amulets, and pottery.

We have seen how the conquest of copper changed the political and
ethnic map of the world. No less radical is the accompanying trans-
formation in living conditions. In place of the leisurely ways of
bygone days we sense now a feverish pace. A great industrial era
has dawned and with it has come great wealth to the ruling classes
of the population. The splendors of the tomb furnishings of Ur
are by no means isolated instances of opulence and power, even
though the most precious objects were safer with the dead than with
the living. Luxuries seem no less abundant than every-day necessi-
ties. But in all this striving for comfort and pleasure the finest
contribution of the previous centuries was ignored and forgotten.
For this was not the time for architectural creations of beauty and
precision,

The buildings of Gawra VI are solid but unattractive. The
foundations are of rough stone and the walls are constructed of sun-
baked brick. The houses are small and the streets narrow, for space
is at a premium. The drainage system is altogether adequate.

Tools and implements, ornaments and weapons, and all manner
of sundry articles, are now predominantly made of metal. ‘Two

®See now the remarks of H. Frankfort in the Illustrated London News, no. 4961,
p. 776, May 19, 1934.
426 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

feet below there were hundreds of stone objects to one of copper,
since in the Chalcolithic the emphasis was on the latter element of
the compound. Now the floors are literally green with patina. We
find knives and sickles, lance butts and spearheads, adzes and axes,
bowls and frying pans (pl. 4, fig. 2; pl. 5, fig. 1). There are also
delicate vanity sets, anklets, bracelets, hair ornaments, and a plenti-
tude of pins and needles (pl. 5, fig. 2). The metal age is upon us in
full force.

The high temperatures required in the casting of copper are
applied also in the firing of pottery. The specimens are therefore
excellent from a technical standpoint, having often the firmness and
smoothness of polished stone. But painted decoration is not en-
couraged; very likely it would have been viewed as a waste of time.
The potter furnished also objects required in the ritual of the day;
fountainhead libation pots, too elaborate to be described here;
terra-cotta figurines of various animals, votive couches and chariots.
Among the latter the “covered wagon” (pl. 6, fig. 1) deserves
special attention since it represents a type foreign to this region,
but familiar in Trans-Caucasia. Obviously there was a good deal
of intercourse with the north. The chariots proper may have been
drawn by horses, for that animal is found represented among the
figurines. At any rate, the oft-repeated assumption that the horse
was brought to Mesopotamia about 2000 B.C. is no longer tenable.
It may have been rare and expensive 10 centuries earlier, but it was
not a complete stranger to the country.

Among the most highly prized finds of Gawra VI are its cylinder
seals, which have supplanted the older stamp seals. Some of them
rival in workmanship the best specimens from Sumer. The deco-
rative motives are many and varied. Some are typically Sumerian,
while others disclose western and northern affiliations. Similarly
diversified as to origin are the amulets and figurines of stone and
alabaster (pl. 6, fig. 2), among which we discover good Aegean
types. This eclecticism is characteristic of the period as a whole.
The people of Gawra VI were a cosmopolitan community composed
of many elements.

That they were an industrious group is seen, among other things,
from the quantities of loom weights and spindle whorls found at
this level. But life to them was not all work and fret. They had
their presumably harmless pleasures, as may be gathered from their
remarkably modern-looking game pieces (pl. 6, fig. 3). Was the
throw of the dice accompanied by an invocation to the goddess of
luck in the name of the infant that wanted a pair of sandals?

The latest history of the site need not detain us long. Gawra V
is still able to support a massive shrine, but not much else. It takes
TEPE GAWRA—SPEISER 427

us to the latter half of the third millennium. Gawra ITI is reduced
to a small fort, and Gawra I to a minor observation post perched
atop a steep-sloped mound. From this spot the watchman could
see the Nineveh of 1500 B.C., a city as yet free from Assyrian domi-
nation. When a Tighlath-Pileser or an Ashurnasirpal dreamed the
dream of a world empire, Gawra was already a lofty and mysterious
tell. Sargon may have watched it daily from his palace at Dur-
Sharrukin. If Gawra had then revealed to him its long history,
would the King’s plans have been modified? We wonder.
er oy),

oy

ee

“GALVAVOX” ATIVILYEVd ‘VYUMVD Adal AO M3IA

| aLvId sasiadg-—"¢¢6| ‘yaodayy ueluosy twig
Smithsonian Report, 1933.—Speiser

he

TEPE GAWRA = LEVEL EIGHT

SECTION THROUGH VAULT — ROOM 846
MY MUD BRICK [3 DEBRIS OF LOWER LEVEL

2. SECTION THROUGH VAULT, GAWRA VIII.

PLATE. 2

PLAN OF WESTERN TEMPLE, GAWRA VIII, C. 3500 B. C.

Smithsonian Report, !933.—Speiser PLATE 3

1. IMPRESSION OF A STAMP SEAL FROM GAWRA VIII, SHOWING A MAN, A WOMAN,
AND A SERPENT.

2. IVORY PLAQUE WITH CHARACTERISTIC ANIMAL DESIGN, GAWRA VIII.
Smithsonian Report, 1933.—Speiser PLATE 4

Dee De aie

1. CHALICE, GAWRA VII.

2. COPPER IMPLEMENTS, GAWRA VI, C. 3000 B. C.
Smithsonian Report, 1933.—Speiser PLATE 5

1. FRYING PAN, GAWRA VI.

2. COPPER ORNAMENTS, GAWRA VI.
Smithsonian Report, 1933.—-Speiser

“COVERED WAGON,”’

2. AMULETS AND FIGURINES OF STONE AND ALABASTER, GAWRA VI.

3. GAME PIECE, GAWRA VI.

INDIAN MANUSCRIPTS OF SOUTHERN MEXICO

By Hersert J. SPINDEN
Brooklyn Museum, Brookiyn, N.Y.

[With 38 plates]

New light on the personalities who ruled in southern Mexico dur-
ing the three centuries before the landing of Cortes and his Spanish
adventurers in 1519 has been obtained from the study of several
American Indian manuscripts in English libraries. Very few
written documents made by the aborigines of Mexico and Central
America in pre-Colombian times are known to have survived the
vicissitudes of the Spanish Conquest and Inquisition, and of these
the greater number are concerned with rituals and astrology rather
than simple political history. But the illuminated books which I
will now discuss are devoted primarily to genealogies, sequences in
political events, and other truly historical matters, fixed in both
time and place.

This history concerns a part of Mexico which is poorly represented
in Spanish sources of the early colonial period, namely, the area in
which the Olmecs, Mixtecs, and Zapotecs had developed important
civilizations. In many respects these nations were more advanced
than those of the Mexican highlands. It is believed that they
temporarily became subject to the Toltecs in the twelfth century,
when these conquerors were operating from Chichen Itza in Yucatan
as well as from Tula, their capital city in the valley of Mexico now
represented by the ruins of Teotihuacan. After recovering autonomy
and flourishing independently for several centuries, these nations of
southern Mexico were partly subdued for a second time by the
Aztecs shortly before the coming of the Spaniards. While their
arts and ceremonies are based largely on those of the ancient Mayas,
their florescence came after the fall of the Toltecs, to whom also
they were indebted.

BOOKS THAT FOLD LIKE SCREENS

In the Bodleian Library at Oxford University are found the
Mexican codices of Laud, Bodley, and Selden, all of which reached
this repository shortly after 1600 as items in great collections of

429
430 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

manuscripts.t. In the British Museum among other Mexican docu-
ments is the Zouche codex, the finest of all New World books ex-
cepting only the wonderful Dresden codex, Pot of Basil for the Maya
civilization. Then there is the Fejervary-Mayer codex kept in the
I'ree Public Museums of Liverpool, which, like the Laud, is thaum-
aturgic and need not be mentioned further.

For the ancient annals and biographies we must look to the
Bodley, Selden, and Zouche codices of England and the Vienna
codex of Austria (especially the reverse side, pages I to XIII).
Some slight additional information can be gathered in two frag-
ments of another codex, one part in Mexico being known as the

VIENNA CODEX REVERSE HORIZONTAL MEANDER

SELDEN CODEX BODLEY CODEX IRREGULAR GUIDE LINES
VERTICAL MEANDER

Fiegurr 1.—Guide lines which control the stream of text.

Colombino, and another part in Austria being called the Becker.
Perhaps some worthwhile data will also be found in a number of
post-Spanish records kept on sheets of cotton which for the present
we neglect.

All the books mentioned above are painted in colors on one or
both sides of long strips of prepared deerskin, folded screenwise.
The text, which consists of pictures and hieroglyphs, meanders
between red guide lines, sometimes with complete regularity of pat-
tern as in the historical section of the Vienna manuscript. At other
times, as in the Bodley manuscript, the guide lines are arranged to

1 Also this library possesses the Seldon roll and the famous compendium of Aztec history
and social usages made by order of Mendoza, the First Viceroy of New Spain.
MANUSCRIPTS OF MEXICO—SPINDEN 431

form a veritable labyrinth. (See fig. 1 for typical diagrams.)
These meandering texts can be handled conveniently only in the
screen form of the originals, which permits a sequence of pages to
be spread out.

Unfortunately the Bodley and Selden codices are not available at
the present time to the general student except in the century-old
reproductions of Kingsborough, where each fold occupies a page.*
His first publication in black and white omits the guide lines, but
these are added in the colored reissue. There is an urgent need for
facsimile editions of both Bodley and Selden codices for the freehand
drawings of Kingsborough are often in error. It is even possible
that dates and other important details now faint or invisible in the
original manuscripts could be refreshed by special photography.
The Zouche codex has been reproduced acceptably although some of
the colors, especially the beautiful turquoise blue, are not correctly
brought out. The Vienna codex has recently been published in
irreproachable fashion.®

ARE THE PICTURES THOSE OF MEN OR GODS?

The contents of the Zouche codex were explained as history by
Zelia Nuttall in her original brief commentary, although she thought
the pictured text might be only a mnemonic aid to the recital of tra-
ditional epic chants. Her suggestions as regards the biography of
the conqueror Eight Deer were amplified by J. Cooper Clark in his
“The Story of Eight Deer in the Codex Colombino.” * He covered
the entries regarding this person in the several manuscripts now under
consideration. More important still was the chronological arrange-
ment of the various genealogies in the British Museum manuscript
by Richard C. E. Long.®

In contrast to these writings Walter Lehmann in his recent com-
mentary on the Vienna codex (p. 18) denies that an historical expla-
nation of the matter in these ancient manuscripts is possible. Instead
he believes that the intervals between dates have an astronomical
import and that most if not all the named persons are gods rather
than human beings or if some are human beings then these are con-
cerned in religious or astronomical enterprises.

?'The writer expresses his gratitude to the officials of the Bodleian Library for permis-
sion to examine in detail the original Bodleian and Selden manuscripts and for photo-
graphs of certain pages; and to those of the British Museum for similar courtesy as
regards the beautiful codex which was formerly the property of Lord Zouche,

® The reproduction of the Zouche codex was by the Peabody Museum of Harvard Uni-
versity (Codex Nuttall, 1902, with an introduction by Zelia Nuttall) ; that of the Vienna
(Codex Vindabonensis, Mexic. I) by Max Jaffe, Vienna, 1929, with commentary by
Walter Lehmann and Ottokar Smital; that of the Colombino (formerly the Dorenberg)
in Antiguedades Mexicanas of the Junta Colombina in 1892 and that of the Becker under
the title ‘Le Manuscrit du Cacique”, by Henri de Saussure, Geneva, 1892.

*London, 1912,
5The Zouche Codex, Journ. Roy. Anthrop. Soc., vol. 56, pp. 239-258, 1926.
432 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

Clearly enough certain astronomical events are celebrated in some
of the pictured events as in the indicated sacrifices to Venus, and it
might be added that apotheosis of great men and women is an estab-
lished thing in the religions of Central America. So the conflict in
opinion is not so vital as it might seem.

Very early in my examination of the pieces in the Bodleian Library
I came upon proof which fixes once and for all the fact that human
beings and mundane affairs form the principle subject of these an-
cient records. In the Selden manuscript I noted that many persons
were attached to year signs by a crinkly red line especially on the
occasion of their first appearance in the narrative and that in later
references to these persons the day sign which had accompanied the
year sign was used as a personal name. Comparison with two very

FicurE 2.—The umbilicus and the dates of birth.

naive representations of childbirth in the Zouche codex made it
perfectly clear that the crinkly red line was the umbilical cord (see
fig. 2), and it logically followed that the day sign which became a
name was merely the person’s natal day in the cycle of 260 differ-
ently named days which distinguishes the Central American calendar.

Although Brinton ® declared that among the Cakchiquel tribes
of Guatemala “the personal name was always that of the day of
birth, this being adopted for astrological reasons ”, he gave no au-
thority for this statement. Madame Nuttall in her commentary?
took the position that among the Mexicans the calendarial names
indicated membership in one of 20 social groups comparable to clans.
This theory becomes manifestly absurd when observation is made of
the variety of day names applied to the children of a single couple.
Instances are found where a pair have the same day name, but oc-
curring side by side, they must be regarded as twins.’

® Brinton, D. G., Annals of the Cakchiquels, p. 33. Philadelphia, 1885.

T Op; cit, ps 19.

8 For example, a male and female among the offspring of Eight Wind and Ten Deer,
Zouche codex, p. 5, are both labeled Three Lizard,
MANUSCRIPTS OF MEXICO—SPINDEN 433

MAJOR EVENTS IN THE LIVES OF INDIVIDUALS

Given, then, the year and day of birth for many persons of his-
torical importance in southern Mexico, we next find them making
offerings at temples, getting married, fighting battles, and finally
wrapped up for burial, all in connection with dates which enable us
to construct the chronology of their lives. In figure 3, I combine
references to One Monkey relating to his birth, his marriage to Lady
Seven Water, an attack on his city made by Three Monkey, and
finally to his death. The life of this One Monkey covered 65 years.

Important heirs make offerings at the temple at a tender age. On
pages 4 and 5 of the Selden codex three persons destined to rule in
succession at a certain city, which is indicated by a place-name hiero-
glyph attached to a temple, come in turn and burn incense before a
sacred bundle on the temple platform on which rests a head of the

Rain God.

FIGURE 3.—Events in the life of One Monkey.

Marriage is represented in the Selden and Bodley codices by a
man and women facing each other on a mat, while in the Zouche
codex they usually face each other within a house. Sometimes the
wedding ceremony is pictured including the carrying in of the
bride, the bath which bride and groom take together, etc. A com-
plete marriage ceremony is gorgeously portrayed on the double
page 19 of the Zouche manuscript. Often a line of footprints leads
from the parents to the bride or groom who has changed residence,
as the case may be. When the text runs, as it usually does, in a
narrow zone, children are commonly placed after the mother, with
the years of birth recorded only for the older ones, except when
the families are very prominent. It is a curious point that children
at birth are rarely represented as actual children; instead they are
pictured as of adult stature and wearing the dress and insignia of
later life. I show in figure 4 the birth of Four Dog, also called
Coyote, who was the eldest son of the famous Eight Deer, together
with that of his sister Ten Flower.? The former was born on the
day 4 Dog in the year 7 Rabbit, and the latter on the day 10 Flower
in the next year 8 Reed. But although the date of Ten Flower’s

®T follow the excellent suggestion of Long in spelling out numbers in calendarial
names while leaving them as numerals in dates,
434 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

birth is given and she is joined to it like her brother by the conven-
tional umbilicus, yet she is also represented as married to Four Wind
and living with him at Knife Town.

An important event in the life of a leading hero comes when he
has his nose pierced to receive the sacred jade button which will
make him a knight or commander in the Order of the Eagles, or
of the Jaguars, both being organizations of warriors. Sacred wars
are indicated by carrying the staff of Venus, since at certain times
it was necessary to find a royal victim to gratify the great planet.
Eight Deer, the most thoroughly documented individual of southern
Mexico, had his heart cut out as the victim of a sacred war, and at
an earlier time he is shown assisting at the sacrifice of his own
brother.

LADY SIX MONKEY IN THE SELDEN CODEX

Let us now examine an interesting passage which begins with the
top section of page 5 of the Selden codex and runs up through pages
6, 7, and 8. In plates 1, 2, and 3 we have a photographic repro-
duction of this part of the original manuscript. The text meanders
back and forth between horizontal guide lines which end in little
loops where a turn is to be made. The lowermost section reads
from right to left, the next one at the bottom of page 6 from left
to right, etc. The dramatic history of a certain princess named
Six Monkey, or Serpent Blouse, is here set forth.

First we see the mother and father of Lady Six Monkey, seated
onamat. The mother is Nine Wind, or Skull Jewel, and the father
is Ten Eagle. He has come from Lord Ten Flower and Lady Two
Snake, the day 10 Deer in the year 3 House, clearly referring to the
marriage of the parents rather than to that of the son.° It seems
that Lady Nine Wind bore three sons, namely One Reed, Twelve
Water, and Three Water. All of these youths bear a flag and after
them comes a date in the year 9 Calli, which is 30 years after the
marriage of the grandparents. Next there is a shield and war
standard before Skull Temple which may represent a place with

ao In the Zouche codex, p. 23, the birth of the eldest son of Ten Flower and Two
Snake is placed in the year 5 Reed, or only 2 years later than 3 House.
MANUSCRIPTS OF MEXICO—SPINDEN 435

which war was waged. In all probability these youths died in battle
before they could succeed to political positions.

With her back to Skull Temple we now see our heroine Six
Monkey, who was probably the younger sister of these boys. Fac-
ing her is an old priest named Ten Lizard, who afterward appears
as her protector. The third line of text begins with day 4 Wind in
the year 4 House, approximately 8 years after the previous date.
Next we see Ten Eagle defending his city against a certain Three
Lizard, in a war which may have involved the inheritance of a
tragic youth named Two Rain; his history is dealt with elsewhere.
Above, in the fourth line of text, Six Monkey consults with two old
priests, one being Ten Lizard and the other Six Vulture; and it may
be that the latter foretells her death in the year 5 Reed, some 14
years hence. At any rate, we see footprints which take her head
downward into the underworld on that future date. But the foot-
prints continue, and we next see Six Monkey striding along.

In the top section of page 6 she is seated with a youth named
Eleven Wind (wrongly recorded here as Ten Wind) in conversa-
tion with the ugly old Lady Nine Herb before Skull Temple. Be-
hind the pair is an assortment of jewels, apparently brought as
presents. The date is the day 10 Wind in the year 10 Reed, about 8
years before the prophesied death of Lady Six Monkey. Apparently
the conversation concerns the marriage of Six Monkey and Eleven
Wind. A round dance is also pictured in connection with this date
and on the day 7 Flower of the year 12 House we see Eleven Wind
and Six Monkey bathing together in accordance with the marriage
rite (see pl. 2, lower right hand corner).

The next row has more presents and we see Ten Lizard at the same
place which Ten Eagle had defended giving instructions to two men
named Two Flower and Three Crocodile. The year is 13 Rabbit and
the day 9 Snake. The two men set out on an embassy which concerns
Six Monkey for the former carries her head and hieroglyph as his
burden. Arriving before two towns these ambassadors are insulted
by young chieftains named Six Lizard and Two Crocodile. I say
“insulted ”, for the speech scrolls which come out of the mouths of
the boys are tipped with flint knives, a logical ideograph for cutting
words.

It is clear that our heroine Six Monkey did not brook such undip-
lomatic reception for her representatives. We see her in the top sec-
tion of page 7 addressing the old lady Nine Herb about war, <A
shield-and-spear symbol of war lies on the ground between them and
back of Skull Temple are two soldiers ready for the fray. Above,
Six Monkey has one of the miscreant chieftains by the hair and the
other is seated before the combined hieroglyph of the two towns in

T2774— 35 29

436 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

an attitude of surrender. This happens on the days 3 Herb and 4
Reed of the year 18 Rabbit (see pl. 3, bottom section).

No time is lost in cutting out the heart of Two Crocodile in the
temple of Six Monkey’s capital. Then the other culprit is turned
over to the two ambassadors and their honor is appeased when he,
in turn, is sacrificed before their own temple. In the next to the
top line of our text Lady Six Monkey is annointed queen by Two
Flower and in the same year 13 Rabbit she rules in peace with her
chosen mate, Eleven Wind. Her first son, Four Wind, is born in
the year 2 Knife, some 2 years later, and we see him tied to the
date by the red umbilicus. The second son, One Crocodile, is born
in the very year 5 Reed which had been set for the death of his
mother. She appears no more in this narrative and the last entry
shows the marriage of Four Wind and Ten Flower. (See fig. 4,
above, for a parallel record of this event.)

Ficurb 5.—A suitor, One House, brings presents to Nine Wind and Ten Eagle, the
parents of Six Monkey living at Cloud-Belching Mountain, but Six Monkey turns
her back on him.

OTHER REFERENCES TO LADY SIX MONKEY

The other codices add something to our knowledge of this Ama-
zon queen. In the Bodley there is a shorter account of her rise to
power, including her appeal to the gruesome old lady of Skull
Temple, her leading in another prisoner, her marriage with Eleven
Wind and the births of her two children. Both these sons marry
daughters of Eight Deer and play a considerable role in the history
of southern Mexico. Her husband either remarries or, perhaps, he
already had another wife when he took Six Monkey. His daughter
by the other wife was the official mate of Eight Deer, a situation
leading to involved relationships. That is, Six Monkey’s two boys
both married daughters of their half sister.

There is only one reference to Six Monkey in the Zouche codex,
and that is on page 4, where she resolutely turns her back on the
young conqueror Eight Deer, whose face wears an expression of
dismay. This was in the year 6 Reed when Eight Deer was 20
years of age and Six Monkey a mere child. Some idea of her
popularity may be gathered from a repetition of this refusal motive
MANUSCRIPTS OF MEXICO—SPINDEN 437

in the case of a young suitor named One House. In figure 5 I
show this rejection scene. Her mother and father are seated before
the hieroglyph of their city (drawn in somewhat different fashion
than before) and One House presents them with jewelry while
Six Monkey gives him the cold shoulder.

WOMAN’S POSITION IN ANCIENT MEXICO

It is appropriate at this time to cast an eye at the social position
which women occupied among the nations of southern Mexico.
Even today Zapotecan and Mixtecan women have a name for self-
reliance and personal independence, and it seems that in ancient
times their social position was no less assured. We have already seen
that Lady Six Monkey could handle both martial and marital situa-
tions. We need not understand that she captured men with her own

Ficurp 6.—How women went to war in southern Mexico (Bodley and Zouche codices).

hands on the field of battle, but at least she led her soldiers into
action. The three pictures of militant feminism in figure 6 speak
for themselves.

Also it is apparent that descent through the female line was recog-
nized as legal, and that an eldest-born daughter sometimes succeeded
to what we call the throne. In passages where the marriage of a
woman of higher rank to an inferior male is pictured she may be
seated on a stool or on the official mat, while he squats on the ground
before her or uses a stone. (See One Monkey and his superior wife
in fig. 8.) In cases where the male has the superior rank the wife
may kneel before him.

Throughout all Central America and Mexico the mat rather than
the throne was the ordinary symbol of administrative power, perhaps
because it was used for conferences. That there were also ceremonial
thrones among the early Mayas is clear enough from their sculptures
and the right of the canopy is mentioned in Guatemalan histories
among the prerogatives of royalty. The Aztec rulers are sometimes
438 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

pictured as seated on chairs covered with matting. In the codices of
southern Mexico the mat is frequently replaced by a rectangular
block with geometric decoration. This recalls the architectural
adornment of the stone structures at Mitla and in the abbreviated
pictographs may imply “ people of the palace ” or, let us say, royalty.

Monogamy was certainly the rule in the royal marriages of south-
ern Mexico, but there are instances where two women, probably sis-
ters, marry one man and live with him under the same roof.* Also
there are cases of great rulers who had one official wife and one or
more other wives of lesser rank who dwelt apart, but whose children
seem to have been recognized. Eight Deer was himself the offspring
of a second marriage, although it is quite possible Nine Eagle, the
first wife of his father, Five Crocodile, had died before the latter
married Eleven Water, the mother of Eight Deer. But in the case
of Eight Deer, himself, there can be no doubt that he had children
by several women coming along at the same time. His official wife
was the daughter of Eleven Wind, as we have seen, but by another
woman than Six Monkey. Perhaps this second woman, Six Lizard, .
really married Eleven Wind after the death of Six Monkey. If so,
the daughter could not have been more than 8 years of age when she
married the already elderly Eight Deer and such an early marriage
seems probable. Her first child came some 7 or 8 years after the
celebration of the marriage. At any rate other evidence of child
marriage is not far to seek.

The genealogical lay-outs often indicate marriages of nieces with
uncles, etc. Thus Four Crocodile, the second son of Eight Deer by
Twelve Snake, very clearly married Thirteen Flower, the daughter
of his sister, Ten Flower, by Four Wind, the eldest son of Eleven
Wind, and our heroine Six Monkey. Here is a close-knit marriage
which may have been made for dynastic purposes.

One of the clearest cases of a dynastic mating goes back to an early
stage of the recorded history. Two cities which I call Sun Mount
and Riven Hill were joined by the marriage of Lady Twelve Vulture
and Lord Twelve Lizard on a day 1 Rabbit in a year 1 Rabbit. The
marriage is shown in the Vienna codex, page III, and in the Bod-
ley codex, pages 3 and 4, with the place name hieroglyphs represented
in connection with each individual. Their sons, Three Monkey and
Four House, are later pictured in the Bodley codex on a rampage
burning temples. They soon meet a fate which may have been de-
served when we see them lying dead with their breasts open, indi-
cating that their hearts had been cut out in sacrifice. In other

114 good case of this is the marriage of a certain Twelve Lizard with two sisters

named Four Crocodile and Four Knife; it is recorded in the Zouche, Vienna and Bodley
manuscripts.
MANUSCRIPTS OF MEXICO—SPINDEN 439

passages it becomes apparent that Twelve Vulture and Twelve Liz-
ard lost their lives in a catastrophe which took a heavy toll. In
figure 7, b-d, we see the royal couple wrapped up for burial.

The general event refers in some way to the woman with a skull
for a head, living at Skull Temple and named Nine Herb, whom
we have already met as the champion of Lady Six Monkey and to
whom her son Four Wind in still later times is pictured as paying
tribute. In one place (fig. 7, b) this old woman has the hieroglyph of
a deer’s foot. I think it probable that she represents Cholula, the city
which inherited more than any other place the prestige of the Toltecs.
First the deer’s foot is the usual hieroglyph of Cholula. Secondly,
the skull motive is particularly prominent in the art of that city,
perhaps because it was the ceremonial center for the great warriors’
societies. ‘The purpose of these societies was to achieve immortality
through apotheosis and in connection with the cult, skulls, cross

bl — cP
Sn KK KK? ae

od

Ficurn 7.—A, the marriage of Twelve Vulture and Twelve Lizard unites two cities;

B, a gruesome woman makes war on them with fatal results (Bodley codex) ; C and
D, the same matter in the Zouche codex.

bones, shields, knives, severed hands, etc., are regularly shown.
Thirdly, we see men with the peculiar knobby markings of mountains
and stones taking part in the war against Twelve Vulture and Twelve
Lizard. These may represent Toltecs, especially since the Mexican
word for conqueror, applied par excellence to Toltecs, is tepehuani,
which is allied to the linguistic root meaning stone and mountain.
Lastly, Nine Herb as an individual could not have lived long enough
to span the chronological interval between her first and last appear-
ances in the narrative.

DESIGNATIONS OF OFFICE

Women are rarely pictured holding religious oflices, whereas
nearly all the historically important men are pictured in the habili-
ments of military and religious offices. Sometimes we are given the
various stages whereby great leaders rise to the highest honors.
440 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

Time does not permit a detailed study of this aspect of ancient
Mexican life but at least we may take note of certain classifications
of the military and civil priesthood. The early Mayas were not given
to human sacrifice, and while the eagle, and especially the jaguar,
were prominent animals in their religion, there is little or no evidence
of their importance in war. Among the Toltecs, however, these
animals of prey became the patrons of warrior societies. These
societies are much in evidence at Chichen Itza in Yucatan, thanks
to the rich sculptural art which the Maya converts lent to the sub-
ject, and of course their importance was maintained among the
Aztecs down to the termination of native culture.

In the codices of southern Mexico the Jaguar and Eagle warriors
are very common, and much can be deduced concerning the nature
of sacrificial ceremonies connected with the cults. In figure 8, I

FicuRpB 8.—WMilitary and religious offices; a Jaguar Man, an Eagle Man, and a
Turtle Man.

picture a Jaguar Warrior, an Eagle Warrior, and a Turtle Man, the
last being an order of the priesthood closely connected with human
sacrifice. The Turtle Man is commonly shown as flying through the
air bearing the heart of a sacrificed victim. The Turtle Man of our
illustration is a certain Three Lizard, by other name Knife Necklace,
who is pictured as having just died. Turtle Men with their bodies
enclosed as here in a carapace are extremely common in the sculptures
of Chichen Itza.

Many other priests wear the mask of the Rain God—equivalent to
the Mexican Tlaloc—and there are others who wear the Sun disk as
a priest of the Sun or combine this with the Rain God mask in an
office which I designate as that of a Sun-Rain priest, or let us say
weather prophet. In figure 9 the funeral of two warriors is pic-
tured; one is an Eagle Warrior and a Sun priest and the other a
Jaguar Warrior and likewise a Sun priest. It seems that their
symbols of office were practically equivalent to name hieroglyphs.
MANUSCRIPTS OF MEXICO—SPINDEN 44]

IDEOGRAPHIC TRANSCRIPTION OF NAMES

We are now in a position to direct our attention a little more
closely to the construction of personal hieroglyphs, other than those
of calendarial origin. Among the easily transcribed women’s names
are Jewelled Eagle, Jewelled Parrot, Jewelled Skull, and Jewelled
Water, in all of which the circular symbol of jade forms
a part of the built-up sign. This symbol may also mean a bright
orb, and in the case of Jewelled Incense the proper transcription
may be Incense Star. Other names are Rainy Blouse, Serpent

louse, Knife Blouse, Plumed Serpent, Flowered Serpent, Feath-
ered Sun, Sun Fan, etc.

FIGURE 9.—Funeral of two warriors, note war clubs on the ground and bow and arrows
on the mound. The detail across their breasts is half a Sun disk.

Men’s names are made of sterner stuff, examples being: Stoned
Jaguar, Blood-drinking Eagle, Bloody Face, Bloody Hand, Eagle,
Coyote, Vulture, Eagle Star or Constellation, Snake Constellation,
Flaming Arrow, Blue Dog, Yellow Dog, White Dog, Eagle Ball
Court, Serpent Ball Court, Coyote Tail, Jaguar Claw, etc.

The acquired or descriptive names of men are frequently trans-
formed into elements of dress and accoutrement. In figure 10 I
illustrate this fact by two representations of an individual named
Eleven Water. On page 34 of the Zouche manuscript he is shown as
in a, being the eldest child of the bigamous marriage of Three Croc-
odile with Twelve Knife and Ten House. Note that his head has the
form of a great flint knife with the points projecting above and
below the distended jaws of a skull. The face of Eleven Water is
enclosed in the jaws of this skull and is somewhat concealed behind
the common Rain God mask, consisting of a ring-shaped eye and an
irregular scroll which represents the nose and upper lip of Tlaloc.
In the second representation of Eleven Water, on the following page
of the manuscript, he is himself making a dual marriage with two
442 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

richly costumed women. But in this picture he has a purely human
appearance and the flint knife and mask of the Rain God are com-
bined in his descriptive hieroglyph.

There are numerous analogous cases of individuals costumed to
live up to their names and it may be that this was normal usage in
those times. At any rate the common masquerades explain why
human beings have been mistaken for gods.

Ficurr 10.—Eleven Water masked and unmasked.

As regards place name hieroglyphs we limit ourselves to the
examination of one example. In figure 11 I give a series of hiero-
glyphs for a place which may be called Cloud-belching Mountain.

Figure 11.—A prominent place name, representing a2 mountain with a fillet of clouds
and with a face, or at least a mouth, from which a cloud or smoke issues. It
finally reduces to the belching mouth.

It is represented by a cloud-capped hill, bearing either a face or a
mouth from which a dark smokelike substance issues. I suggest in
passing that there may be some connection between Cloud-belching
Hill and the tribal name Mixtec, which means Cloud People.

THE DESCENT OF KINGS

The tabulation of the numerous individuals recorded in the Zouche,
Bodley, Selden, and Vienna codices would be enough to overwhelm a
trained genealogist. But it is possible to pick out the more promi-
MANUSCRIPTS OF MEXICO—SPINDEN 443

nent families and arrange the persons composing them into as many
as 10 generations. The problem is considerably aided by the dates,
but numerous discrepancies must be admitted. The point is that in
a great number of cases there is parallelism in the different codices
and other supporting evidence.

The threshold is safely reached with Four Crocodile, also called
Blood-drinking Eagle, and his wife, One Death or Sun Fan. Their
establishment is at Sun Mount. The pictured name, Blood-drinking
Eagle, is doubtless a reference to human sacrifice made to the eagle
either as a messenger of the sun or as the patron of a war cult.
Perhaps we may identify this Four Crocodile, Blood-drinking Eagle,
with that Four Crocodile who is named as the first cacique of the
Mixtec town of Tlilantongo.’* Unfortunately space does not allow
us to pursue such collateral identifications or even to discuss the
problems of towns and tribes. We limit ourselves at this time to
examining the pictographic and hieroglyphic record in the codices as
self-sufficient.

Four Crocodile and One Death stand at the beginning of the
record in both the Vienna and Bodley codices, and in the Zouche
we see the two individuals at Sun Mount on page 21 in a preamble to
an historical succession of rulers starting on page 23 with the mar-
riage of their granddaughter Five Reed to an old warrior named
Right Wind. The eldest child of Four Crocodile and One Death
is given in the Vienna manuscript as One Eagle and in the Bodley
manuscript as One Vulture, but in both cases the given name is the
same, namely, Jewelled Incense or Incense Star.

Probably these histories start with the resumption of autonomy
by native aristocracies after the dissolution of the Toltec empire
on or about A.D. 1220. Immediately we are in a welter of per-
sons advancing the interests of this town or that, arranging
dynastic marriages, engaging in holy or unholy wars, passing
through the vicissitudes of chance and character. Several contem-
poraries of Four Crocodile and One Death occupy ruling posi-
tions of importance including a man named Four Rabbit, who
marries the daughter of Four Crocodile. Their children are the
daughters, Five Reed and Ten Crocodile and a son named Twelve
Lizard. The seat of Four Rabbit was Riven Hill, and it seems that
his two daughters made advantageous marriages and moved to the
capitals of their husbands. The son married Twelve Vulture, a
lady of Sun Mount, and we have already seen the fate which
befell them (fig. 7, above).

Lady Five Reed marries Eight Wind, an old man previously
married to a certain Lady Ten Deer. The eldest son of the second

2 See Caso, Alfonso, Las estelas Zapotecas, p. 72, Mexico, 1928.
444 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

marriage is Ten Flower who in turn is wedded to Lady Two Snake.
Their eldest son is Twelve Lizard, 2d, and their next is Ten Eagle,
whom we have already met as the father of Lady Six Monkey.
The eldest son makes a double marriage, but the sole result seems
to have been a youth named Five Earthquake or Heavenly Incense.
He first marries Lady Two Herb and has by her a boy named Two

FiGuRB 13.—The two marriages of Five Earthquake, first to Two Herb and secondly
to Four Death, daughter of Ten Eagle and Nine Wind at Cloud-belching Mountain:
Bodley codex.

Rain, who is sacrificed to the planet Venus at the age of 21. This
event is dealt with in all four of our codices. (See fig. 12.) Five
Earthquake also married Lady Four Death, a younger sister of
Six Monkey, and it appears that this second alliance was the cause
of war. In figure 13 the two marriages of Five Earthquake are
pictured.
MANUSCRIPTS OF MEXICO—SPINDEN 445

The line of Eight Deer departs from a Lady Ten Crocodile, who
may have been the second daughter of Four Crocodile, but on this
point the data are uncertain. Her son Thirteen Dog, Eagle Star,
married a Lady One Vulture, whose hieroglyph is different from
that of the One Vulture recorded as the eldest daughter of Four
Crocodile. Their son Five Crocodile is the father of Eight Deer.
Henceforward the documentation on relationships is fairly detailed.
The epoch of Six Monkey and Eight Deer marks the culmination
of these nations of southern Mexico. The real difficulty presents
itself when we try to carry the record up to the Spanish Conquest.
Here my arrangement differs considerably from the partial handling
of the historical material by Long. For instance, I identify the
Thirteen Dog, Eagle Star, of page 25 of the Zouche codex with
the Thirteen Dog, Eagle Star, of page 28, where he makes a second
marriage. This identification shortens Long’s chronology by 104
years. Of course there is always the danger that a seemingly
continuous picture series will hark back to a new departure in

the past.
THE PROBLEM OF CHRONOLOGY

I have plotted the genealogies on coordinate paper allowing 10
years to the inch in vertical measurement and marking the known
dates. On these diagrams I have shown the men in blue lines and
the women in red, with the children ranged laterally in connection
with each’ couple. The assured sequences and their dependable
cross-references cover about three centuries. This circumstance and
other considerations have convinced me that the entire recorded
history of central and southern Mexico depends upon the innova-
tions of Quetzalcoatl and that the chronology must be fitted into
the Toltec year count which begins in 1168 with the year 1 Knife
(table 1). Quetzalcoatl is given credit for inventing the Mexican
calendar and for writing a sacred book taken as the standard for
historical and religious uses. It appears that he passed his youth
in Yucatan and acquired great efficiency in the ancient astronomical
science of the Mayas and great liking for the ceremonial and ethical
principles of their religion. Not only did he introduce among his
people a cult of the reptilian Storm God of the ancient Mayas under
guise of the Plumed Serpent—an innovation which caused a deep
schism among the Toltecs, whose religion was largely devoted to
human sacrifice—but he also evolved a means for objectively and
ideographically recording the elements of time, person, place, etc.,
which must enter into any record of history.
446 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

TABLE 1.—The cycles of Mexican chronology

Year in Cycle | Cycle | Cycle | Cycle | Cycle | Cycle | Cycle
cycle Name of year I iat i | iv V VI | VII

De | Ler fe Eas se a es es toe by pe 1168 1220 1272 1324 1376 1428 1480

2) jl (2 ELOUS Ok ee ee a ee tee cen eer tee 1169 1221 1273 1325 1377 1429 1481

3 | 3 Rabbit 1170 1222 1274 1326 1378 1430 1482

4 | 4 Reed__ 1171 1223 1275 1327 1379 1431 1483

5 | 5 Knife____ 1172 1224 1276 1328 | 1380 1432 1484

6 | 6 House__- 1173 1225 1277 1329 1381 1433 1485

7 | 7 Rabbit_- 1174 1226 1278 1330 1382 1434 1486

8 | 8 Reed___-_ 1175 1227 1279 1331 1383 1435 1487

9 | 9 Knife____ 1176 1228 1280 1332 1384 1436 1488
10 | 10 House___- 1177 1229 1281 1333 1385 1437 1489
TDs Rabbituzs-2% 1178 1230 1282 1334 1386 1438 1490
12) |l2tReedu--= = ee 1179 1231 1283 1335 1387 1439 1491
13003 Weanifess se ee 1180 1232 1284 1336 1388 1440 1492
4: tC OUSO sears uae ager ae eee er nd Siete eae 1181 1233 1285 1337 1389 1441 1493
i 2eRab bite. eae CU ee 1182 1234 1286 1338 1390 1442 1494
GUIS PR GGG bot ne eee eeu aap aye 1183 1235 1287 1339 1391 1443 1495
AG av Keni feb se oo swe del a ig 1184 1236 1288 1340 1392 1444 1496
L8G tovEOUSO eee one oe er eel Cee aes | 1185 1237 1289 1341 1393 1445 1497
190) GAR ab biteyes ye 22 Bes EL ee re) 1186 1238 1290 1342 1394 1446 1498
PO) eer fll 82) 2 0 Wee sm ae Sane aie eae I og oof 1187 1239 1291 1343 1395 1447 1499
ZTyMSAKnif6e nee eRe Re 1188 1240 1292 1344 1396 1448 1500
22 NON OUSO See ee oe ee ae ee ee 1189 1241 1293 1345 1397 1449 1501
23H MOPRabbit=s ste oe eS ed | 1190 1242 1294 1346 1398 1450 1502
2Aa IG ReGG Lea sen a. 2) Ce ete eae 1191 1243 1295 1347 1399 1451 1503
Dh allAiknifewenks Sie wee ta ee Pd 1192 1244 1296 1348 1400 1452 1504
QC WWOHELOUSEn eee oe ee ae eee re 1193 1245 1297 1349 1401 1453 1505
2G N\WWeRab bites ae! een Seeks 1194 1246 1298 1350 1402 1454 1506
Srl eed ee earth «eee tet ean Wenn 1195 1247 1299 1351 1403 1455 1507
29) 3 Kinifese) oo Se ae eles 1196 1248 1300 1352 1404 1456 1508
30) 4sBouse eee ee a ae 1197 1249 1301 1353 1405 1457 1509
SL oy Rebbiten em oN eee Fey 1198 1250 1302 1354 1406 1458 1510
321 6yReeds _ seers wa Pee I ora, 1199 1251 1303 1355 1407 1459 1511
SBT NT fed cb (seen, al he ue aes te AS 1200 1252 1304 1356 1408 1460 1512
B41 SHETOUSO Hes le eee es ea Nes 1201 1253 1805 1357 1409 1461 1513
30: |OUR GD bitten eens (inne eae eaeweel | aL O0D 1254 1306 1358 1410 1462 1514
S6ulvO Reed et 20 2A pak cine AE" ees 1203 1255 1307 1359 1411 1463 1515
STA de Knife: 2 See aa eee ae be 1204 1256 1308 1360 1412 1464 1516
SOUP ESET OMS. ky TE wh juey eR Se na 1205 1257 1309 1361 1413 1465 1517
OOMMISERAD It 22- ae eee se en eee 1206 1258 1310 1362 1414 1466 1518
AQ WIC ROG Goce Es. sia Mey Ra ea ity oe 2 ae 1207 1259 1311 1363 1415 1467 1519
ATA 2uKonite: 2. see a. ee ee es 1208 1260 1312 1364 1416 1468 1520
42)\l\ 3) FI OUSC i 8 pe sD hh hs at 1209 1261 1313 1365 1417 1469. |- oe oe
437 40 RAD DiGi oe eee a ee 1210 1262 1314 1366 1418 1470) |=
44, | 5 *Reedie 23 sree ee Eo 1211 1263 1315 1367 1419 pe (ll ee eS
ADA NGRISCIIO: = 22> hc ket See eee 1212 1264 1316 1368 1420 472 ))| Soe
AGI Pt PLOUSC: wk rw 73 Be ow ee Ps 3 1213 1265 1317 1369 1421 4 73h|ee eee
AT NCB Rap bites ene he ee 1214 1266 1318 1370 1422 VA7A Nee ee
ASU OUR CCG Mud. Sielee hep odes Beta ls 1215 1267 1319 1371 1423 1475) |e
4ST LOUK Geer eee Eee ee tears 1216 1268 1320 1372 1424 14765| eee
50) bi) Ouse: 4 32) ee 1217 1269 1321 1373 1425 1 i Ae | ene
SIH LQ Ra DDT Gees oe te a oe pene. a aa 1218 1270 1322 1374 1426 1478: | eo eee.
52 ela ROO Se pe UR po OF ye I 1219 1271 1323 1375 1427 1479) |¥o teen

The Mexican and Central American calendar in the simplified
form used outside of Maya territory is clearly the adaptation of
Quetzaleoatl. It follows the pattern of the Maya calendar proper,
but omits the numerical count of days and the periods which are
round numbers in the day count. That is, a permutation of 20
names and 13 numbers is used to produce the same short cycle of
designations, while the 365-day year is constructed as before out of
18 months of 20 days each and 5 extra days. Taking these together,
a larger cycle of 18,980 days is produced, essentially the calendar
round of the Mayas. But Quetzalcoatl divided this for chronological
purposes into a cycle of 52 years of 365 days each and let each year
be known by its beginning day, namely, the day which ushered in
MANUSCRIPTS OF MEXICO—SPINDEN 447

his month, Toxcatl. Later it seems that the beginning of the civil
year was pushed forward several months.

Unfortunately, no method was found to designate the different
52-year cycles, and when errors are made, generally by wrongly
reading the numerical coefficients of the days Knife, House, Rabbit,
and Reed (Tecpatl, Calli, Tochtli, and Acatl), which name the
years, the effect is nearly always to produce the interpolation of
entire cycles into the chronology. Fortunately, there are several
unbroken year counts for Aztec history which depart from the
year 1 Knife, 1168, and it is possible to demonstrate the errors in
interpolations made by Ixtlilxochitl, Chimalpahin, and the anony-
mous author of the Annals of Cuauhtitlan. Actually, I do not
think the custom of keeping annals prevailed among the tribes of
the Mexican highlands until bookmaking was introduced by bands
of Toltec warriors returning from Yucatan in the fourteenth cen-
tury. An earlier use of writing in eastern and southern Mexico is
indicated by the inscriptional record, but this also followed the
model which Quetzalcoatl had perfected.

ASTRONOMICAL EVIDENCE IN CHRONOLOGY

Ludendorff in eight papers on Maya astronomy has demonstrated
the correctness of the correlation of Maya and European dates
which I had the honor to present and which for a time was subject
to intense controversy. He has also demonstrated the marvelous
accuracy of observations in connection with nearly all the planets.
Part of this astronomy was carried over by Quetzalcoatl into the
ceremonialism of non-Maya peoples. In the codices of southern
Mexico there are numerous representations of the Venus staff and of
human sacrifices connected with the time of the inferior conjunction
of the planet Venus and the Sun. It is possible to convert a Mexican
date into a Maya one or at least find the places at intervals of 52
years where such a date must fall in the precise Maya system.

The most conspicuous representations of Venus ceremonies are
in connection with a day 1 Crocodile in a year 1 Reed. This date
is recorded 21 times in the Vienna codex and it runs on the cover
of the Codex Zouche as well as in the text in association with well-
known objects of the Venus cult. Converting this recurrent Mexi-
can date into Maya and then European equivalents, we find the
most probable position in relation to Venus to be April 5, 1467,
Gregorian Calendar. Here it coincides with the last visibility of the
planet as evening star before an inferior conjunction with the sun
on about April 9, while a first visibility of the planet as morning
star falls on April 13. This agrees very closely (the discrepancy
448 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

may amount to 2 days) with the Venus dates associated with the
great Toltec ruler Quetzalcoatl, who died or was sacrificed on April
5, 1208, and who was converted in the God of Venus when the
planet made her first appearance 8 days later. This earlier phenom-
enon was also in a year 1 Reed, but the day of the apotheosis was 1
Reed instead of 1 Crocodile.

Another astronomical date in connection with which Quetzalcoatl
is pictured in the Vienna codex as coming down from heaven bear-
ing the Venus staff is the day 5 Reed in the year 5 Rabbit. This
date finds its sharpest correspondence on June 26, 1446, the inferior
conjunction of Venus and the sun having fallen 4 days earlier on
the summer solstice.

A third date at which coincidence is found is the day 7 Reed in
the year 7 Reed, which is recorded 14 times in the Vienna codex
and several additional times in the Zouche codex. This works out
to the Maya date 11-13-19-11-13, 7 Ben 1 Yax, April 6, 1240,
Gregorian calendar. The inferior conjunction of Venus comes 4
days earlier, so this date, like the preceding one, coincides with
the heliacal rising of the planet.

More satisfactory for our purposes are the statements made in
the Zouche codex in connection with the sacrifice of Nine Flower,
Flaming Arrow, the brother of Eight Deer. The passage extends
from page 52 to page 69 in the Zouche codex. First, on page
52, we see Nine Flower carrying the Venus staff, next Eight Deer
and his companion at arms, Four Jaguar, make offerings at the
altar on the day 13 Crocodile in the year 7 House. On the very
next day Eight Deer has his nose pierced for the jade button of
high office. Two men are pictured, then a second sacrificial scene
of Eight Deer and his companion, next comes the capture of five
towns indicated by a spear thrust into a place name. The days give
the time of capture in the same year, the first two following close
after the events already mentioned. At the left side of page 59 we
see Eight Deer wearing the button in his nose and above him a
Venus staff planted beside a temple: the days 1 Crocodile and 9
Wind are beneath the picture. As we shall see in table 2, when
all the dates are arranged in order, the day 1 Crocodile coincides
with the heliacal rising of Venus, while the day 9 Wind is perhaps
intended for the autumnal equinox. Next follows a long succession
of chieftains making obeisance to Eight Deer (pp. 54-68); at the
end there are several who may be rather threatening. Finally, on
page 68 there is another date, namely the day 4 Wind in the year
8 Rabbit. Again we see the planted Venus staff and Eight Deer
in arms; four other men assist him, each a day ahead of the other.
MANUSCRIPTS OF MEXICO—SPINDEN 449

As a terminal picture Nine Flower, the brother of Eight Deer,

is sacrificed on the day 10 Rabbit in the year 8 Rabbit, while the

Eagle and the Jaguar fight and the Turtle Man seizes a heart.
TABLE 2.—Gregorian dates for the sacrifice of Nine Flower

Year 7 House:

Day 18 Crocodile_____~ a= wuly 22, 14732. =. Preliminary ceremony.

Day Wd Wind =22.-= = ae July 23, 1473—_-_-=.= Hight Deer knighted.

Day 7 Rabbit___________. July 29, 1473__.______ Additional ceremonies.

Day 8 Rain 22) July 30, 1473________ Place captured.”

Day 1 Crocodile________- Aug. 31, 1478________ Heliacal Rising of Venus.

Day’ 9) Winds..2 2.2 8 2=. Sept. 21, 1473_____ _.. Autumnal Equinox.
Year 8 Rabbit:

Day 4 Wind___-_______-. Aug. 6, 1474_________ Venus ceremonies begin.

AY ELOUSC= Sa AUIS. Cy da Ae eee Hight Deer.

Day 6 Lizard_________--. Aug. 8, 44-222 Twelve Earthquake.

Daye T snake! 2-3 he Aug. 9, 144 _. 3 Two Monkey.

Day" S Death.2 ==. Jes Aug. 10, 1474______=. Venus Priest.

Day 10 Rabbit___-—__._—.. JANIS: Ae AAR 2 ee Nine Flower sacrificed.

These datings indicate the possible accuracy of the entire historical
record, although there are numerous problems yet to be adjudicated.
It seems that Bodley and Selden records were continued for some
time after the Spanish Conquest and I believe that this must also
hold true of the Vienna codex, where page XIII, the last one of the
genealogical record is clearly in a later hand than the rest. The
obverse of this manuscript may deal with tributes and ceremonial
obligations.

HOW IDEOGRAPHY DEVELOPS

In closing let me draw a few conclusions in regard to ideographic
writing, especially since it seems the demonstration contained in
the codices of southern Mexico may have a stimulating effect
on the effort to solve the resistant hieroglyphic cartouches of the
Mayas. It is not improbable that the phonetic hope has been over-
stimulated by the well-known data on the so-called ikonomatic sys-
tem used in Aztec personal names and place names. This approaches
a syllabary if not an alphabet, but of course it does not tell you the
whole story of Mexican writing. There are numerous cases of pure
ideographic writing; take, for example, the sign yowal/i, meaning
night, which involves the symbolism of blood sacrifice at midnight.

It seems that sets of pictures and easily remembered symbols
were devised by Quetzalcoatl to express the whole ideas rather than
elemental sounds out of which words might be constructed. He ruled
an empire in which many diverse languages were spoken and he
required a graphic system independent of speech but easily explained
in whatever speech was at hand. Of course, there were cultural con-

18 One place captured on previous day, the others some time later.
450 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

formities within the wide circle of Toltec jurisdiction which made
the interpretation of these symbols much easier than otherwise it
might have been.

Ficurn 14.—Concentration of ideographic data in cartouches: A and B, same matter;
C and D, same matter; EH, concentration in Maya glyphs; F, three generations in one
statement (but here the calendarial names of the husband and son of Lady Ten
Flower are recorded in reverse order) ; G, H, and I, another family chart.

The 20 graphic signs which recorded the differently named days of
the common Central American calendar were for the most part
easily recognized pictures. With the meanings apparent it was
only necessary to use a sequence of local names which retained these
meanings. The 20 day signs which we may assume Quetzalcoatl
~

MANUSCRIPTS OF MEXICO—SPINDEN 451

devised for the undifferentiated use of the Zapotecs, Mixtecs, Mexi-
cans, etc., are much less obscure than the highly conventionalized
day signs of the ancient Maya time count but correspond rather
strikingly in basic significance.

The concentration of pictures into cartouches (see fig. 14) which
are clear enough in the usage of southern Mexico, where the cal-
endarial and personal names of both parents are combined with
the place name, the mat or palace platform and the footprint, to give
the essential facts of genealogy, are enough to suggest that the
ancient Mayas proceeded in similar fashion. Only with them the
unit characters are so conventionalized that we can no longer inter-
pret them without extensive study. After all, ideographic symbolism
forms the great original basis of American Indian art.
RS: Ho Wi
i

ee es ey hy

’ ra | Wer ms
r io \ ree

Smithsonian Report, 1933.—Spinden PLATE 1

Piud
ES

\ aR Et

PAGE 5 (TOP SECTION) AND PAGE 6 OF THE SELDEN CODEX WHICH RELATE THE
LIFE OF SIX MONKEY.

The text begins at the bottom and runs up, being continued on plate 2.
Smithsonian Report, 1933.—Spinden PEATE 2

PAGE 7 OF THE SELDEN CODEX WHICH CONTINUES THE LIFE OF SIX MONKEY.

Continued from plate 1, from the top of page 6, and concluded on plate 3.
Smithsonian Report, 1933.— Spinden PLATE 3

r

PAGE 8 OF THE SELDEN CODEX WHICH CONCLUDES THE LIFE OF SIX MONKEY,

Continued from plates 1 and 2,
i

ARCHEOLOGY OF THE BERING SEA REGION’

By Henry B. CoLiins, JR.
Assistant Curator, Division of Ethnology, U.S. National Museum

[With 11 plates]

There is probably no spot on the Western Hemisphere that holds
a more prominent place in anthropological theory than Bering Strait,
the narrow body of water just below the Arctic Circle which barely
separates the great land masses of Asia and America; for, according
to every indication, this was the gateway through which man first
entered the American continent. As yet the theory is based on
indirect evidence, by the fact that (1) in physical type the American
aborigines are mainly Mongoloid and, in the absence of any evidence
that the type originated in America, must therefore be presumed to
have spread from eastern Asia, and (2) because Bering Strait is
the only place where under existing conditions such an entry could
have been easily effected. No human remains or artifacts of any
great antiquity have been found around Bering Strait, and local con-
ditions are such that their discovery seems far from likely. If man
migrated into America during Pleistocene time, any remains left
behind in the far North would be difficult to find, as they would now
lie buried beneath the accumulations of frozen muck and ground ice
which cover the Pleistocene gravels on the Alaskan mainland around
Bering Strait. It may be regarded as significant that although the
bones of mammoth, bison, horses, and other Pleistocene mammals
have been found in abundance during mining operations or through
the erosion of fossil-bearing deposits, there has been as yet no
reported find of a human bone or authentic artifact of similar age.
If, on the other hand, man entered America in postglacial times
and migrated along the coasts or penetrated into the interior along
existing water courses, the tracing of such passage would be equally
difficult, for considerable topographic changes have taken place in
the coast lines even in recent years, and the river banks are being
washed away and rebuilt at a rapid rate. From the nature of the
circumstances, therefore, it would appear that the discovery in Alaska

1 Paper presented before Fifth Pacific Science Congress, Vancouver, B.C., June 1933,
revised.
454 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

of very early man or his handiwork is more likely to come about
through accident than by design.

Meanwhile, an orderly approach calls for investigations directed
toward the solution of a more immediate problem—that of the
origin and early history of the Eskimos who at present occupy the
Bering Strait region. Until we have full information as to the
nature and extent of the prehistoric remains left by the Eskimo,
an objective approach toward the more fundamental problem of
original migrations will remain very difficult. Fortunately, prog-
ress has been made in this direction within the past few years, and
although the recent investigations have thrown no new light on
original migrations nor revealed the existence of any pre-Eskimo
remains, they have added materially to our knowledge of Eskimo
prehistory and have necessitated a reexamination in its entirety
of the complex problem of Eskimo origins and migrations.

Aside from the usually fragmentary and general accounts of the
early explorers, our knowledge of the Alaskan Eskimo is based prin-
cipally on the pioneer ethnological studies of Dall, Nelson, and
Murdoch, made under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution
in the latter part of the nineteenth century. Somewhat later a
comprehensive program of ethnological and archeological investiga-
tions in neighboring regions was inaugurated under the direction of
Dr. Franz Boas.? The results, embodied in the reports of the Jesup
North Pacific Expedition of the American Museum of Natural
History, include a number of valuable studies on the language, mate-
rial culture, and social organization of the tribes of the North Pacific
coast of America and of eastern Siberia by Boas, Swanton, Bogoras,
Jochelson, Laufer, and Teit; and on the archeology of British
Columbia and Washington by Harlan I. Smith. An outstanding
accomplishment of the Jesup expedition was the clear demonstra-
tion of cultural affinities existing between these now separated tribes.
Some of the resemblances, particularly in the field of folk lore, were
remarkably close and led to the formulation of the theory that there
had been in the past an intimate and extensive contact between the
tribes of northeastern Asia and of northwestern America, exclusive
of the Eskimo. The latter, according to the theory, were thought
to have entered Alaska from the eastward, forming a wedge which
separated the northwestern Indians from the related tribes of
northeastern Siberia.

The groundwork for a systematic investigation was thus laid
through studies on the present aborigines, but the necessary exten-
sion of the problem into the more remote past was not attempted

2 Boas, F., The Jesup North Pacific Expedition, 18th Internat. Congr. Amer., pp. 91-100,
New York, 1902.
BERING SEA ARCHEOLOGY

COLLINS 455

until some 20 years later. It was not until 1926, in fact, that atten-
tion was directed to archeological remains in northern Alaska. In
that year Dr. AleS Hrdlitka, of the Smithsonian Institution, on an
anthropological survey of the Alaskan coast, obtained a number of
harpoon heads and other objects of “ fossil” walrus ivory which had
been excavated from old Eskimo sites on St. Lawrence Island and at
Bering Strait—objects which differed both in form and ornamen-
tation from those used by the modern Eskimo.’ In the same year
Dr. Diamond Jenness, of the National Museum of Canada, undertook
the first systematic investigation of prehistoric Eskimo sites in
northern Alaska, excavating at Cape Prince of Wales and the nearby
Little Diomede Island in Bering Strait.t | Here Jenness obtained
additional artifacts bearing the same rich ornamentation—a style
of art that he regarded as characteristic of a prehistoric phase of
Eskimo culture which he designated the Bering Sea culture.®
The objects decorated in the Bering Sea style were of walrus
ivory, which through many years of burial in the frozen ground
had taken on a discoloration ranging in hue from a soft rich cream
to a dark brown or almost black. The designs themselves consisted
principally of curving and flowing lines, circles, and ellipses,
and were much more graceful and elaborate than those employed by
the modern Eskimo. The chronological position of this old art
style and its validity as representing a distinct phase of Eskimo cul-
ture, as postulated by Jenness and Hrdli¢ka, has been fully borne
out by subsequent Smithsonian investigations on St. Lawrence
Island conducted by the writer in 1928, 1929, and 1930, and by M. B.
Chambers in 1931.°

ST. LAWRENCE ISLAND

St. Lawrence Island les 150 miles south of Bering Strait and is
the largest island in Bering Sea, with a length of 100 miles and an
average width of 20 miles. Its western extremity is only 40 miles
from the Siberian mainland, its eastern end 100 miles from Alaska.
The island is of volcanic origin, with a rugged mountainous interior
and a dreary coast line of low-lying tundra or steep, dark-colored

8 Hrdlitka, A., Anthropological Work in Alaska, Explorations and Field-Work of the
Smithsonian Institution in 1926, Smithsonian Publ. No. 2912, pp. 137-158, 1927; Anthro-
pological Survey in Alaska, 46th Ann. Rep. Bur. Ethnol., pp. 1738-176, 362-3638, 1930.

4Jenness, D., Archeological Investigations in Bering Strait, Nat. Mus. Canada, Bull.
50 (Ann. Rep. for 1926), pp. 71-81, 1928; Ethnological Problems of Arctic America,
Amer. Geogr. Soc. Special Publ. No. 7, pp. 167-175, 1928.

5 Here called the Old Bering Sea culture to distinguish it from a later transitional
phase.

6 Collins, H. B., jr., Ancient Culture of St. Lawrence Island, Alaska, Explorations and
Field-Work of the Smithsonian Institution in 1930, Smithsonian Publ. no. 3111, pp. 185-
144, 1931; Prehistoric Eskimo Culture on St. Lawrence Island, Geogr. Rev., vol. 22,
pp. 107-119, 1932.
456 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

cliffs of granite. From late fall until spring the shores of the
island are locked in ice.

The island is now treeless, and vegetation is of the usual Arctic
variety, consisting of dwarf willows, mosses, grasses, and flowering
plants. In Tertiary time, however, there existed a markedly dif-
ferent assemblage of plants—the giant redwood or sequoia, poplar,
rhododendron, sycamore, and alder—as shown by fossil remains
found in coal and shale outcrops at several places.’

The present inhabitants of St. Lawrence {sland are Eskimos be-
longing to the Yuit or Siberian group. They number some 400
individuals, most of them living at the village of Gambell (Sevuo-
kuk) at the northwestern end of the island and at Sevunga, 30
miles to the eastward. They represent the remnants of a consider-
ably larger population, which was greatly reduced by a severe fam-
ine and epidemic in 1878-79.

Numerous old village sites are found at the now abandoned eastern
end of the island as well as along the north and west coasts. At
certain of these old sites the Smithsonian Institution during the
summers of 1928-31 has carried on excavations which have thrown
considerable light on successive culture stages and have made pos-
sible the establishment of a chronology which promises to be appli-
cable for a large part of northern Alaska-and northeastern Siberia.

In 1928 a period of 2 months was devoted to excavations at an
ancient village site on Punuk (Poongook), a small island 4 miles
off the eastern end of St. Lawrence. Although today there are no
Eskimos living within 100 miles of Punuk, the huge kitchenmidden
marking the site of the old village is conclusive evidence that for
many years this barren little island had supported a sizable Eskimo
population. The midden is 400 feet long and has a visible height
of about 10 feet, but excavation proved that it extended 6 feet below
the present beach, giving it a total height—or depth—of 16 feet
(pl. 2, fig. 1). In 1929 excavations were made at another large
abandoned site at Cape Kialegak, 30 miles to the southward (pl. 2,
fig. 2).

Ordinarily the excavation of such refuse heaps would be a compar-
atively simple matter. In northern Alaska, however, a particular
obstacle to excavation is offered by the frozen ground, which even
during the summer thaws out only on the surface. Artificial methods
of thawing the ground by the use of steam or cold water such as
are employed in mining, are not only expensive and usually imprac-
ticable but have the added disadvantage of being destructive to the
more fragile objects. The most practical method has been found to

7 Chaney, Ralph W., A Sequoia Forest of Tertiary Age on St. Lawrence Island, Science,
vol. 72, pp. 653-654, Dec. 26, 1930.
BERING SEA ARCHEOLOGY—COLLINS 457

be the slow but certain one of taking the excavation down inch by
inch as the frozen soil thaws out through exposure to the atmosphere.

As a result of the excavations at Punuk and Cape Kialegak it was
found that the graceful, curvilinear art of the Old Bering Sea period
had not suddenly disappeared, to be succeeded immediately by the
comparatively simple art of the modern Eskimo, but that on St.
Lawrence Island, at least, it had entered upon a period of transition.
This transitional or Punuk stage, as it is called, employed simple
designs composed of dots and circles and straight or slightly curving
lines. There is also a marked difference in the techniques of the
two styles. The Old Bering Sea circles and ellipses usually sur-
mounted a slight elevation and were somewhat irregular in outline,
having been made freehand; most of the lines were lightly incised,
although deeper lines were often employed to afford contrast (pls. 3
and 4). Punuk ornamentation, on the other hand, is much more
uniform, with deeply and evenly incised lines and mechanically per-
fect circles which could have been produced only with metal tools
(pl. 5). This supposition is borne out by the finding of a few en-
graving implements with small iron points in deposits of Punuk age.

This raises the question as to how the Eskimo came to possess
iron in prehistoric times. Eskimo ruins dating from the Russian
period are easily distinguished from those of greater age by the
presence of glass beads and metal and by certain late types of arti-
facts. That the Punuk technique antedated this period is shown by
the fact that at the old site on Punuk Island this art, with its metal-
engraved lines, was found from top to bottom of the 16-foot kitchen-
midden, which, according to the above-mentioned criteria, appeared
to have been abandoned for around 200 years. Under these cir-
cumstances it would appear that small quantities of metal, probably
derived originally from central Siberia, reached St. Lawrence
Island some centuries before the arrival of the Russians. There are
references in early Chinese literature to the use of iron in the third
century, A.D., by the Su-chen, a tribe dwelling in eastern Siberia
to the north of Korea. The Su-chen possessed on the whole a
stone-age culture and no doubt had relations with neighboring tribes
of similar status; it would not appear an unreasonable assumption,
therefore, that the Eskimo, along with the other tribes of north-
eastern Siberia, had acquired iron as early as a thousand years ago.

In 1930 and 1931 the Smithsonian investigations were carried on
at the northwestern end of St. Lawrence Island in the immediate
vicinity of the Eskimo settlement of Gambell. Here, at the sites of

*Collins, H. B. Jr., Prehistoric Art of the Alaskan Eskimo, Smithsonian Misc. Coll.,
vol. 81, no. 14, pp. 1-52, 1929.

® Laufer, Berthold, Chinese Clay Figures, Field Mus. Nat. Hist. Publ. 177 (Anthrop.
Ser., vol. 13, no. 2), pp. 262 et seq., 1914.
458 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

five old villages which had been abandoned successively one after
another, stratigraphic studies were made which revealed for St.
Lawrence Island a cultural cross-section extending from the present
time back through the oldest known stage of Eskimo culture. A
brief résumé of the Gambell excavations will be given below with
particular emphasis on those features which were found to have
undergone significant modifications, principally house types, har-
poon heads, art styles, etc.

Four of the old villages were situated on a broad gravel plain,
which extends for three-quarters of a mile westward from the base
of the Gambell cape or plateau—Cape Chibukak (Sevuokuk). These
old villages, now only low grass-covered middens, are known to the
Eskimos at Gambell as “ Miyowagh” (the climbing-up place) from
its location at the foot of the plateau; “ Ievoghiyoq ” (place of the
walrus); and “Seklowaghyaget ” (many caches); the fourth and
most recent site was merely a continuation of the latter and bore no
particular name. For convenience these four old sites are here desig-
nated as D, C, B, and A, respectively.

Excavations proved the relative antiquity of the sites to have
been in the order named. D had been established when the Old
Bering Sea culture was at its height, for the lower levels of the mid-
den yielded the complicated harpoon heads and elaborate art style
known to have been characteristic of that period. But the material
from the upper levels of D showed that during the later occupancy
of the village important cultural modifications had set in, resulting
in the decline of the rich Old Bering Sea ornamentation and its de-
generation into the simpler art of the Punuk period. The next oldest
site, C, proved to be a pure site of the Punuk period, with no trace
of Old Bering Sea art or harpoon types. B was likewise of Punuk
age but of a later phase, for harpoon heads from the upper levels in-
cluded a type which at the latest site, A, was found to have evolved
directly into the modern St. Lawrence type. The presence of a
few glass beads and pieces of metal at A showed that this site could
hardly have been more than 200 years old.

The cultural sequence revealed by these four old sites, although
clear enough in itself and unusually complete in detail, still left
unanswered one important question. This was the identification of
the type forms of the Old Bering Sea culture, that is, the common
implement types aside from the decorated objects. It might be con-
sidered that the implements from the lower levels of D, where only
Old Bering Sea art was found, were the types of the Old Bering Sea
culture. Although such an assumption would appear to be reason-
able, a degree of uncertainty would be present owing to the fact that
COLLINS 459

BERING SEA ARCHEOLOGY

both Old Bering Sea and Punuk art occurred in the same midden.
There would always be the possibility, therefore, that an object when
found might not occupy its original position, owing to disturbances
resulting from sloughing or from excavations for houses.

This deficiency was fortunately removed by the discovery of a
site of pure Old Bering Sea culture. On the lower slope of the
mountain and immediately back of D we found, almost by accident,
a buried site, E, the decorated objects of which, from top to bottom,
were all of the Old Bering Sea style. The presence of an old village
at this spot had not been suspected by the Eskimos, although the
trail to the mountain top which they and their ancestors had followed
for generations passed directly over it. There was visible none of
the refuse commonly seen about old Eskimo villages, no projecting
bones or timbers, no elevations or depressions. The site was com-
pletely covered over with sod, moss, and stones and in appearance was
a normal section of the mountain side. A single small patch of refuse
which had become exposed in a rock crevice led to its discovery.
Excavation showed that the refuse extended over an area (though
possibly not continuous) of several hundred feet, and reached a total
depth of 3 feet. It was apparent, however, that the site had been
disturbed in at least one place by a rock slide and some of the surface
had no doubt been removed by erosion.

ART AND HARPOON HEADS

The style of ornamentation found at E was Old Bering Sea, but it
differed from most of the previously known examples of this art in
being of a somewhat more generalized stamp (pl. 3; pl. 6, 1-4).
Most of the lines and circles were less perfectly executed and the
designs as a whole lacked the elaboration and finish that they later
attained.

On plate 4 are shown examples of the later style of Old Bering
Sea art from D. The overlapping “animal heads”, which were
found in three instances at the oldest site, EK, were retained at D
and developed into such artistic productions as figures 1, 2, 6, and 7
of plate 4; the more common small circles between converging or
parallel lines (pl. 3, figs. 1, 38, 5) were also retained (pl. 4, fig. 2).
On the other hand the numerous radiating lines and rather carelessly
applied shorter detached lines, which occurred at E (pl. 3, figs. 7-8,
10-12), were not incorporated in the later and more developed Old
Bering Sea patterns of D.

On plate 5 are shown 10 objects from D, C, and B, decorated in
the Punuk style. The earliest examples of Punuk art at Gambell
were found in the later sections of D, overlying the Old Bering Sea
strata. Early Punuk art employed lightly incised lines and spurs
460 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

and dots (pl. 5, figs. 1-3; pl. 6, figs. 16, 17, 19-22) ; later the lines
and spurs became deeper and compass-made circles appeared (pl. 5,
figs. 4-10).

The harpoon heads from the oldest site, E, were of a wide variety
cf forms, with open and closed sockets for the foreshaft, with end and
side blades, with single and double line holes (pl. 6, figs. 1-5).

Harpoon heads from the lower levels of D were of the same forms
as those from EK, although there was a tendency toward increased
size and elaboration of the base (pl. 6, figs. 7-14). Those from the
later sections of D (pl. 6, figs. 15-23), belonging to what may be called
the Early Punuk stage, were similar in form, but the pronounced
spurs at the base had been reduced, resulting in a slightly irregular
or plain spur; and there was only a slight elevation and dot where
earlier there had been a raised circle and dot. Harpoon heads of the
Birnirk type, so common at Point Barrow on the Arctic coast, also
appeared during the Early Punuk stage (pl. 6, fig. 18). It should be
noted, however, that multiple basal spurs and side blades of stone,
the features which mark the Birnirk type, had been present even at
the oldest Gambell site, E.

Some of the harpoon heads from the next site, C (pl. 6, figs. 24,
25), corresponded in form and decoration with those from the upper
levels of D, but most of them were either undecorated or bore the late
Punuk ornamentation of deep, evenly incised lines (pl. 6, figs. 29, 30).
Another type was a modification of the Birnirk, with side blades and
a bifurcated symmetrical spur (pl. 6, fig. 26). Lastly, we note the
presence of the Thule no. 2 type (pl. 6, fig. 27), with open socket,
lashing slots, and two barbs. This is one of the characteristic forms
of the prehistoric Thule culture of the central and eastern Eskimo
regions.’°

From the lower levels of the next site, B, came harpoon heads which
differed in no way from those found at C and the later sections of D
(pl. 6, figs. 31,32). The upper levels, however, yielded harpoon heads
of simpler types. One was the small bladeless form known as Thule
no. 1 (pl. 6, figs. 33, 34) ; the other was a modification of the typical
open-socketed Punuk head, but smaller and thinner and with the sides
of the socket inclined inward so that it became practically closed,
thus allowing the foreshaft to remain in place without the aid of a
lashing (pl. 6, figs. 35-87). Punuk art was found throughout the
midden at B.

The two types of harpoon heads just described were found also at
the next site, A, which was of post-Russian age, as shown by the
presence of a few glass beads and pieces of iron (pl. 6, figs. 28-40).

10 Mathiassen, Therkel, Archaeology of the Central Eskimos (Rep. Fifth Thule Expe-
dition, 1921-24, vol. 4) 2, vols., Copenhagen, 1927.
BERING SEA ARCHEOLOGY—COLLINS 461

Somewhat later the simplification of the harpoon head reached its
limit, when the thin type with the barely open, wedge-shaped socket
became thicker and evolved into the modern St. Lawrence form with
closed socket (pl. 6, fig. 41).

STONE AND OTHER IMPLEMENTS

Some of the Old Bering Sea implement types are shown on
plate 7, and Punuk types on plate 8. One of the striking differences
between the Old Bering Sea and Punuk cultures was in stone tech-
nique. The older culture abounded in chipped-stone immplements,
many of them being merely flakes with finely chipped edges; ground
slate blades were also common, and 2- to 5-sided rubbing stones
were characteristic. The Punuk sites, on the other hand, yielded
very few chipped-stone implements, the great majority having been
produced by rubbing.

Changes were found to have occured in other implement types,
such as adz sockets, pottery lamps and vessels, ice creepers, fish-line
sinkers, heavy ivory sled runners, bone and ivory arrowpoints. On
the other hand, there were types such as ivory picks, wedges, walrus-
scapula shovels, knife handles, baleen pails, drill rests, and bone
drills, which remained unchanged from the Old Bering Sea period
down to historic times.

Slat armor, wrist guards, and bird bolas did not come into use
until the Punuk period; and the flat, narrow sled runners of bone
and other evidences of dog traction were not found at any of the
prehistoric sites.

HOUSES

From two ruins excavated, the Old Bering Sea type of house was
found to have been a small, semisubterranean, rectangular structure,
with stone floor and a long narrow entrance passage (pl. 9, fig. 1, in
background) ; the walls were made of small driftwood timbers laid
horizontally and held in place with bone and wooden stakes; the
roof may also have been of wood.

Early Punuk houses were identical in structure to those of the
Old Bering Sea period, but larger, with dimensions around 19 by 21
feet (pl. 9, fig. 1, in foreground, and fig. 2). Later in the Punuk
stage there came into use another type of house, likewise square to
rectangular, semisubterranean and with stone floor, but with walls
made of stones, whalebones, and walrus skulls instead of timbers;
the narrow entrance passage was roofed with whale ribs or stones.
Another and quite different type of Punuk house continued in use
up to about 40 years ago (pl. 10, figs. 1 and 2). It was semisub-
terranean, square to rectangular, with floor of heavy planks and
walls of small timbers and whale jaws set on end and leaning
462 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

slightly inward. Low sleeping platforms extended along the floor
on two or three sides. Heavy logs set in the floor supported two
or three large whale jaws or timbers which served as roof beams.
There was a very long and narrow entrance passage.

THE ARCTIC COAST

While Eskimo culture on St. Lawrence Island was passing through
the several stages outlined above, it was undergoing modifications
of a somewhat different nature around Bering Strait and northward.
Punuk influence was felt in this region, for examples of the art
have been found in middens and house ruins at Wales and the
Diomedes as well as at Point Hope and Point Belcher on the Arctic
coast. But in these regions the Punuk as an intermediate culture
was overshadowed by the Thule. Dr. Therkel Mathiassen, the dis-
coverer of the Thule culture in northern Canada, was able to show
that it had originated in the west.11. Just where the Thule fitted
into the Alaskan sequence, however, was not clear, although it ap-
peared to be more closely related to the Punuk and to modern
Alaskan culture than to the Old Bering Sea culture. In order to
obtain definite evidence on this point, James A. Ford was detailed
by the Smithsonian Institution in 1931 and 19382 to carry on excava-
tions around Point Barrow.1? This region was selected because it
seems to have been the easternmost point to which Old Bering Sea
influence extended, and the most westerly point at which the Thule
culture existed as a type.

The oldest site at which Ford excavated was Birnirk. Here the
bulk of the harpoon heads were of the type which had been previ-
ously designated by that name—the Birnirk type—being made
usually of bone, with an open socket, a side blade of chipped flint
with an opposite barb (sometimes with another blade in place of the
barb) and with two or more asymmetrical spurs at the base (pl. 11,
fig. 1). Other types of harpoon heads from Birnirk are shown on
plate 11, figures 5-7. Only one harpoon head of the Thule No. 2
type (with two barbs) was found at Birnirk. However, this type
(pl. 11, fig. 2), was common at the more recent site of Utkiavik, where
somewhat later it developed into forms characteristic of the period
just preceding the historic, as shown by their association with metal
and late types of implements (pl. 11, figs. 8,4). The harpoon head
shown on plate 11, figure 8, came from a house ruin at Point Belcher,
60 miles below Barrow, and is of particular interest because it is a
Punuk type. From the same ruin Ford obtained several objects

4 Mathiassen, Therkel, op. cit.

12 Collins, H. B., Jr., Archeological Investigations at Point Barrow, Alaska, Explora-
tions and Field-Work of the Smithsonian Institution in 1932, Smithsonian Publ. no. 3213,

pp. 45-48, 1933.
BERING SEA ARCHEOLOGY—COLLINS 463

bearing Punuk ornamentation, which seems to indicate the direct
migration of a small group of Eskimos from around Bering Strait,
bringing typical Punuk culture to a region where it had not existed
previously.

Old Bering Sea art seems not to have played a very important role
around Barrow; however, a few examples were found in old burial
mounds contemporaneous with the Birnirk settlement.

The exact relationship between the several north Alaskan culture
stages and the Thule culture of Canada is still somewhat uncertain.
Harpoon heads, art, and a number of implement types link the oldest
of the Barrow sites—Birnirk—with the Old Bering Sea culture.
There are also resemblances to the Thule culture, but these are found
for the most part in simple traits of wide distribution, most of which
are also common to the Old Bering Sea culture. When we come to
consider the protohistoric and modern sites on the Arctic coast the
situation is entirely different. Here the resemblances to the Thule
culture are numerous and striking. Such important Thule elements
as soapstone lamps, pictographic art, small ivory bird figures, drilled
lashing holes on harpoon heads, and objects connected with dog
traction (flat bone sled shoes, trace buckles, also swivels and ferrules)
are common at the modern or late prehistoric Alaskan sites, but have
not been found at any of the older sites either at Barrow, around
Bering Strait, or on St. Lawrence Island.

The hypothesis that would seem best to explain this situation
would be that such elements as those last mentioned were brought to
northern Alaska within the past few centuries by a return or west-
ward migration of Thule peoples subsequent to the original eastward
spread of the Thule culture. There is reason for believing that the
Point Barrow house should also be included among the elements thus
introduced, for although built of different materials, it resembles the
Thule house and the related Polar Eskimo house of northwestern
Greenland in platform arrangement and to a certain extent in roof
structure; whereas it is in these very features—and also in wall con-
struction—that the Point Barrow house differs from other Alaskan
houses, both on the Arctic coast and below Norton Sound.

Language seems to afford further evidence in the same direction.

* * * the dialects of the Siberian coast and of the Yukon and Kuskok-

wim deltas [diverge] more widely from those spoken north of Norton Sound
than the latter from the dialects of far-distant Greenland and Labrador.”

* * * it is a remarkable fact that a Greenlander can still travel from his
own country right across Arctic America as far as Bering Strait and make his
dialect understood everywhere with little difficulty * * * south of Bering
Strait, however, with the exception of a few oases like Inglestat, at the head
of Norton Bay, where the dialect differs but little from that of Barrow, the

18 Jenness, D., Ethnological Preblems of Arctic America, Amer. Geogr. Soc. Special
Publ. no. 7, p. 174, 1928.
464 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

dialects change rapidly, so that a Greenlander would probably require three
different interpreters to converse with the Eskimo of St. Lawrence Island, of
the Kuskokwim River, and of Cook Inlet.*

Here again we find a condition that might well be explained on
the theory that the Arctic coast of Alaska had been subjected to a
late wave of migration from the eastward.

SOUTH ALASKA

The excavations of Dall +5 and Jochelson ** on the Aleutian Islands
and of Weyer?” on the Alaska Peninsula have shown that the pre-
historic culture of this region, although Eskimoid in its general
character, was, except for a few isolated resemblances, far removed
from the Old Bering Sea, Punuk, and Thule cultures. Striking
differences are seen in the shapes of dart points, foreshafts, and fish
hooks, and the scarcity of pottery as well as the presence of stone
lamps, labrets, and masks gives the southern culture a distinctive
appearance. Variants of this general type of culture are revealed
by the excavations of Hrdli¢ka ?* on Kodiak Island and of Fred-
erica de Laguna ?® on Kenai Peninsula and Prince William Sound.
Excavations in the intervening Bristol Bay-Norton Sound district
should throw light on the relationship between the prehistoric re-
mains of the Bering Strait region and those of southern Alaska,

NORTHEASTERN SIBERIA

No archeological work has been done on the Asiatic side of the
Bering Sea north of Kamchatka. However, from various objects
which have found their way into museums, it is evident that settle-
ments of the Old Bering Sea culture existed in northeastern Siberia,
from Indian Point to East Cape, and possibly as far westward
along the Arctic coast as the Kolyma River. Jochelson’s excavations
have shown that in earlier times the Kamchadal used earthenware
pottery of Ainu type with looped handles on the inside of the rim.”°
Small stone lamps of the Aleutian type were also used. Otherwise,
the Kamchadal sites have yielded little that is distinctive. To the

14 Jenness, D., The Problem of the Eskimo, in The American Aborigines, their Origin and
Antiquity, Univ. Toronto Press, pp. 379-880, 1938.

1 Dall, W. H., On Succession in the Shell-Heaps of the Aleutian Islands, Contr. North
Amer. Ethnol., vol. 1, pp. 41-91, 1877.

16 Jochelson, W., Archeological Investigations in the Aleutian Islands, Carnegie Inst.
Washington, Publ. no. 367, pp. 1-145, 1925.

17 Weyer, E. M., Jr., Archeological Material from the Village Site at Hot Springs, Port
Miller, Alaska, Anthrop. Papers Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., vol. 31, pt. 4, pp. 239-279, 1930.

18 Hrdlitka, A., Anthropological Work in Alaska, Explorations and Field Work of the
Smithsonian Institution in 1931, Smithsonian Publ. no. 3134, pp. 91-102, 1932.

19 de Laguna, Frederica, The archeology of Cook Inlet, Alaska, The University Museum,
Philadelphia, 263 pp., 72 pls., 1934.

20 Jochelson, W., Archeological Investigations in Kamchatka, Carnegie Inst. Wash-
ington, Publ. no. 388, pp. 1-88, 1928.
BERING SEA ARCHEOLOGY—COLLINS 465

southward, it should be noted that harpoon heads of Eskimo type
have been found at prehistoric sites on the Kurile Islands and in

Japan.”*
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS

The excavations at Bering Strait, St. Lawrence Island, and Barrow
have furnished data which make possible a partial reconstruction of
early culture growths and contracts in the western Arctic and sub-
Arctic regions of America. Thus we see that St. Lawrence and the
Diomede Islands and the Alaskan and Siberian coasts around Bering
Strait were inhabited many centuries ago by groups of Eskimos
who possessed a common culture, which has been designated as the
Old Bering Sea culture. This oldest known Alaskan culture, far
from being a simple or primitive one, was already highly developed,
with an art style more elaborate and sophisticated than any pre-
viously known to have existed in Arctic or sub-Arctic regions. Other
features of material culture show a similar condition; implements,
utensils, and hunting gear all appear more as the end results of
evolutionary processes than as beginning stages.

Having flourished for an unknown period of time, the Old Bering
Sea culture entered upon a stage of transition probably about a
thousand years ago. Changes were made in certain implement types,
others were discontinued, to be replaced by new types; and the rich,
curvilinear Old Bering Sea art degenerated into the much simpler
art of the Punuk period. On St. Lawrence Island a number of
harpoon heads and art designs have been found that are intermediate
between the Old Bering Sea and the Punuk. Consequently, the
changes there observed might be explained as having arisen locally,
stimulated only by the acquisition of small quantities of Asiatic
metal. However, in other respects the changes are so marked that
such an explanation alone is not sufficient. Strong influence from
some outside source must have been received, either through the
normal process of culture dissemination or through the migration
of new elements of population into the Bering Strait region. Dem-
onstration of the latter might be possible if more skeletal material
were available. A sufficient number of crania from Punuk sites on
St. Lawrence Island have been found to show that the Eskimos
of that time, like the modern St. Lawrence Islanders, were meso-
cephalic. But of the three Old Bering Sea skulls thus far found,
one is mesocephalic and the other two strongly dolichocephalic.

The close relationship between late Punuk art and that of the
modern Eskimos of the Yukon-Kuskokwim region may indicate a

4 Torii, R., Etudes Archeologiques et Dthnologiques. Les Ainou des Iles Kouriles,

Journ. Coll. Sci., Imp. Univ. Tokyo, vol. 42, art. 1, pls. 30, 31, Jan. 29, 1919; Kishinouye,

K., Prehistoric Fishing in Japan, Journ. Coll. Agri., Imp. Univ. Tokyo, vol. 2, no. 7, pl. 22,
Dec. 26, 1911.
466 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

southward migration or culture drift from St. Lawrence Island or
Bering Strait within the past few centuries. An earlier influence,
possibly dating from the Old Bering Sea period, may be reflected
in the bone and ivory dart foreshafts which the Eskimos of this
region carve to represent a sea otter or other mammal with open
jaws. However, it is not yet possible to speak definitely of culture
sequences in the Yukon-Kuskokwim region as excavations have not
been made there.

Northward of Norton Sound the Punuk played a relatively unim-
portant role; there the Thule, as the dominant intermediate culture,
provided the principal basis for the modern Eskimo culture of north-
ern Alaska. The sequence—Old Bering Sea-Birnirk to Thule to
modern—may be assumed for the region around Barrow, but the
place of origin of the Thule is uncertain. From the present indica-
tions it may have been at Bering Strait, at Barrow, or along the coast
between Barrow and the Mackenzie delta. We know little of the
archeology of the Arctic coast from Barrow eastward to the Arctic
Archipelago; somewhere along this broad stretch of coast there
should be older Thule sites than those excavated by Mathiassen in
the Hudson Bay region—sites established by the ancestors of the
Thule Eskimos as they migrated eastward from Alaska probably
during the period that Birnirk was inhabited.

From the recent investigations of Jenness and Wintemburg, it
seems not unlikely that when the Thule Eskimos entered the Hud-
son Bay region they found other Eskimos—those of the Cape Dorset
culture—already established there.??. The origin of the Dorset cul-
ture and the influence it may have exerted on later cultures are
problems for the future. Until this old Eastern Eskimo culture has
been revealed in its entirety and its origin determined, it will hardly
be possible to seek a solution to the ultimate problem of the origin
of Eskimo culture.

Excavations in the lower Amur valley and in the territory of the
Kamchadal, Koryak, and Chukchee should clarify to some extent
the problem of the relationship between these northeastern Asiatics
and the Eskimo and Indian tribes of northwestern America. The
widely held theory that the Eskimo originated in north-central
Canada and that some of them later moved westward along the
Arctic coast to Bering Strait is not supported by recent investiga-
tions, for these seem to have revealed an older stage of Eskimo cul-
ture in Alaska than in the central or eastern regions. In the light
of the present evidence, the Eskimo, instead of constituting an in-
trusive wedge which disrupted a former continuity of culture on

22 Jenness, D., The Problem of the Eskimo, in The American Aborigines, their Origin
and Antiquity, Univ. Toronto Press, pp. 873-396, 1933.
BERING SEA ARCHEOLOGY—COLLINS 467

both sides of Bering Strait, seem more lhkely to have been the cen-
tral link or filter through which cultural and even physical elements
passed from one continent to the other. It should be noted that the
theory that the Eskimos were late comers into the Bering Strait
region took into consideration only the modern groups. However, as
we have seen, the material culture of the modern Eskimos of north-
ern Alaska appears to have been profoundly influenced by a late
return migration of Thule peoples from the eastward, and it would
be entirely reasonable to suppose that other aspects of their culture
had been affected in a like manner. This late wave of eastern cul-
ture may therefore be the explanation of the “ intrusive” appear-
ance of the Alaskan Eskimo. According to this view, the observed
cultural resemblances between northeastern Asiatics and Northwest
Coast Indians could be explained as the result of contacts established
at an earlier period, when the Old Bering Sea culture was flourish-
ing on St. Lawrence Island, the Diomedes, and the adjacent coasts
of Siberia and Alaska.

Additional excavation will be necessary to reveal the age of the
Old Bering Sea culture. Physiographic changes have occurred
since that period, but unfortunately these cannot be interpreted in
terms of years. Sites of Punuk age at the eastern end of St. Lawrence
Island now lie as much as 6 feet below the present beach, indicating
a sinking of the shore-line or an encroachment of the sea. At the
western end of the island the opposite condition exists, for the oldest
site at Gambell seems to have been established before the formation
of the present extensive gravel spit and lake. It should be recog-
nized, however, that changes in shore-line topography in the Arctic
carry no certain implication of antiquity, since it is known that such
changes may be effected with considerable rapidity through the action
of sea ice and ocean currents.

The origin of the Old Bering Sea culture is a problem requiring
excavations not only around Bering Strait, where it reached its
highest development, but also in northeastern Siberia, where it
may have existed in an earlier form. The ultimate roots of this
old Eskimo culture may le still farther westward. The oldest phase
of the Old Bering Sea culture has yielded a few examples of geo-
metric art and carving in the round which resemble the upper Paleo-
lithic art of Europe. These may or may not be significant. Of more
importance, perhaps, is the fact that some of the oldest known Eskimo
harpoon heads—those of the Old Bering Sea and Birnirk cultures—
are equipped with small stone side blades, a technique which was
also common in northern Europe during the Maglemosian period.
It should be noted also that certain Iron Age objects from Scandi-

72774—35——31
468 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1933

navia, particularly bronze fibulae from southern Sweden and the
adjacent islands of Bornholm and Gland,” bear designs which are
suggestive of Old Bering Sea art and even more so of prehistoric
Ainu art.?* It may be because of the limitation of our knowledge
that these appear now as only isolated resemblances. Little is known
of the archeology of the greater part of central Siberia and nothing
at all of the Siberian Arctic coast. Excavations in these regions
might close the gaps and bring to light a series of old related cultures,
forming an earlier parallel to the present general uniformity of
culture in the circumpolar zone.

28 Stjerna, Kunt, Bidrag till Bornholms befolkningshistoria under Jirndldern, pp. 144-

145, Stockholm, 1905.
*% Torii, R., op. cit., pl. 32, fig. 1.
Smithsonian Report. 1933.—Collins PLATE 1

\ ss
ages . wunivaK 1, OS ’
° z
KURILE ANDO ° AUSKORWIM BAY o ~~
BERING SEA ge 4
og « ISLAN
Ds. ;
tars 50
be ° pire
60 4 XN ° Dos. Yso ptt
7 we stan?
A £ / Cc O ¢ é A
' \ \
| |
72° 130° 0° 60" sc? aa°

1. MAP OF THE BERING SEA REGION.

2. RUINS OF OLD ESKIMO HOUSE ON PUNUK ISLAND, 4 MILES OFF SOUTHEAST
END OF ST. LAWRENCE ISLAND.
“SUIpPUR YS YOO[TS [neg
“JIPpvR] OAOGK YPURIG UeULIOP] “+

“GNV1S| MNONNd
“AQNV1IS| SAONSYMV] (LS AO GNA LSV3a NO NA3CGIW 1LOO4-91 AO ASVG LV ASNOH G10
-HLNOS ‘HVSOAIVINM AdVD LV NAQGIW AO NOILOAS °Z NV OL SAONVYLNA AHL ONINYOSH SMVEF AIVHM *1

2 3LVd suljoy—"¢¢6| ‘q4odayy uvtuosuqUC
HISD = €E6l oe Os aTUIS
PEATE 3

Smithsonian Report, 1933,—Collins

IVORY OBJECTS FROM THE OLDEST SITE AT GAMBELL, E, DECORATED IN OLD
BERING SEA STYLE.

ey 7, fat seraper; 8, harpoon foreshaft; 9, use
unknown, possibly ‘‘wing’’ for butt of light harpoon shaft; 10, 12, use unknown; 11, Knife handle. (Re-
duced about !5.)

1, 2, 5, Harpoon heads; 3, gorget (?); 4, polar bear; 6, human head;
poonpay )

vy ALVW1d

(4 ynoqge
‘spvoy uoodaey “2 ‘9 SuMOmyUN asn ‘; ‘sofpuBy [led ‘¢ ‘e {(;) dadBos yRy ZC] SYBVMOAT]AY UOT 2-7 ‘souor (‘A “Ide o Ajsadoid ‘yerynyny u10. ‘eo0td yayoos UOOdAB AY ‘T
I | [4 ¥ V II Tf! é tae 1Ghot TAL J Weel @) yer y Ny J { yf

"LYV VAS ONINSG AIO AO 39DVLS GsadOTSARC LSSHSIH SHL AO SAIdWVX4>

SUT][OFD —"EEG] “Woday URUOsyzWIS
(6
pody ‘p oped pure 6 ay ‘eg oyna oF payepot spofqo ‘OT {2 2) Wiody ‘ye cry ul UBUE ‘6

; NOGB pawNnpsy) ‘Eg WOT
UMOT YUN asn ‘¢ iy wWOd) “YWoUISeIy pue Sproy woodary ‘8 ‘9 ‘p fqy uloay ‘spRey UoOOdI RY ‘S-T

“WSAWVS LV SALIS G10 AFYHL WOUS 'AYOA! NI'LYVY MYNNAd AO SAIdDWY XA

G 31V1d SUuTj]JOJ—EEsl ‘yuoday URTUOSY TS
Smithsonian Report, 1933.— Collins PLATE 6

HARPOON HEADS FROM FIVE OLD ESKIMO SITES AT GAMBELL, ST. LAWRENCE
ISLAND.

1-5, From the oldest site, E. Old Bering Sea period; 6-23, from D (6-13, decorated in Old Bering Sea style,
15-17 and 19-22 in early Punuk, 23 in Punuk); 24-30 from C, decoration, Punuk; 31-37 from B; 38-40
from latest site, A; 41, modern. (Reduced about 24.)
PLATE 7

Smithsonian Report, 1933.—Collins

IMPLEMENT TYPES OF THE OLD BERING SEA CULTURE, FROM THE TWO OLDEST
GAMBELL SITES, D AND E.

1, Rubbing stone; 2, scraper; 3-6, chipped stone implements; 7, rubbed slate knife blade; 8, pottery frag-
ment: 9, baleen bow; 10, toy wooden bow; 11, stone graving tool, wooden handle; 12, knife; 13, 14, bone
arrow points; 15, ivory adz socket; 16, 21, mouth pieces for floats; 17, 18, ivory fish line sinkers; 19, lower
end of dart thrower; 20, baleen ice scoop; 22, ice creeper, with inserted ivory spikes; 23, ivory fat scraper;
24, woman’s knife; 25, wooden snow goggles. (Reduced about 23.)
Smithsonian Report, 1933,—Collins PLATE 8

st A SA eS ey

> :
aie ee ee

20

IMPLEMENT TYPES OF THE PUNUK CULTURE.

1, [vory sled runner; 2, 3, plates of bone armor; 4, slate harpoon blade; 5, 6, ivory adz sockets; 7, knife sharp-
ener, bear tooth; 8, 9, arrow points; 10, bird bone inserted in another; 11, bone drill; 12, ivory spoon; 13,
whaling harpoon heaq; 14, fat scraper; 15, fish hook shank; 16, handle of engraving tool; 17, drill or reamer;
18, hook, made of dog humerus; 19, ivory drum handle; 20, ice creeper; 21, bola weight; 22, ivory comb;
23, wrist guard; 24, drill mouth piece; 25, 26, ivory knife handles. (Reduced about 34.)
Smithsonian Report, 1933.—Collins PLATE 9

1. RUINS OF TWO HOUSES EXCAVATED AT D, OLD SITE AT GAMBELL, ST. LAW-
RENCE ISLAND.

In background is a house of Old Bering Sea age partly underlying the walls of a later house, in foreground,
of early Punuk age

2. VIEW OF THE EARLY PUNUK HOUSE SHOWN IN FOREGROUND OF FIGURE 1

The entrance passage, roofed with driftwood timbers, is shown in background.
Smithsonian Report, 1933.—Collins PLATE 10

1, RUINED HOUSE ON PUNUK ISLAND, ABANDONED ABOUT 50 YEARS AGO.

Floor of heavy, hewed planks; low sleeping platform; framework of driftwood timbers and whale bones.
This is the latest of several types of semisubterranean houses formerly used on St. Lawrence Island.

2. INTERIOR VIEW OF SAME,
PLATE 11

Smithsonian Report, 1933.—Collins

HARPOON HEADS FROM OLD SITES AROUND POINT BARROW, ON THE ARCTIC
COAST.

1, 5-7, From Birnirk, the oldest site; 2-4, from Utkiavik; 8, from Point Belcher. (Reduced about }%.)
INDEX

A

Page
Abbot, Dr. Charles G., secretary of the Institution-_-_---_----~- iil, x1, xii; xiv;
5, 11, 14, 21, 26, 33, 37, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 52, 53, 56, 63, 68
(The contents 01 interstellar space) 22s 2-2 = Se ees a oe ya ie |
(ElOWAEDe Sun Warmsrtoe Carin) ++. 3 2s ees ee 149
AN D0fO ae I BW 6 | Vie a Se Se ee ee a xiii
Auchemicts, Lhe batwe of the (Compton) 4.2 ta ee 269
7G be C0 os) 0) a ORG Samet or lle lg ee xii
Aldrich, Loyal B., assistant director, Astrophysical Observatory___---~ xiv, 48, 49
American Historical Association, report__.—--=_--~ ——_-_ =--.---=-_------- 64, 67
Anthropology, department of, National Museum, report_---------------~-- 87

Appropriations for Government bureaus under administrative charge of

TOTUSY UO 9 ng ree ee A Sc Re nee oe ee ee cae” MOSS eel 148
Archeology of the Bering Sea Region (Collins) _-_--_------------------- 453
Acthur bequest, James 5.2 an he ce eee 8

Ft 1] Ce Pe EE ee MS 2S ee ee 138, 139
FSC SECON Ge, eee he Se Se SE en es 8
Arts and industries, department of, National Museum, report_---_---__~- 118
ASTLODUYSICal ODSEEVATONY 2a eee a ee 3
ie ea. 2 ee FE ee et 64
NN) ONES ac, = eg a ce at ht 61
J 25 Of 0) 1) Oe Spe = ae ng 20 eng ee 47
eee ee, - So oe ee ee xiv
BPR es Te me C80 1 ae i | ee eee ee ee 1389
B
Bacoumiund. Virginiagweurdy 2p Da oe ae ee 138, 13
traveling scholarship, Walter Rathbone____________________________ 8
LeyenbH6! ae Tae ggg Bo (hy) & (Ae ea Re a Ee CE CCE ee Pe em en 138, 189
Barro Colorado Island Biological Laboratory______ TOL Oe eee ee oe 10
IBArSLOw und, Hrederic. D2 fe a a ee 138, 189
LEFLOM ESA ol ga OF aN St: UL ee Se a es ECO ve a S11, Gs1e
Buissler, Dr. Ray S., head curator, department of geology______________ xtii, 108
(A geologist’s paradise)... 2-2-2 sn e eee hares S20
Belote, Theodore T., curator, division of history______________________ xiii, 180
Bering Sea Region, Archeology of the (Collins)___-___-__-___-_-__-___-_____- 453
Bingham, Robert W. (regent) -....__________-_____________ xi, 5
Biology, department of, National Museum, report___________-___________ 4
BIShOD Ore @anlk Woitin gee es ie ee Xiv
Bishopp, F. C. (Ticks and the role they play in the transmission of dis-

EUS CSS) ) eee eee ee ne Se LE a ee ee 389
Blue Hill Meteorological Observatory____________--_________--_-_-_ 10
Brackett, ‘Dr, Frederick S22-- 2-220. oo xiv, 3, 51, 52
ReOGHe tt. CUALICN Na 10
brown, Dr, Nroest’ Williams 8

(Gravitation in the solar system)_________-----_--__. 181
470 INDEX

Page
Bryant, Herbert S., chief of correspondence and documents, National
SIME aS Ua ste i a Cg La Xiv
Buchanan) Tey, (Ei sal 2 OE ees ee xii
Bushnell; ‘Daivicl Tig: Bric a0 Se PT aS ar eee xii
C
Cantield'-Colkectiion) fume e220 25 sto ee oe a ee 188, 139
Garey, shar] egy ice vy aye ye ae eh der tea te a le a ea xili
Carnegie: Institution of Washinetones-- 22022) -een 2 ee eee 6, 74, 76
Casey funds Dnomas. Wy 2o os ate ee eee 138, 189
Cassedy, Edwin G., illustrator, Bureau of American Ethnology_____ xiv, 32, 33
Cadell Wore At ING ae 26 Ae seh pes ie et Se eae eg ec eds xii
Century of Progress Exhibition, Smithsonian exhibit at the-______-_~_ 9
@hamberlain fund, Wrances sean 28 52s ee eee 138, 1389
@lamks; (AUS tin WHE ee ea a 8 ge ee ee ees ee xili
bear” Tee ea 1 i a a a a a al i I XIV), 53
@oehirams Wyre OTS eM a a a a ee xii
Collins, emry, VB, jit ass Nils a xil
(Archeology of the Bering Sea Region) ~~. =. 2 a ee 453
Compton, Karl tT. (The battle of the alchemists) _—2_22 2s 269
GE eh sViOlt ae) a Se eS a 249
Cooks Ors iO eH ee ee ee Se eed ee xii, xiii
Cooper: Ir. Gustav, An ~ 22 ees oe Se ee xiii
Corbin, William L., librarian of the Institution________.___-_+5. + ---= xi, 63
Goville; Dr; Wrederick VV 222.0. 2 ee en SR 2 ee ee ee xili
Craters, Meteorite, as topographical features on the earth’s surface
(Spencer) 2252.4 st Se a ee 307
Gross; Dr Wihitman 2.25292 Se ee ee eee xili
Grump, Representative Hdward H. (regent))__-=-._-=---2--+-=_- 2 xi 5
Cummings, Homer 8., Attorney General (member of the Institution) —_-- xi
Cushman, Drs :-Robért S22. 2522 ee ee ee ee xii
D
Daughters of the American Revolution, National Society, report------ 6S
Davis ‘and--Hlkins: .College2_W I 0d eo ies J ee 10
Delano! Wrederic-.A.- ~ (regent) ~.--==--=-=-222-2-22-U DEEN ae xi, 5,144
Densmore.- -WranceS=.2+ = =222.2s2=-42=-+s=-St esses oe eee 31
Dern, George H., Secretary of War (member of the Institution) ----_--- xi
Dorsey, Harry W., chief clerk and administrative assistant to the
Secretary ere eee xi
Dorsey, Nicholas W., treasurer and disbursing agent______-_-_---_--_- xi, Xiv
Doyle, Aida ~-Me.--2422-22-.2-24-- 222222252222. Pee ee eee xiii
E
Ethnology, Bureau’ of American: 2-22 eee eee eee 3
library i222 Sa re ee 32, 60
publications..2=-22222. 222002 = ese ee 11, 31, 64, 67
PepoOrtecihs- = Sess ee ee ee ee 27
staff. 2 a eee xiv
F
Page
rT ECs Oe se Gye a eS a ts xiii
Farley, James A., Postmaster General (member of the Institution) —_-_--- xi
Horbes; veila.G. assistantiibrarian=——...-. 22 ee ea xii
LENGTH ER 1/1 00 2)s iy. eee C1 9 IE ere ee ee 11
Horenesd. hes (Er dlitka)) sees =a ee ee ess 407
IBCs ee 1S) Tone Win © enna aS eR Sit
Owe, Prederick: Hi dite ee ===. ko ea eee ee xiv, 48
METOCO@T: AQ lyn) OS Ngee seta a Le 140
PCC US Gr eae ee NS ee Sa i aS 140
reer GalletycQiy An wa = Soe = Set ee Sa ee 2
CE UL TN Ch sr ee ee ed Ds La 2s ad Be 140
|B 0 25 yg er an ek ee ane a eae Perey 62
TO UH SS sa ee re ee 11, 25, 64, 66
TGS oe Waa a a I Dr I ee te 22
CS el 0S ae aa Noe 5 CN eR ep SNS irae eae eee Xiv
mecmann: 2, HleCrDett== oe ae 2a a Be te et A ee xii
G
Galaxy, The structure and rotation of the (Plaskett)_---_______________ 189
(Cgzlel ofzy 1 £27150 Ll ch Ee ee eal mp el OD ce a a a aE ee 2 xii
Garner, John N., Vice President of the United States (regent and member
Gime UISEMEIG OM) eset fe es I ek ed et Pal eS ee ee xi, 5
Mee A ZaUI gee DOD Te! COS ENT?) Og eg ea ee kk eS ee PA a ee a ee xiii
(2) WIE We Re (C09 Nee ce ak ae a ns Pe eis
LT: Ca OL OC E:L Mes ge a eS ede ee A Pe Se ee 7, 15, 84
Geolozists paradise; vAy (Bassler) 22 22e ee ee ed 327
Geology, department of, National Museum, report_____--____-__________ 108
Gifford, Representative Charles L. (regent) ~----___-__________ xi, 5
Calmorey Jr, (Charles Wise 2 AR, ee xiii
Goldsborough, Representative T. Alan (regent) -----__-_-_____--- xi, 5
(E03 1 FSP 00 tI) fs aS OM SP xiv
Graf, John E., associate director of the National Museum_______________ xii
(Cocke ORs oc] Oh eee B Peek (peat eas Om Un xiii
Gravitation in the solar system (Brown) __-_--__________________- 181
eC Le Ve He OCTLG key mee seen ee et ee et 3, 48, 50
Guest, Grace Dunham, assistant curator, Freer Gallery of Art___________ xiv
Gb bay 0 (=3 1) BAM BL=Y 0} oles of 6 I @ footie carina me ew _ NIN Cele oes ge a eS xiv, 56
H
PAC = 2 ee ee ee ee 8) A ee 1389
JERR) a a viefd 10 (0G |e a gee AR ee Eee a ee OL 13
PAOD Ce O.= 2h e e ee e e  e xil
JHU s sub e070 tite to (6 2 cs RD oe Rrra ct Ret POPE AAO SC OID SO 139
BRATS OU es COLD Ms ei ce a 8, 142
Hanson fund, Martin Gustav and Caroline Runice-_------ 8
Harriman Alaska Expedition, reports_____--__--------_--___-_-- G4
EVAEPINeTON A VOU (eres xiv, 28
Henderson, Edward P_..--______________--_-___._-_-_ ee xiii
JS (Sia) e\iis bb as Rewer eee es oe ce a ears ede rahe an aN 139
Besser. rank, [yo 2k eee eee Se ena ee eh kent SSG ERE Se xili

Hewitt, John N. B_____________ oe <r oe ee xiv, 30, 31
472 INDEX

Page
Heyl Pauly, GRomancenorsscien ce) == seas ee ee ee ee eee ee 283
igh” voltages (Comp tom) ie a ee ee ee 249
Hill, James H.; property; clerkiof the; Institution’: 2225 2 ee ee xi
History, division of, National Museum, reports2-220 222 ee 130
ERI TCHeCOCK Dr AUD ert yS ee eye ee a Ea ee ee xiii
Hodgkins fund generale a2 2s ee a i ee ey ee ee ee 139
SST OGTR 5 he es Ne tea I I ee ne LD Nv 188, 189
FGOIMIE Ss Os WV ier a aU a ae 2, 5, 13, 19, 20
TNETHOLLAY TNC Ti ee ce Ce ee Se a a ag 84
ETO VET es WW DU eat TE eae rect EN ae ra ek A aS a xiv, 52
ART pO GUNS ys UT AG ala a a ae Oil! 1 le xii
Hough, Dr. Walter, head curator, Generar of anthropology S225 22 ses xii, 87
1 oh 7621) a0 Br) EO) eae] Kop em ee oa OS Sg OT CNL PR Re pe aN ce ER Ua iQ Re eS Fh xii
DS OU Re) cos heel 2 cy am eee ere te 2c HOS CU AMR, n/N OR SSNS LEB Le HE MNS CUTTY SUE A xii, 10
(CRS OTST ee A) ee a a Sneak dn A a 2d A 407
Hubps Carll: wiNatunes:own, seaplanes)) 202. oe Le ee a eee Sey
Hughes, Charles Evans, Chief Justice of the United States (chancellor and
MeEMDErOL CHhewINStDEULLOM) |= ee oe ee eae a ee ee xi, 5
BEVUT ECs fe fou 70 CO sy Bes YU Na a a el th By a eee 39
Hull, Cordell, Secretary of State (member of the Institution) _-_________ xi
I
Ickes, Harold L., Secretary of the Interior (member of the Institution) __ Dal
Indian manuscripts of southern Mexico (Spinden)_____________________ 499
Insect’s stomach, The history of an (Snodgrass) ...-_.--.-..--.-.__-_-_ 363
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature, Regional Bureau for
the ‘Wnited States. 222s ee ee Ee ae xiv, 4
TO POT Giese ree i SOE Pe _ A E yyTE ee 54
International. xchange Service--—.-- ees!) Serine 7 Soe eae 3
TQ OO Tibia area a tl re Oe 34
<} 12) 5 eee ep ae nie ee rn emoreR WL PANE MSL) NPE ies KA AU NE Lol enh es bd See NE 1392 8 xiv
J
JTOWMSON, ALLEL Se eee a as ee ae ae ale age ea (G30, 42,
Johnson-Smithsonian Deep-Sea Expedition___---_-__--___-___---------- 6
TJOHNStOM Dre ar Se ees ee eae pega Ne ye ae ae Re ee a xiv, 3, 51, 52, 53
BUTYL LESSIN CTT TCI ers Ns a Pisa Se a ESI ea Si eee a ae at ee xii
K
Kellogg: Dr: Remington s 22 oe ee ee ee eee xii
FSUULE py, BAU Sw ea De ee ee a SE ee xili
Knowles; “W, At, property, clerk=- 2... 2.222022 Wee eee xiv
Kerieger:: Eber bert: Wie se IE SS eda aR xii, 11
L
Hangleysaecronautical library 2222s se ee eee 61
heaughling Irwin: «(negent) 22) 3022s Ses See ee eee xi, 5
Leary, Ella, librarian, Bureau of American Ethnology__---------------- xiv
Teeonard®: merry Cote See ee oe ee tin ene xili
Hewton: Dr:) Pred erichWies0:t2- os sas eae eee eee xiii
INDEX 473

Page
Libraries of the Institution and branches_____-----~-- 11, 20, 32,59; 60; 61, 62; 79
bi 29 0 (0) Pm Ne pO eS eS Pe ORL e ee HY §
Lodge, John Ellerton, curator, Freer Gallery of Art--__--_------------~- xiv, 26
hosan,-senator-V. IM. (regent) 22. -- =  e xi
STITT AIS GES bo (OME) ears suger he xi
M
NY E01 0 Pehl OD) ieee. 0 =) 6 ge ng ES oe Se a ee Lee xiii
Mann, Dr. William M., director, National Zoological Park__------~- xii, xiv, 46
IV Misaera PT TN oe OWNS is ce pees ee ee ee ee ee Re ee ee xiii
MVSUTSTEGLT Lp W We RLU TON ey ce ate ee ire are ee tS a a ed ee xii
VESICLE Is UViey, Et eee ee ee ee et ee Se xiii
Me@ALISteCr Or MO War) es ee ee a ae xiv, 51
VEC ATE CC ry) a UV ee ee en es Se ae ee ate ee See ee eS xii
Meer sr WOT en CO mH ae eee ee ee eee xiv, 53
(The microscopie plant and animal world in ultraviolet light) ---_-__~ 349
NSE ane Oe EAT be ee ee ee SE SS xiii, 144
Merriam. .Ur soln. OC. (regent) mas ee ee ee Se xi, 5
Mache ISOng Dre TU ae ene Ee ee xiv, 38
IMG et GCG rat) Ten ee eee sok oe Fe ee eee xii, 11
Milne, E. A. (Some points in the philosophy of physics: time, evolution,

PMC GRCH LL OU) ) eee ae ae 2 nt Se ee ee 219
Mitman, Carl W., head curator, department of arts and industries___-__ xii, 118
Moore, Walton (recent) —222~ 22-- = hs ee xi, 5, 144
Morrowe Hon. Dwight. W.,, beduecst-22 22 _. 2 a 2 ee 6
Mountains, folded, Origin of (Prouty) ~.__---_--_--_-_-___---__-__-------_- 293
15 (CYA We ee i ee ge i a ee ee 8
Myer fund, Catherine Walden-— = - 2 = ne 139
Wy CTSo Dr GEOL LC. ee ee eee ee ee a Ss ee xii

N
National Gallery of Art--__-_--__-__-- ee ae ae ae Re fa ee 2
AGM eS GIVCCLOi ea ae Se Se ee = fee! S-® Xiv
EXO) 00 60 EES 0) 0 mate a ae ee a gn le 14
HOPE Yee oe eo ee ee ae st Se ee oe 2 ee cai 20, 61
10184 0) WH 6521] F100) 0 hs SRP ee SE ag ER RSENS BO EN CSP SON ym ge emer ne 20
Ranger fund purchases, The Henry Ward___-__---_----__-------~_- 16
NS C1 it eae ee ee eee eee ae ee te
SHCCIAMSCX NID ONG 2 ae ee a os 19
1° Faiy era) a2 9 Bags hb CSS 0 a 0 ee ee 8 = Oe ee 2
department of anthropology, reporti22=—222s2— 22a ee es 87
department of arts and industries, report-_____._-_-___-_-___--_-_-__- 118
department, of: biology, reportisun eo. ne ee ie hte 94
department of geology, report________-_________----__-___------_-- 108
Givisione Or, MiStory: * TepoOrte. 2k ee ee 130
DE ra ae a ae eee ee 59, 79
10} 0 U0) betsy (0) ofS | meee Sea ee ag ny LS a Se eer 11, 64, 66
FSET 0 pees afk Bly <P Senet a a ra ee ee xii
INETLOM Ae OOLOST Ca AT as eS ee oe 3
DAL ToS tee ee Sd ee ee Se Ae es ee a 62
474 INDEX

oO
Page
@ehser,:Paul H., editor,, Nationall:Museum: 25255) we ee xiv
Olmsted; DrwArthur, J Se ee ee ee ge a xiii, xiv
LP
Page
UT a te AL LTT CU ee a PE Sess ae, Ree ee ed 139
Pell tund Cornelia diving stonw 232 ee ee ee ee 139
Perkins, Frances, Secretary of Labor (member of the Institution) -__-___ xi
Physics, philosophy of, Some points in the: Time, evolution, and crea-

LOM CMG Me) Ss oo eh te ee ee eee 219
Plant and animal world, microscopic, in ultraviolet light, The (Meier)____ 349
Plaskett, J. S. (The structure and rotation of the galaxy) _-__-___________ 189
Poore fund, Lucy: Dvand:GeorgesW 22s se eas a Se ee eee 139
Prouty, “We E (Origin-of folded@mountains) 22222 Sree 293
Publications of the Institution and branches______-_____ 11, 20, 25, 31, 64, 66, 67

Wg) 00.) etapa SR i eo ep eh pee aD ed BE 91 OLGA 64
sb afo Lu haa yset) sen 0,1 eQehl a aad pe Paentaw My nee oe ewer payne pene A ese y veut BE Rabie ec hhh SP TS BB. 1c 10
R
Radiation and Organisms; <divistom Of 2s ee a eee to 3

UNDO ss A MI ea ay ee a Pe ee 61
TOW OU eee = eR BO SS a ee ee ee ee ee 51
SS Urea Ta as Pe Pe Oe AE a AS NS ae ad le rrr ee xiv
Rathbuns Ir4 Mary Jee wee ASE we tare AE A ape olga oa ieee a xiii
Reeds Senator David VAL" (récentjeisske eu eee eee ee xi, 5
Regents of ithe Institution: Boardstot = eee eee xi, 4
EXCCULIVE: COMMUTER 2 ate ee ee xi, 44
TPO OTe es Ns a rs SS aah 1388
COT Fecal Al TS ra Ma pe Au a 2 RL ee 139
Research) Corporation iof INew Worku22 22 se sae ea 51, 142
Resséers Dr Charles Ws se eee xiii
SERN SARUM TY a Se 139
Rhoades, Katharine Nash, associate, Freer Gallery of Art--_-_____--____ Xiv
BRT ya ire se ae ns IO SA nes a al Se xii
Roberts; dors .Mranks eee Paes ae a Se ee xiv, 5, 29
Robinson, Senator Joseph T. (regent) --_-____-__-________ Lite Fiery eres xi, 5
Roebling aroln.cAcee cee ee fe ae oe ee ee ee 1, 3, 48; 142
PUTA 2 ak ate Pg ee 139
OTD WV Ge TS AN ey I ge DI xii
Rollins. fund,..Miriam.and.. William.o1{0057_ cli ies is 139
Romance ioriscience?, (Heyl)... iin ae ah hae eee te Se a 283
Roosevelt, Franklin D., President of the United States (member of the

Bre StH C EL Om) See a xi
Noper, Daniel C., Secretary of Commerce (member of the Institution) __ xi
UUSSEIL ie OWWAT SOM Cae ae ae A SRE es eee 4 ie | xii

Ss
ROUTE ON «Penta eh Ak cp 0 RS Nl ae eg 139
Schaus,. Dr. yale ys fo Ox yeah eeu Ne Aa ee ea ce xii
Schmitt, DES. Waldo jij lie a1 eS Fe aes Sad sic ee xii
INDEX 475

Page

Searles, Stanley, editor, Bureau of American Hinnolorys.2-- == xiv, 31
Secretary of the Institution__ iii, xi, xii, xiv, 5, 11, 21, 26, 33, 37, 46, 47, 48, 49
50, 52, 53, 56, 63, 68

Setzler, F. M_-------------------------------------------- pee See xii
Seymour, Ralph_---_-.---------------------------------------------- 7,20
Shoemaker, ©. R-----.___--------=.-----==-.=—-=~---=------=--==--- xii
Shoemaker, Coates W., chief clerk, International Exchanges_--------- Si, ot
Smith, Dr. Hugh M____-___-------------_------------------------------ xiii
Smithson. James2_-222-- se eee a ee Seana =-= 4
bequest —.— 242. 4-2 == es --s----=- -== 138
STIiithSonlannanniial TeCl0 Fis =e ee 64, 65
contributions to knowledge_-------------- pha eS ee ee Be 64
STD LO) OTT UN Ges oN Ce es ee ae ka eee 138, 1389
PCS ee ee ee ae ee 10
MUSCelAnNeEOUSs COlLLCGLION Sse ee ee ee 64
Pen eT eee a eee 2 eee es ee 139
Special’ publications2-o-- -+=- == ean aE Seer le aet Sen PN ee a eee Ce: 66
jy a) SS pa ta Ke 28 Laat BOUT D |< Meal an Oe Pa Ie aR Sen er ee 138
SHOT OY O He ARSENATE Ce Kile Gas 6 tae ec ae egg eg a i ee ea 0 eran a 5
Snodgrass, R. E. (The history of an insect’s somach) ee eee 363
Space, interstellar, The contents of (Abbot) 222-22-2— 222s ee 211
Speiser, E. A. (The historical significance of Tepe Gawra) ~-------_----- 415
Spencer, Dr. L. J. (Meteorite craters as topographical features on the
SSANTS Lad Vege oy SS UML CC) ese ee a a oe Eo a ae Oy a 307
Spinden, Herbert J. (Indian manuscripts of southern Mexico) —~------~-- 429
SS PRIRLTY exy TUT CL eH eh ee we ee eee eae OE le 139
Stands science where she did? (Thomas) -__--___-_________-______-___-- 239
ASE: 00) a eae) 6 9 PD 9," Oe pees RD ON oe NR ee xiii
Stejneger, Dr. Leonhard, head curator, department of biology_____-_~ xii, 94
Stewart, or Yehomas: De ia 2 2S ee ee ee ee Be a eee xii
RSLS oD) They Cu Vier ree ee ee eee, As Se ees XLT
Stirling, Matthew W., chief, Bureau of American Ethnology____-- xiv, 27, 33
SOL Pate tes VL T Le ee ee EA Xv, 29,730
Sun warms the earth, How the (Abbot) ~-_______ me apt ose et ae 149
Swanson, Claude A., Secretary of the Navy (member of the Institution)_ xi, 5
SS Ni 8 0) 5 ol DY cB CG) 0 02 a Op ea ee en NSS SO xiv, 27
“SINy/A0F 2] (23591 Os ga GN De ne pc nS Sb ese xiii
Ab
Sv LA PAN og | git. ake coe ae eS xiii
Tepe Gawra, The historical significance of (Speiser)_---___-__________ 415

Thomas, Ivor (Stands science where she did?)_--____-________________ | 239
Ticks and the role they play in the transmission of diseases (Bishopp)_— 389
Tolman, Ruel P., acting director, National Gallery of Art__ xiii, xiv,2, 14, 20, 21

UDR LOT gh ERT NN ee etre 85
True, Webster P., editor of the Institution____.._..--..... xi, 68
U
RUUETSL GL pe Toot ive C) emer 5 2 ee xiii
Ultraviolet light, The microscopic plant and animal world in (Meier) _— 349
Vv
476 INDEX

WwW
Page
Walcott fund,;:Charles’ Dands Mary Vaux 22 2 2S eee ey ee ee 139
SIV TIT SAVE ATE VAAN eRe. a et aa Le 142
Walker, Ernest, assistant director, National Zoological Park____________ xiv

Walker, Winslow M., associate anthropologist, Bureau of American
HW thnolog yess sai aa See a a ee eee eee xiv, 30
Wallace, Henry A., Secretary of Agriculture (member of the Institution) — al
Watkins} -WilliamwNia22022ee8 22a oe ees ee ee ee xiii
Wenley, Archibald G., assistant, Freer Gallery of Art__----_---__-__--__ xiv
Wetmore, Dr. Alexander, assistant secretary of the Institution____ xi, xii, 5, 69
White; (Dr Davides 2. ee ee Be ees xiii
Web ite by reeen chs. Cree] sw a ie a eB xili
Woodin, Williain H., Secretary of the “Mreasury (member of the

LnStitution) 22-22 us oe ae a sabe ee eee eee xi

a
mMaeverni@iCo. (Walliams 22S ie 2 ee ee ee ee 144
Younger fund, Helens Walcott... =-2--= 222i ae eee ee eee 139

Z
Zerbee-fund, HrancespE rink] Ces eos Leek AR RI MOA RS ns Rea a 139
FOAENET | TATA G Ves as hes SAN ae Riek ees AD EE Ne BPP oe ee 3, 48, 50
Zoological sar ke Natl O10 ales re sen eee a ad ee eee 3
LED TU ee eee ANCA DENSE SEER VEDIO Aen: BERS ene ea 62
Py OK 6) of enable ated arte ed carer et Seer hada eh wh dy 38
6S B20 Oe tap sk pe yma esl pete eg LAN oe RD PR VEE Sead eh Miee IN all xiv
Cet WOR Struc y stim e ne “oan

pele Ue ie LB eRY pee

Au ak

ny VILE Nin, Pa ie eh tin, aay ts
5 Mate esheets Sashes iss de A:

Uae ge Meant
P 7 ie

’

Se ibe Rv a
!

i SNe

‘

i}

=! ap AF : ry on,
1
i
yest hie
* ny ae - hae ’ ny fh
La} ;
4
; hi oy ® Tae
4 7
Li CP 2 Ay
i
fae 4
| i
yt
ry
me 5 n
ty
a) nt
t

i oe oe: r/o eLearn me |
a ¥ a «ma a it a. oer ere 2 =
a egg a 7a"9. 3.3.7

a ae a ee on

|
cea ®
ye wore rae OOo ew oe
ce Ce « a a et an he a 6 6 Oe ge
ig tt eM qa wa ro o 2 ‘6 1 ee a
{. vere ae es ew. a ae

a ae Ow eta ee
fee tg eM “4 4 ® hk
a et AO ee

=e =
vem ey ~~
—“.- ee
‘ = 4
eee, Me
~— wy

i

iy

9

mm

ro

