:
* 1
|
i Ht)
ia |
4
}
ie. ee
|
'
’ t
he
\,
i F
veh “y
4 \¢
3 t
as |
\
|
a
oat
f
i
j

e
ng
cas
a

¢

rm Co
ne: ; we acer
aE NN HSE Nng SIR GR a

ee Ae .

Brats | i)
“i : ie M
ie kt i

f :

te

ni |
ie atl

yA

| i I } q

a i 1) ’ ie it Ale ¥,
PUY Pn eee bs 0
1 Me aah Wis

y b
ay, hy :

fe j
We acre bent,
AV Ee. AY uu Len! Vag 5 gt Op)
if ; } i ’ ey mt init

aie pote |)
; Ae THA VEE Re) aa

7 ii ‘ : if, Win ‘ Ki - i P

he ay a! | Le i) wn et

‘ CA f f ¥ at q
Hi ¥ + iy fw) |
Yn 7-2,

a

—
—
—

' : . , ’ |
ee Gn ai
; i * _

ry a! : j ' we i)
mies? . BS VOR me
| Pri Way ty 4
Lt Lao \ ' 7 j
Walmih
‘ i)
‘ e ‘ ty
4 ir
| fide ; Ve
An San) oF
i A ft
ne j
1 i
vay Ad Py
ath ve a
Zi in Ny i ; »

Delta

ih | i aN le ie i Va fy he
et } r) : at ite i re ih

oe
ANNUAL REPORT OF T HE
BOARD OF REGENTS OF

THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION ©

oe _ SHOWING THE

io "OPERATIONS, _ EXPENDITURES, AND

_ CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION
Anat THE YEAR: ENDING oe 30

_ SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
_ WASHIN GTON

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF REGENTS OF

THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION

SHOWING THE

OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND
CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION
FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30

1932

(Publication 3185)

UNITED STATES
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
WASHINGTON : 1933

For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D. Ge 2295 = Price 70 cents (Paper cover)
iL eR

FROM THE

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

SUBMITTING

THE ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE
INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1932

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, November 80, 1982.
Yo the Congress of the United States:

In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, I have the honor, in behalf of the Board of Regents,
to submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expendi-
tures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year
ended June 30, 1932. I have the honor to be,

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
C. G. Aspor, Secretary.

III
feta focal ofl is AG
i io Lae ack) to Uaded ai to
| moter odd Lo Fodor fnns

nth tod nobtiiitent matioehiiatel
‘ Wi mi ; Oe Ni nM i ( I pau pi 8

CONTENTS

Outstaucinevevients. Ol UNG Veatg= ac So oe. ea as eee ee
‘Rhevestablishmentes. seek ee See Weep Ne Seen
Miner boardionnesents . 4 eos eee ee yee Ne alee ie
EEFIT TN COS ee Sie 2 mae Se AR eee a Lac a eis SRN ge, Seay SII Bes
Matters;om ceneral interests Woe 2 oe Se oe eee tine
Dwigit Wier lViOrnaw DeGUeStS. 2.2 woe™ Seg ee 2 Sie See ea ee
Research Corporation awards to Doctors Douglass and Antevs---
ME GUT Coe heey Meare tas rr spears Aha Co oak NR a eee

Cooperative ethnological and archeological investigations _------
hxplonationsrand held worki 9222-255 cet ee ET Pee
1 Beb1) ON DHGEES G71) ase Uae ep ert sg re Pala  U
FEAT OS oF eg. 2 BO SA a a Sa RT ea ape i eg SOO

Covernmentally supported branchesss2 2 \2o6 Seb ee a es

INS GiomaleiVi Se umes eke ee ee ia ee ge eal eae leet a a ee
Nari iarials Gallery Obs Am bie a Se le eee el 2 x egy oe ot ea pen
POSEN GAN eT VCO lt Ab y Se ten cock cpr an es at NEE ls ns A cae
BuredurorAme»nean Withnology 22. eet ee ee
Iiibernnauional hi xchanges cys seiisse sicwie le i ee UU ee a ee nee seal ba
National Zool oaiceallysb ar Ke ea upten supra wees 2 NAL aye) ity ee I ee
AS trop liysicaluObeelvia tonya sas ee erate ie Se See ee ce ge ee
DivisioniofhadiationsandyOrganisms .s 2 0y20 foe eee ea
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature___-___-------------

Jy LEER EN OVE 42 5 I a haa fl RUNS Se PISS oF a OER RE ep ya) opine mtnibarennesin Le
Appendix

1. Report on the United States National Museum__-___------
2. Report on the National Gallery of Art____--------------
3. Report on the Freer Gallery of Art__.------------------
4. Report on the Bureau of American Ethnology_-_----------
5. Report on the International Exchange Service___---------
6. Report on the National Zoological Park____.._----------
7. Report on the Astrophysical Observatory_..._....-------
8. Report on the Division of Radiation and Organisms- -- ---
9. Report on the International Catalogue of Scientific Litera-

LOmsveport: oncuhe Tibpary. ace. a 2 ee
iiPEReDOr, ON publicabiOnsssn see h ee ee, a ee

Report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents____--------

Proceedings of the Board of Regents.___.__.__.__..._.__-_--

1[In part govermentally supported.

a}
©
09
Oo

h
CODHDHDNINRAAROWNYNEHG
vI CONTENTS

GENERAL APPENDIX

Solan ‘radiations (byi@s GAB bo tae ee wil ee
Variable;stars, by 7 V;; Robinsons. 28 eo Na Asa SE se ee
The master key of science: Revealing the universe through the spectro-
scope, byabenryeNOrris Russe llerer eke CON Le ee ae ee nee eee
The. decline of determinism, by Sir Arthur Eddington_--_--__-__-_-___--
The “measurement of noise; by Gy WasGs Ria yess 0 ce eee ee
The age of the earth and the age of the ocean, by Adolph Knopf-________
A contribution to the geological history of the North Atlantic region, by
AlpertiGilligam™ 2) i 2022 oo So oe pak ee ae eee es
The meteorite craters at Henbury, central Australia, by Arthur Richard
SASL Ten MM earn se eee ea cay aa an SS ER ny
Some geographical results of the Byrd Antarctic expedition, by Laurence
TNT G0 tal een aE to Nh ok ER TS mgt ee ae
Some phases of modern deep-sea oceanography, with a description of some
of the equipment and methods of the newly formed Woods Hole Oceano-
eraphic Institution, by C.’ OD: Iselin Wises et ek tee ae ee ae
Safety devices in wings of birds, by Lieut. Commander R. R. Graham__-_-
Through forest and jungle in Kashmir and other parts of north India, by
@aseynWOOd 2. 5 oS oe ee nee ere ea pei ere 2
A decade of bird banding in America: A review, by Frederick C. Lincoln_-_
Insect enemies of insects and their relation to agriculture, by Curtis P.

Plantirecordshof the rocks, by Asks SC wat es aes ee ee eee pee
Cultivating algae for scientific research by Florence E. Meier__----_-----
The present status of light therapy: Scientific and practical aspects, by

Bidgeart May er sn 0 oe eae Py ga USAGI tee one
The rise of man and modern research, by James H. Breasted_________-
Mohenjo-Daro and the ancient civilization of the Indus Valley, by Doro-

chyrMiaekay 2222 eS SoS ea ee 2 ee eS ee ee ree
Historicalicyelés, by ©. ‘G.S: Crawiord.2 32 2 ee
The ‘‘great wall of Peru’’ and other aerial photographie studies by the

Shippee-Johnson Peruvian expedition, by Robert Shippee------------
Status of woman in Iroquois polity before 1784, by J. N. B. Hewitt_____

461
475
LIST OF PLATES

y Page

Solar radiation (Abbot) :

TEC CS ion eng ee tee eee ae eee eae Sash ete ied fee RAE AS BU SNR TS pee We 120
Master key of science (Russell) :

DEAE eS) TRE ply SN EU oe hc a ee ION ROE a A ee OD 140
Meteorite craters (Alderman) :

IE ECS Belency ee anid en Ree UL SO oie 2 UO La BMRA NRE POs aps Par pe aD Ey ae
Byrd Antarctic expedition (Gould) :

PETS G CS pe See ine ee AYN RON Pe NERA WA TN) a DO aes 250
Oceanography (Iselin) :

lentes mist gee SUB esa, NOT WA ROU a SPs ae ee ce (A ere ES 268
North India (Wood) :

PLATES Die Miser eal, Se sd NEA ERR ed SRS NSPE A ae NY Ga aT Sta 326
Bird banding (Lincoln) :

FEVERS id ES APN TAR RA a nM Nn an ne Re SL IO 352
Algae (Meier) :

Be Meet eA Te ea SEE SI ey pA eT a cg ct ECE PDE UPL ut UU as 384
Light therapy (Mayer):

VEE S: Fa ES 0 Sa ha CE Me ee SPOON cle UR etal DN Aer Rerae eR Tr LSUNC OL, 410
Rise of man (Breasted) :

POMS): a Mo (Sa cael eet aN MAT Sl EO All aR ie a od Ka i er eT en Se Ni 428
Mohenjo-Daro (Mackay) :

aL Spee Sees eer yee eared eens Nee SSL MAL Pie I yale a ee eee alee oe ee 44+
Historical cycles (Crawford) :

AEST tS al a Aiea a ES NR NO TN PRE a gS I i ey 460
Great Wall of Peru (Shippee) :

DEAT at Seas.) Pa NE Tae PUREE RS ea 8 se 474
(*
Tee ok

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 380, 1932

SUBJECTS

1. Annual report of the secretary, giving an account of the opera-
tions and conditions of the Institution for the year ending June 380,
1932, with statistics of exchanges, etc.

2. Report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents,
exhibiting the financial affairs of the Institution, including a state-
ment of the Smithsonian fund, and receipts and expenditures for
the year ending June 30, 1932.

3. Proceedings of the Board of Regents for the fiscal year ending
June 80, 1982.

4, General appendix, comprising a selection of miscellaneous
memoirs of interest to collaborators and correspondents of the Insti-
tution, teachers, and others engaged in the promotion of knowledge.
These memoirs relate chiefly to the calendar year 1932,

Ix
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

June 30, 1952

Presiding officer ex officio —-HrrperT Hoover, President of the United States.
Chancellor.—CHARLES Evans Hugues, Chief Justice of the United States.
Members of the Institution:
HERBERT Hoover, President of the United States.
CHARLES CurTIS, Vice President of the United States.
CHARLES Evans HucHes, Chief Justice of the United States.
Henry L. Stimson, Secretary of State.
Oapen L. Mitts, Secretary of the Treasury.
Patrick J. Hurtey, Secretary of War.
WiLt1aM D. MitcHetyi, Attorney General.
WALTER F’. Brown, Postmaster General.
CHARLES FRANCIS ADAMS, Secretary of the Navy.
Ray LyMAN WIzBuR, Secretary of the Interior.
ArTHuUR M. Hype, Secretary of Agriculture.
Roy D. CHAPIN, Secretary of Commerce.
WitLiAM N. Doak, Secretary of Labor.
Regents of the Institution:
CHARLES Evans Hucues, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor.
CHARLES CurRTIS, Vice President of the United States.
RreED Smoot, Member of the Senate.
JosEPH T. Rospinson, Member of the Senate.
CLAUDE A. Swanson, Member of the Senate.
ALBERT JOHNSON, Member of the House of Representatives.
T. ALAN GoLpsBoroUGH, Member of the House of Representatives.
Epwarp H, Crump, Member of the House of Representatives.
Irwin B. LAUGHLIN, citizen of Pennsylvania.
FRrEpERIO A. DELANO, citizen of Washington, D. C.
Joun C. Merriam, citizen of Washington, D. C.
R. Watton Moors, citizen of Virginia.
Rosert W. BINGHAM, citizen of Kentucky.
Aucustus P. Lorine, citizen of Massachusetts.
Ezecutive committee.—Freprric A. DELANO, R. WALTON Moorn, JOHN C.
MERRIAM.
Secretary.—CHARLES G. ABBOT.
Assistant Secretary— ALEXANDER WETMORE.
Chief Clerk and administrative assistant to the Secretary. Harry W. Dorsey.
Treasurer and disbursing agent.—NiIcHoLAs W. DORSEY.
Editor.—WeEBSTER P. TRUE.
Librarian.—WILLIAM L. CorRBIN.
Appointment clerk.—JAMES G. TRAYLOR.
Property clerk.—JAMES H. HILL.

xI
XII ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

NATIONAL MUSEUM

Keeper ex officio — CHARLES G. ABBOT.

Assistant Secretary (in charge).—ALEXANDER WETMORBE.

Associate director.—JOHN HE. GRAF.

Administrative assistant to the Secretary.—WILLIAM DE C, RAVENEL.

Head curators.—WALTER HouGH, LEONHARD STEJNEGER, Ray 8S. BASSLER.

Curators.—PAvuL BaArtscH, Ray S. BAsster, THEODORE T. BELOTE, AUSTIN H.
Ciark, FREDERICK V. CoviItLE, WILLIAM F. FosHaG, HERBERT FRIEDMANN,
CHESTER G. GILBERT, CHARLES W. GILMORE, WALTER HovucH, LELAND O.
Howarp, ALES HrpriéKa, Net M. Jupp, Herserr W. KrikGER, FREDERICK L.
LewTon, Gerrit S. Mitzer, Jr., Cart W. MITMAN, CHaRLes H. RESSER,
Watpo L. ScHMITT, LEONHARD STEJNEGER, RuEL P. TOLMAN.

Associate curators—JoHN M. AtpricH, EntswortH P. Kinri, WitriaAm R.
Maxon, JosepH H. Ritey, DAvip WHITE.

Chief of correspondence and documents.—HERBERT S. BRYANT.

Disbursing agent.—NicHoLas W. Dorsey.

Superintendent of buildings and labor.—JAMES 8S, GOLDSMITH.

Editor.—PauL H. OFHSER.

Assistant Librarian.—L&riLa G. FORBES.

Photographer.—ARTHUR J. OLMSTED.

Property clerk.—WILLIAM A. KNOWLES.

Engineer.—CLayTon R. DENMARK.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

Director.—WiI.1IAM H. Homes.
FREER GALLERY OF ART

Curator.—JOHN FSLLERTON LODGE.
Associate curator.—CarL WHITING BISHOP.
Assistant curator—GRACE DUNHAM GUEST.
Associate.—KATHARINE NASH RHOADES.
Assistant.—ARCHIBALD G. WENLEY.
Superintendent —JOHN BUNDY.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

Chief —MAtTTHEW W. STIRLING.

Ethnologists—JoHN P. Harrineton, JoHN N. B. Hewitt, TRUMAN MICHELSON,
JOHN R. SwANtTON, WILLIAM D. STRONG.

Archeologist —FRANK H. H. ROBERTs, Jr.

Associate Anthropologist—WINSLOoW M, WALKER.

Editor.—STANLEY SEARLES.

Librarian.—E.ia LEARY.

Illustrator.—Dr LANCEY GILL.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES

Secretary (in charge).—CHARLES G. ABBOT.
Chief clerk.—Coates W. SHOEMAKER.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Director.—WILLIAM M. Mann,
Assistant director —ERNEST P. WALKER.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION XIII

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Director.—CHARLES G. ABBOT.

Assistant director—Loyat B, ALDRICH.

Research assistant —FREDERICK E. FoOw te, Jr.
Associate research assistant.—WiLLIAmM H. Hoover.

DIVISION OF RADIATION AND ORGANISMS

Chief—FREDERICK S. BRACKETT.

Research associate —HArL S. JOHNSTON.
Associate research assistant.—H. D. MCALISTER.
Research assistant.—LELAND B. CLARK.

REGIONAL BUREAU FOR THE UNITED STATES, INTERNATIONAL
CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE

Assistant in charge.—LEONARD C, GUNNELL.
REPORT OF) THE
SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
C. G. ABBOT
FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1932

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution.

GENTLEMEN: I have the honor to submit herewith my report
showing the activities and condition of the Smithsonian Institution
and the Government bureaus under its administrative charge during
the fiscal year ended June 30, 1932. The first 14 pages contain a
summary account of the affairs of the Institution. Appendixes 1
to 11 give more detailed reports of the operations of the United
States National Museum, the National Gallery of Art, the Freer
Gallery of Art, the Bureau of American Ethnology, the Interna-
tional Exchanges, the National Zoological Park, the Astrophysical
Observatory, the Division of Radiation and Organisms, the United
States Regional Bureau of the International Catalogue of Scientific
Literature, the Smithsonian library, and of the publications issued
under the direction of the Institution.

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
OUTSTANDING EVENTS OF THE YEAR

Preliminary plans have been completed for the wings authorized
in 1930 to be added to the Natural History Building of the National
Museum; appropriations have not yet been made, however, to begin
construction. An unrestricted bequest of $100,000 was received for
the endowment funds of the Institution from the late Dwight W.
Morrow. Two $2,500 Research Corporation awards were made
through the Institution to Doctors Douglass and Antevs. Two nota-
ble public lectures were given at the Institution, the first Arthur
Lecture by Dr. Henry Norris Russell and the sixth Hamilton Lec-
ture by Dr. Albert Charles Seward. Volume 12, the last volume of
the Smithsonian Scientific Series, was sent to the printer near the
close of the year. The fifth revised edition of the Smithsonian
Meteorological Tables and the fourth reprint of the Smithsonian

1
2 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

Mathematical Tables—Hyperbolic Functions—were issued. A con-
siderable number of scientific expeditions were in the field from the
Institution, the National Museum, and the Bureau of American
Ethnology; these expeditions brought back valuable new informa-
tion and collections bearing on the Institution’s researches. The
Director of the National Zoological Park headed an expedition to
British Guiana, returning with 317 lve animals for the park.
Volume V of the Annals of the Astrophysical Observatory appeared,
presenting the results of its researches on the sun for the past 10
years. New instruments for the solar work were devised, and in-
vestigations were made of periodicities in solar and _ terrestrial
phenomena. The Division of Radiation and Organisms, pursuing
its pioneering experiments in biophysics, measured the carbon-
dioxide assimilation of wheat for different light intensities, made
experiments on the lethal effects of the ultra-violet rays upon algae,
and a study of the effects of different wave-length distributions of
light on the growth of plants. The reduction in the Institution’s
income, both private and governmental, has occasioned strict econ-
omy in all lines and the curtailment of some activities. Its funds
for publication have been cut nearly to one-half of last year’s
amount, with the result that valuable manuscripts have had to be
refused or held up for a year and others have been cut to half their
normal size, as has been done, for instance, with this report.

THE ESTABLISHMENT

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in
1846, according to the terms of the will of James Smithson, of Eng-
land, who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United States of
America “to found at Washington, under the name of the Smith-
sonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of
knowledge among men.” In receiving the property and accepting the
trust, Congress determined that the Federal Government was with-
out authority to administer the trust directly and, therefore, consti-
tuted an “establishment ” whose statutory members are “ the Presi-
dent, the Vice President, the Chief Justice, and the heads of the
executive departments.”

THE BOARD OF REGENTS

The affairs of the Institution are administered by a Board of
Regents whose membership consists of ‘“‘the Vice President, the
Chief Justice, three Members of the Senate, and three Members of
the House of Representatives, together with six other persons other
than Members of Congress, two of whom shall be resident in the city
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 3

of Washington and the other four shall be inhabitants of some State,
but no two of them of the same State.” One of the Regents is elected
chancellor of the board. In the past the selection has fallen upon the
Vice President or the Chief Justice, and a suitable person is chosen
by the Regents as Secretary of the Institution, who is also secretary
of the Board of Regents, and the executive officer directly in charge
of the Institution’s activities.

A number of changes in the personnel of the board occurred dur-
ing the year. The terms as Regents of three congressional mem-
bers expired—Representatives R. Walton Moore, Robert Luce, and
Albert Johnson. Six vacancies on the board were filled by the ap-
pointment or reappointment of three Members of Congress—Repre-
sentatives Albert Johnson, T. Alan Goldsborough, and A. J. Mon-
tague—and three citizen Regents—R. Walton Moore, Virginia; Rob-
ert W. Bingham, Kentucky; and Augustus P. Loring, Massachu-
setts. A.J. Montague having resigned, E. H. Crump was appointed
to succeed him.

The roll of Regents at the close of the year was as follows:
Charles Evans Hughes, Chief Justice of the United States, chan-
cellor; Charles Curtis, Vice President of the United States; Members
from the Senate—Reed Smoot, Joseph T. Robinson, Claude A.
Swanson; Members from the House of Representatives—A bert
Johnson, T. Alan Goldsborough, E. H. Crump; citizen members—
Frederic A. Delano, Washington, D. C.; Irwin B. Laughlin, Penn-
sylvania; John C. Merriam, Washington, D. C.; R. Walton Moore,
Virginia; Robert W. Bingham, Kentucky; Augustus P. Loring,
Massachusetts.

FINANCES

PRIVATE FUNDS

The permanent investments of the Institution consist of the
following:

Total endowment for general or specific purposes (exclusive of
BREE Cram fy 1T) Clg) yee eee ee ee ee ee ee $1, 775, 804. 36

Itemized as follows:
Deposited in the Treasury of the United States, as provided by
LE a SEES SEO. or ES ES ae 7 i 2 a 1, 000, 000. 00
Deposited in the consolidated fund—
Miscellaneous securities, ete., either purchased or acquired

by eittscostiot value at date acquired... Saree eee 712, 156. 86
Springer, Frank, fund for researches, etc. (bonds)_________ 13, 885. 00
Younger, Helen Walcott, fund (real-estate notes and stock

MELO PLNGSeE LUST) meee acest ere ene a ee neticane eave Lew eet Ee 49, 812. 50

FDO Leen Tee S aise Meee ree oo psa sti PAUL DPR EATS LAD ORO YE RE 1, 775, 804. 36

149571—33——_2
4 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

The above-mentioned funds of the Institution are described as
follows:

United States} Consoli- Separate
Fund Treasury | dated fund funds Total
ATtHUr Ames; Mand ees. See ness) PE EEE Te ee PONE a S50N699! 31) | Pa Fes $50, 699. 31
Bacon) WAreimaceurd y tun dee see UL ee CENTS | he eae Gas Gl27 621) e ee ee 63, 512. 52
BairduiucyiE und. oon nee ee a Pr eS aS 9, 959. 05
Barstows brederic Di wtund oo we See Eun a ee eee 964. 27
Cantieldi@ollection fund silt 252 10 Y, SEC ek Meee eee, 48, 488. 51
Caseveibhomassis. Minden oe ean) eee ee eae 9, 797. 14
Charaiber lata tin de ib aL E Oy Eee TE AS a es Le ag 35, 698. 68
Hodsikinsi (specific) fundss- 02 iat ae eae $100, 000. 00 100, 000. 00
Fuzhest Braces fan dese. sae a Be eS PE Le See ae 19, 205. 63
Mier icatherine Wes fundee oltre Cee Oe eA eG 22, 907. 94
Pell) Gorneliaylivingston tunde eee) Ae Ue eee iba 3, 060. 69
Poore, Lucy T. and George W., fund_-__---_-----_-- 26, 670. 00 62, 842. 17
ReldivAddison Dune ee ee Die es 11, 000. 00 25, 478. 94
Roebling Collection fund__.-___ .--____- 152, 987. 77
Rollins, Miriam and William, fund 53, 787. 00
Smithsonian unrestricted funds:
PASV OLY, LLnTV Ces PINE CLINGS Te 61, 207. 09
LIPaXO Koy aoa (ovek Reh Ue Wako [CaS eee a a a Pa Sa OE 81, 374. 67
jek) oye) yb isto baee os Oka, a ee ive Bee eee be ae fe 500. 00
Hachenhbergtund sess ies See ee We ees a eee ant 5; LOOSAG Te eee ane 5, 100. 49
Banltonitund ss Sey) 2G Oe ea 2, 500. 00 Bk e70),| 2 Seles Fo 3 3, 011. 70
Hen ryattiin dt Sus ee SS OUE 2 a Se SS I | Raa ae eae De Doaeth a) |= a ee lip eh ly
Modgkinsigeneral fund! -2 22 2 ie ee J16;\000:00: | 381018. 94 [2 2S. 2s 154, 018. 94
PATONG FUN Gees 2 oi ak COL Sas Ga eee 727, 640. 00 Tod 7.00) (te tee See 729, 187. 50
RU COS FUT he ke MR ee oh lies 2 ibe a a Pe 590. 00 5991635] See 1, 189. 63
SSH OnGH tt ae oat oem en ees ER ls a ere 1, 100. 00 1128x490] See a 2, 228. 49
SpyEinger fm asses Sw ee Fes Ee es ed a ee $13, 835. 00 13, 835. 00
Waleott,; Charles 'D: and! Mary Vaux, fand iio 222 eee DAG Vapi] ees yt hl 12, 450. 72
Voungerweelene Walcott, fumd see: So ged ee oe ie ea a ee Ss a ae oe 49, 812. 50 49, 812. 50
Zerbee we rances brincklé; fund vt Shee eee | ee eee row 9645845 2 eee eee 964. 84
ROTA ab cs SENS GINS HE AAR ne De ee eye ea 1, 000, 000. 00 | 712,156.86 | 63,647. 50 | 1,775, 804. 36

Freer Gallery of Art—The invested funds of the Freer bequest
are classified as follows:

Court an de sro wid Sy) fury es eA eC ee Oe are eee ies eee eye $580, 016. 22
Court and -erounds maintenance, fund_—- =. =e eee 145, 171. 79
(QLD Ueno 0% clays ELD) 01 5 (agEep Reem NAR pm ny ABER URe Lhe ge DUR AVE PEAS Rhee eRe SUS car 589, 763. 31
Residuary ‘legacy. ti. 2 es eR BaD es SI IRR ie eA ene ere Lye eee 3, 858, 208. 44

Po tells es es es Ue EN EY SGP A WU lg 5, 173, 159. 76

Recapitulation of endowment funds, June 80, 1932

Hndowment: tor L<eneral PULP OSS Se oes ee eae $1, 039, 351. 68
Endowment for specific purposes other than Freer endowment___ 736, 452. 68

Total endowment other than Freer endowment____-__-____ 1, 775, 804. 36
Mreenmxen GOowime nt ie so) a eee eae 5, 173, 159. 76

&
STATEMENT OF INCOME

PARENT INSTITUTION

Expendable income for fiscal year:
Cash income from all sources for general work of the Institu-

15819 0 Yaad et yada a Le ey RSet ec MS EGE RRP ANUS iy RY Sant Gadhia $74, 883. 41
Cash income from investments and other sources for specific

(0) O81 Re 61 RS eee ess RE ot A Ui RTS cae MARES SIRE PSMA 2 SPS" APE rs ie 27, 393. 29
Cash gifts expendable for specific objects______________________ 33, 761. 71

ATG aN a fe Va Mae ly ea oe Lock tl oe a Ue a 136, 038. 41
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 9)

Increase of endowment:

Endowment for general work of the Institution_______________ $108, 020. 89
Hndowmente roc specie sess nese] eee ee eee ee eee 7, 480. 71
EN (2 ] ae eae NANT RE SS I ae Sa 115, 451.10

FREER GALLERY OF ART

Expendable income for fiscal year: Cash income for general work
OLS tLe Vem Inyo wee RN De ee ee ee 281, 476. 85

The practice of depositing on time in local trust companies and
banks such revenues as may be spared temporarily has been con-
tinued during the past year, and interest on these deposits has
amounted to $5,364.02.

The Institution gratefully acknowledges gifts or bequests from
the following:

Dr. W. L. Abbot, for archeological investigations in Cuba and the Bahama
Islands.

Mrs. Laura Welsh Casey, further contributions to the Thomas Lincoln Casey
fund for investigations in Coleoptera.

The estate of Dwight W. Morrow, for general endowment fund of the
Institution.

Mr. Childs Frick, further contributions for researches in vertebrate
paleontology.

Research Corporation, for further contributions for researches in radiation.

Rockefeller Foundation, for further contributions for researches in radiation.

Mr. John A. Roebling, for further contributions for researches in radiation.

The estate of William H. Rollins, for investigations in physics and chemistry.

Mrs. Mary Vaux Walcott, for archeological investigations in Alaska.

From an anonymous friend, for further investigations in Old World
archeology.

PUBLIC FUNDS

The following appropriations were made by Congress for the
Government bureaus under the administrative charge of the Smith-
sonian Institution for the fiscal year 1932:

Sa ALES PAN GMC CN SES te rarees tee eae Sateen ee tree ee SOUL Seely Leaner es $38, 644. 00
GenlatlvmunencOleet Oman sein. we a uae wena es De eee eee eee 20, 000. 00
rai ESA AUOV TE NPL pre) aE DOYS ec aa a AS Se es 54, 060. 00
AMEE Cane EH GHNOLOS ya ete AE ee Ae eS ee eae ee 72, 640. 00
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature_________________ 8, 150. 00
ASERODMY SICAl LO DSL Vel LOI yea oa mite wena ereneces ar atey he Uae yawn Mey. 37, 620. 00
National Museum:
Maintenance and operation*____-____________ $154, 580. 00
Preservation) of collectionS$ 7022) be) 620, 510. 00
— 775, 090. 00
Nationale Gallery Ot me Aret etek tee Nee weeds oe ene Dither te Sere eee ae RC gt 45, 220. 00
National Zoological Park__.______ el lh Ot lE Sah cee Ll ly ye 255, 540. 00
1Former appropriations ‘Furniture and fixtures,’ ‘“ Heating and lighting,” and

“ Building repairs” provided for under this appropriation.
2? Former appropriations “ Books’ and ‘“‘ Postage’? merged with ‘“‘ Preservation of collec-
tions’ and provided for under this appropriation.
6 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

National Zoological Park, plans for building for small mammals__ $4, 500. 00
LEB orb ay eb oa: Bove Ul ob YD DB at gemma s Le ee cl ele ARR Ty Ue 104, 000. 00
PRS yt ea tes TE arg ne 1, 415, 464. 00

MATTERS OF GENERAL INTEREST
DWIGHT W. MORROW BEQUEST

Under the terms of the will of Dwight W. Morrow, former am-
bassador to Mexico and later United States Senator from New Jer-
sey, who died October 5, 1931, the Institution received a bequest of
$100,000. ‘The legacy reads as follows:

To the Smithsonian Institution, city of Washington, District of Columbia,
one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000), to be part of its endowment funds.

Mr. Morrow, who for several years was a member of the Board
of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, had taken an active inter-
est in its affairs. His generous bequest is a substantial indication
of that interest; it will be particularly valuable to the Institution
because it is unhampered by conditions in the application of its
income, making it possible to assign the additional funds thus pro-
vided to the researches most in need of assistance.

RESEARCH CORPORATION AWARDS TO DOCTORS DOUGLASS AND ANTEVS

In recognition of their outstanding scientific researches the fourth
and fifth Research Corporation awards of $2,500 each were made
through the Smithsonian Institution to Dr. Andrew Ellicott
Douglass and Dr. Ernst Antevs on December 18, 1931. The presen-
tation was made in the auditorium of the National Museum, the
exercises opening with an account of the Research Corporation and
its awards by the Secretary of the Institution, and informally by
Mr. Elon Hooker, a director of the corporation. This was followed
by the formal presentation by Chief Justice Charles Evans Hughes,
chancellor of the Institution, and the recipients then delivered ad-
dresses on their researches. An account of the ceremony, together
with the full text of the addresses of Doctors Douglass and Antevs,
will be found in the general appendix to the Smithsonian Report for
1931.

LECTURES

Arthur Lecture——The first lecture under the bequest of James
Arthur, received by the Institution in 1931, was given by Dr. Henry
Norris Russell, professor of astronomy at Princeton University, who
lectured on The Composition of the Sun, in the auditorium of the
National Museum on the evening of January 27, 1932. The lecture
is being published in the Smithsonian Report for 1931.

Hamilton Lecture——The sixth Hamilton Lecture was given on the
evening of March 30, 1932, also in the auditorium of the Museum,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 7

by Dr. Albert Charles Seward, master of Downing College and pro-
fessor of botany, Cambridge University. Doctor Seward’s subject
was Plant Records of the Rocks; the lecture will appear in the
Smithsonian Report for 1932.

Lecture on anthropological work in Alaska—On February 24,
1932, Dr. AleS Hrdlicka, curator of physical anthropology in the
National Museum, lectured on Anthropological Exploration in
Alaska, under the auspices of the Institution.

SMITHSONIAN SCIENTIFIC SERIES

The Smithsonian Scientific Series is a set of 12 volumes, written in
popular style and profusely illustrated, on the various branches of
science included in the scope of the Institution’s work. The books
were written by members of the staff and collaborators of the Insti-
tution, and they are published and sold by a New York corporation,
the Smithsonian Institution Series, Inc. The Institution receives a
definite royalty on all sales. Three-fourths of all receipts are added
to the permanent endowment, the remainder used as income to pro-
‘mote the Smithsonian program of research and publication.

Eleven volumes of the series have thus far been issued and the
twelfth and last was in press at the close of the fiscal year. The titles
and authors are as follows:

1. The Smithsonian Institution, by Webster Prentiss True.
. The Sun and the Welfare of Man, by Charles Greeley Abbot.
. Minerals from Earth and Sky. Part I, The Story of Meteorites, by George

P. Merrill; Part II, Gems and Gem Minerals, by William F. Foshag.

4, The North American Indians. An account of the American Indians north of
Mexico, compiled from the original sources, by Rose A. Palmer.

co ho

5. Insects: Their Ways and Means of Living, by R. E. Snodgrass.

6. Wild Animals in and out of the Zoo, by William M. Mann.

7. Man from the Farthest Past, by C. W. Bishop, C. G. Abbot, and A.
Hrdlicka.

8. Cold-Bloodod Vertebrates, by C. W. Gilmore, D. M. Cochran, and S. F.
Hildebrand.

9. Warm-Blooded Vertebrates. Part I, Birds, by Alexander Wetmore; Part II,
Mammals, by Gerrit S. Miller, jr., and James W. Gidley.

10. Shelled Invertebrates of the Past and Present, with Chapters on Geological
History, by Ray S. Bassler, Charles E. Resser, Waldo L. Schmitt, and
Paul Bartsch.

11. Old and New Plant Lore, by Agnes Chase, A. S. Hitchcock, Earl 8. Johnston,
J. H. Kempton, Ellsworth P. Killip, Daniel T. MacDougal, Albert Mann,
and William R. Maxon.

12. Great Inventions, by Charles Greeley Abbot.

COOPERATIVE ETHNOLOGICAL AND ARCHEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATIONS

In 1928 Congress appropriated $20,000 for cooperative ethnological
and archeological investigations in this country, the allotments to
be made on approval of the Secretary of the Institution in amounts
8 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

equal to those raised by the organizations proposing the investiga-
tions. The fund was nearly exhausted in 1931, but it was possible to
make two small allotments this year, bringing to a close this cooper-
ative project.

Allotments from the fund for cooperative ethnological and archeological investi-
gations during the year ended June 80, 1982

1982

May 12. University of Denver, to excavate two dry caves in southern Colorado,
ohe near La Veta and the other in the Apishapa Valley district; and
if time and money permit, to make a reconnaissance of archeological
remains in and around the San Dunes National Monument, $300.

June 23. Mississippi, Department of Archives and History, to conduct a survey
of Choctaw and Chickasaw Indian village sites and excavate prom-
ising mounds in Mississippi, $259.

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD WORK

The Institution and its branches sent out or participated in 25
expeditions in the furtherance of its researches in anthropology,
biology, geology, and astrophysics. These expeditions visited 13
States of the United States, several countries of Europe, Canada,
Alaska, Mexico, Hispaniola, Jamaica, British Guiana, and South-
west Africa. As illustrative of the aims of these expeditions, I may
mention Dr. W. F. Foshag’s trip to various mining localities in
Mexico for the purpose of collecting certain rare minerals and series
of specimens illustrating occurrences and ore formation for the
National Museum; Dr. Alexander Wetmore’s expedition to His-
paniola to obtain needed information on the bird life of that region;
and a continuation of Dr. AleS Hrdlicka’s anthropological work in
Alaska, in the course of which he obtained anthropometric measure-
ments on the living natives and, through excavation, collections of
old skeletal and archeological material. The results of these and
of the other expeditions of the year are described and illustrated in
Explorations and Field Work of the Smithsonian Institution in
1931, Smithsonian publication No. 31384.

PUBLICATIONS

The consolidation of the three separate editorial offices of the
Institution into one central office under the general direction of the
editor of the Smithsonian, announced in last year’s report, has
proved to be a very satisfactory arrangement. The most important
results have been more accuracy and greater uniformity of style
in the several series issued under the Institution and a shortening
of the average time from manuscript to finished book; furthermore,
a central contact point is provided between the printer and the edi-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 9

torial staff, and all of the financial and other records are kept in one
office, where the status of every publication and allotment is avail-
able at any time. One hundred and twenty-one volumes and pam-
phlets were issued during the year, 50 by the Institution proper, 63
‘by the National Museum, 7 by the Bureau of American Ethnology,
and 1 by the Astrophysical Observatory. Detailed information re-
garding these publications will be found in the report of the editor,
Appendix 11. The total number of publications distributed was
223,045.
LIBRARY

The Smithsonian library, made up of 10 divisional libraries and
35 sectional libraries, now contains more than 800,000 volumes, pam-
phlets, and charts. Accessions during the year totaled 6,807 volumes
and 4,648 pamphlets and charts, most of which were received in
exchange. Among the outstanding gifts were a set in 45 volumes of
the “ Phra Tripitaka” from His Majesty the King of Siam and a
copy of “ Cristoforo Colombo—Documenti & prove della sua ap-
partenenza a Genova,” presented by His Excellency Dino Grand.
Considerable progress was made in recataloguing the botanical col-
lection of the National Museum library, and the reclassifying and
recataloguing of the Freer Gallery of Art library was almost com-
pleted. Arrangements were made for assembling a dictionary index
to all of the publications of the Institution and its branches.

GOVERNMENTALLY SUPPORTED BRANCHES?

National Musewm.—The total appropriations for the past year
were $835,090, an increase of $4,696 over those for the previous year.
Plans were completed for the wings to be added to the Natural His-
tory Building, authorized in 1930; but owing to the need for national
economy, the estimate of $1,200,000 to begin construction could not
be included in the Budget. Additions to the collections numbered
‘157,870 specimens, and as usual a large number of specimens were
examined and reported upon, exchanged with other institutions, and
given to schools. Important accessions in anthropology included
collections of artifacts from prehistoric sites in Europe; series of old
native implements from Kodiak Island, Alaska; costumes and im-
plements used by the natives of Panama; and native pottery and
textiles from Africa. Collections of general biological material were
received from Southwest Africa and from Siam. Important series
of plants came from the Brazilian-Venezuelan frontier and from
Peru. In geology, a large number of interesting minerals were

1¥or further details regarding the work of these branches, see the appendixes at the
end of this report.
10 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

accessioned, including a gold nugget weighing 81 ounces troy; also
important collections of fossils, particularly of mammals. The out-
standing addition in history was a series of 71 paintings illustrating
events in American history, by the late J. L. Gerome Ferris, pre-
sented by Mrs. Ferris. Twenty-three scientific expeditions relating
to the Museum were in the field during the year, bringing back
valuable material for study and exhibition. The number of visitors
for the year totaled 1,630,030.

National Gallery of Art——Two special exhibitions were held dur-
ing the year—one a collection of paintings made in Spain by Wells
M. Sawyer and the other an exhibition in honor of the bicentennial
of the birth of George Washington, which consisted of paintings,
sculpture, plans of Washington City, etc., and was held under the
auspices of the United States Bicentennial Commission and the Na-
tional Commission of Fine Arts. Accessions of art works included
a number of portraits, including those of Henry Ward Ranger and
Rear Admiral Richard Evelyn Byrd, and two water-color paintings
by William Spencer Bagdatopoulos. Fifteen paintings were pur-
chased by the Council of the National Academy of Design; under
Mr. Ranger’s will, any of these may be claimed by the National Gal-
lery during the 5-year period beginning 10 years after the artist’s
death and ending 15 years after his death.

Freer Gallery of Art.—Additions to the collections include ex-
amples of Persian bookbinding; Chinese bronze; Chinese and Per-
sian ceramics; Chinese jade; Arabian, Persian, Armenian, and In-
dian manuscripts; and Chinese silver-gilt. Curatorial work has been
devoted to a study of a Japanese mandara painting; to a study of
the Indian manuscript, Vasanta Vildsa; to a critical study of an
ancient Armenian manuscript of the Four Gospels; and to the study
of inscriptions on Buddhist stone sculptures and of inscriptions and
seals on Chinese paintings. The total attendance of visitors for the
year was 122,940. <A full report of archeological work undertaken
by the field staff of the gallery in Shansi Province, China, is now
being published in Shanghai. It will be printed in both English
and Chinese and will be fully illustrated.

Bureau of American Ethnology.—Much of the work of the bureau
depends upon field expeditions, which obtain needed information and
collections connected with its investigations of the Indians. The
chief, Mr. Stirling, as a guest of the privately organized Latin
American expedition, visited the Tule Indians of Panama and the
Jivaros of Ecuador. Doctor Swanton had considerable success in

1The Government’s expense in connection with the Freer Gallery of Art consists mainly

in the care of the building and certain other custodial matters. Other expenses are paid
from the Freer endowment funds.

REPORT OF THE ‘SECRETARY Ki

locating the probable route of De Soto and Moscoso through Arkan-
sas and Louisiana. He also recorded linguistic material among the
-Tunica Indians in Louisiana and continued the preparation of the
handbook of the Southeastern Indians. Doctor Michelson conducted
linguistic and other researches among the Cheyenne, the Fox, and
the Kiowa. Mr. Harrington studied the Indians of Monterey and
San Benito Counties, Calif., and investigated the Chingichngich cul-
ture of the coast of southern California. Doctor Roberts continued
excavations near Allantown, Ariz., uncovering a number of pit
houses, one of which, dated 797 A. D. by means of charred timbers,
proved to be one of the earliest buildings of known date in the South-
west. Doctor Strong conducted excavations in the stratified deposits
on the top of Signal Butte, in western Nebraska, revealing three
distinct levels of occupation, the lowest evidently of great antiquity.
Mr. Hewitt continued his researches on the Iroquois Indians of the
United States and Canada. Mr. Walker explored certain caves in
the Ozark region of north central Arkansas and mound and village
sites in northern Louisiana. Miss Densmore continued her researches
on Indian music, particularly among the Winnebago of Wisconsin
and the Seminole of Florida.

International Hxchanges.—The International Exchange Service is
the official United States agency for the exchange with other coun-
tries of parliamentary documents, departmental documents, and mis-
cellaneous scientific and literary publications. The total number of
packages of such material handled by the service during the year was
759,035, an increase of about 18 per cent over last year’s total. The
total number of sets of United States official documents forwarded
to foreign depositories is 112, and the number of copies of the Con-
gressional Record sent to designated agencies abroad is 104.

National Zoological Park.—An expedition to British Guiana, led
by the director of the park, brought back 317 live animals, includ-
ing 18 species of mammals, 25 of birds, and 31 of reptiles and
amphibians. Other accessions for the year totaled 900 animals.
There were removed by death, exchange, and return of animals on
deposit a total of 1,416, leaving the collection at the close of the year
at 2,302 animals. Outstanding among the gifts of the year were
the baby mountain gorilla and chimpanzee brought by Mr. and Mrs.
Martin Johnson. Visitors totaled 2,169,460, including 716 groups
from schools and other organizations in 22 States, the District of
Columbia, and Cuba. Work has progressed on the plans for a
building for small mammals and great apes. The newly completed
reptile house continues to be the most popular building at the park,
demonstrating that it is well worth while to exhibit animals in suit-
able and attractive quarters.
12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

Astrophysical Observatory—Volume V of the annals of the ob-
servatory was published during the year. This volume covers the
work of the period 1920 to 1930, including descriptions of the sta-
tions and instruments, discussions of sources of error, methods of
observation, tables of daily observations, 10-day and monthly means,
and a discussion of the results of the several observing stations dur-
ing the 10-year period. New instruments were designed and con-
structed for solar researches, those completed being a new 2-chamber
water-flow pyrheliometer, a doubly dispersing spectroscope designed
to observe the extreme infra-red solar spectrum between wave lengths
10 and 80 microns, and the periodometer, an instrument for investi-
gation of periodicities in solar and terrestrial phenomena. Daily
observations of the solar constant of radiation were continued at
Montezuma, Chile, and Table Mountain, Calif. The station at
Mount Brukkaros was closed. A volcanic eruption in Chile during
the year made the atmosphere at Montezuma so hazy that satisfac-
tory measurements of the solar constant could not be made there
after April, 1932. In the search for a desirable observatory site in
Africa, A. F. Moore found Mount Saint Katherine in the Sinai
Peninsula in Egypt to be the most promising of those investigated.

Division of Radiation and Organisms.2—The carbon dioxide as-
similated by wheat has been measured for light intensities varying
from 78 to 1,900 foot-candles and for carbon dioxide concentrations
varying from 0.004 to 0.500 per cent. A set of individual plant-
growth chambers has been completed, permitting comparative ob-
servations on the effects of different wave-length distributions of
light; a first experiment indicates that an excessive intensity in the
less refrangible end of the spectrum, that is, the infra-red and
extreme red, is accountable for much of the abnormal appearance
of plants grown in artificial ight. An interesting set of experi-
ments has been conducted on the lethal effects of the ultra-violet
rays upon unicellular algae. Phototropic investigations have been
carried further into the blue end of the spectrum. Ultra-violet
measurements of the mercury arc with the double monochromator
have been carried to the point where absolute intensities can be de-
termined with reasonable certainty. Cooperative work with the
Department of Agriculture includes a study of the effects of light
upon noncompetitive crop plants.

International Catalogue of Scientific Literature—In addition to
the routine work of the bureau, letters were sent by the Secretary
of the Institution to all of the former regional bureaus asking
whether they would again cooperate in the publication of the cata-
logue by supplying references to the scientific literature of their

2? The Division of Radiation and Organisms is supported almost wholly by annual grants
from private sources.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 13

regions if funds could be provided to reestablish and finance the
central publishing bureau. The replies so far received have been
most gratifying, 16 out of 18 agreeing to cooperate in the resump-
tion of the enterprise. It is hoped and expected that the necessary
capital to resume publication, estimated at $75,000, can be obtained.

NECROLOGY
DAVID STARR JORDAN

David Starr Jordan, chancellor emeritus of Stanford University,
and associate in zoology, United States National Museum, since 1921,
was born January 19, 1851, and died at his home in Menlo Park,
Palo Alto, Calif., on September 19, 1981. Doctor Jordan became
interested in ichthyology in the early seventies and devoted much of
his time to the collection and study of fishes, to the great benefit of
the collections of the National Museum. With his close associates—
Copeland, Gilbert, Evermann, and others—and in cooperation with
the United States Bureau of Fisheries, Doctor Jordan collected not
only in the United States generally but also from Mexico to Panama
and in Hawaii, Japan, and elsewhere, making full reports upon
material collected, much of which was deposited in the division of
fishes of the National Museum.

Over a period of 45 years (1878-1923) Doctor Jordan was author
of 57 ichthyological papers, and coauthor of nearly 200 others, pub-
lished in the Proceedings of the United States National Museum.
In addition he was author of two bulletins of the National Museum
and coauthor of three, including the monumental work on The Fishes
of North and Middle America, in four volumes, written in collabora-
tion with Dr. Barton Warren Evermann.

JAMES WILLIAMS GIDLEY

James Williams Gidley, assistant curator of fossil mammals in the
United States National Museum, was born January 7, 1866, and died
in Washington on September 26, 1931. Doctor Gidley’s life work was
centered in the science of vertebrate paleontology, specializing in the
fossil mammalia, in which he attained great distinction. Many
scientific papers, largely published by the National Museum, record
the results of his investigations. He was particularly noted for his
research on the fossil horses of North America and for his studies on
fossil remains in the Pleistocene of Florida. Through his wide
knowledge of comparative anatomy he was called into frequent con-
sultation by students of modern mammals. Doctor Gidley entered
the Government service in 1905 as a member of the scientific staff of
the National Museum and had been associated with the paleontologi-
cal work of the Smithsonian Institution steadily since that time.
14 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

CHARLES WALLACE RICHMOND

Charles Wallace Richmond, associate curator of birds, United
States National Museum, was born in Kenosha, Wis., December 31,
1868, and died in Washington May 19, 1982. He came to Washing-
ton in 1881 and in 1888 joined the Geological Survey in its explora-
tions in Montana. Returning from this, he became ornithological
clerk in the division of economic ornithology and mammalogy in the
United States Department of Agriculture. In 1892-93 he was in
Nicaragua making natural-history collections, and in 1894 he was
appointed assistant curator of birds in the National Museum, and in
1918 associate curator, which position he held until his death. In
1900 he was a member of the United States National Museum
expedition to Puerto Rico. During the 38 years that he was affiliated
with the Museum he has been a steady contributor to the publications
of the Smithsonian Institution dealing with problems of ornithology
and nomenclature. In these fields he was a recognized authority.

Respectfully submitted.

C. G. Aspor, Secretary.
APPENDIX 1
REPORT ON THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report on the con-
dition and operations of the United States National Museum for
the fiscal year ended June 380, 1932:

The total appropriations for the maintenance of the National
Museum for this period amounted to $835,090, an increase of $4,696
over those for 1931. In this year’s scope SHAS the six separate
items formerly used were combined under two headings, “ Preserva-
tion of collections ” and “ Maintenance and operation.”

The appropriations for building repairs for 1931 included four
items that were for noncontinuing appropriations, amounting to
$37,500, omitted in the appropriation for 1932. Additions under
maintenance and operation for 1932 amount to $8,280, so that, omit-
ting the items coming to $37,500 indicated above, there is a decrease
under this heading of $29,220.

The amount available under preservation of collections was in-
creased by $20,416, of which $18,600 was applied to additional per-
sonnel. Reallocations made by the Classification Board added $2,160
to the salary rolls. Other increases amounted to $1,816.

The sum available for printing and binding was increased by $3,500
to care for an arrearage in the printing of manuscripts, for which
further additional funds are much needed.

Requirements for additional appropriations for the National
Museum follow lines indicated in previous reports. Further per-
sonnel is a question of paramount importance, as the present staff is
fully occupied in the various duties that come under its scope, and
there is constant need for additional assistance, as many important
tasks now have to be postponed, this postponement sometimes run-
ning for several years.

This situation will be aggravated during the coming year, as under
the Economy Act all funds accumulated as a result of lapses in
regular positions are impounded for return to the Treasury. Moneys
accumulated from such lapses have been the principal means of
hiring temporary employees, so that little of the usual temporary
help will be available during 1933. ‘This means that numerous tasks
will be at a complete standstill and that the arrearage at the close of
the year will be considerable.

15
16 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

Further, the appropriations for the National Museum above the
salary rolls have not been sufficient for the regular routine expendi-
tures, these sums having been supplemented by accumulations from
lapses due to temporary vacancies in regular positions on the salary
roll. Under the Economy Act, as stated above, these funds are
all impounded for return to the Treasury, so that the Museum in
1933, in addition to its situation with regard to temporary help, will
find itself more than $10,000 short of the funds necessary for regular
routine expenditures.

Curtailment in appropriation for printing and binding for the
fiscal year 1933 has placed the National Museum in a situation where
the usual publications can not be issued. This will result in the
postponement of many valuable papers whose contents should be
made available for general public use.

ADDITIONS TO THE NATURAL HISTORY BUILDING

In the report for last year there was mention of the provision in
the second deficiency bill for 1931 of an appropriation of $10,000
for the preparation of preliminary plans for additions to the Natural
History Building. It will be recalled that the extension of the
Natural History Building, through wings on the east and west ends,
at a cost of $6,500,000, was authorized in the Smoot-Elliott bill,
approved by the President on June 19, 1930. ‘The executive com-
mittee of the Board of Regents selected the Allied Architects (Inc.)
of Washington to make the necessary plans. The work has pro-
eressed rapidly and efficiently under the direction of Nathan Wyeth,
so that these plans are now in hand.

An estimate for $1,200,000 for a first appropriation to begin con-
struction was included in the items submitted te the Bureau of the
Budget for the fiscal year 1933, it being considered that this would
suffice for excavation, foundations, and similar items, with the ex-
pectation that contracts would be made covering the continuance of
the work. Due to the financial situation which arose and the neces-
sary restriction that this imposed on the National Budget, it was
not practicable to include this item in the estimates finally sub-
mitted to the Congress, nor was there later opportunity to consider
it favorably. The matter has rested at this point pending more
favorable opportunity.

It is highly important that construction should be begun as soon
as financial conditions will permit. The addition in space that these
new wings will bring is seriously needed, since the present Museum
buiidings are so badly crowded as to interfere with logical exhibi-
tion and storage collections, and there can be no expansion. The
matter is particularly important in view of the many excellent

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 17

specimens that are constantly offered that form highly desirable
additions to the national collections. Many expedients are adopted
to provide additional storage facilities, but we are about at the end
of our resources in this respect. It must be anticipated that more
than two years will be required before the new area is ready for
occupancy after construction is begun, so that work on the wings
should commence as soon as practicable.

Final completion of the additions to the Natural History Build-
ing will provide properly for the Museum’s needs in one direction,
but other collections require more adequate housing than can be
given them with the existing structures. The great collections in
engineering, aviation, textiles, history, and associated fields are at
present in the old Museum Building, constructed in 1881 at a cost
of $225,000, and in a temporary building south of the Smithsonian
Building that houses most of the aircraft. Both buildings are
crowded to such an extent that many desirable objects offered for
the national collections can not be accepted because there is no room
for them. Plans should be drawn as soon as possible for a large
building to house the collections concerned with arts and industries,
including aircraft, that will provide proper facilities for these im-
portant collections. There should be, further, a separate building
for the great historical collections, in which there are found such
objects as relics of Washington, Lincoln, and many other illustrious
Americans; the original Star-Spangled Banner; the great series of
costumes, particularly those of the wives of the Presidents; and
many other objects of pride to our Nation, which should be dis-
played in proper form for the thousands of visitors who come
annually to Washington.

COLLECTIONS

Additions to the collections of the National Museum during the
fiscal year amounted to 157,870 individual specimens, a number con-
siderably less than that of the last few years but one that must be
considered normal, since in previous accounts there had been included
large private collections coming as gifts or extended series of speci-
mens from prolonged explorations in the field. Materials of vari-
ous kinds received for examination and report amounted to 12,060
lots. Gifts of duplicate materials to schools and other educational
organizations included 6,299 specimens, while exchanges of duplicate
materials with other institutions and with mdividuals amounted to
11,621 specimens, for which there were received in return material
needed for our collections. Loans to scientific workers outside of
Washington totaled 36,639 specimens.

Following is a digest of the more important accessions for the year
in the various departments and divisions of the Museum:
18 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

Anthropology.—aA plaster cast of the famous bison carved in clay
by Upper Paleolithic sculptors from the cave of Tuc d’Audoubert,
Ariége, France, was obtained through arrangements made by J.
Townsend Russell, and purchased and presented by the Old World
archeology fund administered by the Smithsonian Institution.
There came also a valuable collection of stone artifacts of Aurignacian
age from three localities in the French Pyrenees collected by Mr.
Russell as field director, under the Smithsonian Institution, of the
Franco-American Union for Prehistoric Research in France. There
were further collections of artifacts from several prehistoric sites
in Europe and North Africa presented by Mr. Russell from his
own collections. In Alaska Dr. AleS Hrdlitka collected on Kodiak
Island a series of stone, bone, and wooden implements of a type not
previously known, and from the region about Bristol Bay and from
Kodiak Island an important series of human skeletons. M. W. Stir-
ling forwarded a large collection of costumes and implements from
the Indians of Panama, with additional materials from northwestern
South Africa. From Nigeria and the Gold Coast of Africa, C. C.
Roberts sent further collections of native materials, including pot-
tery, textiles, brass castings, and many other objects. Through Mrs.
Charles D. Walcott there were obtained from Hawai several ancient
poi bowls cut from wood, which are new to the Museum’s collections.

Biology.—An interesting collection of birds, mammals, reptiles,
and plants was obtained by Mrs. lL. O. Sordahl while at the solar
observatory of the Smithsonian Institution on Mount Brukkaros in
Southwest Africa. This arid region is one that has been little vis-
ited by naturalists and one from which the National Museum has had
little material previously. Dr. Hugh M. Smith, fisheries adviser to
the Government of Siam, forwarded further collections of birds,
mammals, reptiles, fish, and mollusks,.so that the series from Siam
is of steadily growing importance. W. G. Sheldon and Richard
Borden presented an important collection of mammals made in Brit-
ish Columbia from regions which have not previously been repre-
sented in the Museum. These gentlemen are continuing work in that
area during the coming year, and further material may be expected.
The division of birds obtained 23 genera and 340 forms new to
its collections, a considerable number coming from Africa through
funds supplied by the late Marcus Daly. A huge specimen of the
ocean sunfish estimated to weigh about 1,200 pounds, captured in nets
of the Bayhead Fisheries (Inc.), off the coast of New Jersey, was
presented through the Edward C. Worden Laboratory of Millburn,
N. J. Additions to the collections of plants have included important
series from South America collected by E. G. Holt along the Bra-
zilian-Venezuelan frontier, presented by the National Geographic
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 19

Society, and further collections from eastern Peru received as a gift
from G. Klug, of Iquitos, Peru.

Geology.—Through the income of the Roebling fund of the Smith-
sonian Institution there were secured a number of valuable acces-
sions, among them a nugget of gold weighing 81 ounces troy from
Plumas County, Calif.; an example of leaf gold; specimens of rare
uranium minerals; and two flawless crystals of aquamarine. To the
Canfield Collection there were added large exhibition slabs of crystal
dolomite, on which there are crystals of other interesting minerals,
and a large mass of smithsonite from New Mexico. Under the
Chamberlain fund there have been obtained a number of interesting
specimens of coral, illustrating its use as gem material. Additions
to the Isaac Lea collection include a carved vase of Siberian mala-
chite, and some fine opals from Mexico.

Through field investigations financed by the Smithsonian Institu-
tion there were obtained important collections of fossils, particularly
of mammals. Mr. Gilmore collected a considerable part of a large
creodont, three partial skeletons of Coryphodon, fossil turtles,
several skulls of a primitive alligator (Allognathosuchus) and some
remains of the giant flightless bird Diatryma. N. H. Boss collected
a series of fossil horse bones from the quarry near Hagerman, Idaho,
that included 32 skulls and 4 partly articulated skeletons, adding
measurably to our series of the Pliocene horse Plesippus shoshonensis.
The United States Geological Survey transferred several sets of
rocks and ores and valuable collections of fossil plants. The fourth
shipment of the private collection of Dr. A. Foerste, numbering
about 10,000 specimens, came during the year as a gift. Through
the Springer fund there were obtained some excellently preserved
echinoids from the Cretaceous deposits of Texas, and several slabs
of slate from the Devonian of Germany carrying fine specimens of
crinoids preserved in pyrite.

Arts and Industries—In the division of engineering a full-size
model of a soft-coal mine was under construction, for which several
companies contributed materials such as safety lamps, miners’ belts,
mine cars, and mine timbers, that will make a most attractive exhibit
when assembled. The section of aeronautics received from the Auto-
giro Co. of America the first autogiro to fly in this country—an
invention of Juan de la Cierva. This interesting machine was flown
to Washington by James Ray, vice president of the Autogiro Co.
of America, and was landed in a narrow space on the lawn in front
of the Arts and Industries Building, where it was formally pre-
sented for the Museum. The Packard Motor Car Co. presented to
the National Aircraft Collection the original Packard-Diesel aircraft
engine. For the collection illustrating the development of land

149571—33——3

20 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

transportation there was received an electric brougham of about the
year 1900, a gift from Mrs. Herbert Wadsworth.

For the collection showing the development of time keeping the
city of Frederick, Md., presented a tower-clock movement made
about 1791 that was continuously in use as the town clock until a
few years ago.

From Mrs. Daniel Gardner the Division of Textiles received a
notable series of specimens illustrating the textile art and related
subjects of the early nineteenth century. These included hand-
woven blankets, bed linens made from hand-spun yarns, Paisley and
India shawls, coverlets, and baskets. Through exchange with Yale
University, School of Forestry, the wood collections received a set
of 116 Liberian woods collected where extensive forests were being
cleared for rubber planting.

History—The division of history obtained as its outstanding
addition a series of 71 paintings by the late J. L. Gerome Ferris,
presented by Mrs. Ferris, the set representing the life work of this
well-known American artist. The pictures illustrate notable events
in American history from the time of the discovery to the World
War; a number deal with the career of George Washington. The
personnel of the Eighty-first Division, A. E. F., presented a portrait
of Maj. Gen. Charles J. Bailey, painted by Joseph Cummings Chase.
The Chase Collection of A. E. F. portraits in the National Museum
now includes 48 paintings. For the antiquarian collections Mrs.
Eleanore Daughaday Hertle, through her husband, Louis Hertle,
gave a topaz necklace presented to Mrs. James Monroe by her hus-
band, James Monroe, when he was United States minister to France.

Through the Joint Committee on the Library the Congress of the
United States loaned to the National Museum the Washington me-
morial window, a stained-glass panel by Maria Herndl representing
George Washington on horseback conferring with Lafayette and Von
Steuben. A large collection of chinaware, glassware, silverware,
and other household objects of the early part of the nineteenth cen-
tury was presented by Mrs. Daniel Gardner.

The collection of military uniforms of the World War period was
augmented by a series of military uniforms and equipment of the
type used by the enlisted men of the Portuguese Army contributed
by the Government of Portugal through its minister in Washington.

The American Numismatic Society continued its additions to its
large and interesting loan collection of coins. The philatelic collec-
tion received more than 4,000 specimens by transfer from the United
States Post Office Department—chiefly sets of new issues distributed
by the International Bureau of the Universal Postal Union.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 21

MEETINGS AND RECEPTIONS

The lecture rooms and auditorium were used during the past
year for 118 meetings, covering the usual wide range of activities.
Full report on these will be found in the report of the United States
National Museum, separately published.

CHANGES IN EXHIBITIONS

Following renovation of the Aircraft Building as a safeguard
against fire, the collections in aeronautics were rearranged and the
building was opened once more to the public. Im the Arts and
Industries Building a new case was constructed for the Star-
Spangled Banner, the case being one of the largest in the Museum,
displaying the entire union of this important flag. The new instal-
lation has proved most attractive, making this historic emblem one of
the dominating features of the north hall, where it shows to great
advantage. The naval collection shown formerly in the rotunda of
the Natural History Building was transferred in the late winter and
early spring to the northwest court of the Arts and Industries Build-
ing, this move bringing all of the historical collections together.

As another major feature in connection with the historical series,
the Ferris collection of paintings was installed in specially built
alcoves along the south side of the costumes hall. Here they make
a most attractive display with specially arranged lighting. The
paintings have been placed behind glass for protection.

The historical relics concerning George Washington were all as-
sembled in the north hall, where they are shown more conveniently
and attractively for visitors during the Bicentennial celebration.
For the period of the Bicentennial a special exhibition, principally
of statuary, was installed in the National Gallery of Art, with exten-
sion into the rotunda of the Natural History Building. The greater
part of the foyer was allotted also for a temporary exhibit of the
National Capital Park and Planning Commission dealing with the
development of the city of Washington.

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD WORK

Investigations in the field have included researches concerned with
man, with fossil creatures of many kinds, and with various phases of
living animal and plant life. The work has been carried on mainly
through grants from the Smithsonian Institution, assisted by contri-
butions from individuals, while certain projects were financed
through the income of special funds under jurisdiction of the Smith-
sonian. A brief account of field work for the present year follows.
22 ANNUAL BEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

Through the financial assistance of Dr. W. L. Abbott, long a friend
of the Smithsonian Institution, Herbert W. Krieger, curator of eth-
nology, carried on archeological investigations in Cuba in continua-
tion of work of a similar nature that he has pursued for several years
in Haiti and the Dominican Republic. His investigations covered a
variety of sites between Camaguey and the extreme western end of
the island, with additional studies on the Isle of Pines. The collec-
tions from these investigations have been considerable; they indicate
important evidence in the correlation and distribution of the pre-
historic human cultures of the West Indian area.

Mr. Krieger was also occupied at various times in exploring
Indian village sites in the lower Potomac area not far from Wash-
ington. In the course of this work he has prepared a map showing
the location of known sites and has attempted to correlate data re-
covered with descriptions of such sites in the works of Captain John
Smith and others. The work, when completed, will result in im-
portant information, as except for the writings of Smith and
Raleigh we have practically nothing in the nature of a historical
description of the Indians of tidewater Virginia and of the Carolinas.

Archeological work in northern Alaska was carried on during the
summer by James A. Ford and Moreau B. Chambers under the
general direction of H. B. Collins, jr., who has been working in this
area for several years. Mr. Chambers excavated for three months
at Gambell, St. Lawrence Island, where during the summer of 1930
Mr. Collins had found an unbroken sequence of Eskimo occupation
extending from an early phase of the old Bering Sea culture to the
present time. Mr. Chambers’s work added to the completeness of
this chronological record, bringing especially further evidence of the
transitional phase between the old Bering Sea and the Punuk periods.

Mr. Ford proceeded to Point Barrow, but ice conditions in the
Arctic were the worst in many years, so that he did not arrive until
late in August, when the ground was beginning to freeze. Arrange-
ments were therefore made for him to stay at Barrow over the winter
in order to get in a full season of excavation in 1932. During the
winter he was occupied in various studies pertaining to the modern
Eskimo.

Neil M. Judd, curator of archeology, was engaged in an archeologi-
cal reconnaissance on the San Carlos Indian Reservation, Ariz., on
behalf of the Bureau of American Ethnology. Several caves near
Arsenic Spring, on the southwest slopes of the Nantac Plateau, shel-
tered small pueblo ruins whose associated pottery fragments suggest
occupancy in the thirteenth century or later.

I’. M. Setzler, assistant curator of archeology, continued work. in
the Big Bend region of southern Texas, an area heretofore unknown
archeologically that is thought to conceal important information
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 23

relative to prehistoric contacts between the tribes of northeastern
Mexico and those of the lower Mississippi Valley. Materially aided
by the staff of the Plant Quarantine and Control Administration,
United States Department of Agriculture, at Alpine, Mr. Setzler
centered his recent explorations in the Chisos Mountains district,
overlooking the Rio Grande. A number of important caves in this
region were investigated and various other examinations were made
that correlate with results obtained last year in Presidio County to
the west.

During the past year the cooperative agreement between the
Smithsonian Institution and the University of Toulouse for the ex-
cavation of prehistoric sites in France, arranged by J. Townsend
Russell, collaborator in Old World archeology, as representative of
the Smithsonian Institution, became formally effective. In July,
1931, as field director of the Smithsonian Institution-University of
Toulouse researches in prehistory, financed by the Institution from
the Old World archeology fund, Mr. Russell initiated excavations
in the cave of Marsoulas, in the commune of the same name, Depart-
ment of Haute-Garonne, southern France. Count Henri Begouen,
professor of prehistory at the University of Toulouse, participated
in the investigations as representative of the university. Exploratory
soundings were also made in the near-by cave of Tarte, in the cave
of Roquecourbere, one of the two sites of Solutrean age in the
Pyrenees, and in the workshop of Roquecourbere. In consequence
of this preliminary work a formal agreement was signed on Novem-
ber 27 for cooperative work between the University of Toulouse and
the Smithsonian Institution in the same general region during a
period of 10 years.

It is a privilege to be able thus to join with the University of
Toulouse in researches which should contribute new information to
our present knowledge of Paleolithic man. While the cooperative
agreement provides that the rarest objects remain in France, the
generosity of the University of Toulouse is apparent from the fact
that it retained only two of the specimens found during the pre-
liminary work of the season of 1931. Thus it is to be expected that
representative series of artifacts will come to help fill the very
considerable gaps in the National Museum’s limited exhibits of
European prehistory.

At the opening of the fiscal year Dr. Ale’ Hrdlitka, curator of
physical anthropology, was engaged in anthropological and archeo-
logical investigations in Alaska that included the lower Nushagak
River, Bristol Bay, the Iliamna Lake regions, portions of Kodiak
Island and adjacent areas. Interesting results were obtained
throughout, with especially important materials coming from
24 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

Kodiak Island, where there was found abundant evidence of a culture
that shows evidence of considerable age. ‘This shows interesting
relationships on one hand to the Eskimo and on the other to the
Northwest coast area. In May, 1932, Doctor Hrdlitka returned to
Alaska on his fifth expedition to that interesting area, centering his
efforts this year on the Kodiak Island deposits discovered at the
close of the season last year. Through the interest of Mrs. Charles
D. Walcott he was provided with a small motorboat for use in the
bays about the coast of the island.

Dr. Walter Hough, head curator of the department of anthro-
pology, examined the archeological field opened up by Dr. Byron
Cummings around Tucson, Ariz., where huge adobe walled ruins
are being excavated.

Work abroad in the interests of the Springer Collection, again
undertaken by Dr. R. S. Bassler, head curator of the Department
of Geology, embraced a study of the crinoid collections of various
museums, particularly in England, Austria, and Hungary, and ex-
plorations in certain of the classic geologic areas of these countries.
The entire trip was very successful and resulted in many casts of
fossil echinoderm types, particularly Silurian crinoids hitherto
wanting in the collections.

Dr. W. F. Foshag, curator of mineralogy and petrology, engaged
in explorations in the States of Coahuila, San Luis Potosi, Zacatecas,
and Queretaro, Mexico, under the auspices of the Roebling fund of
the Smithsonian Institution. Complete series of the rocks and ores
of the districts visited were collected, resulting in many important
additions to the Roebling Collection in the National Museum.

James Benn, junior aid in the Department of Geology, made cer-
tain collections in southern New York and northern New Jersey.
Of particular interest are fine examples of fluorescent minerals ob-
tained at Franklin Furnace, N. J.

Late in the year EK. P. Henderson, assistant curator of physical
and chemical geology, traveling under the Canfield fund of the
Smithsonian Institution, was detailed to collect in Montana, Utah,
and Colorado, with certain needs of the collections as his objective.
He was accompanied by F. A. Gonyer, representing the mineralogical
department of Harvard University.

For the advancement of his work on the Cambrian, Dr. Charles E.
Resser, curator of stratigraphic paleontology, spent four months in
a study of early Paleozoic fossils in European museums and in con-
sultation with geologists concerning the local stratigraphy of the
neighboring areas. His work began in Norway and Sweden and
extended to Czechoslovakia, Poland, Estonia, Germany, and England.
His major objectives were attained to a greater degree than expected,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 25

and in addition much new material was secured for the Museum by
exchange arrangements.

Dr. G. A. Cooper, assistant curator of stratigraphic paleontology,
collected during his vacation, at his own expense, in classical De-
vonian localities in New York State. At the close of his work he
presented to the Museum more than 2,500 specimens.

The field explorations of C. W. Gilmore, curator of vertebrate
paleontology, covering the Miocene and Oligocene formations of
southwestern Montana, and the Wasatch of the Bighorn Basin, Wyo.,
met with gratifying success. The material collected will fill long-
existing gaps in the collections, and it is anticipated that study will
reveal many undescribed forms.

Excavations were continued in the fossil-horse quarry near Hager-
man, Idaho, under the direction of Norman H. Boss, chief preparator
in the division of vertebrate paleontology, resulting in the recovery
of 4 more or less complete articulated skeletons, 32 skulls, 48 jaws,
and a vast assemblage of skeletal parts.

The Walter Rathbone Bacon traveling scholarship under the
Smithsonian Institution has been awarded for the current period to
Alan Mozley for study of the land and fresh-water molluscan fauna
of Siberia. Mr. Mozley left for the field in the spring of 1932 and
proceeded to Tomsk, Siberia, where he intends to establish head-
quarters for this year’s exploration. Mr. Mozley reports that he will
make an expedition to the mouth of the River Ket, and later, after
returning to Tomsk, will make an excursion south into the Akhmo-
linsk Steppe. He reports cordial cooperation of the local authorities
and scientific institutions.

Dr. J. M. Aldrich, curator of insects, collected Diptera in the Gaspé
Peninsula of eastern Quebec. He obtained a large collection of flies,
establishing the fact that a large number of southern species have a
much wider distribution northwards than has hitherto been sup-
posed, though the lower St. Lawrence River appears to form a suffi-
cient barrier against the spread of the northern flies southward, as
no striking forms of the Labrador fauna were found.

Dr. Paul Bartsch, curator of mollusks, with financial assistance
from the Carnegie Institution of Washington, again visited the
Florida Keys to examine the Cerion colonies planted during previ-
ous years to determine the effect on these mollusks of changes in
environment, as well as of hybridization, a work in which the Smith-
sonian Institution and the Carnegie Institution have cooperated
since 1912.

Gerrit S. Miller, jr., curator of mammals, traveling at his own ex-
pense, with some assistance from the Smithsonian for the hire of
labor, visited Puerto Rico during March and April with the main
26 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

object of continuing his studies of the recently extinct mammal
fauna of the Greater Antilles. Important localities were investi-
gated and many specimens were obtained representing mammals,
reptiles, batrachians, plants, and aboriginal artifacts.

Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt, curator of marine invertebrates, with the
cooperation of the Carnegie Institution of Washington, continued a
survey of the carcinological fauna of the Tortugas region at the
Carnegie Marine Laboratory at Tortugas.

Dr. Hugh M. Smith, in Siam, continued explorations throughout
the year, sending to the National Museum large collections of ver-
tebrates and mollusks which have been found to include numerous
forms new to science. Thanks to Doctor Smith, the Museum is
assembling a most excellent representation of the life of a region
from which it had previously possessed little material.

W. G. Sheldon and Richard Borden, interested particularly in
mammals, arranged a 3-month trip at their own expense into north-
eastern British Columbia, where they secured for the Museum a
considerable collection that contains many forms of especial interest.
The principal objective was to obtain specimens of a peculiar form
of mountain sheep and as representative a series of other mammals
as possible, in which the collectors were highly successful. The col-
lections, including certain birds as well as mammals, have been pre-
sented to the National Museum. Thanks are due ‘ite Canadian Gov-
ernment for the necessary permits covering the taking of scientific
specimens.

Dr. A. Wetmore, assistant secretary, visited the Bear River
marshes at the northern end of Great Salt Lake, Utah, where he
obtained various specimens of birds required in the Museum series.
The region is one famous for its waterfowl, being now in large part
included in a Federal refuge, and is an area from which the Museum
has extensive collections.

BUILDINGS AND EQUIPMENT

The erection of the steel galleries in the Natural History Build-
ing for the mammal collections was completed at the end of August.
A pneumatic collecting and conveying system for removing sawdust
from the two woodworking rooms in the carpenter shop was in-
stalled, an important improvement long needed.

The power plant was in operation from October 5, 1931, until May
27, 1932. The consumption of coal during the year was 3,220.4 tons,
at an average cost per ton of $5.03. The total electric current pro-
duced amounted to 628,578 kilowatt-hours, at a cost of 1.65 cents a
kilowatt-hour. The ice plant manufactured 424.2 tons of ice at an
average cost of $2.36 a ton.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 27

MISCELLANEOUS

The exhibition halls of the National Museum were open during the
year on week days from 9 a. m. to 4.30 p. m. and on Sundays from
1.30 p. m. to 4.30 p. m., with the exception of the Aircraft Building,
which was open only on week days. All buildings remained closed
during the day on Christmas and on New Year’s.

Visitors for the year totaled 1,630,030, a decrease of 39,110 from
the record of the preceding year, this difference being due partly to
the fact that the Aircraft Building was closed on Sundays. Attend-
ance in the several buildings was recorded as follows: Smithsonian
Institution, 241,844; Arts and Industries Building, 675,435; Natural
History Building, 600,535; Aircraft Building, 112,216. The average
daily attendance for week days was 4,237 and for Sunday 5,927.

During the year the Museum published 10 volumes and 57 separate
papers, while the distribution of volumes and separates to libraries
and individuals aggregated 101,975 copies. In addition, 18,805 copies
of publications issued during this and previous years were supplied
in response to special requests.

In the Department of Arts and Industries the divisions of mineral
and mechanical technology were consolidated on July 18, 1931, as a
division of engineering, under Carl W. Mitman as curator. Dr. T.
Dale Stewart was appointed assistant curator of the division of
physical anthropology on July 1, 1931, and Horace G. Richards, who
served as senior scientific aid in the division of mollusks from Oc-
tober 5, 1931, was given appointment on March 16, 1982, as assistant
curator of the division. Dr. Charles L. Gazin on March 1, 1932, suc-
ceeded the late Dr. James W. Gidley as assistant curator in the divi-
sion of vertebrate paleontology, and Joseph H. Riley on June 24,
1932, succeeded the late Dr. Charles W. Richmond as associate cura-
tor in the Division of Birds. Dr. C. W. Stiles was given the honor-
ary designation of associate in zoology under the Smithsonian Insti-
tution October 1, 1931, and Dr. Maurice C. Hall was appointed to the
custodianship of the helminthological collections from the same date.
Dr. D. C. Graham’s association with the Museum was recognized by
his appointment on October 19, 1931, as collaborator in biology, an
honorary title which was also extended at the same time to Dr. A. K.
Fisher. Dr. C. Dwight Marsh was appointed custodian of fresh-
water copepods in the division of marine invertebrates on July 10,
1931, and J. Townsend Russell’s honorary appointment as collabora-
tor in Old World archeology was extended for one year from May 18,
1932.

The following employees left the service through operation of the _
retirement act: Charles S. Atkins, laborer; Frederick W. Wilson,
guard; Evan D. Lewis, guard; and Miss K. A. Gallaher, under
28 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

library assistant. Further, under compulsory retirement for age
provided as an economy measure in the legislative appropriation act
for 1933, 12 employees went off the rolls at the close of the fiscal
year, several having served the Museum long in positions of trust
and authority. The list follows: William de C. Ravenel, adminis-
trative assistant to the secretary, with 48 years of service; Barton A.
Bean, assistant curator of fishes, with 51 years of service; James G.
Traylor, appointment clerk, with 50 years of service; Harry C.
Taylor, chief of the paint shop, with 44 years of service; Andrew
Lee Young, assistant to the engineer, with 41 years of service;
Richard A. Allen, senior scientific aid in the department of anthro-
pology, with 35 years of service; Carl A. Carlsson and Lewis Jones,
guards; William Jones, under mechanic, with 23 years of service;
and Charles S. Washington, Albert Strong, and James S. Peyton,
laborers, with 36, 23, and 15 years, respectively.

Through death the Museum lost five workers from its active roll,
as follows: Dr. Charles W. Richmond, associate curator of birds,
May 19, 1932; Dr. James W. Gidley, assistant curator of mammalian
fossils, September 26, 1931; William S. Frazee, guard, March 15,
1932; Michael A. Coleman, guard, May 17, 1932; Mrs. Theresa Dim-
mick, forewoman of charwomen, on October 18, 1931.

From its honorary list of workers the Museum lost by death Dr.
David Starr Jordan, associate in zoology, on September 19, 1931, and
Dr. C. Dwight Marsh, custodian of fresh-water copepods, on April
23, 1932. The Museum lost a benefactor of note by the death of
Rudolf Eickemeyer, of Yonkers, N. Y., on April 24, 1932. A few
years ago Mr. Eickemeyer presented the Museum with his unique
collection of pictorial photographs and historical specimens relating
to photography, and by his will established a trust fund of $10,000,
the income of which after the death of his widow is to be used for
maintenance and collection in the section of photography.

Respectfully submitted.

ALEXANDER WETMORE,
Assistant Secretary.
Dr. C. G. Apsor,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 2
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

Sir: I have the honor to submit herewith my report on the opera-
tions of the National Gallery of Art for the fiscal year ending June
30, 1982.

The year has not been marked by any event of unusual importance
or by the addition of art collections of exceptional value. The most
noteworthy event of the year was the assignment of certain portions
of the gallery space to the George Washington Bicentennial Com-
mission for its exhibits of art works during 1932. Certain radical
changes in the exhibition spaces were required; and since the gallery
occupies the north hall of the National Museum, all changes made
were directed by the officers of the Museum.

During the year much progress has been made toward the com-
pletion of the gallery card catalogues, which are (1) a comprehensive
general catalogue of the art works of the Institution, not, however,
including the Freer collection; (2) a portrait catalogue (275 num-
bers); (8) a catalogue of loans (64 numbers), and (4) a catalogue
of the Ranger purchases from the beginning (99 numbers).

THE NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART COMMISSION

The eleventh annual meeting of the gallery commission was held
at the Smithsonian Institution on December 8, 1931. The members
present were Gari Melchers, chairman; Frank J. Mather, jr., vice
chairman; W. H. Holmes, secretary; and Charles L. Borie, jr., James
E. Fraser, Charles Moore, E. C. Tarbell, and Dr. Charles G. Abbot,
ex officio. The following officers, whose terms expired automatically
on this date, were reelected to serve during the ensuing year: Gari
Melchers, chairman; Frank J. Mather, jr., vice chairman; and
William H. Holmes, secretary of the commission. The following
members were recommended to serve for the succeeding term of four
years: James E. Fraser, Joseph H. Gest, Frank J. Mather, jr., and
Edmund C. Tarbell. The death of the following members of the
commission was announced: James Parmelee, on April 19, 1931;
Daniel Chester French, on October 7, 1931; and W. K. Bixby, on
October 29, 1931. Col. George B. McClellan, Thomas Cochran, and
Paul Manship were recommended to fill the vacancies thus occa-
sioned. (Mr. Cochran declined.)

29
30 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

Favorable report was made on acceptance of the following art
works:
Portrait of Henry Ward Ranger, by Albert Neubuys, presented by Frederick

Ballard Williams.
Portrait of Henry Ward Ranger, by Alphonse Jongers, presented by James

H. Fraser.

Painting by Emanuel Leutze (1816-1868), the preliminary sketch for his
great fresco in the Capitol Building at Washington, known as Westward the
Course of Empire Takes Its Way. Presented to William H. Seward by the
artist. Bequest of Miss Sara Carr Upton.

SPECIAL EXHIBITIONS

An exhibition of paintings made in Spain and exhibited in the
Salon de Exposiciones del Museo Nacional de Arte Moderno, Madrid,
in 1928, as “ Corners in Spain,” the work of Wells M. Sawyer, was
held from October 24 to November 30, 1931. It comprised 44 oil
paintings and 24 water colors. Cards for the opening view were
issued, and a catalogue was supplied by the gallery.

An exhibition in honor of the bicentennial of the birth of George
Washington, of paintings, sculpture, plans of Washington City, etc.,
was opened under the auspices of the United States Bicentennial Com-
mission and the National Commission of Fine Arts. Participating
societies include the National Sculpture Society, National Capital
Park and Planning Commission, National Gallery of Art, American
Society of Landscape Architects, American City Planning Institute,
National Society of Mural Painters, American Academy in Rome,
American Institute of Architects, American Federation of Arts, and
National Conference on City Planning. Invitations for the open-
ing exercises on March 26 were issued by the commission, and a
catalogue of exhibits has been made available by the District of
Columbia George Washington Bicentennial Commission. The ex-
hibition will close on Thanksgiving Day, November 24, 1932.

ART WORKS RECEIVED DURING THE YEAR

Accessions of art works by the Smithsonian Institution, subject
to transfer to the National Gallery on approval of the advisory com-
mittee of the National Gallery of Art Commission, are as follows:

Portrait of Henry Ward Ranger, by Alphonse Jongers, A. N. A.,
formerly lent by the Council of the National Academy of Design.
Gift of James Earle Fraser, New York, N. Y. (Accepted by the
commission December 8, 1931.)

Portrait of Maj. Gen. Henry Tureman Allen, United States Army,
and portrait of Gen. Robert Lee Bullard, LL. D., United States
Army, by Seymour Stone. Gift of Chester D. Pugsley, Peekskill,
N
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 31

Portrait of Rear Adm. Richard Evelyn Byrd, United States
Navy (ret.), by Seymour Stone. Gift of the artist.

Two water-color paintings of British India: Peshawar City from
the Fort, and Street in Ajmor, by William Spencer Bagdatopoulos.
Gift of the artist.

Portrait of Dr. William H. Holmes, by E. Hodgson Smart. Gift
of the artist.

John Gellatly added three framed photographs to the contents
of the portfolio of the Gellatly Collection—one of himself, one of a
portrait bust of himself by Serge Youriévitch, and one of the royal
coat of arms of Scotland. The latter bears the label:

The great Scotch authority decided that the Gellatly family’s ancestor was
the Scotch King William the Lion who reigned as King of Scotland from the
year 1165 to the year 1214, and as Royal blood flows through the Gellatly
veins they are entitled to use as their own the Royal armorial arms of
Scotland.

Portrait (full length) of John Gellatly, by Irving R. Wiles, N. A.
Gift of the artist to the Smithsonian Institution “ for association
with the Gellatly Collection.” Deposited by the Smithsonian Insti-
tution.

LOANS ACCEPTED BY THE GALLERY

A painting by George DeForest Brush, N. A., entitled “ Indian
Burial”; lent by Mrs. George DeForest Brush.

Marble bust of Charles Evans Hughes, Chief Justice of the United
States, and plaster bust of Gen. John J. Pershing, by Moses W.
Dykaar; lent by the sculptor.

Plaster bust of Percy Bysshe Shelley, English poet (1792-1822),
by William Ordway Partridge (1861-1980); lent by Mrs. William
Ordway Partridge.

Framed miniature of A Lady, by Alta E. Wilmot, as a good ex-
ample of American miniature painting of the present time; lent by
the artist.

Portrait of Gen. John J. Pershing, United States Army, and por-
trait of Adm. William 8. Sims, United States Navy, by E. Hodg-
son Smart; lent by the artist.

Portrait of Mrs. Charles Eames, by S. Gambardella; lent for the
summer by Mrs. A. Gordon-Cumming.

DISTRIBUTIONS

Portrait of George Washington, by Rembrandt Peale, property of
Hon. Charles S. Hamlin; withdrawn by the owner.

Portrait of Alexander Hamilton, by John Trumbull, and portrait
of Fisher Ames, by Gilbert Stuart; withdrawn by their owner, Henry
Cabot Lodge, jr.
By ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

Bust in plaster of Calvin Coolidge, by Moses W. Dykaar, a gift of
the sculptor to the gallery, and a similar bust of Gen. John J.
Pershing, lent by the sculptor, were withdrawn by Mr. Dykaar for
further work. The marble bust of Hon. Nicholas Longworth was
delivered to the custody of the United States Capitol.

Portrait of George Washington, by Charles Willson Peale, the
property of John 8. Beck, Washington, D. C., and portrait of Dr.
William Shippen, by Gilbert Stuart, the property of Dr. L. P.
Shippen, Washington, D. C., were temporarily withdrawn by the
owners for the Bicentennial exhibition of portraits of George Wash-
ington and his associates at the Corcoran Gallery of Art. It is
expected that these will be returned to the gallery after the close of
the celebration, November 24, 1932.

The original working model in plaster of the bronze equestrian
statue of Lafayette erected in the Square of the Louvre by the school
children of the United States in 1901, a gift to the gallery from the
sculptor, Paul Wayland Bartlett, N. A. (1865-1925), was lent to Mrs.
Bartlett for a special exhibition of her husband’s works to be held at
the American Academy of Letters, New York City, opening Novem-
ber 12, 1931, to be returned about May 1, 1932. ae statue has not
yet Been returned to the gallery.

Four portraits—Adm. Holdup Stevens, 2d, by Robert Hinckley,
and Mrs. Stevens, his wife, artist unknown; Mrs. John Bliss, artist
unknown; and Hon. Eben Sage, by Chester Harding—were with-
drawn by the lender, Mrs. Frederick C. Hicks, Washington, D. C.

Portrait of George Washington; withdrawn by the owner, William
Patten, Rhinebeck, N. Y.

Five paintings—Madonna and Child, by Albertinelli; Portrait of
Christ, by Georgioni; The Doctor’s Visit, by Jan Steen; Baptism of
Christ, by Tiepolo; and Small Landscape, by Gainsborough—were
withdrawn from her collection by Mrs. Marshall Langhorne in
November, 1931. The Entombment, by Van der Weyden, has also
been withdrawn by Mrs. Langhorne to be restored and varnished.

A water-color painting, Dogwood Blossoms, by Elizabeth Muhl-
hofer; withdrawn by Miss Muhlhofer.

Portrait of Mrs. Charles Eames, by Gambardella, lent for the
summer by Mrs. A. Gordon-Cumming, was withdrawn in the autumn.

THE HENRY WARD RANGER FUND PURCHASES

The paintings purchased during the year by the Council of the
National Academy of Design from the fund provided by the Henry
Ward Ranger bequest, which under certain conditions are prospec-
tive additions to the National Gallery collections, are as follows,
including the names of the institutions to which they have been
assigned :
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 33

Title Artist ae os Assignment
1931

85. Woman in Cloak___| Robert Henri, N. A_---- _.| December_..| Museum of Brooklyn Institute of
Arts and Sciences.

86. In My Studio_-_----- Leopold Seyffert, N. A_---|----- doses ee Museum of Brooklyn Institute of
Arts and Sciences,

87 -Hagle lakes. 2223 Jonas aaie; WN Ales ee ee eee dowess_* Towa Memorial Union, State Uni-
versity of lowa, Iowa City, Iowa.

88s Hrances:="- 4528578 Frederick Kar] Frieseke, |----- do_.__--| Washington County Museum of

N. A. Fine Arts, Hagerstown, Md.

89. The Blavk Cloud___| Eugene Higgins, N. A_---|-----do------ A. A, Anderson Gallery of Art, Col-
lege of William and Mary, Rich-
mond, Va.

1932

QOs Summers 22.5 soos Wi L Lathrop, N. AL. = January...--| The Dudley Peter Allen Memorial
Art Museum, Oberlin College,
Oberlin, Ohio.

91. Joseph Pennell____-- Wayman Adams, N. A---|_-.._ do.___--}| Addison Gallery of American Art,
Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

92. The Fall Season__--] Bruce Crane, N. A_-.------|----- do._-_--| University of Nebraska, School of
Fine Arts, Lincoln, Nebr.

93. Street Shrine------- Jerome Myers, N. A------|----- doreeats Museum of Brooklyn Institute of
Arts and Sciences.

94. Fishermen--_-------- Eric Bidson, AN. NSS */S22 2s Gdoweeues Topeka High School, Topeka, Kans,
95. Nancy (palette- | Geo. DeForest Brush, N. | February---_| California Palace of the Legion of
knife sketch). AY Honor, San Francisco, Calif.

96. New Year Shooter__| George Luks-__-------_---- Aprils ste. 22 Gallery of Fine Arts, Yale Univer-

sity, New Haven, Conn.

97. Snow Fields----_---- Rockwell: Kent._----2=--2.|---=- do_._ --| The Minneapolis Institute of Arts,
Minneapolis, Minn.

98. Shapes of Fear_----- Maynard Dixon: .?-s22---|"s22- dose Museum of Brooklyn Institute of
Arts and Sciences,

96. Easterly Coming__-| Charles H. Woodbury, | June_---_--- Society of Liberal Arts, Joslyn Me-

N. A. morial, Omaha, Nebr.
PUBLICATIONS

Houtmess, W. H. Report on the National Gallery of Art for the year ending
June 30, 1931. Appendix 2, Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian In-
stitution for the year ending June 30, 1931, pp. 43-53.

Loner. J. EH. Report on the Freer Gallery of Art for the year ending June 30,
1931. Appendix 8, Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution
for the year ending June 380, 1931, pp. 54-59.

Catalogue of paintings made in Spain and exhibited in the Salon de Exposi-
ciones del Museo Nacional de Arte Moderno, as “ Corners in Spain,” the work
of Wells M. Sawyer, on view in the National Galiery of Art, United States
National Museum Building, October 24 to November 30, 19381. Pp. 1-9.

George Washington Bicentennial Exhibition of Commemorative Paintings,
Sculpture, and the Plan of Washington, at the National Gallery of Art, Con-
stitution Avenue at Tenth Street, Washington, D. C., March 26 to November
24, 1932. Prepared at the request of the United States George Washington
Bicentennial Commission by the National Commission of Fine Arts. This
catalogue is being made available by the District of Columbia George Wash-
ington Bicentennial Commission. Pp. 1-27.

The George Washington Bicentennial Frieze. Painted by a group of members
of the National Society of Mural Painters to commemorate the two hun-
dredth anniversary of the birth of George Washington, National Gallery
of Art, Washington, D. C., 1982. Pp. 1-14.

Respectfully submitted.
W. H. Hoimes, Director.
Dr. C. G. Axzsor,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 3
REPORT ON THE FREER GALLERY OF ART

Sir: I have the honor to submit the twelfth annual report on the
Freer Gallery of Art for the year ending June 30, 1982:

THE COLLECTIONS

Additions to the collections by purchase are as follows:

BOOKBINDING

31.30. Persian, 16th century. Painted lacquer binding of the volume Khusraw
ai-Shirin, by Nizami. (See below under Manuscripts, 31.29, and Paint-
ings, 31.31-31.37.)

BRONZE

32.13. Chinese, 3d century B. ©. (?) Ch‘in dynasty (?). A ceremonial food
vessel with three ducks on the cover; the body has two annular
handles and is ornamented with two horizontal bands of interlacing
scroll design in delicate relief. Areas of green, blue, and red patination.

32.14. Chinese, Han dynasty (3d ¢. B. C.-8d ¢. A. D.). Fire-gilt dragon head:
A terminal ornament for a chariot pole. Areas of green patination.

32.15-32.16. Chinese, Han dynasty. Two chocks, possibly chariot fittings, orna-
mented with a formal design inlaid in gold and silver.

CERAMICS

31.18. Chinese, 12th-13th century. Sung dynasty. Tz‘ti-chou type. A tall,
wide-lipped flask, glazed in cream-white, and ornamented with a wide
band of carved floral design.

3293. Persian, 12th-13th century. Rhages. Spouted pitcher with a bird in
high relief on the handle. Ornamented with a band of figures of men
and animals, in slight relief, showing traces of color and gold.

JADE

31.19. Chinese, Han dynasty. Oval cup, white, with flanged rim. The outer
surface ornamented with a “rice-grain” pattern, the inner with deli-
cate linear designs. The flanges are pierced.

MANUSCRIPTS

31.24. Arabic (Egypt), 14th century. Illuminated title leaf from a Qur‘an.
Paper.

31.29. Persian, 15th century. A bound book, Khusraw %a-Shirin, by Nizami.
Painted lacquer binding (see above under Bookbinding, 31.30), illumi-
nated title leaf and six miniatures. (See below under Paintings,
31.31-31.37.)

34
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 35

82.1-32.2. Arabic (Egypt), 14th-15th century. First two leaves from a Qur‘éin;

32.3.

32.24.

81.20.

31.21.

31.22.
31.28.

31.25.
31.26.

31.27.
31.28.

31.31.

31.32.
31.33.
31.34.
31.35.
31.36.
31.37.

gold and blue illuminations on paper.

Persian, early 16th century. A bound book, Mihr-ti-Mushtari, by ’Assar
of Tabriz; dated to correspond with A. D. 1522. Illuminated first leaf
and four miniatures. (See below under Paintings, 32.4-82.8.)

. Arabic (Egypt), 16th century. The Quwur‘dn, in one volume. Text in

black naskhi; richly illuminated; paper, untrimmed.

. Armenian, 11th century. The Four Gospels in one volume (18th—19th

century binding). Parchment leaves. Text in vertical uncials, black
and golden; Ammonian sections in sloping uncials, golden. Jlumi-
nated title pages, initials, and paragraphs, and 163 miniature paintings.
Color and gold.

Indian, 15th century, Gujarati. An illuminated scroll: Vasadnta Vildsa,
a poem on spring. Text in red, black, blue, and yellow; 79 miniatures.
Color on cotton. ;

PAINTINGS

Indian, Mughal, 17th century. School of Jahangir. An album leaf:
Darbar of Jahangir. Color and gold on paper.

Persian, 14th century, Mongol period. Leaf from a Shahnadmah: Siya-
wush taken prisoner by Afrasiyab. Color and gold on paper.

Persian, 15th century. Two leaves from a Laila u-Majniin:

The battle between the Arab chief Noufal and the tribe of Laila;

Majnin visited in the wilderness by the sheikh Salim.

Color and gold on paper.

Indian, late 16th century. School of Akbar. Four leaves from the orig-
inal MS. of the Tarikh-t-Alft (Chronicle of a thousand years) :

The capture of Baghdad by Tahir;

The Imam of Baghdad brought before the Caliph on a charge of heresy,
attributed to Basawan;

A banquet given by the Caliph al-Mutawakkil, by Tiriyya and Brispat ;

Muwayyad put to death in the ice.

Color and gold on paper.

Persian, 17th century. Leaf from a Khusraw u-Shirin, by Nizami (see
above under Manuscripts, 31.29). An interpolated painting of a later
date than the book, a Shi‘a subject showing the Prophet and ’Ali with
twelve companions. Color and gold on paper.

Persian, 15th century. Six leaves from a Khusraw w-Shirin, by Nizami
(see above under Manuscripts, 31.29) :

Khusraw catches sight of Shirin bathing in a pool;

A hunting scene;

The sculptor Farhid brought by Shapur into the presence of Shirin;

Shirin makes a visit to Farhad at work;

Khusraw returns to the castle of Shirin;

An illuminated frontispiece and head piece.

Color and gold on paper.

Persian, early 16th century. Five leaves from a Mihr a-Mushtari, by

’Assar of Tabriz. (See above under Manuscripts, 32.8):

32.4. An illuminated frontispiece ;

32.5. Prince Mihr and his friend at school;

82.6. Mihr slays a lion at one blow;

32.7. Mihr feasted in a garden by the king of Khwarizm;

149571—33——_4
36 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

32.8. The nuptials of Mihr and Nahid.
Color and gold on paper.

832.9. Persian, 16th-17th century, Safavid school. By Aqa Riza. Lady with
afan. Color and gold on paper.

82.10. Indian, 17th century. Rajput. Pahari, Basohli school. A lady and
attendant beside a lotus pool. Color, gold and silver (oxidized) on
paper.

32.11. Indian, early 19th century, Rajput. Pahari, Kangra. Dressing the
bride. Color and gold on paper.

32.12. Indian, 18th-19th century. Rajput. Pahari, Garhwal. By Mola Ram
(1760-1883). Krsna holding the hill Govardhana to protect the people
of Brndaban and their cattle from the rain poured down by Indra.
Color and gold on paper.

32.19. Arabic (Northern Mesopotamia), middle 14th century. Leaf from a copy
after the 13th century treatise on Automata by al-Jazari: part of a
water-clock with the figure of a man seated on a balcony, the so-called
“Saladin” figure. Color and gold on paper.

Arabic, early 13th century. Baghdad school. By Abdallah ibn al-Fadl.
Three leaves from an Arabic translation of the pharmacological
treatise of Dioscorides:

32.20. Two physicians preparing medicine;

32.21. Two men preparing to sow seed;

82.22. A physician and his assistant under a fruit tree. Color and gold on
paper.

SILVER-GILT

31.17. Chinese, T‘ang dynasty. A covered cup, ornamented with delicate line

engraving.

Curatorial work within the collection has been devoted to the com-
pletion of a detailed study of a Japanese mandara painting (29.2) ;
to a study of the Indian manuscript, Vasanta Vilds@ (82.24); to a
critical study of the ancient Armenian manuscript of the Four Gos-
pels (82.18)—a work still in progress at the time of this report; and
to the study and recording of inscriptions on certain Buddhist stone
sculptures and of inscriptions and seals on Chinese paintings. In
the section of Near Eastern painting, translations of the text on
recently acquired Persian manuscripts have been made and recorded,
and the subjects of the miniatures identified. Besides these textual
studies, the usual work involved in cataloguing new acquisitions in
metal, jade, bronze, and painting has occupied members of the staff.
The Fenollosa collection of lantern slides of Chinese, Japanese, anc
other Eastern subjects, numbering approximately 3,000, all without
labels, as acquired by Mr. Freer in 1909, has been worked over, sub-
jects identified as far as possible, and the slides labeled and stored.
These are now available as illustrative material, in addition to the
Freer collection slides.

During the year 1,155 objects and 399 photographs of objects
were submitted to the curator by other institutions or by private
persons for expert opinion as to their identity, provenance, or histor-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 37

ical or esthetic value. Twenty-six inscriptions were submitted for
translation. Reports on these things were made to owners or senders.

THE LIBRARY

During the year the library has been increased by 254 volumes, 32
unbound periodicals, and 41 pamphlets. In addition, 122 bulletins,
reports, and catalogues were received.

Since the date of the last report the cataloguing of the library has
been completed. Indexing of foreign periodical publications, includ-
ing bound volumes of Xokka and T‘oung Pao, has been begun.

LECTURES

Lectures offered to the public during the past year have been as
follows:

In November—A series of lectures with lantern slides on The
Literary Backgrounds of Islamic Painting in Persia, by Sir E. Deni-
son Ross, of the School of Oriental Studies, London—

November 21: The Epics.

November 23: Timurid Literature.

November 25: Safavid Literature.

On Friday, January 22, an illustrated lecture on the excavations
at the Tell Halaf in northern Syria, entitled “The Wonders of the
Tell Halaf,” by the excavator, Dr. Baron Max von Oppenheim.

On Tuesday, March 1, an illustrated lecture on The Ancient Art
of Siberia, by Dr. Alfred Salmony, director of the Museum fiir
Ostasiatische Kunst, Cologne.

ATTENDANCE

The gallery has been open every day from 9 until 4.30 o’clock, with
the exception of Mondays, Christmas Day, and New Year’s Day.

The total attendance of visitors coming in at the main entrance
was 122,940—week days, 78,247; Sundays, 44,6938. This year the
average Sunday attendance was more than three times that of an
average week day, 859 being the average for Sunday and 251 that
for a week day. As before, the highest monthly total attendances
were reached in April (14,655) and August (12,653); the lowest
attendance was, as usual, in December (6,573).

The total lecture attendance was 825, with an average of 165. To-
gether with visitors admitted to the offices on Mondays (15), the
total attendance at the gallery during the year was 123,780.

There were 1,901 visitors to the offices during the year. Of these,
91 came for general information, 268 to see objects in storage, 37 to
examine the building and installation, 142 to study in the library,
187 to see the facsimiles of the Washington manuscripts, 35 to get
38 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

permission to make photographs and sketches, 229 to examine or
purchase photographs, 114 to submit objects for examination, 482
to see members of the staff. Fifty-four groups, ranging from 1 to
43 persons (total, 168), were given docent service, and 15 groups,
ranging from 4 to 19 persons (total, 133), were given instruction in
the study rooms.

FIELD WORK

At the time of this writing a full report of recent archeological
work undertaken by the field staff in Shansi Province, China, is
being printed by Kelly & Walsh (Ltd.), of Shanghai. It will be
printed in both English and Chinese, arranged dos-d-dos, and
illustrated with numerous plates, line drawings, and plans.

A second and more comprehensive report, dealing with all the
work accomplished by the field staff since 1922, and especially with
the painted pottery sites excavated around Wan Chiiian in Shansi,
will follow the first. It will include several color plates, as well as
the usual illustrative material, and will also be printed in both
languages by the same firm.

PERSONNEL

Since October 28, Y. Kinoshita has been empioyed as mounter of
oriental paintings and is now permanently employed at the gallery.

On March 28, 1932, the Freer Gallery suffered a loss in the death
of Levin C. Handy, who since June 1, 1922, had done all of the
photographic work at the gallery.

William Acker, student assistant, having completed his studies at
the University of Leyden, is on his way to Washington where he
will be attached to the Freer Gallery for the next several months.

Respectfully submitted.

J. E. Lover, Curator.

Dr. C. G. Axor,

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 4
REPORT ON THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera-
tions of the Bureau of American Ethnology during the fiscal year
ended June 30, 1932, conducted in accordance with the act of Con-
gress approved February 23, 1931. The act referred to contains the
following item:

American ethnology: For continuing ethnological researches among the
American Indians and the natives of Hawaii, the excavation and preservation
of archeologic remains under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution, .in-
cluding necessary employees, the preparation of manuscripts, drawings, and
illustrations, the purchase of books and periodicals, and traveling expenses,
$72,640.

M. W. Stirling, chief, left New York on September 26, 1931, as a
member of the Latin American expedition to South America. The
first region visited by the expedition was the San Blas coast of
Panama. Here Mr. Stirling spent approximately a month in mak-
ing an ethnological survey of the Tule Indians. From Panama the
expedition proceeded to Ecuador, where three weeks were spent in
investigating archeological sites in the Andean highlands in the
vicinity of Cuenca. After crossing the Andes and descending to the
frontier post of Mendez, three months were spent among the Jivaro
Indians of the Santiago and Maranon Rivers. The expedition crossed
the mountains from Mendez to the upper Yaupe River. They then
descended the Yaupe to the Santiago, passing down this river to its
junction with the Maranon. Much of the time was spent living
with the Jivaros in their own houses, where Mr. Stirling was able to
record first-hand a considerable quantity of ethnological data. In
addition to this a collection was made representing the material
culture of the Indians of the region. After a short excursion up the
Alto Maranon, the expedition passed through the famous Pongo
Manseriche, descending by rafts to Iquitos, from which point the
collections were shipped by way of the Amazon River to the National
Museum. Mr. Stirling returned to Washington on April 26, 1932.

Dr. John R. Swanton, ethnologist, was in the field from November
2 to December 6, 1931, his object being the location of the route fol-
lowed by De Soto and Moscoso through Arkansas and Louisiana
from 1541 to 1543. He was the guest for a part of this time of Col.
John R. Fordyce, of Hot Springs National Park, Ark. More suc-

39
40 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

cess was attained in determining the probable course of the Span-
iards than had been anticipated. While in the field he also collected
linguistic material from the Tunica Indians near Marksville, La.
There are supposed to be only three individuals who can still use
the old tongue.

Doctor Swanton devoted a large part of his time to continuing
preparation of the Handbook of the Southeastern Indians, and a be-
ginning has been made on a bulletin to include the linguistic material
of the Coahuiltecan tongues now extinct. The work of copying the
tribal map of the Indians of North America has been practically
completed.

Dr. Truman Michelson, ethnologist, was at work among the South-
ern Cheyenne at the beginning of the fiscal year. The object was
to restore phonetically some Cheyenne words previously extracted
from Petter’s Dictionary which were clearly Algonquian in origin.
Measurements were taken of some 23 subjects, and a good deal of
new ethnological information was obtained. Near the middle of
July Doctor Michelson left for Tama, Iowa, to obtain some addi-
tional material on Fox ceremonials. Early in August he left Iowa
and went among the Northern Cheyenne to restore the list of
Cheyenne words mentioned above according to Northern Cheyenne
phonetics. Incidentally a really representative group of Northern
Cheyenne were measured. A statistical study has shown that the
vault of the skull is decidedly low as compared with that of most
Algonquian peoples and rather resembles the skull of the Dakota
Sioux. In June, 1932, Doctor Michelson again left for the field.
He succeeded in gaining some important sociological data on the
Kiowa and obtained some new facts on Cheyenne linguistics,
sociology, and mythology.

John P. Harrington, ethnologist, made a thorough study of the
Indians of Monterey and San Benito Counties, in central California,
and investigated the little known Chingichngich culture of the coast
of southern California. Working with the oldest survivors of the
Costanoan and Esselen speaking Indians of Monterey and San
Benito Counties, Mr. Harrington found it possible by fully utilizing
all the early records and vocabularies to illuminate the former life
of these people and to define it as clearly as that of some of the better
known western groups. The study demonstrated that this culture
indicates a key region for central California ethnology, since it
proved to be a connecting link between the cultures of northern and
southern California. These Indians lived on a wooded mountain-
ous coast, the northern breaking down of the great Santa Lucia
Range, in a broad interior valley, known in early times as la canada
del rio de Monterey and now as the Salinas Valley, and in the hilly
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 4]

region between coast and valley, and east of the valley. The region
was rich in fish, shellfish, game, and in vegetable foods and medic-
inal herbs. Labor was roughly divided between men and women,
the men tending to the animal food and the women to the vegetable.
The houses were built of poles and thatch, shaped like a half
orange, with smoke hole at the top, and slightly sunk in the ground.
The people lived in villages and were governed by the village chief
and elders. One or more sweathouses were to be found at each vil-
lage. The people hardened themselves to going the year around with
little or no clothing in the mild climate, and the dense morning fogs
did not keep them from rising at daylight and taking the daily morn-
ing plunge. A bride was taken to live at the house of her husband’s
people or to a new house built near there. A captain, or even an
ordinary man, would sometimes have two or more wives, but monog-
amy was the rule. One of the important discoveries is that the
people had clans.

From July 1 to September 22, 1931, Dr. F. H. H. Roberts, jr.,
archeologist, continued excavations at the site 314 miles south of
Allantown, Ariz., where work was started in May of the previous
fiscal year. The Laboratory of Anthropology of Santa Fe, N. Mex.,
cooperated in the project through July and August. The summer’s
work resulted in the excavation of the subterranean portions of 14
structures. The excavations showed that several of the dwellings
had been destroyed by fire. The charred remnants of timbers lying
on the floors demonstrated clearly the method of roof construction.
The details were so clearly shown in one of the houses that it was
restored so that visitors to the site might see what dwellings of that
type were like. Two other pits were covered with shed roofs so that
they will be preserved for a long time to come. The Douglass method
of determination gave dates ranging from 814 to 916 A. D. On
February 1 Doctor Roberts left Washington for Yucatan, having
been detailed to the Carnegie Institution of Washington in the
capacity of consulting archeologist. He spent 10 days at Chichen
Itza, during which time he gained much first-hand information con-
cerning the character of the ancient Mayan civilizations, and also
visited Uxmal, the pyramids at San Juan de Teotihuacan, and sev-
eral other important archeological sites in the vicinity of Mexico
City. While in Mexico City he had the opportunity of seeing and
examining the various objects found at Monte Alban by the expedi-
tion under Prof. A. Caso. Doctor Roberts left Washington on May
21 to resume his researches at the site south of Allantown, Ariz.
Excavations were commenced on June 2, and by June 30 the remains
of two additional pit houses had been cleared of the accumulated
débris, and the remains of seven slab-lined storage cists uncovered.
42 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

In addition 15 burials belonging to the habitation group were found.
One of the pit structures uncovered had been destroyed by fire, and
the charred timbers furnished one of the earliest building dates thus
far obtained in the Southwest, namely, 797 A. D.

On July 10, 1931, Dr. W. D. Strong entered upon his duties as
ethnologist in the bureau. Early in August he left for a reconnais-
sance trip through central and western Nebraska, central South
Dakota, and western North Dakota. Evidence of a prehistoric cul-
ture believed to pertain to the early Pawnee was followed up the
Republican River and west as far as Scottsbluff. Here a very im-
portant stratified site on Signal Butte was investigated, and after
arranging for complete excavation the next summer, Doctor Strong
continued the survey trip up the Missouri River. Many large pre-
historic villages of the sedentary tribes in this region were visited
and their locations and characteristics noted for future investigation.
The survey ended with a visit to the living Arikara Indians on the
Fort Berthold Reservation in North Dakota. Many good informants
were visited and preliminary ethnological work on the life and cus-
toms of this very important agricultural people was commenced.
During the autumn and winter of 1931-32 the text and illustrations
of a manuscript entitled “An Introduction to Nebraska Archeology ”
were prepared.

On May 25, 1932, Doctor Strong left for Lincoln, Nebr., and on
June 15 excavations were commenced in the stratified deposits on the
top of Signal Butte. Large collections of specimens from all three
levels were secured, especially from the lowest level of occupation,
which was very thick and gave evidence of great antiquity. Marked
cultural differences between the three levels were apparent during the
excavation work. Burials, both complete and partial, were found in
the upper level, but no burials were encountered in the lowest level,
though fragments of human bone were found. It is already certain
that the unusual case of stratigraphy present on the summit of Signal
Butte will, when the material has been studied in detail, yield clear
evidence of an extensive sequence of cultural and artifact types for
the high plains region of central North America.

J. N. B. Hewitt, ethnologist, completed the revision and the edit-
ing of the manuscript journal of the Swiss artist, Rudolph Fried-
erich Kurz, for publication by the bureau. He also made an inten-
sive study of the internal organic structure of the Iroquois and the
Huron (Wyandot) clan, which was a most important unit of social
and political organization. This investigation revealed some hith-
erto unnoted and disregarded organic features of clan structure.
The results of this study were submitted for publication. In addition
he continued his work of coordinating the variant versions of tra-
ditional and ceremonial matters recorded in native text in the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 43

Mohawk, the Cayuga, and the Onondaga vernaculars. In addition
to the four myths of the Wind Gods mentioned in the previous
report, five others of this series of texts were completed, as was also
the paper dealing with the decipherment of an interesting series of
mnemonic pictographs. Mr. Hewitt represents the Smithsonian In-
stitution on the United States Geographic Board, and as a member
of its executive committee has much active research work to do.

On May 11, 1932, Mr. Hewitt resumed his ethnological researches
among the Iroquois members of the former Six Nations of Indians
on the Grand River Grant, near Brantford, Ontario, Canada. His
investigations began with a study of the permanency and the re-
maining cohesive power of the clan among these people, and of its
influence, if any, on the social and political activities of these Indians
to-day. He found what had been superficially apparent for some
time, namely, that the clan structure and authority had become com-
pletely forgotten, and so maintained no effective guidance in social
and political affairs. David Thomas, a former chief of the Cayuga
and an intelligent man, of the Grand River Reservation, dictated a
number of traditional and interpretative Cayuga texts dealing with
certain phases of the ancient league rituals. John Buck, sr., a former
Tutelo chief, supplied further information relating to the Wind
Gods, and he also gave much assistance in interpreting league texts
already recorded by Mr. Hewitt.

Winslow M. Walker, associate anthropologist, was in the field at
the beginning of the year, exploring certain caves in the Ozark
region of north central Arkansas. A large cavern at Cedar Grove
yielded the burials of 12 individuals and a considerable number of
artifacts and articles of rough stone, chipped flint, bone, shell, and
crude undecorated potsherds heavily shell-tempered. The resem-
blance to the culture of the Ozark Bluff Dwellers described by M. R.
Harrington is very marked. The skeletal remains indicate a long-
headed people of moderate stature, the so-called “ pre-Algonkin
type.” Three localities were found where there were petrographs—
both carved and painted symbols and figures—but the designs at
each of these sites were different and distinctive, and they could not
be correlated with any of the Bluff Dweller caves.

In the middle of July Mr. Walker went to Louisiana, where for
a month explorations of mound and village sites in various parts of
northern Louisiana were undertaken, principally in the Red River
and Mississippi Valleys. At Natchitoches, on Red River, while
preparations were going on for the construction of some ponds for
a new Government fish hatchery, an ancient Indian burial ground
was discovered. Mr. Walker arrived in time to save some of the
skeletal material and fragments of a beautiful highly decorated and
polished pottery. The period from January to June was spent in
44 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

the compiling of an index of all archeological sites so far reported
from the region of the lower Mississippi Valley, with maps showing
the location of these sites in the States of Louisiana and Arkansas.

From the study of the material found at Natchitoches a paper
has been prepared for publication entitled “ Discovery of a Caddo
Site at Natchitoches, Louisiana.” The results of this study seem to
justify the conclusion that this was the burial ground of the tribe
of the Natchitoches, a branch of the Caddo, found inhabiting this
location by Henri de Tonti in 1690. The beautful polished and
engraved pottery is very similar to that made by the Ouachita
Indians living along the river of that name in Louisiana and
Arkansas.

SPECIAL RESEARCHES

The study of Indian music was continued during the past year by
Miss Frances Densmore, a collaborator of the bureau. The three
outstanding results of the year’s work are a study of the Peyote cult
and its songs among the Winnebago Indians, an intensive study of
the songs and customs of the Seminole in Florida, and the comple-
tion for publication of a manuscript entitled “ Nootka and Quileute
Music.” In addition, numerous Pueblo songs recorded in 1930 have
been transcribed and other Pueblo songs recorded. Eight manu-
scripts and the transcriptions of 109 songs have been submitted,
together with the phonographic records and complete analyses of the
songs.

Field trips were made to Wisconsin Dells in August and Septem-
ber, 1981. The first trip was devoted to the Pueblo work, the re-
cording of Winnebago dance songs, and a continuance of the general
study of the Winnebago. Following this a visit was made to a
basket makers’ camp near Holmen, Wis., where the ceremonial songs
of the John Rave branch of the Peyote organization were recorded
by William Thunder, a leader in the ceremony. On the second trip
to Wisconsin Dells the ceremonial songs of the Jesse Clay branch
of the organization were recorded by James Yellowbank, who is a
leader in that branch. In September, 1931, and in June, 1982, the
study of peyote was continued with Winnebago Indians.

On November 6, 1931, Miss Densmore arrived in Miami, Fla., to
resume a study of the Seminole Indians begun in January. During
the early part of her stay the work was conducted in the Seminole
villages at Musa Isle and Dania and in three camps on the Tamiami
Trail between Miami and Everglades. Sixty-five songs were re-
corded by Panther (known as Josie Billie), a leader in the Big
Cypress band of the tribe. He is a medicine man in regular practice,
and his work was sometimes interrupted by his attendance upon the
sick,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 45

Early in February Miss Densmore went to Fort Myers and made
a trip to remote villages in the Everglades under the guidance of
Stanley Hanson of that city. Then she went to the region west of
Lake Okeechobee and recorded 125 songs at Brighton from Billie
Stuart, a leader of singers in the Cow Creek group of Seminoles.
Returning to Miami, work was resumed at Musa Isle. Additional
songs were recorded by Panther, and an important tradition was
related by Billie Motlo, one of the few remaining old men of the
tribe.

MISCELLANEOUS

Seven bulletins of the bureau were issued during the year; for
a list of these see the report on publications, Appendix 11.

In the library there were accessioned during the year 400 volumes,
150 pamphlets, and 3,400 serials. For further details see the report
on the library, Appendix 10.

COLLECTIONS

Accession No.

115902. Collection of archeological material collected by M. W. Stirling at
various sites in Alabama and Florida in 1981. (148 specimens.) c

114568. Archeological and skeletal material collected for the Bureau of Ameri-
ean Ethnology by F. M. Setzler from various sites in Texas in 1931.
(69 specimens. )

115562. Archeological and ethnological objects collected for the Bureau of
American Ethnology by Neii M. Judd on the San Carlos Indian
Reservation, Gila County, Ariz. (49 specimens.)

115827. Specimens of shell from Horrs Island, Fla., collected by M. W. Stirling
in 1981. (38 specimens. )

117184. Archeological material collected in 1931 by W. M. Walker from caves
and rock shelters in the Ozark region of north central Arkansas,
occupying portions of Searcy and Marion Counties. (23 specimens.)

During the course of the year information was furnished by mem-
bers of the bureau staff in reply to numerous inquiries concerning
the North American Indians, both past and present, and the Mexi-
can peoples of the prehistoric and early historic periods. Various
specimens sent to the bureau were identified and data on them fur-
nished for their owners.

Personnel.—Dr. William Duncan Strong was appointed as eth-
nologist on the staff of the bureau on July 10, 1931. Miss Marion
Illig was appointed as junior stenographer on September 1, 1931.
De Lancey Gill was retired as illustrator on June 30, 1932, by
operation of the economy bill.

Respectfully submitted.

M. W. Sriruine, Chief.

Dr. C, G. Axor,

Secretary, Snuthsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 5
REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the
operations of the International Exchange Service during the fiscal
year ending June 30, 1932:

The congressional appropriation for the support of the service
during 1932 was $54,060, an increase of $1,250 over that for 1931.
Of this increase, $1,000 was for freight and $250 for boxes. The
Institution received as repayments from departmental and other
establishments $5,056.28, making the total resources available during
the year $59,116.23.

The total number of packages received for distribution through
the service, from both domestic and foreign sources was 759,035, an
increase over the previous year of 117,697, or about 18 per cent. The
greater part of this increase was in the parliamentary documents
forwarded abroad.

The publications sent and received by the service are classified as
parliamentary documents, departmental documents, and miscellane-
ous scientific and literary publications. The number and weight of
packages containing the publications coming under these headings
are as follows:

Packages Weight

Sent Received| Sent Received

Pounds | Pounds

United States parliamentary documents sent abroad-_---------- SO2no ns | see ee D185 433), See
Publications received in return for parliamentary documents---}----------|-- HE O74 spe 2a ea 31, 674
United States departmental documents sent abroad _--_-------- 188 07a See oe 155700 a pee
Publications received in return for departmental documents-___]_---_-.--- Goatees 25, 043
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications sent abroad_-| 146, 866 |_--------- 221,420) eee
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications received from
abroad for distribution in the United States____....___..-___]__-_--_-_- 40878) | eres aes 102, 316
Motelees 526 eee Ben Be ee ee Bl oh A LS TS 698, 214 60, 821 501, 617 159, 033
Grand: totale 2223 SRS 0 a ee RT ae eye 759,035 660,650

It will be seen from the foregoing table that about 75 per cent
of the work of the office during the year has been conducted in behalf
of United States governmental establishments.

The total number of boxes used in dispatching consignments
abroad was 2,652, a decrease of 350 from the preceding year. Of
these boxes, 605 were for the foreign depositories of full sets of

46
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 47

United States governmental documents, and the remainder (2,047)
were for distribution to miscellaneous establishments and individuals.

While the Smithsonian Exchange Service, as a rule, transmits its
consignments to other countries in boxes, it is more economical to
forward certain shipments direct to their destinations by mail, and
during the year the number of packages sent abroad in this manner
was 85,485, an increase of 8,826 over the number mailed last year.
The decrease in the number of boxes forwarded abroad in 1931 and
1982 and the increase in the number of packages transmitted by
mail during the same period were due to the sending since January 1,
1931, of the greater part of the packages for British correspondents
direct by mail.

FOREIGN DEPOSITORIES OF GOVERNMENTAL DOCUMENTS

The total number of sets of United States official documents for-
warded to foreign depositories is 112, 62 full and 50 partial.

The full set of official documents sent to the Prefecture of the
Seine has, at the request of the Library of Congress, been discon-
tinued and forwarded to the American Library in Paris. The partial
set of documents sent to Bengal is now addressed: “Assistant Secre-
tary to the Government of Bengal, Department of Education,
Writers’ Buildings, Calcutta.” The series of governmental docu-
ments sent to Northern Ireland are now addressed to the “ Superin-
tendent of His Majesty’s Stationery Office, Custom House, Belfast.”
A list of the depositories is given in the report for 1931.

INTERPARLIAMENTARY EXCHANGE OF THE OFFICIAL JOURNAL

The following have been added to the list of those establishments
receiving copies of the daily issue of the Congressional Record:
Office Nationale du Commerce Extérieur, Paris; Reichsfinanzminis-
terium, Berlin; Biblioteca Apostolica Vaticana, Vatican City.
These three new depositories, after allowing for the elimination of
the set sent to Barcelona, which was discontinued, make the total
number of copies of the Congressional Record forwarded to foreign
depositories 104,

The depository of the Record in Aracaju, Brazil, has been changed
to Bibliotheca Publica de Sergipe, Aracaju. For a list of the states
taking part in the immediate exchange of the official journal, together
with the names of the establishments to which the Record is mailed,
see the report for 1931.

A list of the agencies abroad through which the distribution of
exchanges is effected is given below. Most of these agencies for-
ward consignments to the Institution for distribution in the United
States.
48 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

LIST OF EXCHANGD AGENCIES

ALGERIA, Via France.

ANGOLA, via Portugal.

ARGENTINA: Comisi6n Protectora de Bibliotecas Populares, Calle Callao 1540,
Buenos Aires.

AvustTRIA: Internationale Austauschstelle, Bundeskanzleramt, Herrengasse 23,
Vienna I.

AZORES, via Portugal.

Bre.teium: Service Belge des Echanges Internationaux, Rue des Longs-Chariots,
46, Brussels.

Botivia: Oficina Nacional de Hstadistica, La Paz.

Brazit: Servico de Permutacdes Internacionaes, Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio de
Janeiro.

BRITISH CoLoNnies: Crown Agents for the Colonies, London.

BRITISH GUIANA: Royal Agricultural and Commercial Society, Georgetown.

BritisH Honpuras: Colonial Secretary, Belize.

Buuearia: Institutions Scientifiques de S. M. le Roi de Bulgarie, Sofia.

CanapA: Sent by mail.

CANARY ISLANDS, via Spain.

CHILE: Servicio de Canjes Internacionales, Biblioteca Nacional, Santiago.

CHINA: Bureau of International Exchange, Academia Sinica, 881 Avenue du
Roi Albert, Shanghai.

CoLtomBIA: Oficina de Canjes Internacionales y Reparto, Biblioteca Nacional,
Bogota.

Costa Rica: Oficina de Depdésito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, San
José.

CuBA: Sent by mail.

CZECHOSLOVAKIA! Service Tchécoslovaque des Echanges Internationaux, Biblio-
théque de 1’Assemblée Nationale, Prague 1-79.

Danzig: Amt fiir den Internationalen Schriftenaustausch der Freien Stadt
Danzig, Stadtbibliothek, Danzig.

DENMARK: Service Danois des Echanges Internationaux, Kongelige Danske
Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen.

DutcH Gurana: Surinaamsche Koloniale Bibliotheek, Paramaribo.

Ecuapor: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Quito.

Heyet: Bureau des Publications, Ministére des Finances, Cairo.

Estonia: Riigiraamatukogu (State Library), Tallinn (Reval).

FINLAND: Delegation of the Scientific Societies of Finland, Helsingfors.

FRANCE: Service Francais des Hchanges Internationaux, 110 Rue de Grenelle,
Paris.

GreRMANY: Amerika-Institut, Universitiitstrasse 8, Berlin, N. W. 7.

Great BRITAIN AND IRELAND: Messrs. Wheldon & Wesley, 2, 3, and 4 Arthur
St., New Oxford St., London W. C. 2.

GREECE: Bibliothéque Nationale, Athens.

GREENLAND, via Denmark.

GUATEMALA: Instituto Nacional de Varones, Guatemala.

Haitr: Secrétaire d’Ntat des Relations Extérieures, Port-au-Prince.

Honpuras: Biblioteca Nacional, Tegucigalpa.

Hungary: Hungarian Libraries Board, Budapest, IV.

ICELAND, via Denmark.

InpIA: Superintendent of Stationery, Bombay.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 49

IraLty: R. Ufficio degli Scambi Internazionali, Ministero dell’ Educazione Na-
zionale, Rome.

JAMAICA: Institute of Jamaica, Kingston.

JAPAN: Imperial Library of Japan, Tokyo.

JAVA, via Netherlands.

Korea: Sent by mail.

Latvia: Service des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque d’Etat de Lettonie,
Riga.

LiseriA: Bureau of Exchanges, Department of State, Monrovia.

LITHUANIA: Sent by mail.

LOURENCO MARQuEz, via Portugal.

LuxEMpBuRG, via Belgium.

MADAGASCAR, Via France.

MADEIRA, Via Portugal.

Mexico: Sent by mail.

MOozAMBIQUE, via Portugal.

NETHERLANDS: International Exchange Bureau of the Netherlands, Royal
Library, The Hague.

New SoutH WatLEs: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.

New ZEALAND: Dominion Museum, Wellington.

NiIcArRAGUA: Ministerio de Relaciones Hxteriores, Managua.

Norway: Service Norvégien des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque de
l'Université Royale, Oslo.

PALESTINE: Hebrew University Library, Jerusalem.

PANAMA: Sent by mail.

PARAGUAY: Seccidn Canje Internacional de Publicaciones del Ministerio de
Relaciones Exteriores, Estrella 563, Asuncion.

Peru: Oficina de Reparto, Depdsito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones,
Ministerio de Fomento, Lima.

POLAND: Service Polonais des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Na-
tionale, Warsaw.

PORTUGAL: Seccao de Trocas Internacionaes, Biblioteca Nacional, Lisbon.

QUEENSLAND: Bureau of Exchanges of International Publications, Chief Secre-
tary’s Department, Brisbane. -

RuMANIA: Bureau des Echanges Internationaux, Institut Météorologique Cen-
tral, Bucharest.

Russia: Academy of Sciences, Leningrad.

SALVADOR: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador.

Stam: Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok.

SoutH AvstTrRALIA: South Australian Government Exchanges Bureau, Govern-
ment Printing and Stationery Office, Adelaide.

SpaIn: Servicio de Cambio Internacional de Publicaciones, Paseo de Recoletos
20, Madrid. :

SumatTrA, via Netherlands.

SWEDEN: Kongliga Svenska Vetenskaps Akademien, Stockholm.

SWITZERLAND: Service Suisse des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Cen-
trale Fédérale, Berne.

Syria: American University of Beirut.

TASMANIA: Secretary to the Premier, Hobart.

Trinipap: Royal Victoria Institute of Trinidad and Tobago, Port-of-Spain.

TUNIS, via France.

TURKEY: Robert College, Istanbul,
510) ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

UNION or SourH Arrica: Government Printing Works, Pretoria, Transvaal.
Urvuaeuay: Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Montevideo.
VENEZUELA: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.

Victoria: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.
YuGOSLAVIA: Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Belgrade.

Respectfully submitted.

C. W. SHOEMAKER,
Chief Clerk, International Exchange Service.
Dr. CHartes G. ABBOT,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 6
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK?

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the
operations of the National Zoological Park for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1932:

The regular appropriation made by Congress for the maintenance
of the park was $255,540—an increase of $34,020 over 1931. Of this
amount, $4,500 was made immediately available upon the approval
of the act on February 23, 1931, for the construction of quarters to
house the Victor J. Evans Collection. In addition, $4,500 was
appropriated and made available upon approval of the act for the
preparation of plans and specifications for the small mammal house,
the next unit in the building program for the development of the Zoo.

ACCESSIONS

Gifts—-Chief among the gifts this year are Okero and Teddy,
the baby mountain gorilla and chimpanzee, brought by Mr. and
Mrs. Martin Johnson. These two animals are being raised together
and constitute one of the most attractive exhibits in the park. The
receipt of the mountain gorilla made it possible to exhibit both the
lowland and mountain forms of this rare group. Samuel Kress, of
the United Fruit Co., of Costa Rica, has continued his interest and
sent a fine jabiru stork and a peccary. R. E. Stadelman, of the
Serpentarium at Tela, Honduras, presented the park with Chancho,
a white-lipped peccary, as well as a number of other interesting
specimens. Vincent Astor, of New York City, presented two Gala-
pagos iguanas. Acquisitions under the proceeds from the Frederic D.
Barstow fund, which first became available for use this year, made
possible the accession of a pair of tricolored squirrels, highly colored,
active, and interesting little animals from the Malay Peninsula. The
proceeds from the Frances Brinklé Zerbee Memorial Fund were used
for keeping the aquarium section stocked.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK EXPEDITION

With funds provided especially in the regular appropriation act
for the park, the director, accompanied by Assistant Head Keeper

1The complete list of animals in the collection, usually printed with this report, has
had to be omitted this year owing to shortage of printing funds. Mimeographed copies
of the list may be obtained by writing to the Director, National Zoologigal Park,
Washington, D. C.

149571—33——5 51
52 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

F. O. Lowe, sailed from New York July 22, 1931, for Georgetown,
British Guiana. Collecting was carried on in two general regions—
the Pomeroon and Mackenzie districts—and although the earlier por-
tion of the trip was a disappointment, 317 specimens were success-
fully landed at the Zoo on October 11, 1931. These comprised 13
species of mammals, 25 species of birds, and 31 species of reptiles and
amphibians. This exhibit brought a number of species into the Zoo
for exhibition for the first time. Surplus specimens were imme-
diately exchanged with other zoos.

On this trip the party was assisted greatly by His Excellency Sir
Edward Denham, the Governor of British Guiana; Messrs. Hender-
son and Rucker, of the Bauxite Co., of British Guiana; Dr. George
Gigholi, himself an ardent naturalist, who presented some of his
pets to the expedition; and F. M. Walcott, of Hope Estate, who gave
an ocelot.

While no Surinam toads were obtained on this trip, arrangements
were made which later resulted in the receipt of 90 specimens in good
condition, through the kindness of Captain Lum, of the Munson
Steamship Line, who brought them to New York from Paramaribo.
This placed on exhibition a large group of this rare toad, and enabled
us to exchange specimens for exhibition with other zoos.

DONORS AND THEIR GIFTS

Stuart Abraham, Braddock Heights, Md., copperhead.

Roy Adams, Washington, D. C., snapping turtle.

Mrs. M. W. Arps, Washington, D. C., ring-necked dove.

Vincent Astor, New York City, two Galapagos iguanas.

Charles A. Baker, 2d, Baltimore, Md., kinkajou.

Dr. Paul Bartsch, United States National Museum, Washington, D. C.,
Jamaican snail.

F. H. Benjamin, United States Plant Quarantine and Control Administration,
Orlando, Fla., Florida cooter, Osceola snapping turtle, two Florida box turtles.

Robert L. Bieber, Potomac, Md., goat.

J. B. Bland, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Miss Blondell, Washington, D. C., tarantula.

Mr. and Mrs. J. S. C. Boswell, Alexandria, Va., California king snake, three
Boyle’s king snakes.

M. K. Brady, Washington, D. C., king cr chain snake, 2 common fence lizards,
2 blue-tailed skinks, marbled salamander, 12 Stejneger’s anolis.

C. J. Brahm, Philadelphia, Pa., Chinese mantis.

Messrs. HE. J. and 8. K. Brown, Eustis, Fla., coral snake, scarlet snake, water
snake, two corn snakes, hog-nosed snake, chicken snake, two Florida king snakes.

Meredith and Walker Buel, Washington, D. C., common fence lizard.

Allen M. Burdett, Washington, D. C., two alligators.

C. R. Burnett, Richmond, Va., white-fronted parrot, yellow-fronted parrot.

Dr. Charles E. Burt, Southwestern College, Winfield, Kans., three slender
burrowing snakes, two western ring-necked snakes, brown skink, two collared
lizards, two blacksnakes, five ornate tortoises, western or blue racer.

F, G, Carnochan, New York City, canvasback duck, two mallard ducks.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY ao

R. R. Carpenter, Wilmington, Del., curl-tail lizard.

Bernard Cawill, Silver Spring, Md., two coyotes.

Kenneth Clow, Washington, D. C., capuchin monkey.

Miss Doris M. Cochran, United States National Museum, Washington, D. C.,
2 scorpions, 22 water snakes.

Mrs. R. Cohen, Bowie, Md., three angora goats.

Dr. F. V. Coville, United States Bureau of Plant Industry, Washington, D. C.,
seven chuckwallas.

Mrs. Annie T. Craley, Washington, D. C., yellow-fronted parrot.

Miss Amelia Crawford, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Mrs. J. H. Cummings, Wilmington, N. C., two glass snakes, six-lined lizard,
anolis.

R. O. E. Davis, Washington, D. C., barred owl.

Allen DeFord, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Charles F. Denley, Rockville, Md., four golden pheasants.

Miss Grace Deyendorf, Washington, D. C., mynah.

F. I. Donn, Washington, D. C., common gallinule.

M. C. Dowling, Bethesda, Md., 11 horned lizards.

Mrs. Bertha Duncan, Washington, D. C., red fox.

BE. W. Ebmann, Piedmont, Fla., six baldpates, six pintail ducks.

Dr. Wm. O. Emery, United States Bureau of Chemistry and Soils, Washing-
ton, D. C., three blind worms.

Mrs. C. L. Emmart, Baltimore, Md., alligator.

F. W. Engle, Washington, D. C., common boa.

William Engle, Washington, D. C., canary.

I. B. Faidley, Falls Church, Va., coot.

Dr. David Fairchild, Washington, D. C., two hermit crabs.

Mrs. R. W. Ferguson, Fernandino, Fla., two Florida skunks.

F. T. Fitch, Buchanan, Va., duck hawk.

H. J. Gibson, Washington, D. C., blacksnake.

Dr. George Giglioli, Mackenzie, British Guiana, deer, curassow.

Norman Gilillan, Washington, D. C., hog-nosed snake.

Mrs. Goodloe, Washington, D. C., opossum.

Alex Goodman, Washington, D. C., woodchuck.

R. H. Gordon, Washington, D. C., horned lizard.

W. B. Grange, United States Bureau of Biological Survey, Agassiz’s tortoise,
three horned lizards, spiny swift, spiny-tailed lizard.

Miss Hawthorne, Washington, D. C., sparrow hawk.

Miss L. KE. Hemington, Washington, D. C., six canaries,

Horace Hicks, Washington, D. C., DeKay’s snake.

James P. Holloway, Washington, D. C., rhesus monkey.

C. H. Holmes, Washington, D. C., red-tailed hawk.

R. Bruce Horsfall, Nature Magazine, Washington, D. C., corn snake.

S. R. Hughes, Leesburg, Va., common loon.

Mr. and Mrs. Martin Johnson, New York City, chimpanzee, mountain gorilla.

Walter Johnson, Bethesda, Md., silver pheasant, golden pheasant, two
lineated pheasants.

D. C. Jonhas, Washington, D. C., box tortoise, garter snake, common anolis.

E. S. Joseph, New York City, lung fish.

Mr. Keith, Georgetown, S. C., 5 water moccasins, 2 blacksnakes, 2 water
snakes, 8 copperheads, chicken snake, king or chain snake.

C. O. King, Washington, D. C., tarantula.

John Kitterman, Kensington, Md., two common terns.
54 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

B. P. Klibas, Washington, D. C., hawks-bill turtle.

R. F. Knox, Cherrydale, Va., banded rattlesnake.

Sam Kress, Port Limon, Costa Rica, jabiru, collared peccary.

James LaFontaine, Washington, D. C., great horned owl.

Miss Catherine Larner, Whitehall, N. Y., brown capuchin.

S. E. Laurell, Washington, D. C., patas monkey.

Mrs. F. C. Lincoln, Takoma Park, Md., opossum.

Mrs. John Linder, Washington, D. C., two alligators.

Robert Locke, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Thomas H. Loyd, jr., Washington, D. C., West Indian tree frog.

John L, Lucas, Washington, D. C., kangaroo rat.

John C. Lyddams, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Van Allen Lyman, Washington, D. C., scorpion.

Mrs. J. R. Malloch, Ballston, Va., raccoon.

G. Manos, Washington, D. C., four opossums.

George E. Mattingly, Washington, D. C., pied-billed grebe.

E. A. MeIlhenny, Avery Island, La., 2 anhingas, 4 snowy egrets, 2 Louisiana
herons.

Kenneth Meyers, Takoma Park, Md., common skink.

G. S. Miller, jr., United States National Museum, Washington, D. C., four
Puerto Rican snails.

James Miller, Washington, D. C., mink.

Mrs. Rose L. Miller, Washington, D. C., ferret.

W. W. Minear, Quincy, Ill., 14 blacksnakes, 19 water snakes, 8 garter snakes,
8 banded rattlesnakes, 4 leopard snakes.

Dewey Moore, United States Bureau of Plant Industry, Indio, Calif., 2 giant
hairy scorpions, sidewinder rattlesnake, 2 desert rattlesnakes, California bull-
snake, 8 lizards, 4 scorpions.

Dr. G. K. Noble, American Museum of Natural History, New York City, two
southern ctenosaurs.

Dr. H. C. Oberholser, United States Bureau of Biological Survey, Washing-
ton, D. C., two whistling swans.

William O’Brien, Washington, D. C., double yellow-head parrot.

Dr. S. Logan Owens, Washington, D. C., two yellow-naped parrots.

Mrs. A. N. Pack, Princeton, N. J., raccoon.

J. R. Page, jr., Greensboro, N. C., Florida diamond-back rattlesnake.

Axel Pedersen, Washington, D. C., woodchuck.

S. F. Perkins, Washington, D. C., two king snakes, water snake, blacksnake.

A. L. Pflueger, North Miami, Fla., two diamond-back turtles, four Florida
box turtles.

Philadelphia Zoological Park, Philadelphia, Pa., three soft-shell turtles.

Polly’s Tea Room, Alexandria, Va., two raccoons, skunk, ocelot, collared
peccary, great horned owl, three barred owls, crab-eating macaque, African
gray parrot.

Carlos Quiros, Port Limon, Costa Rica, emperor boa.

Michael Rainey, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Donald Reder, Lorton, Va., mink.

Miss M. E. Rice, Washington, D. C., woodchuck.

A. G. Richardson, Salem, Mass., two alligators.

Mrs. Riley, Washington, D. C., flicker.

H. H. Rudolph, Washington, D. C., 20 bob-whites,

W. K. Ryan, Washington, D. C., four Fundulus galaris.

San Diego Zoo, San Diego. “alif., four farallone cormorants.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 55

William Sanders, Washington, D. C., yellow-naped parrot.

Dr. J. E. Schillinger, United States Bureau of Biological Survey, Washington,
D. C., two whistling swans.

Mrs. I. D. Schwartz, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Mrs. Shelby, Benning, D. C., two coyotes.

R. D. Shields, Silver Springs, Md., capuchin monkey.

Miss Betty Shorey, Washington, D. C., tarantula.

Eugene Sibley, Chevy Chase, Md., two Peking ducks.

S. G. Sifalla, Washington, D. C., Sumichrast’s deer mouse and young.

Mrs. W. H. Smith, Washington, D. C., canary.

C. C. Sperry, United States Bureau of Biological Survey, Washington, D. C.,
two collared lizards.

R. E. Stadelman, Tela Serpentarium, Tela, Honduras, white-lipped peccary,
prehensile tailed-porcupine, two coral snakes, six jumping vipers.

B. F. Stepper, Washington, D. C., 2 skinks, blue-tailed skink, 19 fence
lizards, 2 red toads.

H. G. Stewart, Seabrook, Md., spotted salamander.

Hon. Henry L. Stimson, Washington, D. C., great red-crested cockatoo.

Shreve Stombach, red-tailed hawk.

J. Ralph Taylor, Washington, D. C., copperhead snake.

Richard Taylor, Middleburg, Va., horned lizard.

Elaine and South Trimble, Washington, D. C., flying squirrel.

United States Bureau of Biological Survey, Department of Agriculture,
Washington, D. C., laughing gull.

United States Post Office, Dead Letter Section, alligator.

Mrs. Elizabeth Voegele, Martinsburg, W. Va., orange-winged parrot.

Walker Chevrolet Sales Co., Tazewell, Va., two golden eagles.

W. Paul Ward, Fairmont, W. Va., Cooper’s hawk.

Charles Williams, marine turtle.

G. E. Williams, Washington, D. C., red salamander.

Larry Williams, Chevy Chase, Md., spotted salamander.

Miss Mary Wills, Washington, D. C., horned lizard.

G. W. Wilson, Washington, D. C., Florida gallinule.

Paul Winthrop and C. W. Buckley, Washington, D. C., hog-nosed snake,

Maj. Leigh F. Zerbee, United States Army, coral snake, Panama fresh-
water fish.

Donor unknown, two canaries.

Births—There were 41 mammals born, 62 birds hatched, and 45
reptiles hatched or born in the Park during the year. These include
the following:

MAMMALS

Scientific name Common name Number
AGpyprymnus rufescens______--_---_-- Riabckanearoos kanes oe eee i
Atrisi axis iin ofha0e! Ou. eu be sentt cms deere \kebe SEyy Ly paces an 2B) 2
Bison bison Ee beep Eee nl Ee American bison s oie aa). gees 2 1
| SSESe ST 011] O11 V Tcl SEMe oS ee Plains woltee awe oe aii ee ee 3
Cervus canadensis... ee American elk. ofa i lee Ree See 1
Cervusduvauceliie |. a Barasinghs ‘deere’ SiON tot © 1
Cervus Claphussee seit taal go. ees Redideexrsas- oii dete lie acisa 2
Choeropsis liberiensis_____.__________ Pigmy hippopotamus. 24 22... 1
AD) ex wien cl eur gs CPST Aor et ns Kallow-deent 03: <2 2 soe Exe. 2
Equus quagga chapmani_____-_______ Chapman's zeprave S28 322) 1
Belisvleg mas =a stuns s Oh Oe NE ee OnE A oe ee ee ee ee 3
56 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

Scientific name Common name Number
Myocastor/coypus 24) ise ee ae Coy Pues: oer 2 a ee 3
Odocolleus*hemionus!o¥. 5 2ebe. 22 oe Sy Minaletdeerive sree ee ee i 2
Odocoileusvirginianus = 35552542 5= Virginiaidecenei = a ee 2
Ovis'canadensis: 22.20). 2 ite aL Rocky sMiounitainisheep = 22s. aa, 2)
Ovis-europacus =. Ne ee ee Micon se es ie aa i aie By
Phacochoerus aethiopicus massaicus_-- East African wart hog_-_-__—------ 5
Poephaguserumniens! aoe 22s _ 3) NEW AS BOVE Ogle Nn bate Re wr Hg Ses 1
Rusarmoluccensisea santas Te ewe Molucca-deer: 2222. oe a pees 1
Sikammippon ese. 35-22 eee Oe Japanese deer: =r: Seer so 3
Ursus: gyea se ee yen SER re US, eats Alaska Peninsula brown bear___ _ 1
Zalophus californianuss22 92. 3e2 21-2. «California sea Tiong. = a 1

BIRDS
Anas| platyrhymchos=)2=.. (220) eaees oa iINVat arcu cick =f re ee eee 5
Branta canadensis subsp_-_----------- Canada goose group------_------ ef
Larus novaehollandiae__-_-_____-_---- Silverscullt ss oe= oes ee ae 22
Nycticorax nycticorax naevius-_ -----~_- Black-crowned night heron_-_ __--__- 18
REPTILES
Bothropsilanceolatus=— =. 22 2-22-23 Fer-de-lance 2ci22 22 22 oe 15
Crotaphytuscollarisi-)4. 22 5) eos Collared lizard] 2 x0 ona eee 6
pieratesanguilifers. 45 17 deals eulles Coban tree bos: = Loos. eee 3
Bunectes murinuss S222 2F = ep Pa ee SA TIA CONG, Sethe Shee ete Ae eee 6
INatra Spee Sanat. 8 gee ets Wister sunkess on aes 15

Purchases.—The most important purchases during the year were
two Cape hunting dogs, two fine Aldabra tortoises, and a pair of
giant anteaters.

REMOVALS

Causes of death—When it has been thought that determination of
the cause of death of certain animals might be useful, the specimens
have been submitted to the pathological division of the Bureau of
Animal Industry for examination. The following list shows the
results of the autopsies:

MAMMALS

Artiodactyla: Congestion of the lungs, 1.
Primates: Purulent peritonitis, 1; pneumonia, 1.

BIRDS
Columbiformes: Catarrhal enteritis, 1.

The great loss of the year was the death of N’Gi, a 414-year-old
baby gorilla that had been in the Zoo from December 5, 1928, to
March 10, 1932. He became ill with a bad cold, which progressed
into pneumonia complicated with empyema. Dr. D. E. Buckingham,
veterinarian, and his assistant, were called immediately and stayed
with him day and night throughout his illness. Dr. John C. Eck-
hardt, M. D., a great friend of the Zoo, served as a volunteer
consultant.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY By

Through the kind interest and generosity of Mrs. Eleanor Patter-
son, of the Washington Herald, several X-ray pictures were made
and an oxygen chamber with technicians and full equipment was
brought from New York by airplane and N’Gi placed in this in an
effort to save his life. He recovered somewhat, but because of the
empyema a surgical operation was necessary. ‘This was performed
gratuitously by Dr. Charles Stanley White, of Washington, but the
long illness had so weakened the monkey that he died shortly
afterwards.

At the time N’Gi was ill, Jojo, the chimpanzee in the adjoining
cage, also became ill and died. Both deaths were apparently occa-
sioned by the same type of ailment, generally called the flu or grip,
which was prevalent in Washington at that time.

Okero, the mountain gorilla, and his cage mate, Teddy, the chim-
panzee, developed a slight pneumonia, but soon recovered.

ANIMALS IN COLLECTION THAT HAD NOT PREVIOUSLY BEEN EXHIBITED

MAMMALS

Scientific name Common name
CHCA) OU Call yillS te tate ns nt White Uakari monkey.
CHimoOplres7ehivrop tess =e aes Pee Cuxio monkey.
HUphTactusssexcinctus: 2.2 =- = Baa ae Six-banded armadillo.
WV CAONMDICUIS== 22a ee eae Se ee ee Cape hunting dog.
Metachirus fuscogriseusle wes 2 ees ek ee Allen’s mouse opossum.
Ny clomys sumichrastiz2==— 40 = ase eee Sumicharast’s deer mouse.
SClUTUSHHUMGI= aes. un Re inn, Ee Tricolored squirrel.

BIRDS
Pitangus sulphuratus_________ Se ee OB igi mad Kiskadee flycatcher.
PSOMOCOlA HOLY ALON A aa eae te es eee Rice grackle.
NDOTOpH ae lineolac=-0 exes seve 9 EE ee White-crowned seed-eater.
MinamMuUs.mMajoro == ose eae 2 Ea Guiana giant tinamou.
REPTILES

“Ameiva ameiva -A2mMeiva_--=—--- 22-22 8 se South American swift.
Amis sSeyitalese=s— 2505 8 Bluni-tailed anilius.
Anolis#lenTcophaens=: ss 2 eae = aL ye ee Turks Island anolis.
Crocodilurusmacertinus*=2-s52-. 2a 8 Se Crocodile lizard.
Hrpetodrvyas carmatus...- ses se me Marsh snake.
HrpetodryasrfuSCUs=_— a e Red and black snake.
Erythrolamprus aesculapii____._______-______- False coral snake.
Tehicopsraneulata eos ee ees South American water snake.
melocephaluseinaeude see Inagua Island curl-tail lizard,
TBST CE TOE ATI Sie Sw es et ee Curl-tail lizard (Andros fsland).
Meptonhiscahaetuilasse= ssa SS ee ee Parrot snake.
Hetglognathus nenulatiss == = Blunt-head snake.
PNTOERY US VAT CISSUMNTU Sa e eee ee  ees Green tree snake.
Bhrynonassulphureust 22208 Ses eee ee South American rat snake.

PhrynoOSomaAEsolAresss =a see oe ee ee Crowned horned lizard.
58 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

Scientific name Common name
PiGhsi yh Gao hesie 2k en ee eee Plicated lizard.
Podocnemisvexpansas 22s a Te eee South American river tortoise.
Polyehrugemarmonatus. 22-2. 2s Le eee Marbled lizard.
Pscudobeas clochase! 2 2) Mussurana.
Pythonveuntus* 22208! pai Se ele Eee ee See Blood python.
Spilotesspullatus;pullatus 222s = eee Tiger snake.
Tantilla -cononadta se 4 a) oe eee Ne Banded burrowing snake.
Testudoxelephantina <2 552 2 2 See aes Hlephant tortoise.
Thecadactylus rapicaudus_ ===" "= -2-Seeeeee Gecko.
ECCnOdOUESCVERUSE 22 Ss as ee eee South American puff snake.

AMPHIBIANS
Gyrinophilus porphytitieust i222 22) Bese Purple salamander.
Thylavseptentrionalicgs == 25 el eat ee West Indian tree frog.
Pip ae AM Cri CaaS eee le Sine Se A ese Surinam toad.
FISHES
Mlecrophorus: Clectricus= == ==. eee Electric eel.
Hepidosiren Paradox 22 eee South American lung fish.
INSECTS
TENOGETA ISINENS1 See OPE een ee Chinese mantis.
MOLLUSKS

Oxystylaindata ste se oe ee eee Puerto Rican snail.
Oxystyla undata Jjamaicensis=-_ 222 ee. Jamaican snail.

Statement of the collection

[Accessions]
Collected :
Received
by park |presented| Born in Pur- On de- Total
prpedi: exchange chased posit
Mammals! 2. S222) (esi ee 19 57 Ca ee See 32 4 153
BITdSo: see aes re ed 105 101 62 1 37 3 309
Reptilese ca eae es ees ae 160 209 45 43 110 3 570
Amphibians #434242 ese) ies h 33 By eee pee ee 7 ee 158
WISH Og) ee | eke el pe See plas Ao 1 Pe Wachee 5
Arachnids=-2 = sates ssl eRe eee TO ae ee She eS Sa SS ee ee eee 10
Insectsiie tate TF! Shae ae ee Biel ve Less ST Pua AN eee ees eee age ee eee ees 3
CTUSTACERIS 5 teeter ere eee | eee ere Dh Eee ed hh ok iin Sh ah oe en RRS ERA 2
Molusks so 22222 Sie ht eB regs See fi) Ne ote cP oe Ire BS et Die 7
Total... ==2.. == Sei 317 392 148 45 305 10 1,217
Summary
Animals ‘on; hand (July 119:49312 = eet 2, 501
Accessions: during; the? years22 232. 2 Se es ee eee ab Palré
Total” animalszin: collection Guring year. = 2) e a eee 3, 718
Removed from collection by death, exchange, and return of animals on
GepoSits cs ee ee ET ee nee ee eee ee eee 1, 416

In collectionvJumersoOy TOS2M oak a ee a EE 2, 8302
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 59

Status of collection

Species individ: Species Fralvic:
Wianimalse? PS. = 2324 22 Ms fo rs 194 530) igArachmidss of: = 2-2 Fe 3 4
Bird See sasse es. ee eI Ee 328 THUS rustaccanss.-_- 2222-22222 2F 1 3
REDE LLOS meee cee aie ne ee 157 54 NiOlSKs Ses a e ee rs a 2 27
ATH phi DIanS= 222 See = ee aver 28 101 ———$—$—$——=
Mishes ober. Feri y See Tees 15 57 TRO GaN AS eb a as | 728 2, 302
ee SHillier pelea neiibe: sar) Herat Rete

Visitors

Rly ees eee ee eee 202510072 Marche Sst se eI ee 174, 585
AC USt SS Le et ThS ahr 2167200) | Aprile es opie te Se 252, 000
September_22- 2.28 92)5_ 2 2625,400)\|) May nas: Jena ee seuet coe 272, 300
October 522-0 tse 2s DAT AiO UMC ee een eee 175, 200
November. u2-s 2 Sas ti. 161, 900 —_—_——————
December seo Gere e 48, 825 Total visitors for
etirtheiiny Se ee See ewe 65, 800 year: 03010592 3. 2, 169, 460
Hebruary 20. s1Lu08_ sit. 96, 400

The attendance of organizations, mainly classes of students, of
which we have definite record, was 86,318 from 716 different schools
in 22 States, the District of Columbia, and Cuba, as follows:

Number | Number Number | Number
States of of States of of

persons | parties persons | parties
Alabama. esse Ee -S 24 ty |) Newsy orkis2 03 vs en 3, 482 43
Connecticut 2 203 4|| North Carolina. .-2. =. 222-22 292 11
Welaware ibs pes J 218 Ou a@hio AOE Ela Es Oe 453 16
District of Columbia____-____- 10, 012 2024), Bennsyilvania -o22s5-2=-2--ee 7, 494 153
Hlorida =24 = 222 | SPAT As IES - 75 3]| Rhodedslandss .-2 243221233 97 3
Win Q1S Meee es ee 65 2.|) South) @arolina:.— 2-2-2. =e 31 1
Howarth tes ao) Aas SSL 188 Qi Dennesseoe title 22 04__ Fes 4 30 1
KON LUCK y= aa wae oe Ee 65 Pra Alita ao se 8 ee ee ee 1, 995 48
Maino ied tet Aah ld Pahl 188 Gx West Virgimia? eer ces se 214 6
Misrvlan dis. Se E 7, 626 132
Massachusetts__..------------ 310 ORI (Oubal eer ssa Fetes ei ak 14 i
Michigan’ a0 222) 228 ei 430 8 ——__|————-
New Hampshire_.--_.....---- 55 3 Totals. 23484 4s ee 36, 318 716
ING WA) GrSOY2e 22 ea 2, 757 50

IMPROVEMENTS

The largest improvement of the year was the construction of
approximately 11,000 feet of chain-link fence to inclose the park,
taking the place of a fence that had been in use for about 31 years.
In connection with the fence installation stone gate pillars and
electric-welded gates were installed, and the street paving at the
various entrances was adjusted in conformity with the new gates.

A series of crane runs were constructed immediately east of the
bird house. The wire used was an aluminum alloy, and the installa-
tion is of an experimental nature to determine if such material will
be satisfactory for this type of inclosure. Adjoining the crane runs
have been built a series of nine pens for pheasants. The wire in this
60 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

case was a small-diameter copper weld, which is also partly in the
nature of an experiment.

The wild-horse group has been accommodated by the construction
of a series of paddocks and shelter houses on filled-in land off the
main road, which now house the zebras, the kiang, and Mongolian
wild horses.

The eagle cage, which had been in course of construction for some
time, was completed early in the spring of 1982, and birds were
immediately placed in it. Artificial rockwork forms an attractive
background, and the cage as a whole is very satisfactory.

A series of outdoor cages for ostriches, rheas, emus, and casso-
waries were begun and nearly completed at the end of the fiscal
year. These are on the new fill back of the bird house, and will
permit a much better exhibition of these large and interesting birds
than has heretofore been possible. The new cages are located with
due respect to the anticipated addition on the south of the bird
house, so that the entire assembly will have a pleasing appearance
when completed.

The Bureau of Standards, Bureau of Agricultural Engineering,
and Bureau of Public Roads are assisting in determining the best
material for floors for cages, and corrosion-resistant metals for cages
and paddocks.

Heretofore the American waterfowl pond has been provided with
water taken directly from the creek, which made the pool muddy
and insanitary. In addition, the dam which raised the water in
the creek sufficiently to take it into the pond resuited in a large
accumulation of silt, filling the bed of the stream up to the upper
ford in the Zoo, so that the ford could be used only part of the time
by motorists. This combination of circumstances made it advisable
to pipe city water into the duck pond, and the dam has been torn
out of the creek. The water is turned on only during the night.
This has resulted in a clean pool and in improvement of the condi-
tions of the creek bed and the ford.

The Beatrice Henderson cage for birds was rewired and is now
accommodating a colorful exhibit of macaws and cockatoos.

R. Bruce Horsfall, staff artist of Nature Magazine, has con-
tributed to the Zoo two beautiful panoramas which he painted in the
reptile house. One of these shows a Galapagos Island scene with
Indefatigable Island in the distance, and makes a splendid back-
ground for the coliection of tortoises. The other is a Komodo Island
landscape on the wall of the cage now occupied by an assortment of
large lizards. These paintings add greatly to the building’s attrac-
tiveness.
REPOR’ OF THE SECRETARY 61

NEEDS OF THE ZOO

The older buildings of temporary construction are obsolete and
unsatisfactory. The urgent need of the Zoo is to continue the con-
struction of exhibition buildings similar to the bird house and reptile
house, both of which are entirely satisfactory.

Funds were provided in the last appropriation for plans and
specifications for a building to house small mammals and great apes.
Considerable work has been done on these plans.

The reptile house continues to be the most popular building at the
Zoo, and proves that it is worth while from all points of view to
exhibit animals suitably.

The police force is too small to guard the Government property
for which it is responsible. An adequate force is needed.

Respectfully submitted.

W. M. Mann, Director.

Dr. C. G. Axor,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 7
REPORT ON THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi-
ties of the Astrophysical Observatory for the fiscal year ended June
30, 1982:

PLANT AND OBJECTS

This observatory operates regularly the central station at Wash-
ington and two field stations for observing solar radiation on Table
Mountain, Calif., and Mount Montezuma, Chile. The station at
Mount Brukkaros, Southwest Africa, which was established by the
National Geographic Society and was continued for a time in co-
operation with the Astrophysical Observatory with funds donated
by a friend of the Institution, was closed in December, 1931.1. The
observatory controls a station on Mount Wilson, Calif., where occa-
sional expeditions are sent for special investigations, one of which
is mentioned below.

The principal aim of the observatory is the exact measurement of,
the intensity of the radiation of the sun as it is at mean solar distance
outside the earth’s atmosphere. This is ordinarily called the solar
constant of radiation, but the observations of past years by this
observatory have proved it variable. As all life, as well as the
weather, depends on solar radiation, the observatory has undertaken
the continued measurement of solar variation on all available days.
These measurements have now continued all the year round for 14
years. As will appear in this report, recent studies indicate that the
permanent continuation of these daily solar-radiation measurements
may have great value for weather forecasting. In addition to this
principal object, the observatory undertakes spectroscopic researches
on radiation and absorption of atmospheric constituents, radiation of
special substances, such as water vapor, ozone, carbonic-acid gas,
liquid water, and others, and the radiation of the other stars as well
as of the sun.

WORK IN WASHINGTON

Volume V of the Annals of the Observatory was printed and dis-
tributed in the autumn of 1931. It rehearses the annals of the work
from 1920 to 1930; describes the stations and instruments employed ;

1The valuable collections of zoological and botanical specimens made in Southwest
Africa by Mrs. L. O. Sordahl, wife of the director, and brought back to Washington with
the instruments, are referred to above in the report of the National Museum.

62
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 63

discusses the sources of error inherent in the use of the bolometer, the
pyranometer, and the pyrheliometer, and their application to solar-
constant determinations. It explains the methods now in use at the
several stations for measuring solar radiation; gives long tables of
pytheliometry and results of bolometry, pyrheliometry, and pyra-
nometry combined in daily determinations of the solar constant.
Finally, it gives a discussion of the results of all stations for the in-
terval 1920-1930. The agreement of the stations, the best results on
the variability of the sun, and the apparent periodicities in solar
variation, and their reflection in weather changes are set forth.

As delegate from the Smithsonian Institution, Doctor Abbot at-
tended the Geographical Congress at Paris and the one hundredth
anniversary meeting of the British Association for the Advancement
of Science, the Faraday celebration, and the Maxwell celebration in
London and Cambridge. He delivered a paper before the British
Association entitled “ Twenty-five Years’ Study of Solar Variation.”

At the conclusion of the meetings he went to Berlin, and with
Doctor Martens at Potsdam he made an accurate comparison between
silver-disk pyrheliometers S. I. 5y;;, carried abroad with him, and
S. I. 12, the property since 1912 of the meteorological observatory at
Potsdam. Apparently no appreciable change of scale in the read-
ings of pyrheliometer S. I. 12 has occurred in the intervening 19
years. This result, confirming the stability of scale of the Smith-
sonian silver-disk pyrheliometers, is very gratifying.

Owing to long-continued illness, Mr. Fowle’s work was practically
confined to the preparation for publication of a new edition of the
Smithsonian Physical Tables.

Messrs. Aldrich and Kramer spent much time on instruments for
pytheliometry. After long-continued efforts to perfect a new form
of secondary pyrheliometer of much promise, the instrument was
laid aside for a time. Following the suggestion of the Russian
physicist, V. M. Shulgin, a new 3-chamber water-flow pyrheliometer
was put in construction. The instrument comprises two pyrheliom-
eters, each nearly like that described in the Annals of the Astro-
physical Observatory, Volume III, page 52. A common current of
distilled water, carefully guarded against temperature changes,
divides into two nearly equal branches to operate the two instru-
ments. Solar heating in the one is compensated by electrical heat-
ing in the other, interchanging the two instruments at intervals of
two minutes. The measurement consists only in adjusting and ob-
serving the required electric current to exactly compensate the solar
heating, so that the two water currents issue at exactly equal tem-
peratures. Equality of their temperatures is indicated by eight
thermoelectric elements connected in series with their junctions alter-
nately immersed in the two issuing water currents.
64 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

This instrument, called water-flow pyrheliometer No. 5, was fin-
ished in May, 1932. Immediately afterwards Messrs. Aldrich and
Kramer constructed a doubly dispersing spectroscope designed to
observe the extreme infra-red solar spectrum between wave lengths
10 and 80 microns. This is the spectral region wherein the earth
emits radiation most strongly. As the sun rays come through the
atmosphere much as the earth rays pass out through it, the instru-
ment was intended to measure accurately the transmission of the
atmosphere to earth rays, a subject fundamental to meteorology.

A large diffraction grating of 25 lines per millimeter was very
kindly ruled for this instrument by Dr. H. D. Babcock, of the Mount
Wilson Observatory, by cooperation of Director W. S. Adams. A
potassium-iodide prism for the second dispersion was kindly loaned
by the University of Michigan. The instrument was completed
about June 1, 1932, and shipped to Mount Wilson, Calif.

Mrs. A. M. Bond and Doctor Abbot did a great deal of work on
the investigation of periodicities in solar and terrestrial phenomena
by the aid of the periodometer, referred to in last year’s report.
Several papers descriptive of this work will be found in Smith-
sonian Miscellaneous Collections, volume 85, No. 1, and volume 87,
Nos. 4 and 9.

FIELD WORK AT MOUNT WILSON

Messrs. Abbot and Aldrich left Washington about June 4, 1932, to
conduct experiments on Mount Wilson. They obtained excellent
comparisons between water-flow pyrheliometer No. 5 and silver-disk
pyrheliometer S. I. 5,;, during June. These results, it is believed,
fix the standard scale of solar radiation to within 0.2 per cent. The
expedition was continued through the summer. Its results will be
described in next year’s report.

FIELD WORK AT MONTEZUMA, CHILE, AND TABLE MOUNTAIN, CALIF.

Daily observations of the solar constant of radiation were con-
tinued at the two permanent field stations. Unfortunately a great
voleanic eruption in southern Chile rendered the atmosphere at
Montezuma very hazy. This has prevented obtaining satisfactory
measurements of the solar constant since April, 1932, and the daily
reports to the United States Weather Bureau and to Science Service
were therefore discontinued.

A. F. MOORE’S EXPEDITION

As stated in last year’s report, Mr. and Mrs. A. F. Moore have
been engaged in testing the availability of certain high mountains
in Africa as solar-constant stations. Their observations at Fogo in
the Cape Verde Islands and on some half dozen peaks in Southwest
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 65

Africa revealed nothing sufficiently favorable. All of these stations
were too much affected by high-lying haze in the atmosphere to be
satisfactory. From Southwest Africa Mr. and Mrs. Moore went to
Mount St. Katherine, in the Sinai Peninsula in Egypt. With
the good will and much aid from the archbishop and monks of the
monastery near by, Mr. and Mrs. Moore carried on observations for
about 100 days in April, May, June, and July, 1932, at the peak,
whose elevation is about 8,600 feet. The results are the most favor-
able they found anywhere. About half the days are reported as ex-
cellent or satisfactory, the remainder as hazy or cloudy. Inquiries
indicate that the other parts of the year will be still more favorable.
Mr. Moore believes that many of the hazy days might have yielded
good solar-constant values, for the haze changes but slowly, owing
to the extraordinarily calm conditions which prevail on Mount St.
Katherine continually.
PERSONNEL

At Washington, in compliance with the President’s wishes to make
all possible curtailment of expenditures in view of the growing
deficit in the Treasury, the force was reduced by releasing Mrs.
Muriel D. Johnson, computer, after the completion of Volume V of
the Annals. L. O. Sordahl, formerly in charge of the Mount Bruk-
karos station and who had rendered able service in that connection,
was released because of the discontinuance of that observatory as of
June 30, 1932. No other changes occurred at any of the stations.

SUMMARY

Volume V of the Annals of the Observatory, covering work of the
years 1920-1930, has been published. New instruments and results
bearing on standards of pyrheliometry have been completed. Solar-
constant work was discontinued in Southwest Africa, but continued
at the Californian and Chilean stations. The volcanic eruption in
southern Chile led to a temporary suspension of publication of daily
solar-constant values. Much work was done with the pericdometer,
a special instrument devised to discover and evaluate periodicities in
long series of observations. Mr. and Mrs. Moore continued an
expedition in Africa to discover a suitable mountain site for a solar-
constant observatory. The most favorable site discovered is Mount
St. Katherine in the Sinai Peninsula in Egypt.

C. G. Apsor, Director.

The Srcrerary,

Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 8

REPORT ON THE DIVISION OF RADIATION AND
ORGANISMS

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the ac-
tivities of the Division of Radiation and Organisms during its third
year, ending June 30, 1932:

FACILITIES, SUPPORT, AND OPERATIONS

This division occupies as laboratories a large part of the basement
of the original Smithsonian Building, extending from about the
northern line of the towers westward but not including the space
under the chapel. Besides these quarters, it occupies offices in the
north tower from the fifth to the eleventh stories.

The work of the division is supported in part by the income of the
Smithsonian endowment, but largely by annual grants from the Re-
search Corporation of New York, to whom our sincere thanks are due.
Besides this aid, cooperative relations exist with the United States
Department of Agriculture, and through Doctor Meier, a fellow,
with the National Research Council. Several commercial concerns,
including the Corning Glass Works, the Bausch & Lomb Optical
Co., the Westinghouse Electric Co., and the General Electric Co.,
have been very helpful.

The chief emphasis during the past year has been upon actual
experimental work in biophysics. A number of the experiments
which were reported as in progress at the end of 1931 have been
carried to successful completion, with interesting results. Whereas
the first year was largely devoted to building and equipping a labora-
tory in the basement of the Smithsonian Institution and the second
year to the development of special apparatus for the unusual type
of research to be undertaken, the past year has found these under-
takings progressed to such a degree that efficient experimental work
was possible. Initial experiments have been carried out which lay
the foundation for continued investigations which we believe will
prove valuable.

PHOTOSYNTHESIS

The carbon dioxide assimilated by wheat has been measured for
light intensities varying from 78 to 1,900 foot-candles and for carbon-
dioxide concentrations varying from 0.004 to 0.500 per cent. The

66
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 67

wheat is grown in an all-vitreous tubular container illuminated
symmetrically from four sides. The wheat is protected by a sheet of
copper-sulphate solution which serves the double purpose of main-
taining the temperature and absorbing the excessive infra-red from
the artificial sources. Carbon-dioxide concentration was measured by
means of a potassium-hydroxide conductivity cell. The chief diffi-
culties in this type of measurement have arisen from the high tem-
perature coefficient and the polarization of the conductivity cell.
These have been overcome, respectively, by improved thermostating

| -2 .
6G, CGNCENTRATIGN

3 4 5

ASSIMILATION CURVES FOR WHEAT
Ficurp 1,—Assimilation as a function of concentration for light intensities 400 foot-
eandles and 950 foot-candles

which holds the solutions to within less than one one-hundredth of
a degree, and the installation of a commutator which reverses the
polarity of the conductivity cell without changing the direction of
the current through the galvanometer. By this method it has been
possible to secure carbon-dioxide measurements which are significant
to the order of one one-thousandth of a per cent. Typical curves of
assimilation as a function of carbon-dioxide concentration are shown
in Figure 1. Each of these curves represents the values for a single
light intensity. For a light intensity of 950 foot-candles photosyn-
thesis is proportional to the concentration of carbon dioxide from 0
to 0.04 per cent. A maximum rate is reached at a concentration of
0.140 per cent. Further increase in concentration up to one-half
per cent produces no further change in assimilation, light intensity
149571—383—_6
68 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

being the limiting factor for this range. At a lower light intensity
of 400 foot-candles departure from linear proportionality to concen-
tration begins at a much lower value, of the order of 0.01 per cent,
maximum being reached at approximately 0.10 per cent, after which
no further change takes place in the range of experiment.

Referring to Figure 2 we see that for a carbon-dioxide concentra-
tion of 0.140 per cent the assimilation is proportional to the light
intensity for the range from 0 to 1,000 foot-candles. On the other
hand, for a concentration of 0.01 per cent a maximum is reached for

vi

+03
ISG

1G¢0 209 300 400 soo 600 7600 600 900 1000
LIGHT INTENSITY

ASSIMILATION CURVES FOR WHEAT

FiGureE 2.—Assimilation as a function of light intensity for carbon dioxide concentra-
tion 0.010, 0.086, 0.140 per cent

light intensity of 400 foot-candles, after which further increase in
light intensity produces no change, carbon dioxide being the limit-
ing factor. It thus appears that carbon dioxide may be the limiting
factor for sufficiently high light intensities, assimilation varying
proportionally to the carbon-dioxide concentration over a consider-
able range. On the other hand, for sufficiently high carbon-dioxide
concentrations the light intensity may become the limiting factor,
assimilation being proportional to the light intensity. There exist,
however, well-defined regions over which the assimilation is de-
pendent upon both factors. In examining the significance of this
transition range, however, it must be borne in mind that ideal condi-
tions can not be secured. Not all the chloroplasts can be main-
tained in the same radiation density, nor can exactly the same con-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 69

centration of carbon dioxide be brought in contact with all the sur-
faces of the leaves. Nevertheless, the apparatus has been so designed
as to minimize these difficulties. The fact that the sources of radia-
tion are symmetrically placed on all four sides not only reduces the
fluctuations of intensity as a function of direction, but, owing to the
fact that the leaves are exposed from both sides, reduces to a mini-
mum the variation of intensity through the leaf. A method of recir-
culation reduces the variation of concentration over the plant to
about one-thirtieth part of the difference between the input and the
output concentrations.

In view of these precautions it does not seem likely that the whole
of this transition range can be accounted for by variations in the
environment. It is beyond the scope of this report to enter upon a
more critical and detailed discussion of these points and the wide
literature bearing upon them. A number of considerations are of
particular interest: First, that for an intensity of approximately
one-tenth of maximum sunlight the carbon-dioxide concentration of
air is the limiting factor. As one goes to lower light intensities,
intensity becomes first partially limiting and then wholly limiting,
so far as the actual conditions controlling the growth of higher plants
are concerned. On the other hand, by the extrapolation of the linear
portion of this curve for the range where carbon dioxide is the lim-
iting factor, together with the addition of the value a for the transi-
tion range, one may arrive at the concentration of carbon dioxide
which would be required to give a maximum assimilation for avail-
able light intensity. Assuming for such a noonday intensity 7 xX
our experimental condition of 950 foot-candles one obtains

7X0.069+0.081=0.564 per cent.

Such an increase in available carbon dioxide would yield an
increased assimilation rate amounting at times to tenfold or more.
This experiment has been chiefly conducted by Mr. Hoover. Doc-
tor Johnston has worked with him upon some of the physiological
phases, and Doctor McAlister upon the light-intensity measure-
ments.
PLANT GROWTH

A set of individual plant-growth chambers has been completed
which enables one to make comparative observations upon the ef-
fects of different wave length distributions of light. The four
chambers have been so constructed as to permit of both lateral and
overhead illumination. They are controlled by a central circulating
system which maintains the same temperature and humidity in the
four chambers. Rate of recirculation is maintained constant by
flow meters. The same nutrient solution is used throughout. With
70 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

this complete control of environment one can be assured of the
significance of growth effects arising from modifications in light
conditions alone.

A first experiment has been conducted by Doctor Johnston with
this equipment, which indicates that an excessive intensity in the
less refrangible end of the spectrum, that is, the infra-red and
extreme red, is accountable for much of the abnormal appearance of
plants grown in artificial hght. Further experiments will be con-
ducted which will indicate to what degree the long wave length end
of the spectrum should be excluded. In the present experiment a
portion of the red as well as the infra-red was cut off. Very likely
this will not be necessary.

A set of color filters of unusually great diameter has been ob-
tained through the cooperation of the Corning Glass Works. These
present interesting possibilities for the investigation of the effects
of hight upon plant growth. Figure 3 shows the transmission char-

2 " 4 “6 ; <0 1.0 12 1.4 Lé
FIGURE 3.—Transmission curves of growth chamber filters

acteristics which we have obtained from these filters. In this dia-
gram transmission in per cent is plotted against wave length in
microns. This group offers an opportunity to study the effects of
different portions of the visible light, since the range of wave
lengths which may be supplied to the plants can be varied in con-
venient steps. The effects of photochemical reactions which may
proceed only for wave lengths shorter than some specified value may
be observed from the growth of plants under these various filters.

ALGAE

Dr. Florence Meier, National Research fellow, cooperating with
Doctor McAlister of our laboratory, has conducted an interesting set
of experiments on the lethal effects of the ultra-violet upon unicel-
lular algae. This work has been made possible through the com-
pletion of a special combined spectrometer and self-recording mono-
chromator. The instrument is of unusually great aperture as well
as dispersive power. Two fused quartz prisms some 15 cm high,
yield a large spread of the spectrum, which makes it possible to work
with the relatively large slit widths required by the necessarily
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 71

coarse-structured biological plates which are prepared by forming
a surface inoculation of algae upon agar. A special plate holder
has been constructed which can be thoroughly sterilized in an auto-
clave, and which completely surrounds the algal plate even during
exposure, thus insuring freedom from contamination. A thermo-
couple is driven across the spectrum and automatically records the

2500 2600 2790 2806 2900 3000 3100

Ficurn 4.—Mercury are spectrograms: A, direct thermocouple record; B, microphotometer
record of photograph; C, microphotometer record of algal plate

intehsities of the lines under the same conditions as those to which
the algae have been exposed. The algal plates are then photographed
and a densitometer record made just as one would with an epcmany
photographic spectrum.

Figure 4 shows, first, the direct thermocouple record obtained au-
tomatically, curve A; second, the microphotometric record of a photo-
eraphic spectrogram of the same general region, curve B; and third,
such a microphotometric record of the algal plate, curve C.
(2 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

PHOTOTROPISM

Phototropic investigations previously reported have been carried
further into the blue end of the spectrum. It has been found that
a maximum is reached at 4,500 A., the phototropic response drop-
ping off rapidly then as one proceeds to 4,000 A. The results of the
investigation at this stage were reported by Doctor Johnston to
the American Society of Plant Physiologists at New Orleans in De-
cember of this year. Later experiments have indicated that de-
partures from a simple curve, rising to a maximum and falling off
again, are present. Further research is being carried on in order
to determine whether fine structure may be present which would
have an interesting bearing upon the theory of phototropism.

ULTRA-VIOLET

Ultra-violet measurements of the mercury are with the double
monochromator previously reported have been carried to the point
where absolute intensities can be determined with reasonable cer-
tainty. The results of this investigation are in the process of pub-
lication by Doctor McAlister.

COOPERATION

Cooperative work with the Department of Agriculture has been
greatly advanced by the appointment to their staff in the Bureau
of Plant Industry, under Dr. Walter T. Swingle, of Dr. Lauriston
C. Marshall. Doctor Marshall is working closely with this division
upon their problems in determining the effects of radiation upon non-
competitive crop plants. Doctor Marshall is a physicist with special
qualifications in the fields of photoelectricity and electrical conduc-
tivity through gases. The division has profited greatly by his asso-
ciation, as his experience supplements that of the physicists of the
division, whose line of work has been chiefly in spectroscopic fields.

Continued cooperation with the Fixed Nitrogen Research Labora-
tory has made possible convenient exchange of facilities. Arrange-
ments have been made with the Westinghouse Laboratories for the
exchange of thermocouples and photocells, which will greatly facili-
tate our ultra-violet work.

Respectfully submitted.
¥. S. Bracxert, Chief
Dr. C. G. Axzor,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 9

REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF
SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera-
tions of the United States Regional Bureau of the International
Catalogue of Scientific Literature for the fiscal year ending June 30,
1932:

In addition to the regular routine work of the bureau, direct cor-
respondence with the former regional bureaus has been carried on in
an attempt to resume the actual publication of this unique reference
catalogue, whose absence is keenly felt alike by students of science
and librarians. To this end the Secretary of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution addressed the following letter to 30 of the various bodies
formerly cooperating in the work:

JANUARY 15, 1932.

Dear Sir: Since publication of the International Catalogue of Scientific
Literature was discontinued, its need both to students of science and libraries
has become ever more pressing, and the Smithsonian Institution desires to do
everything possible to promote reorganization of the enterprise. I am writing
to ask whether your institution will again cooperate in the work by supplying
classified references to the current scientific literature of your region if a suffi-
cient capital fund can be provided to reestablish and finance the central bureau.
1f publication is to be resumed, aid from the regional bureaus formerly co-
operating is essential to success; therefore I trust that your reply will be
favorable, as it is obvious that the value of the work will depend on all regions
being suitably represented.

I am inclosing with this a brief outline of the proposed organization plans,
together with copies of three annual reports of this bureau containing matter
relating to same subject.

Very truly yours,
(Signed) C. G. ABBot, Secretary.

PROPOSED REORGANIZATION OF THH INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC
LITERATURE

In 1922 the International Catalogue of Scientific Literature in convention at
Brussels directed its executive committee to submit a plan for reorganization
when international conditions had sufficiently improved. Since then, however,
international political and financial conditions have been such that no reorgani-
zation plan has been forthcoming. The need for the catalogue is to-day greater
than when publication ceased and nothing has appeared to take its place.

The organization, consisting of some 34 regional bureaus, cooperating through
the Central Bureau in London, supplied classified-index references for the cata-
logue, and this method appears to have been ideal in accomplishing this the

3
74 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

most difficult phase of the work. Moved by the fixed desire to see this great
work resumed, the Smithsonian Institution is now addressing the bodies for-
merly cooperating requesting assurances of renewed aid by supplying classified
indexes to the scientific literature of their respective regions. The Institution
has figures showing that a catalogue consisting of 10,000 pages, divided into 17
annual volumes, can be published to sell at a cost of $50 per year, provided
1,000 subscriptions can be had.

The situation is now far simpler than it was when the organization was
founded in 1900, for then no precedent existed for such an international co-
operative enterprise. Now the successful publication of 238 volumes aggregat-
ing some 140,000 pages of the International Catalogue is substantial and con-
vincing proof that the original plan was feasible. War and disorganized
international conditions alone were responsible for the necessity of suspending
publication. Faults existed, but faults mainly brought about by lack of capital
and a somewhat slow and expensive method of printing through private con-
cerns. It is now proposed to remedy these defects through the ownership of a
specially designed and equipped plant to print only the International Catalogue.
By this means it is believed that the catalogue can be printed for approxi-
mately one-half the original cost and the two main defects formerly existing—
high prices and delayed publication—be remedied.

It is apparent that in the proposed reorganization it is first necessary to obtain
assurance from regional bureaus that the aid formerly given can be depended
on again to supply classified references, as in this cooperation lay the outstand-
ing and unique value of the whole project.

When such assurance is received the next step will be to solicit subscriptions
to determine whether editions of 1,000 sets of 17 annual volumes can be sold
in order to reduce the price to $50 per set.

With these essential requirements satisfactorily met and a concise plan of
operations agreed to, it is hoped and expected that the necessary capital to
resume publication, estimated at $75,000, can be obtained.

Operating details may well be based on the records and regulations of the
organization as formerly carried out by the London Central Bureau.

Responses to these communications have been most gratifying and
encouraging, as 16 of the 18 replies received from organizations
addressed have agreed to cooperate again on the terms outlined.
Hor various reasons, owing to social and political changes resulting
from the war, successful contacts have not been made in a number of
regions; but it is believed that when a definite plan has been agreed
to among the bodies already cooperating, all regional gaps can be
filled, as the importance of the work is so well recognized that no
country or region could afford to be omitted.

Respectfully submitted.

Lronarp C. GUNNELL,

Assistant in Charge.
Dr. Cuartes G. Aspor,

Secretary, Smithsonion Institution.
APPENDIX 10
REPORT ON THE LIBRARY

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi-
ties of the Smithsonian library jor the fiscal year ended June 380, 1932:

THE LIBRARY

The lbrary of the Smithsonian Institution is really a library sys-
tem, for it comprises 45 distinct lbraries, namely, the Smithsonian
deposit in the Library of Congress, office library, Langley aeronauti-
cal library, radiation and organisms library, the libraries of the
United States National Museum, Bureau of American Ethnology,
Astrophysical Observatory, National Gallery of Art, Freer Gallery
of Art, National Zoological Park, and the 35 sectional libraries of
the National Museum, which are the daily tools of the curators and
their assistants. The system contains somewhat more than 800,000
volumes, pamphlets, and charts, as well as many thousands of items
still uncatalogued or awaiting completion.

THE STAFF

At the close of the calendar year Miss Kate Gallaher, under
library assistant, after more than 50 years of faithful Government
service, most of it in the Smithsonian lhbrary, was retired, and her
place was filled by the promotion of Miss Virginia C. Whitney,
minor library assistant. ‘To the vacancy thus occasioned was ap-
pointed Bruce Middleton, a graduate of the University of Rochester,
who had had several years of library and clerical experience in the
Rochester public library and the United States Census Bureau. The
services of Mrs. Grace A. Parler, in the library of the Freer Gallery
of Art, were continued. The other temporary employees were Mrs.
Daisy Cadle, Miss Frances Finch, Miss Alice Elizabeth Hill, Miss
Margaret Link, and Miss Jennette Seiler.

EXCHANGE OF PUBLICATIONS

In the course of the last year the library received 24,651 packages
of one or more publications each, most of them exchanges. Espe-
cially large sendings came from the Audubon Association of the
Pacific, San Francisco; Gesellschaft fiir Erdkunde, Leipzig; Hiro-
shima University, Hiroshima; Institut d’Estudis Catalans, Barce-
lona; Landesmuseums-verein fiir Vorarlberg, Bregenz; Lingnan

75
76 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

University, Canton; Magyar Aero Szévetseg, Budapest; Royal
Anthropological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland, London;
R. Universita, Pavia; and Saalburgmuseum, Homburg vor der
Hohe. Among the publications received were 5,340 dissertations,
chiefly from foreign universities and technical schools.

The correspondence of the library, involving 2,836 letters, or 1,028
more than the previous year, had to do largely, as usual, with the
exchange of publications. The number of items obtained to meet
special needs in various libraries of the Institution was 4,133, or 543
more than in 1931, the greatest increase being shown, in those
received for the library of the National Museum, where a special
effort was made to check the standard sets.

GIFTS

Three gifts were outstanding—namely, a set, in 45 volumes, of
the Phra Tripitaka, recently translated from the Bali into Siamese
by the Mahamongkut Academy, from His Majesty the King of
Siam in honor of His Majesty the late King Phra Mongkut Klao
and for the encouragement of orientalists in their studies of the
eastern classics; a set, in 8 volumes, of the translation into Siamese
of the Paramatthamanjusa Visuddhi Maggatika (Commentaries on
the Visuddhi-Magga), from His Excellency Chao Phya Abbai Raja;
and a copy of Cristoforo Colombo—Documenti & prove della sua ap-
partenenza a Genova, presented by His Excellency Dino Grandi
during his recent visit to Washington as Royal Italian Minister of
Foreign Affairs. Two other very important gifts were a copy, in 3
volumes, of Mohenjo-Daro and the Indus Civilization, edited by Sir
John Marshall, from the editor, and one of volumes 19 and 20, with
portfolios of plates, of The North American Indian, by Edward 5S.
Curtis, from Mrs. EK. H. Harriman—to complete the Smithsonian set
of this superb work. Still other gifts included the following: Birds
of Tropical West Africa, volume 2, by David Armitage Bannerman,
from the Crown Agents for the Colonies; The Crosses and Culture
of Ireland, by A. Kingsley Porter, from the Metropolitan Museum
of Art; Faraday and His Metallurgical Researches, by Sir Robert
A. Hadfield, from Maj. Gen. George O. Squier; Illustrated Cata-
logues of the Gustave Dreyfus Collection (Reliefs and Plaquettes,
Medals, Bronzes), 3 volumes, from Sir Joseph Duveen; [lustra-
tions of Japanese Aquatic Plants and Animals, 2 volumes, by the
Fisheries Society of Japan, from the society; An Introduction to the
Literature of Vertebrate Zoology, edited by Casey A. Wood, from the
Blacker Library of Zodlogy, McGill University; Les Oiseaux de
P’Indochine Frangaise, by J. Delacour and P. Jabouille, from J. Dela-
cour; and Problems in Modern Physics, by H. A. Lorentz, from
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY aU

Robert A. Millikan. The largest miscellaneous gifts were 31 publi-
cations from Miss Margaret Miller, 37 from Dr. Adam G. Béving,
58 from the American Association of Museums, 70 from Mrs. Jean
L. G. Ferris, 144 from the Library of Congress, 454 from Hamilton
College, 615 from William Perry Hay, and 650 from the American
Association for the Advancement of Science. Several hundred also
came, as usual, from Mrs. Charles D. Walcott.

The members and associates of the Institution who gave publica-
tions to the library were as follows: Secretary Abbot, Assistant Sec-
retary Wetmore, Dr. R. 8. Bassler, Dr. Marcus Benjamin, A. N.
Caudell, A. H. Clark, W. L. Corbin, Dr. Herbert Friedmann, Miss
Kate Gallaher, A. H. Howell, Dr. Ale’ Hrdli¢ka, Neil M. Judd, Dr.
W. R. Maxon, G. S. Miller, jr, C. W. Mitman, A. J. Olmsted,
W. de C. Ravenel, J. H. Riley, and Dr. William Schaus. From the
late Dr. Charles W. Richmond also were received 100 or more vol-
umes and pamphlets, not a few of which were rare works on natural
history.

THE SMITHSONIAN DEPOSIT

The Smithsonian deposit in the Library of Congress is the largest
and most important member of the Smithsonian library system; it
consists chiefly of the reports, transactions, and proceedings of
learned societies and institutions, and of scientific and technical
monographs and journals. The collection numbers considerably more
than 500,000 volumes, pamphlets, and charts. It is shelved mainly
in the Smithsonian and periodical divisions. During the year just
closed the Institution added to the deposit 2,872 volumes, 11,712 parts
of volumes, 2,883 pamphlets, and 180 charts—a total of 17,647 pub-
lications. These included 3,436 dissertations. They also included
2,445 publications which the Smithsonian lbrary obtained by ex-
change in response to special requests from the Smithsonian, peri-
odical, and order divisions of the Library of Congress. Several
thousand documents of foreign governments were sent to the docu-
ments division of the Library.

NATIONAL MUSEUM LIBRARY

The library of the United States National Museum is one of the
principal units in the Smithsonian library system. In its 2 major
and 85 minor collections—chiefly on natural history and technol-
ogy—there are 82,144 volumes and 109,962 pamphlets. The year just
closed was one of unusual accomplishment. The accessions were
2,737 volumes and 833 pamphlets, a gain of 210 over the previous
year. The number of periodicals entered was 9,025, or 226 more than
in 1931. The cataloguing and recataloguing covered 2,236 volumes,
1,006 pamphlets, and 17 charts—an increase of 818 over the year
78 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

before. The number of cards added to the catalogue was 12,055, or
862 more than in 1931; the number added to the Museum shelf lists,
1,244; and the number prepared for the union shelf list in the Smith-
sonian Building, 1,741. The items sent to the 35 sectional libraries
numbered 5,726 volumes and parts. The number of volumes sent to
the bindery was 1,480. The Smithsonian library obtained in ex-
change for the Museum 1,377 volumes and parts that were lacking
in its sets, 287 more than in 1931. The loans during the year to the
staff of the Smithsonian Institution and its branches totaled 9,096
publications, or 1,875 more than in 1931. Two-thirds of these were
made at the loan desk in the Natural History Building and one-
third at the recently established loan desk in the Arts and Industries
Building. The number of publications borrowed from the Library
of Congress was 2,662, and elsewhere 477; the number sent back
to the Library of Congress was 2,800, and to other libraries 582.
These figures show a considerable increase over those for 1931.
Loans were made to many libraries in Washington and to some out-
side. The questions answered by the reference assistants were even
more numerous and difficult than usual, some involving a great deal
of research. Most came from the scientific staff and the public in
general, but many from visiting scientists from various parts of
the country. Increased attention was given by the catalogue division
to the analysis of standard sets, with a view to making the catalogue
as complete a key as possible to these publications.

The sectional libraries were somewhat changed during the year.
Those of mechanical technology and mineral technology became that
of engineering, those of American archeology and Old World arche-
ology that of archeology, and a sectional library of agricultural his-
tory was begun. These libraries, now 35 in number, are as follows:

Administration. Invertebrate paleontology.
Administrative assistant’s office. Mammals.

Agricultural history. Marine invertebrates.
Anthropology. Medicine.

Archeology. Minerals.

Biology. Mollusks,

Birds. Organic chemistry.
Botany. Paleobotany.
Echinoderms. Photography.

Hditor’s office. Physical anthropology.
HMngineering. Property clerk’s office.
Ethnology. Reptiles and batrachians.
Fishes. Superintendent’s office.
Foods. Taxidermy.

Geology. Textiles.

Graphic arts. Vertebrate paleontology.
History. Wood technology.

Insects,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 79

OFFICE LIBRARY

The office library consists mainly of books of reference and sets
of the publications of the Institution and its bureaus and of other
learned institutions and societies. It also contains a collection of
general literature, including files of semipopular magazines. To
this library were added during the last year 182 volumes and 47
pamphlets. The assistants in charge entered 2,889 periodicals, pre-
pared 477 cards for the catalogue, filed 1,988 shelf-list and cata-
logue cards, and loaned 3,070 publications. Besides members of the
staff, there were 644 visitors, many of whom came for information
about the activities and collections of the Institution.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY LIBRARY

The library of the Bureau of American Ethnology is made up
largely of works on the archeology, history, customs, languages, and
general culture of the early American peoples, notably the North
American Indian. The library has 30,071 volumes and 16,867
pamphlets, together with thousands of unbound periodicals and
numerous photographs, manuscripts, and Indian vocabularies. The
additions during the year were 400 volumes and 150 pamphlets. The
number of periodicals entered was 3,400; of cards prepared for the
catalogue, 5,004; of volumes bound, 200; and of loans made, 2,156.
The reference service of the library was unusually large, both to
Smithsonian scientists and to students and others outside the Insti-
tution.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY LIBRARY

The library of the Astrophysical Observatory is a working collec-
tion of 4.857 volumes and 3,467 pamphlets, chiefly on astrophysics
and meteorology. The accessions for the year were 169 volumes and
275 pamphlets. The number of periodicals entered was 951, and of
publications obtained in exchange by special request 84. The loans
were 106.

RADIATION AND ORGANISMS LIBRARY

The library of radiation and organisms, begun in 1929, was in-
creased during the year by 96 volumes. Among these was almost a
complete set of Science, which was made up largely from duplicates
already in the possession of the Institution. The number of publi-
cations received in exchange in response to special requests was 48.
The periodicals entered were 658. The library now has 190 volumes,
9 pamphlets, and 6 charts.

LANGLEY AERONAUTICAL LIBRARY

The Langley aeronautical library, which for the most part has
been on deposit since 1930, under its own name and bookplate, in
80 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

the aeronautical division of the Library of Congress, was collected
chiefly by Secretary Langley of the Smithsonian while he was carry-
ing on his well-known experiments and researches in aeronautics.
Some of the more important items were once the property of other
aeronautical pioneers, especially Alexander Graham Bell, Octave
Chanute, and James Means. The collection has files of the early
aeronautical magazines and many photographs, letters, and news-
paper clippings. It numbers 1,908 volumes and 1,086 pamphlets.
The library was increased during the year by 52 volumes, 623 parts
of volumes, and 30 pamphlets.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART LIBRARY

The library of the National Gallery of Art is a carefully selected
collection of 1,334 volumes and 1,416 pamphlets, mainly on American
and European art. In 1932 it was increased by 91 volumes and 84
pamphlets. Among the accessions were Enciclopedia Italiana,
Volumes I-XIII; Die Propylien-kunstgeschichte, Volumes I-XV;
and Life Portraits of George Washington, by John Hili Morgan and
Mantle Fielding. The periodicals entered were 387. As usual, most
of the routine work was done by the general library staff.

FREER GALLERY OF ART LIBRARY

The library of the Freer Gallery of Art consists chiefly of publi-
cations on the arts and cultures of the Far East, India, Persia, and
the nearer East. Many of these, some of which are very rare, are
not to be found elsewhere in Washington. The collection also has
numerous works on some of the American painters, notably James
McNeill Whistler, and on the famous Washington manuscripts of
the Bible. The additions to the main collection during 1932 were
254 volumes and 163 pamphlets. At the close of the year it num-
bered 4,677 volumes and 3,311 pamphlets, while the special collection
used by the field staff in connection with the gallery’s archeological
work contained approximately 800 volumes and 500 pamphlets. The
number of volumes bound was 21. The work of reclassifying and
recataloguing the library was completed, except for various publi-
cations in Japanese and Chinese. The catalogue and shelf list were
increased by 3,507 cards, and 2,666 cards were prepared for filing in
the union catalogue at the Smithsonian Institution.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK LIBRARY

The library of the National Zoological Park numbers 1,221 vol-
umes and 410 pamphlets; the additions in 1982 were 4 volumes and
3 pamphlets.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 81

SUMMARY OF ACCESSIONS

The accessions for the year may be summarized as follows:

Pam-
Library Volumes | phlets Total
and charts

AStropiaysl cal Observe tonyen eis a ICE oye Se ae a ee a 169 275 444
Burcsutote american thnolog yo soese see ete oe eB eee ee 400 150 550
IMF eGI Gallery @ ime AT bee ees te a te ie ee ek hs 55 oe Pak 254 163 417
Wanployracronauticalestsn.. ae come ee Re ey tae Le ee: 52 30 82
INetinnal GalloryrotpAr tos et ee ea a i ee 91 84 175
INatOnaEZOOlomiCAlOP Anke. 2 et cae sett sees nan ell ate Sates Bote eee 4 3 7
Radiationjand Orranisms e208 0 8 Leet a EO ee 96 0 96
Smithsonian deposit, Library of Congress__...-_-.--_---------------------- 2, 872 3, 063 5, 935
MLE ASOMIATIONLCONis eee er ee ons ee a i Ge ae 132 47 179
Umitedistates*=National IWruseumec.2..) 2 oe ee eet 2, 737 833 3, 570

LIMO RGU es athe a Fae came EEE ape tlt OS eal page OE alc feel egestas iy 6, 807 4, 648 11, 455

On June 30, 1932, the Smithsonian library system contained ap-
proximately the following:

NWOlUMES=— => SE pe Ena ee Oe SAS Se eS eee eee 584, 864
1 2YE aay 0) a REN et elke eae eS Se AteeieigeR ona res Diya == etter 196, 945
OT airs ae ee eee eee er ee ay, Bere AER, Sa ee be aed ah eer sta ea SEES Ses 26, 526

FAR Gy fre ee neater ee ere RE Te eM oe NY ee Me cee ee 2 yn san 808, 335

The system also had many thousands of volumes still uncata-
logued or incomplete.
UNION CATALOGUE

In addition to cataloguing the current items as they came in, the
staff made considerable progress in recataloguing the botanical col-
lection of the National Museum, and almost finished the reclassify-
ing and recataloguing of the library of the Freer Gallery of Art.

The following statistics will show the work on the union catalogue
and shelf list:

VOlUMeS Ca CAO SU Cc see ee we Se Oe Be ee eR a 4, 922
Volumes recatalogued ___________ sis Posey rid ener UE dk lieth ets Nee lie. Seip ial ae 13
Ramphiletstcatalosueds 26 /SeenGue fr tds EISELE. | REM LO Bb AL 2, 133
Ramphiets recataloguedaess 22" se ee ea eres eee 3
CharctSMegtalo sued see seis Te ee es Ue ee ee 197
Typed. cards added to-catalogue and shelf list_- 2. ~~ -.- 9, 848
Library of Congress cards added to catalogue and shelf list-___________ 138, 208
Museumypeards, copied) for union shelf jistip. 12 Ss eb 1, 741
Freer cards prepared for union catalogue and shelf list, to be added

NGG eee CR Cien ak oy eee Sut eee ete a tu Mina a eke eee ieee JOANN: 2, 666

SPECIAL ACTIVITIES

Still further progress was made during the year in putting the
scientific duplicates in the west stacks in order. The shelves of the
botanical library were completely rearranged. About 50 sacks of
the publications of the Institution and its branches, which had been
82 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

returned as duplicates from various libraries throughout the
country, were opened and their items examined and grouped. Asa
result, thousands of publications were sent back to stock for redis-
tribution, and nearly 250 that were out of print were found for the
sets that the lbrary system has been trying for many years to
complete. Duplicates were exchanged with several institutions, and
many publications not needed by the Smithsonian or its bureaus
were turned over to other Government libraries.

The librarian lectured several times in Washington and Balti-
more on Washington the Man of Books and Patron of American
Letters. In the course of his remarks he called attention to two
matters of especial interest to the Smithsonian Institution. One
was the gift of a set of Histoire Generale des Voyages, in 20 volumes,
from the Marquis de Rochambeau to Washington, which on its way
to the United States was captured on the high seas by a British
cruiser and taken to England. It was later found in a London book
shop by Prof. George Brown Goode, then Assistant Secretary of
the Institution, brought to America, and presented to Mount
Vernon, where it now reposes in Washington’s library. The other
was a letter that Washington wrote to Jonathan Edwards on August
28, 1788, thanking him for a copy of his recent book entitled
“Observations on the Language of the Muhhekaneew Indians.”
In this letter Washington said: “ I have long regretted that so many
Tribes of the American Aborigines should have become almost or
entirely extinct, without leaving such vestiges, as that the genius
and idiom of their language might be traced. Perhaps, from such
sources, the descent or kindred of nations, whose origins are lost in
remote antiquity or illiterate darkness, might be more rationally
investigated, than in any other mode.” Thus the many-sided Wash-
ington showed himself one of the first men in our country to realize
the great importance of the preservation and study of the languages
of the North American Indians as a means of tracing the history
of these early people.

IMPORTANT BEGINNINGS

Toward the close of the year a beginning was made in reorganiz-
ing the order division of the library with a view to developing a
more mcdern and eflicient procedure and one more closely related to
that in the other divisions. Plans were also worked out for making
a file of the library’s exchange relations, to the end of having imme-
diately at hand for the use of the periodical division, especially the
correspondence section, full data pertaining to the library’s ex-
changes and of facilitating the more frequent revision of its
exchange lists in keeping with the needs of stricter economy. And,
perhaps most important of all, arrangements were completed for
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 83

preparing an index to the publications of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, National Museum, Astrophysical Observatory, and Bureau of
American Ethnology. This will be a dictionary index and will at
first be on Library of Congress cards. Cards for all the publications,
except volumes 1 to 36 of the Proceedings of the National Museum,
are already available, and the Smithsonian library staff will soon
set about supplying manuscript to the Library of Congress for the
printing of cards for these volumes. It is hoped that if some day
the Institution is in position to publish the index, the material for
it will be ready. The need for such an index is, of course, apparent
to everyone.
Respectfully submitted.
Wisz14aMm L, Corsrn, Librarian.
Dr. Cuartzs G. Ascot,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
149571—33——_7
APPENDIX 11
REPORT ON PUBLICATIONS

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the
publications of the Smithsonian Institution and the Government
bureaus under its administrative charge during the year ending
June 30, 1932:

As announced last year, the three editorial offices formerly existing
under the Institution have been consolidated into one central office
under the general direction of the editor of the Smithsonian. This
arrangement has proved to be very satisfactory; it has produced a
more uniform style and greater accuracy in the different series pub-
lished by the Institution, has speeded up the appearance of the
publications, and has centralized the business operations connected
with the Institution’s editorial work.

PUBLICATIONS ISSUED DURING THE YEAR

The Institution proper published during the year 17 papers in the
series of Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, 1 annual report and
pamphlet copies of the 29 articles contained in the report appendix,
Volume V of the Annals of the Astrophysical Observatory, and 3
special publications. The United States National Museum issued 1
annual report, 2 volumes of proceedings, 5 comp!ete bulletins, 3 parts
of bulletins, 1 paper in the series Contributions from the National
Herbarium, and 53 separates from the proceedings. The Bureau of
American Ethnology published 7 bulletins.

The total number of publications distributed was 228,045 copies,
which included 118 volumes and separates of the Smithsonian Contri-
butions to Knowledge, 44,057 volumes and separates of the Smithson-
ian Miscellaneous Collections, 30,560 volumes and separates of the
Smithsonian Annual Reports, 6,061 Smithsonian special publica-
tions, 101,975 volumes and separates of the various series of the
National Museum publications, 22,867 publications of the Bureau of
American Ethnology, 49 publications of the National Gallery of
Art, 70 publications of the Freer Gallery of Art, 1,041 volumes of the
Annals of the Astrophysical Observatory, 50 reports of the Harri-
man Alaska Expedition, and 699 reports of the American Historical
Association.

84
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 85

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS

Of the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, volume 82, 1 paper
and title-page and table of contents were issued; volume 85, 8 papers
and addendum to number 4; volume 86, whole volume; and volume
87, 7 papers, making 17 papers in all, as follows:

VOLUME 82

No. 11. Recently dated Pueblo ruins in Arizona, by Emil W. Haury and
Lyndon L. Hargrave. 120 pp., 27 pls., 35 text figs. (Publ. 3069.) August
18, 1931.

Title-page and table of contents. (Publ. 3132.)

VOLUME 85

No. 4. Mexican mosses collected by Brother Arséne Brouard—III, by I. Thé
riot. 44 p., 22 text figs. (Publ. 3122.) August 25, 1931.

Addendum. Index to papers by I. Thériot on Mexican mosses collected by
Brother Arséne Brouard published by the Smithsonian Institution.

No. 5. Infra-red absorption bands of hydrogen cyanide in gas and liquid, by
F. S. Brackett and Urner Liddel. 8 pp., 5 figs. (Publ. 3128.) August 5, 1981.

No. 6. Morphology of the insect abdomen. Part I. General structure of the
abdomen and its appendages, by R. E. Snodgrass. 128 pp., 46 text figs. (Publ.
3124.) November 6, 1931.

No. 7. Effectiveness in nature of the so-called protective adaptations in the
animal kingdom, chiefly as illustrated by the food habits of Nearctic birds,
by W. L. McAtee. 201 pp. (Publ. 3125.) March 15, 1932.

No. 8. Modern square grounds of the Creek Indians, by John R. Swanton.
46 pp., 5 pls., 15 text figs. (Publ. 3126.) November 11, 19381.

No. 9. The determination of ozone by spectrobolometrie Measurements, by
Oliver R. Wulf. 12 pp., 3 pls., 5 text figs. (Publ. 3127.) November 30, 1931.

No. 10. Human hair and primate patterning, by Gerrit S. Miller, jr. 13 pp.,
5 pls. (Publ. 3180.) December 19, 1931.

No. 11. Supplementary notes on body radiation, by L. B. Aldrich. 12 pp., 5
text figs. (Publ. 3138.) February 2, 1982.

VOLUME 86

(Whole volume.) Smithsonian Meteorological Tables. Fifth revised edition.
282 pp., 1 text fig. (Publ. 3116.) January 11, 1931.

VOLUME 87

No. 1. The botanical collections of William Lobb in Colombia, by EUsworth
P. Killip. 18 pp. (Publ. 31383.) February 4, 1932.

No.2. A Miocene long-beaked porpoise from California, by Remington Kel.
logg. 11 pp.,4 pls. (Publ. 3135.) January 22, 1932.

No. 3. Seth Eastman: The master painter of the North American Indian, by
David I. Bushnell, jr. 18 pp., 15 pls., 1 text fig. (Publ. 3136.) April 11, 1932.

No. 4. The periodometer: An instrument for finding and evaluating periodici-
ties in long series of observations, by C. G. Abbot. 6 pp.,1 pl., 1 text fig. (Publ.
3138.) February 6, 1932.

No. 5. The narrative of a southern Cheyenne woman, by Truman Michelson.
13 pp. (Publ. 3140.) March 21, 1932.
86 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

No. 6. Composition of the Caddoan linguistic stock, by Alexander Lesser and
Gene Weltfish. 15 pp. (Publ. 3141.) May 14, 1932.

No. 8. Graphic correlation of radiation and biological data, by F. 8S. Brackett.
Tpp. (Publ. 3170.) May 17, 1982.

No. 9. Pericdicity in solar variation, by ©. G. Abbot and Gladys T. Bond.
14 pp., 2 pls., 8 text figs. (Publ. 3172.) May 24, 1932.

SMITHSONIAN ANNUAL REPORT

Report for 1930.—The complete volume of the Annual Report of
the Board of Regents for 1930 was received from the Public Printer
in December, 1931.

Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution show-
ing the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the year
ending June 30, 19380. xii+650 pp., 191 pls., 57 text figs. (Publ. 3077.)

The appendix contained the following papers:

Beyond the red in the spectrum, by H. D. Babcock.

Growth in our knowledge of the sun, by Charles H. St. John.

The modern sun cult, by J. W. Sturmer.

The moon and radioactivity, by V. 8S. Forbes.

Modern concepts in physics and their relation to chemistry, by Irving
angmuir.

Waves and corpuscles in modern physics, by Louis de Broglie.

New researches on the effect of light waves on the growth of plants, by F. 8S.
Brackett and Harl S. Johnston.

The Autogiro: Its characteristics and accomplishments, by Harold F’. Pitcairn.

Ten years’ gliding and soaring in Germany, by Prof. Dr. Walter Georgii.

The first rains and their geological significance, by Assar Hadding.

Weather and glaciation, by Chester A. Reeds.

Wild life protection: An urgent problem, by Ernest P. Walker.

The nesting habits of Wagler’s Oropendola on Barro Colorado Island, by
Frank M. Chapman.

The rise of applied entomology in the United States, by L. O. Howard.

Man and insects, by L. O. Howard.

The use of fish poisons in South America, by Elsworth P. Killip and Albert C.
Smith.

A rare parasitic food plant of the Southwest, by Frank A. Thackery and
M. French Gilman.

The mechanisin of organic evolution, by Charles B. Davenport.

Extra chromosomes, a source of variations in the Jimson Weed, by Albert F.
Blakeslee,

The age of the human race in the light of geology, by Stephen Richarz.

Hlements of the culture of the circumpolar zone, by W. G. Bogoras.

The Tell en-Nasbeh Excavations of 1929—a preliminary report, by William
Frederic Badé.

Recent progress in the field of Old World prehistory, by George Grant Mac-
Curdy.

Ancient seating furniture in the collections of the United States National
Museum, by Walter Hough.

Aspects of aboriginal decorative art in America based on specimens in the
United States National Museum, by Herbert W. Krieger.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 87

The acclimatization of the white race in the Tropics, by Robert De C. Ward.

The eighth wonder: The Holland Vehicular Tunnel, by Carl C. Gray and H. F.
Hagen.

Jesse Walter Fewkes, by John R. Swanton and F. H. H. Roberts, jr.

George Perkins Merrill, by Charles Schuchert.

Report for 1931.—The report of the executive committee and pro-
ceedings of the Board of Regents of the Institution and the report
of the Secretary, both forming parts of the annual report of the
Board of Regents to Congress, were issued in December, 1931.

Report of the executive committee and proceedings of the Board of Regents
of the Smithsonian Institution for the year ending June 30, 19381. 12 pp.
(Publ. 3129.)

Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution for the year ending
June 80, 1931. 159 pp., 2 pls., 9 text figs. (Publ. 3128.)

The Report volume, containing the general appendix, was in press
at the close of the year.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY PUBLICATIONS

Annals of the Astrophysical Observatory, Vol. V, by C. G. Abbot, L. B. Aldrich,
and F. BE. Fowle. 295 pp., 9 pls., 33 text figs. (Publ. 3121.) April 20, 1932.

FREER GALLERY OF ART PUBLICATIONS

The Freer Gallery of Art. 5 pp. (Fourth printing.) August 6, 19382.

SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS

Explorations and field work of the Smithsonian Institution in 1931. 190 pp.,
182 figs. (Publ. 3134.) April 21, 1932.

Hanabook of the National Aircraft Collection exhibited in the United States
National Museum under the direction of the Smithscnian Institution, by Paul
Edward Garber. Fourth edition. 32 pp., 38 illustrations. (Publ. 3139.) April
5, 1982.

Smithsonian Mathematical Tables—Hyperbolic Functions. Prepared by
George F. Becker and C. E. Van Orstrand. Fourth reprint. 3821 pp. (Publ. 1871.)
October 238, 1931.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

The editorial work of the National Museum has continued during
the year under the immediate direction of the editor, Paul H. Oehser.
There were issued 1 annual report, 2 volumes of proceedings, 5 com-
plete bulletins, 3 parts of bulletins, 1 paper in the series Contribu-
tions from the National Herbarium, and 53 separates from the
proceedings.

The issues of the bulletin were as follows:

Bulletin 100, vol. 2. Papers on collections gathered by the Albatross Philippine
expedition, 1907-1910.
88 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

Bulletin 104. The Foraminifera of the Atlantic Ocean. Part 8. Rotaliidae,
Amphisteginidae, Calcarinidae, Cymbaloporettidae, Globorotaliidae, Anoma-
linidae, Planorbulinidae, Rupertiidae, and Homotremidae, by Joseph Augus-

tine Cushman.
Bulletin 156. Aboriginal Indian pottery of the Dominican Republic, by Herbert

W. Krieger.
Bulletin 157. The butterflies of the District of Columbia and vicinity, by Austin

H. Clark.
Bulletin 159. The birds of the Natuna Islands, by Harry C. Oberholser.
Bulletin 160. Mexican tailless amphibians in the United States National Mu-

seum, by Remington Kellogg.
Bulletin 161. The Foraminifera of the Tropical Pacific collections of the Alba-
tross, 1899-1900. Part 1.—Astrorhizidae to Trochamminidae, by Joseph A.

Cushman,
Bulletin 162. Life histories of North American Gallinaceous birds. Orders

Galliformes and Columbiformes, by Arthur Cleveland Bent,
The following paper was issued in the series Contributions from
the National Herbarium:

Volume 28, Part 2. The American species of Thibaudieae, by Albert C. Smith.

Of the separates from the proceedings, 28 were from volume 79, 21
from volume 80, and 4 from volume 81.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

The editorial work of the bureau has continued under the imme-
diate direction of the editor, Stanley Searles. During the year seven
bulletins were issued, as follows:

Bulletin 94. Tobacco among the Karuk Indians of California (Harrington).

Xxxvi+284 pp., 36 pls., 2 figs.

Bulletin 98. Tales of the Cochiti Indians (Benedict). x-+256 pp.
Bulletin 102. Menominee music (Densmore). xxii+230 pp., 27 pls., 3 figs.
Bulletin 108. Source material for the social and ceremonial life of the Choctaw

Indians (Swanton). vii+-282 pp., 6 pls., 1 fig.

Bulletin 104. A survey of prehistoric sites in the region of Flagstaff, Arizona

(Colton). vii+69 pp., 10 pls., 1 fig.

Bulletin 105. Notes on the Fox Wapandwiweni (Michelson). v+195 pp. 1 fig.
Bulletin 107. Karuk Indian myths (Harrington). v+34 pp.

REPORT OF THE AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION

The annual reports of the American Historical Association are
transmitted by the association to the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution and are communicated by him to Congress, as provided
by the act of incorporation of the association.

The annual report for 1930, volume 1, and the supplemental
volume to the report for 1928 were issued during the year. The
annual reports for 1930, volumes 3 and 4, and 1931, volume 1, and
the supplemental volume to the report for 1929 were in press at the
close of the year.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 89

REPORT OF THE NATIONAL SOCIETY, DAUGHTERS OF THE AMERICAN
REVOLUTION

The manuscript of the Thirty-fourth Annual Report of the Na-
tional Society, Daughters of the American Revolution, was trans-
mitted to Congress, in accordance with law, November 9, 1931.

ALLOTMENTS FOR PRINTING

The congressional allotments for the printing of the Smithsonian
report to Congress and the various publications of the Government
bureaus under the administration of the Institution were virtually
used up at the close of the year. The appropriation for the coming
year ending June 30, 1933, totals $60,000, allotted as follows:

Annual report to the Congress of the Board of Regents of the Smith-

SOMTAmipsl Stitt OMet eles wel ak ay hes ee et) ee EW Pee ee, 5 _. $8, 850
Natrona es MnuSeiin === oat ek ee 2 ns Se Te ew VI oobi Wo Vit 23, 250
Bureausor American Wthnology2 22 FS NOse ar eae Wee aS ee ee 14, 500
Nation aleG allleryaGte Aut sae se ae ae ee 100
Internati onalaghix cheno Osea oe ee ee i ee 100
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature________________-_______ 50
INatLOnal ZoolosiGaly Paka = sf ee Ae ee 2 i Ai fe pe, ay 150
ASEPODMY Si Calls O DServalOny ==> ase ees ee eed 1, 000
Annual report of the American Historical Association_________________ 12, 000

Respectfully submitted.
W. P. Trus, Editor.
Dr. Cuartes G. Appor,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
bs = ssioltoh 2 sili 000,008 f ibaane

i ae ra ani hc pina orp Ae ae Sub A6GE Oe oul ge eed

parr cA ee af Lay segmaitnly art : sia a
mie gclalabina sine wae ial ke wae ol ‘i

otal wees tha fea tei <aetm ry et atl pio

‘ hee fe SA Pier aie ‘pra ao ae em FERS,

Pe (hy engentiatet 5 dan, ‘hu wreteniia pauimeene. ~ akan

Pau ais ial roaae bare Ak------ ade Teokeeloo’, It
tee Reepeemremeets 0.00 02 ieee ae

a0 yal sash besrnertale itoley: pene Iushotii matamecteacrages tear A.

ty SéBorial wark. of the baventt tas con tbpbbiguclemtaglisttgosqaadl |
Hache ee ite Mise, Stanke ‘Wy apa Reet yoay paven
biotin: veers Gent, At POMOW SA loos wile 0 cans) aT

ee on

eee OM, PARSE wats Dh
Kin ee gy: 3G ple, Dee ve" , ae
ft Hells fe, Balan Ut Ci OOO Tees 4 (Berestigt,, 54 Se ee ae a
fewetia JO. Meaibatie: ved (Depatnone) .. it Sh ay, BO pis, ties a hie
Poet IAG Markee con weinl Pee ae woctet neta as BR ot the Siw
indinw (iegrie!. eles pp G i :
Aewvin Pe. a Pits view eeehiztaric, 2tte5 tn. Peuea = Pike, Ayitewa ’
imied! ait dB) pop » AG. iy 2 in P
Meat Eo y eas oF Kaa Mar Wegmltwead: Cheeta sy, Rap. Ao ra
ited GS Sure’ Dettes mytie (Hagringho). v= ¢ Dp. Adah

Rees OY LR AmURTO Re See As ORS TARE. | Oe -.

Ghar manning of the .Amerinan .Sivitories?) Asepelapiont ane ag

Leetaanie® the Amotaticatte en tecetionp ot toa, Geta iiare

Sieetitntias an dit Ha rea Bee aD te Oonigeeet; ait anemia:
ye thie Moto? yer eridi nee ro Mag aan pation. ey uly, nly

hee nmin” tear iar! ONL waspiiag! I a the ana
fret anes Ne Ay aE Site: Sina ens bang caring he eit. Ne ‘i Resi
menial mepeiier fie Gray by bane” cael Ry eed 298 datome Lewd

this euler hee MUR mae) for. — — ay] - weal
ee A eR | Per bt earant

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
OP Sh ri OAD Or REGEN LS Oleh

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
FOR THE YEAR ENDED
TONE 3031932

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

Your executive committee respectfully submits the following report
in relation to the funds of the Smithsonian Institution, together with a
statement of the appropriations by Congress for the Government

bureaus in the administrative charge of the Institution:

SMITHSCNIAN ENDOWMENT FUND

The original bequest of James Smithson was £104,960 8 shillings,
6 pence—$508,318.46. Refunds of money expended in pros-
ecution of the claim, freights, insurance, etc., together with
payment into the fund of the sum of £5,015 which had been
withheld during the lifetime of Madame de la Batut, brought
GheehuUITGd tO bine Amo UI bKOles Soe ee ee ae are nee ee oe eee

Since the original bequest the Institution has received gifts from
various sources, chiefly in the years prior to 1893, the income
from which may be used for the general work of the Institution.

To these gifts has been added capital from savings on income,
gain from sale of securities, etc., bringing the total endowment
for general purposes to the amount of

$550, 000.

00

2 fl ES gee ia 1, 039, 351. 68

The Institution holds also a number of endowment gifts the income
of each being restricted to specific use. These are invested and stand

on the books of the Institution as follows:

Arthur, James, fund, income for investigations and study of sun and
RECUURE TOMEI SUT ena meine nes wenn ane cept nn SNE Sina) ee aL
Bacon, Virginia Purdy, fund, for a traveling scholarship to investigate
fauna of countries other than the United States___.___-__---_----
Baird, Lucy H., fund, for creating 2 memorial to Secretary Baird_-_--
Barstow, Frederic D., fund, for purchase of animals for the Zoological
Canfield collection fund, for increase and care of the Canfield collec-
LEMON aL, CON TsO Wh VEN EN Ste, a ee APO ee eee ee ens eee
Casey, Thomas L., fund, for maintenance of the Casey collection and
promotion of researches relating to Coleoptera____.__-_--------
Chamberlain, Francis Lea, fund, for increase and promotion of Isaac
Meascollection.of,cems andimollusks: 22 -= =) 3 ee eee Bee
Hodgkins fund, specific, for increase and diffusion of more exact
knowledge in regard to nature and properties of atmospheric air_-
Hughes, Bruce, fund, to found Hughes alcove___-----------------
Myer, Catherine Walden, fund, for purchase of first-class works of art
for the use of and benefit of the National Gallery of Art__------

$50, 699.

63, 512.
9,959:

964.

48, 488.
9, 797.
35, 698.

100, 000.
19, 205.

3l

52
05

27

51

14

68

00
63

. 94
92 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

Pell, Cornelia Livingston, fund, for maintenance of Alfred Duane

Pell Collection: 22. sa ee es cee oe ape ner ee $3, 060. 69
Poore, Lucy T., and George W., fund, for general use of the Institu-

tion when principal amounts to the sum of $250,000___________- 62, 842. 17
Reid, Addison T., fund, for founding chair in biology in memory of

Asher Panist. 2) Orr ee ee ar OE Cr ee USES 25, 478. 94
Roebling fund, for care, improvement, and increase of Roebling

collection-of aminerals? 24-522 5 S20 Soe Seat ke ed ie Be een 152, 987. 77
Rollins, Miriam and William, fund, for investigations in physics and

Chemistry 322 oho 5 2 oe a ee IN ol ge ea i ee 53, 787. 00
Springer, Frank, fund, for care, etc., of Springer collection and

JU] ove gana Ec eRe ag, See RL agen ie eae en Ee ene SO A ae ee 13, 835. 00

Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, research fund, for development
of geological and paleontological studies and publishing results

HhereoPi ss Use Ue PEE LEO AT OTS Hy EERE? seit g. OS 12, 450. 72
Younger, Helen Walcott, fund, held in trust_____._-.+-____------ 49, 812. 50
Zerbee, Frances Brincklé, fund, for endowment of aquaria________- 964. 84

Total endowment for specific purposes other than Freer
endowment:24-0= 42 ens Bees oee pie (le et ee RS NBN ee 736, 452. 68

FREER GALLERY OF ART FUND

Early in 1906, by deed of gift, Charles L. Freer, of Detroit, gave
to the Institution his collection of Chinese and other oriental objects
of art, as well as paintings, etchings, and other works of art by
Whistler, Thayer, Dewing, and other artists. Later he also gave
funds for the construction of a building to house the collection, and
finally, in his will, probated November 6, 1919, he provided stock and
securities to the estimated value of $1,958,591.42 as an endowment
fund for the operation of the gallery. In view of the importance and
special nature of the gift and the requirements of the testator in respect
to it, all Freer funds are kept separate from the other funds of the
Institution, and the accounting in respect to them is stated separately.

The invested funds of the Freer bequest are classified as follows:

Court and grounds, fund... 230 eee ee ee age $580, 016, 22
Court-and grounds, maintenance fund: 9. se 145, 171. 79
CTT AL OT UT Gs ee oe at ee aes lt ahs Sy a og 589, 768. 31
Residuary lega@y . «cee pt a a ore 3, 858, 208. 44
of o'r) es amd Se oe > Pie vm mene Nae eee ee a er a 5, 173, 159. 76
SUMMARY
Invested endowment for general purposes__------------------ $1, 039, 351. 68
Invested endowment for specific purposes other than Freer en-
Ka 111) | en ce a mene en eemwermeremercs 1 (ei Celie de het ee tise): ms 2 736, 452. 68

Total invested endowment other than Freer endowment_ 1, 775, 804. 36
Freer invested endowment for specific purposes_ —_-_-.-------- 5, 178, 159. 76

Total invested endowment for all purposes___---------- 6, 948, 964. 12
REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 93

CLASSIFICATION OF INVESTMENTS

Deposited in the United States Treasury at 6 per cent per annum
as authorized in the United States Revised Statutes, section

Ey Oe ae Ses yg tee oy OR RE ON ke $1, 600, 000. 00
Investments other than Freer endowment:
IBOnds a 22s — ae eee ig ES ae $309, 191. 11
FSR OYE EES ea 2 eee ec op ad RE EI ks 459, 773. 42
Real estate first-mortgage notes___-------- 6, 500. 00
Uninvestedgcapitals, Ve se a oe eet 339. 83
ea 775, 804. 36
Total investments other than Freer endowment--_-_---_--- 1, 775, 804. 36
Investments of Freer endowment:
Bonds2=.2. 4.2286 ert Hates Rae eae $2, 623, 665. 18
Stockses sess | eRe ay aah aps Salk Pet oe 2, 465, 015. 68
Real estate first-mortgage notes____------- 61, 000. 00
Uninvested capitals 2 23s is at oe Fees 23, 478. 90
———_—_——————__ §, 178, 159. 76
MOvainVvestIMents. ae ee ee eee te 8 ere ae eee WBaehss 6, 948, 964. 12
CASH BALANCES, RECEIPTS, AND DISBURSEMENTS DURING THE FISCAL
YEAR !
Cash balance onthand June /30; 193 Nos soe! 2 os 2 RES eer ahs $224, 221. 84

Receipts:
Cash from invested endowments and from mis-
cellaneous sources for general use of the Insti-

5 0) get is ee Le -2 1D da OFS 8 ee aK $72, 209. 95
Cash gifts for increase of endowments for specific

US Ce ate ee PTE SEE ENS SOREL, 300. 00
Cash gifts for increase of endowments for general

Wiser Parke esi g.03. ULE Ol ee opod) leprae 100, 000. 00
Cash gifts, ete., for specific use (not to be in-

VER be Gl) tapaettenes memeneeriere wis 7 Rew ne Pe 33, 761. 71
Cash received as royalties from sales of Smith-

SOMANSCieNviNGe Heres. — == 2-=--- 222-2225 5 12, 317. 36

Cash income from endowments for specific use
other than Freer endowment and from miscel-
laneous sources (including refund of temporary

advances) <= VOrIa gs ji) TO _Y OPs_ OVA ah 48, 498. 02
Cash capital from sale, call of securities, etc. (to
DeEreInViesied Renew oS Soe ete Ho COM Mea
Total receipts other than Freer endowment----_---------- 322, 104. 31
Cash receipts from Freer endowment—income
LromMuinviesturents a4 a= Lee were ee Se 281, 476. 85
Gain from sale, ete,; of securities. _—-_----.--=-- 2, 819. 50
Cash capital from sale, call of securities, etc. (to
besreinvested) a4 aq = a ss oe ee 479, 009. 62
763, 305. 97
Moialeescss 2 che Mee Cee ined ke eee oer ee 1, 309, 632. 12

1 This statement does not include Government appropriations under the administrative charge of the
Institution.
94 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

Disbursements:
From funds for general work of the Institution—
Buildings, care, repairs, and alterations____ $38, 282. 65
UTM URS an GU EeXG URS yet eee one 402. 64
General administration ser se seme ene 28, 075. 92
dD SS oy ph eae a tn a Se ey ae 3, 078. 20
Publications (comprising preparation, print-
INS GAG CISt Ml OUbION) os jan ee ee 22, 317. 21
Researches and explorations____._..------ 17, 768. 42
{nternational exchanges- 2-22-22... +-=-2 4, 287. 72

$79, 212. 76
From funds for specific use, other than Freer
endowment—

Investments made from gifts, from gain from
sales, etc., of securities and from savings

On incomes £05 YT see ee ee 7, 653. 23
Other expenditures, consisting largely of re-
search work, travel, increase and care of
special collections, ete., from income of
endowment funds and from cash gifts for
specific use (including temporary ad-

SU DIN GOS) se oe eee a eater Dee 111, 071. 37
Reinvestment of cash capital from sale, call
Gt securities; etch = ee ee ee ae 56, 294. 40
————— 175,019.00
From Freer endowment—
Operating expenses of the gallery, salaries,
purchases of art objects, field expenses,
CUCi oi eccn cn 2 Byes ao) at aestern hae 327, 575. 69
Investments made from gain from sale, etc.,
of securities and from income__________- 26, 825. 40
Reinvestment of cash capital, from sale, call
of securities, etcso: .ad- ebobe sh see aio 450, 728. 68
805, 129. 77
Balance June 30, 1982u%. 3c. eoleo. yer) cit eee 2a Syey 250, 270. 59
Potala 32_ 2S) Abie ladies SAGs ren eh Ht) were “ope 1, 309, 632. 12

EXPENDITURES FOR RESEARCHES IN PURE SCIENCE, EXPLORATIONS,
CARE, INCREASE, AND STUDY OF COLLECTIONS, ETC.

Expenditures from general endowment:
iPullbliGatiomss ec bare eee re pee eee ree $22; 317. 21
Researches and explorations:-=--25.=-==252555— 17, 768. 42
aay WER USA TR
Expenditures from funds devoted to specific pur-

poses:
Researches and explorations..___...---------- 71, 098. 02
Care, increase, and study of special collections__ 7, 320. 19
Publications seem to = mee eyed pete ir ere 22, 766. 39
101, 184. 60
LIK G29 igen ese menace ge fs Peon yt ri ea gate ee nn 141, 270. 23

1 This includes salaries of the Secretary and certain others.
REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 95

Table showing growth of endowment funds of the Smithsonian Institution

Hacowment st (ee
eral work of the
Institution, being | Deciferesearches| Freer gift for con- | eration ‘ot Freer
EES Bequest, gifts from | , &¢-» including Gallery of Art. |, Gallery of Art
other sources, and Favested SAvaIEs Building eae Salaries,
invested savings pate
of income

1846-1891______ WS CO2; 000) 00 esses oe ooh ed aC oeyt oh epee es
SOD ee eee 8020002 00uIS1OTAOOON OO! peewee 2 Sel es
1893-1894______ S52 e0007008| OT 0005 00 Reais | eee
1895-1908_____- ST OOOROO SO 2500.05 0 Orr aires a ak oe Mae eee ae Sree
1904-1918_____-_ 885 5S0e-08-l. II G922 42. |). Fea 3 CE sai teirs eae
HOTA ds pcre 885,807.58 -| L116; 692942) ona ayer? oe Jpeg (epeys entree
OTS. oe kee S864084.02. || TAS. Sib gxOS: Nes ws fe pe eed yee ey
MOMG Se yo wh cals 884607508 5); 1605527280 IS COO2000% 00) | 22 er ae
1 uc Weg anand SSiepos OOO a OAS OAs ey seit aoeerarriennaes = copes an Rae er maaan kei
ROUSE te ps a 288335S60..00)-|- 1765 15 la38- |e 2S a| Le Sea EY
NG WOp ee ee 884573052.00),| 190S489838) |e ee 8 Eyzerell |. eal ie eg lager de
OZ Opp reg  erea SSAC TAT OORP LOS PAGE OD ies 8 2 sean es Fa Ce igo ee eS
1L¢0 7231 Peseta Spa Bee 884, 933. 74 | 272, 588. 31 3 367, 072. 04 | $1, 253, 004. 75
119 227 ly aaa ec SSORLOM AIA 42918 S5SR14~ |e ee Se eee 1, 842, 144. 75
NO ZSRG 0 oe SSC 224 Gr OG 5 OLA ck ieee ere ee 4 3, 296, 574. 75
NODA pe fe S86, 873 ok ESTO G7G519 |e ae Soe 3, 401, 3855. 42
VO DH ee ee ee S86 MOO Wot l@OOoRLOORC! Wao ee eae oe 3, 459, 705. 34
OZ Geese nl ch ens SSOVSo0T lela BenQ Os cod ia teteen a its ae 3, 714, 361. 23
LISS PAY ae pg Ae SS6787 7279 917498" 401296" Sate ee 4,171, 880. 61
HO2826 Ae 929..068.-21 -|. 665, 233.29-|_. YeUE DOIsLer as | 4, 268, 244. 26
KO 2ZORE Sye PaO 22 TSO conl Toco Oar (Or ie ast ee ene 5, 236, 054. 02
HOSOee ste a2 ae k 1 f03327789- S50 {686,792 550 |S See ee 5, 800, 929. 50
IG SB illascapeete tether vaieh 1 O25 96 b3 5) hc OF OG ral Ola ats Ler tes eee DOO lec
NO Sve eens oe ne 1 OS 9e35E268 7|" (36, 452508" ee ee te Dy livia; 159.46

1 Original endowment plus income from savings during these years.

2 Loss on account of bonds reduced on books from par to market value.
$ 3 Cash from sale of 2,000 shares of Parke, Davis & Co. stock, including dividends, and interest on gift of
$1,000,000.

4In this year Parke, Davis & Co. declared 100 per cent stock dividend.

5 Increase largely from funds transferred from specific endowment column and income released for genera!
work of the Institution.

BALANCE SHEET OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION JUNE 30, 19382

ASSETS
Stocks, bonds, ete., at acquirement value:
Consolidated fund 2 = 2.5 2220 eS $711, 817. 03
reer De Quest: ore Le Lata ee ee Seen 5, 149, 680. 86
Springer fund _ Oot “Or PION 13, 835. 00
Woungerdtund:s lararey oct to eseguara 49, 812. 50
SS a 925, 145.39
WUnitedpStates. lreastry deposit== ==). eebe ed 2 e 1, C60, 000. 00
Miscellaneous, principally funds advanced for printing publica-
tions, and field expenses (to be repaid)__________-_________- 76, 678. 41
Cash:
Funds in United States Treasury and in
10) Nat es Pen eee eg ae Oe © os ee Lm OnE $250, 270. 59
In office safe, for cash transactions________ 1, 900. 00

252, 170. 59

7, 253, 994. 39

96 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

LIABILITIES
Freer bequest, capital accounts:
Court’ and/grounds fund. =222-. 2242s. 2-7 F $580, 016. 22
Court and grounds maintenance fund__-_-_-- 145, 171. 79
Qursiter fund. soars 2 Seas oe 589, 763. 31

Residuary estate funds —.- 4 = asst Le 3, 858, 208. 44
NBR GLE LD

CAPITAL ACCOUNTS

Arthur; James, fund... —-+---~=2=<22--22221 YUU oO 50, 699. 31
J Bye yo. O0 0) 0010 famed fy pa Seed raat bet leila hen age tofredlipindin af in agai <2) 63, 512. 52
Baird fund 2-6 oe A ee od 9, 959. 05
Barstow, FredeneD_; fund. 2-4 8 COA fE? | Ra Te Age 964. 27
Canfield.collection fund... 22 .SU0_014 | 86. 508 Coe ts 48, 488. 51
Casey ‘Thomasveimeciar Taunt ico oe eee eee ee eee 9, 797. 14
Chamberlain fund". 5 dee ene lene Loe gen ee 35, 698. 68
Hodgkins fund; specific. _. -".- 1 -@8 War av? 1 oo yaa eee te 100, 000. 00
Hughes, Bruce, fund «2... oer Oo ee eek UT Cr Bee OE 19, 205. 63
Miya sf ann ieee rm 2 Bp nie en ae a A ee ee Ae ae Mee ee ee 22, 907. 94
Pell Panes ssf oa a ee eS eee ee eee are OSE 3, 060. 69
Poorégfiumd* Shs oo be FOE PY Be ene QQ 62, 842. 17
Reidghwirdie she = Boe ee mie ol Oe, OY ae Be ek CON Skt ee 25, 478. 94
Roeblmpcollectionsfund= << -s-b- Ss oe ae eet 8 ee ee 152, 987. 77
Rollins, Miriam: and” William; funda 2 =. ces a. ea eee 2 58, 787. 00
Smithsonian junrestricted fund— jie ese Aga cro. ean pri e 1, 039, 351. 68
Springer!fund 1 oe a ORG) Gh ooh Ged Te 13, 835. 00
Wralcotisrescanch: fund === - er a et SON Eee eaee yee Era aa 12, 450. 72
Vounser fund... 2. - eee ee Rect Ba ena eee 49, 812. 50
Zerbee, Prances: brinckie, fumd 4-222 soe aneee eeo ee 964. 84
CURRENT ACCOUNTS
Mréernbequres tie a0 saturn uthaatiegh Nore oii) Baal) Sek fe aay NOMS 66, 306. 11
Springersfurid Seah s Se och gage ye eae eel 8 5 a oe ee 5, 265. 41
Wounds en hind eee eee Pea SOPs BONS Wea EN 2 SOE eee 217. 50
Miscellaneous accounts held by the Institution for the most
part for Speciiie vusee sy sekine © Le ese etek a ercgryl qe eye See 238, 241. 25
Ic) Le ae ae a oe Pes Nadie abscodenn ten OY Mt eT 8 7, 258, 994. 39

During the year, the Institution received as gifts a total of approxi-
mately $135,000, which included donations for specific uses not to
be invested, for increase of endowments for specific purposes, and a
bequest of $100,000 for the increase of the general endowment fund.

All payments are made by check, signed by the Secretary of the
Institution, on the Treasurer of the United States, and all revenues
are deposited to the credit of the same account. In many instances
deposits are placed in bank for convenience of collection and later
are withdrawn in round amounts and deposited in the Treasury.

The practice of investing temporarily idle funds in time deposits
has proven satisfactory. During the year the interest derived from
this source has resulted in a total of $5,364.02.

The foregoing report relates only to the private funds of the Smith-
sonian Institution. The following is a statement of the congressional
REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 97

appropriations for the past 10 years for the support of the several
governmental branches under the administrative control of the Insti-
tution and of appropriations for other special purposes during that
period.

Table showing the appropriations made by Congress during the last 10 years, in-
trusted to the care of the Smithsonian Institution

Interna-
Coopera- |,-; 7 Astro-
Interna- a 4 tional Cat- : Increase of . Gellatly
- American | tive ethno- physical -| National 5 :
Year ee ral ethnology | logical re- eee : Observa- eeLoabict Museum | ape
8 searches |yiterature| tory
1923-522 $45, 000 $447 000" Se toe hee $7, 500. 00 $15, 500 $109, 044 S418 e120" |S eee ee
19242205 43, GOO S43 000 eee = oS 7, 500. 00 15, 500 112, 704 415000) |2-- 28S
hOZD eee 49, 550 bu; LOO Me 2 et RES 8, 861. 66 DIF5SO Meee a cere 475,202) 2k ee
19262222 =~ 46, 260 DLO is oat 8, 000. 00 BSL ASO ES LETTE eres 504,392) toate kn
NOE 46, 260 B7ELGOL |e Sees eek 7, 500. 00 BLA 80h Se eee bGbRS 208 |e aes
19282 2- = 46, 855 BS; 20a) 22S 7, 260. 00 32, 060ii-= 224 2225s 606;:960))|222 Se
192Z9=>. 50, 355 65, 800 $20, 000 7, 885. 00 SONGa0r aS! See eae NOUS 524: || eee
NOSOKME 2 == 51, 297 63; 'S003) see Seen ot 7, 885. 00 SO NC LO seek aoe Be 717, 014 $21, 000
NOSTRA S= 52,810 NONB 40 ais Se See 8, 145. 00 DU O00 tee eee Te 7793, 894 } 20, 000
198222222 54, 060 LOE OM (ee eee ee 8, 150. 00 37 O200[22- 2. es. Se 775, 090 20, 000
u |
Safeguard- | Nadia
ing dome of} National | Additional} National | Printing | Additional Calarge and onal fre
Year Natural | Zoological | for Zoologi-; Gallery of} and bind-| assistant |"",.penses rotec:
History Park eal Park Art ing secretary nag) a an
Building
$125, 000 $2500)" +8515, 000) | -BeS77 400! |e see Sas) oe es ee
125 O00L sees secs 16, 000 1 400 J ees oN eae oe
TSE 4875 [czas ee es 20, 158 * 90, 000 56): QO0R| Mees Se Sey
T57;000;| = 2-2. 5-5 21, 028 $0, 000 G/O00n eae. =e Se)
SLOG ni = Se Foe Tee 29, 381 90, 000 (C1 a (eee is Soe es ee Se
175, 000 3 25, 000 39, 356 $0, 000 407500) |oee aa = es
195, 550 3 30, 000 35, 273 95.000! 2. 2 Ae $50; C048 40 Tee
203, 000 6 222, 000 34, 853 95;000c/25=-22--- 222 36;\004.\ = beer
220, 520 8 28, 000 AG 21Su Fe 99000"| 222 basta: BO O04 eae Se eee
255, 540 9 4, 500 45, 220 1O4: (000) jes 2 2 5 38) 644 ese ee

! Increase in appropriation due to Government assuming part of the expenses of the Chilean Station,
which up to this time had been supported by private funds of the Smithsonian Institution.

2 Increases over former figures due to passage of Welch Act.

3 Building for birds.

4 After 1928 this item is included in appropriation for salaries and expenses.

5 Work done by Supervising Architect and funds disbursed by United States Treasury.

6 Building for reptiles, ete., $220,000; gates for south boundary of park, $2,000.

7 Includes plans for additions to Natural History Building, $10,000.

8 Additional for building for reptiles.

§ Plans for building for small mammals.

The report of the audit of the Smithsonian private funds is printed
below.

OcToBER 1, 19382.
EXECUTIVE CoMMITTEE, Boarp oF REGENTS,
Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C.

Sirs: Pursuant to agreement we have audited the accounts of the Smithsonian
Institution for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1932, and certify the balance of
cash on hand June 30, 1932, to be $252,170.59.

We have verified the record of receipts and disbursements maintained by
the Institution and the agreement of the book balances with the bank balances.

We have examined all the securities in the custody of the Institution and in
the custody of the banks and found them to agree with the book records.

We have compared the stated income of such securities with the receipts of
record and found them in agreement therewith.
98 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

We have examined all vouchers covering disbursements for account of the
Institution during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1932, together with the authority
therefor, and have compared them with the Institution’s record of expenditures
and found them to agree.

We have examined and verified the accounts of the Institution with each
trust fund.

We found the books of account and records well and accurately kept and the
securities conveniently filed and securely cared for.

All information requested by your auditors was promptly and courteously
furnished.

We certify the Balance Sheet, in our opinion, correctly presents the financial
condition of the Institution as at June 30, 1932.

WituraM L. Yancsr & Co.,
WitiiaM L. YAEGER,
Certified Public Accountant.

Respectfully submitted.

Freperic A. DELANO
R. Watton Moore

Joun ©. MeEerRRIAM
Erecutive Committee.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE
FISCATS YEAR ENDED JUNE" 30,1932

ANNUAL MEETING, DECEMBER 10, 1931

Present: Chief Justice Charles Evans Hughes, chancellor, in the
chair, Senator Reed Smoot, Senator Joseph T. Robinson, Senator
Claude A. Swanson, Representative Albert Johnson, Representative
Robert Luce, Hon. R. Walton Moore, Frederic A. Delano, Dr.
John C. Merriam, and the secretary, Dr. C. G. Abbot. Dr. Alex-
ander Wetmore, assistant secretary, was also present.

The secretary announced that on March 3, 1931, the President pro
tempore of the Senate appointed Senator Joseph R. Robinson as a
Regent to succeed himself.

Mr. Delano, chairman of the executive committee, offered the
following resolution, which was adopted:

Resolved, That the income of the Institution for the fiscal year ending June
30, 1933, be appropriated for the service of the Institution, to be expended by

the secretary, with the advice of the executive committee, with full discretion
on the part of the secretary as to items.

The secretary submitted his annual report to June 30, 1931, and
added a résumé, prepared by the editor, relating to publications
issued by the Institution during the year. The editorial work of
the Institution had been reorganized for the sake of greater unity
of policy and increased efficiency. Instead of maintaining three
separate editorial offices as formerly, the responsibility for all of
the 13 series issued under the Institution was centered in the editor
of the Smithsonian proper, and all of the editorial staff was moved
into a group of offices close together on the third floor of this building.

Mr. Delano presented the report of the executive committee for
the fiscal year ending June 30, 1931, showing the financial condition of
the institution for that period.

The annual report of the National Gallery of Art Commission was
accepted, and the board adopted the following resolutions:

Resolved, That the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution hereby
approves the recommendation of the National Gallery of Art Commission that
James E. Fraser, J. H. Gest, F. J. Mather, jr., and E. C. Tarbell, be reelected as
members of the commission for the ensuing term of four years, their present
terms having expired.

Resolved, That the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution hereby
approves the recommendation of the National Gallery of Art Commission that

149571—33——_8 99
100 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

the three vacancies in the commission caused by the death of members, be filled
by the election of George B. McClellan to succeed W. K. Bixby, Thomas Cochran
to sueceed James Parmelee, and Paul Manship to succeed Daniel Chester French.

The secretary reported that the Langley Gold Medal, awarded to
Admiral Richard Evelyn Byrd, had been presented on March 27, 1931,
and that this ceremony had been noted in the previous annual report.

The secretary said that the Regents were aware of the death of
Senator Dwight W. Morrow on October 5, 1931. He had been a
Regent of the Institution for nearly five years when his membership
on this Board was terminated automatically by his induction, on
December 3, 1930, as a Senator from New Jersey.

Mr. Moore offered the following resolutions which were adopted:

Whereas death has removed from his career of usefulness to our country and
the world the late Dwight W. Morrow, Senator from New Jersey, and

Whereas during his too brief service as Regent of the Smithsonian Institution—
from January 7, 1926, to December 8, 19830—Mr. Morrow gave unstintedly of his
time and counsel to promote the vital interests of the Institution, and inaugurated
movements of exceptional value to it, and

Whereas by generous gifts during his lifetime and by a large unconditional
bequest he has greatly increased the endowment of the Institution: Therefore
be it

Resolved, That the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution hereby
expresses its profound sense of loss to the Nation and to the Institution in the
passing of Senator Morrow; and be it further

Resolved, That these resolutions be spread upon the minutes of the board, and

that a copy be sent, with an expression of our deepest sympathy, to the family of
Mr. Morrow.

The secretary stated that John Gellatly died November 8, 1931.
It will be recalled that in 1929 and in 1930 Mr. Gellatly gave his
great collection of art objects to the Institution for eventual exhibition
in the National Gallery of Art.

The secretary said that the attention of the board had been called
to a bequest to the Institution by James Arthur, of New York City,
the income of which was to be used for (a) the investigation and study
of the sun; (6) to provide annually a lecture to be known as The James
Arthur Annual Lecture on the Sun. The first Arthur lecture would
be given by the distinguished astronomer, Dr. Henry Norris Russell,
of Princeton University, on January 27, 1932.

The board had been informed that through the generosity of Am-
bassador Dawes, Dr. Charles Upson Clark had been engaged for over
two years in conducting researches in European archives, the special
objective being a search for early native and Spanish documents
relating to the Indians of the period of the Conquest, or earlier. The
secretary added that the matter collected by Doctor Clark was being
prepared for publication, though at this time there was no money
available for that purpose. He hoped, however, that at some future
time means might be secured to publish this valuable material.
PROCEEDINGS OF REGENTS 101

The secretary said that royalties were being received from the sale
of the Smithsonian Scientific Series. These now totaled $53,510.46
in cash, and further returns were to be expected in the years to come.

The secretary then spoke of the work being conducted under gener-
ous grants from John A. Roebling and the Research Corporation, and
also of the gratifying results of the sales of the volumes of North Ameri-
ean Wild Flowers; after which Doctor Wetmore made a statement of
the exploration work done by members of the National Museum
staff. This was followed by an explanation of the proposed additions
to the present Museum building, during which the plans for this
construction were exhibited.

The secretary concluded his statement with a brief description of
the work done in the field by ethnologists of the Bureau of American
Ethnology, and also of the results accomplished at the National
Zoological Park.

REGULAR MEETING OF FEBRUARY 11, 1932

Present: Chief Justice Charles Evans Hughes, chancellor, in the
chair, Senator Joseph T. Robinson, Representative Albert Johnson,
Representative Andrew J. Montague, Representative T. Alan Golds-
borough, and the secretary, Dr. C.G. Abbot. Dr. Alexander Wetmore,
assistant secretary, was also present.

The secretary reported that on December 16, 1931, the Speaker
of the House of Representatives had appointed Albert Johnson, of
Washington, to succeed himself; and Andrew J. Montague, of Virginia,
and T. Alan Goldsborough, of Maryland, to succeed R. Walton
Moore and Robert Luce, respectively.

The secretary read a letter from Mrs. Elizabeth C. Morrow express-
ing appreciation of the resolutions adopted by the board upon the
death of her husband, Senator Dwight W. Morrow. He then gave
a brief history of the origin and establishment of the Research Cor-
poration, stating that during the last few years it had made grants
to the Institution for conducting certain researches in the growtn of
plant life by the Division of Radiation and Organisms. He ex-
plained the nature of this work and the importance of the sun’s
rays to human, animal, and plant life.

He stated also that the Research Corporation had made awards
through the Smithsonian Institution of $2,500 each to Dr. Andrew
Ellicott Douglass and to Dr. Ernst Antevs for work in their respective
lines, relating to chronology and periodicity in weather, and that
these awards had been presented by the chancellor at a ceremony
recently. The presentations were followed by addresses by the
recipients.

The secretary announced that the first lecture under the James
Arthur bequest was delivered January 27, 1932, by Dr. Henry
102 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

Norris Russell, of Princeton University, and that on February 24
Dr. Ale’ Hrdli¢éka, Curator of the Division of Physical Anthropology
of the National Museum, would lecture upon his recent researches
in Alaska; also that on March 30 a lecture would be given by Dr.
A. C. Seward, Master of Downing College, Cambridge University,
a noted English botanist.

The secretary then referred to the project for the addition of wings
to the present National Museum Building, and requested Doctor
Wetmore to explain the matter.

Doctor Wetmore exhibited the plans for these additions, which
had been prepared by the Allied Architects of Washington, under
the supervision of Nathan Wyeth. ‘These were made _ possible
by an appropriation of $10,000 for this purpose. He described the
proposed arrangement of exhibition halls, office rooms, and labora-
tories, and in answer to Mr. Johnson’s inquiry explained that no
appropriation for this construction was expected at this time, but
that the matter had been brought before the House committee as a
matter of record.
GENERAL APPENDIX

TO |THE

SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1982

103
ADVERTISEMENT

The object of the Grnrrat Appenprx to the Annual Report of the
Smithsonian Institution is to furnish brief accounts of scientific
discovery 1n particular directions; reports of investigations made by
collaborators of the Institution; and memoirs of a general character
or on special topics that are of interest or value to the numerous cor-
respondents of the Institution.

It has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution from a very early date to enrich the annual
report required of them by law with memoirs illustrating the more
remarkable and important developments in physical and biological
discovery, as well as showing the general character of the operations
of the Institution; and, during the greater part of its history, this
purpose has been carried out largely by the publication of such
papers as would possess an interest to all attracted by scientific
progress.

In 1880, induced in part by the discontinuance of an annual sum-
mary of progress which for 30 years previously had been issued by
well-known private publishing firms, the secretary had a series of
abstracts prepared by competent collaborators, showing concisely
the prominent features of recent scientific progress in astronomy,
geology, meteorology, physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zool-
ogy, and anthropology. This latter plan was continued, though, not
altogether satisfactorily, down to and including the year 1888.

In the report for 1889 a return was made to the earlier method of
presenting a miscellaneaus selection of papers (some of them origi-
nal) embracing a considerable range of scientific investigation and
discussion. ‘This method has been continued in the present report for
1932.

105
wht ‘to Pe iL funosd: oft of gad eens ark 96 Mi
yiliidaien ‘io etameoe Taitd deat of af aotduditank anise
Gi shim Bnehekieora: TO ehiiqer senoiseb saluoidasey tt ps
ism ios JAA ve h lO Seresgont ibe eioe cl a us. to we rhe rod

fa Sisalold lee siete te elite ack rab diss reugsens it 2 diana
aMitnisao sit to mtwiud) lovenss als satwode ae thew a6 «EASE
Bi) ,redsid ali To! Pim THAoe : ails wnhgo Dae pagineent: ould to

F is 5 4 r oy "7 . z

fiom de moisasldayg ons 7d yivgtal avo betrnes noad aed genet

onpitmicg yd felogiaa ia of dasitar we ENS binow - a

7

2 ledate ite to oounucttaooelh add cde ni ‘eobak 08a cae |
¢d bynizei cead Gal ylevorvery etavy OS ack doriy ezarraortey ty TRI 2a
to vopiee a bad viadotsae onl qe ret watifaricting ose7 Coy pees Ze
ylsaivuos yuivode a oledallos. tasieqnms ve Boraqoiy eloeuera

!

i TMNT fi! Lamon silopine: done To ASTI tA9t prepa,
fous .Vamol -molwisain ,vrisinisde eotyiop ereploiiaent. ees

low ,dnyods Daurtinoy caw oat yolied em T -aoloqoniine bas oe

® LAM I tgesy ou itis font 7 ax or soot lhrodateiias PE i

| toxhaltortr ilies adt of obaar say cites & O28 yor snogor oft a

; Minx dell bo sutoe) ST fo noiigelee Sepsdaiaseliys 2 yeti cod

. Duty deitecis svat viniaoieg To spits oldasahiedoo # nara ‘

| 10) Soyer doseaq- sd) ny heures ned ant Dodson antl .

; cabi

.

SOLAR RADIATION?

By C. G. ABBOT
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution

[With 3 plates]

Directly or indirectly our most important interests depend on the
solar radiation. The sun rays keep the earth warm enough to
sustain life. Variations of their intensity associated with summer
and winter, and with night and day, produce climates. Shght
variations of the original output of rays from the sun itself seem
to be highly influential in altering the weather. All growth in plants
depends upon the application of solar energy. Our atmosphere i
the source of carbon, which is a principal plant constituent. The
trifling percentage of carbonic-acid gas contained in air is the es-
sential food of plants, but it can not nourish them without the help
of radiation. The health of animals, including man, requires radia-
tion. The prevention of rickets by the curious direct and indirect
influences of ultra-violet rays has formed a fascinating chapter in
the story of recent investigations.

Power is principally derived indirectly from solar radiation. Solar
heat evaporates the oceans, drives the clouds inland, precipitates the
rain and snow, and thus maintains the world’s hydroelectric power
sources. Hnormous as these are, they are, nevertheless, trifling
compared to the power derived from oil and coal. Oil, the less
important of these two sources, comes mainly from animal life that
was sustained ages ago by the vegetation fed by the ancient sun.
Coal, on the other hand, is the end product of decomposition of
vegetation. The enormous deposits of coal, which are now the
world’s principal sources of power, represent but a trifling percentage
of the solar energy lavished on the earth in former geologic ages.

These are highly indirect applications of solar radiation for power
supplies. It is possible, however, as numerous inventors have shown,
to produce heat for driving engines by the direct absorption of solar
rays. If the devices now available for this purpose should be but a

1 Reprinted, by permission, from the Proceedings of the Ohio State Educational Con-
ference, Eleventh Annual Session, The Ohio State University Bulletin, vol. 36, No. 3,
Sept. 15, 1931.

107
108 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

little more improved, the desert regions of the world could supply
cheap solar power in quantities beyond the extremest possibilities of
future world demands. A lesser, but still interesting aspect of solar
radiation, lies in its use for domestic purposes. Food may be cooked,
and water may be heated by simple and inexpensive contrivances for
utilizing solar radiation,

it may be that none of the services rendered to us by the sun
is more important than its esthetic use. The colors of all flowers
represent the fragments of the complete solar spectrum remaining
after the pigments of the plant world have absorbed certain rays.
Unabsorbed remainders are reflected and produce gorgeous mixtures
of colors. Without the green of the grass and trees, the blue of the
sky, the brilliant hues of flowers, and the more somber, but yet
pleasing shades of the soil, and thousands of familiar objects on all
sides, we should be sad indeed.

Though thus obviously so important, it is little more than a
century since measurements began to be made of the intensity of the
solar radiation. Pioneers in this investigation were C. 8. M. Pouillet,
Sir John Herschel, and J. D. Forbes. They all devised instruments
adapted to absorb the solar radiation as completely as possible and
thus to convert it into heat. By appropriate devices for measuring
the heat thus produced, they obtained measurements of the intensity
of solar radiation. So intimate is the association between radiation
and heat that many people have confused the two. Yet they are
distinct and different. Radiation comprises a mixture of impulses
which traverse a vacuum at the enormous speed of 186,000 miles
per second. These impulses are separable by prisms or gratings into
innumerable regular periodicities. These periodicities produce dif-
ferent sensations of color in our eyes. Many of them, indeed, are
invisible to us. Since radiation can traverse the vacuum and never-
theless seems to comprise transverse waves of exceeding shortness,
philosophic minds have not been content to contemplate so great
a paradox as waves traveling in nothingness. They have devised
the idea of the luminiferous ether as a medium filling all space. At
present, our ideas are in a state of flux regarding this abstruse subject,
but at least we can think of radiation as something which can exist
where there is no matter in the ordinary sense, for it comes to us
across an immense void from the sun and the stars. Heat, on the
contrary, is well recognized to be the motion of the molecules of
material substances. The energy of radiation is competent to stir
up this mode of motion called heat when, for instance, radiation is ab-
sorbed by a black object. If the object is “absolutely black,” ab-

sorption is complete and all the energy of the ray is transformed
into heat.
SOLAR RADIATION—-ABBOT 109

The measuring instruments of Pouillet, Herschel, Forbes, and
others exposed surfaces blackened with lampblack. This substance
is not quite “ absolutely black,” for it reflects away about 3 per cent
of ordinary sun rays. Kirchhoff, about 70 years ago, proved that
a closed chamber, whether blackened or not, must be a perfect ab-
sorber. However small the percentage of rays absorbed at one
impact, there is no escape, and the rays must be reflected hither and
thither until by innumerable impacts their intensity is reduced below
any assignable minimum. This principle of the “ absolutely black ”
chamber has been incorporated inte the Smithsonian water-flow
pyrhehometer. This instrument thus far is the world’s standard for
measuring solar radiation.

Assuming, therefore, that we have accomplished the complete
absorption of the solar ray, and its entire transformation into heat,
and have devised means for the exact measurement of the heat thus
produced, we then may express the intensity of solar radiation at the
earth’s surface. We are accustomed to express it in terms of the
amount of radiation absorbed upon a square centimeter of surface
in a minute of time. We measure the heat produced in calories.
In these terms we find the heat of solar radiation near noon on clear
days to be approximately 1.4 calories per square centimeter per
minute. ‘To state the matter in more common terms, the solar
radiation, if transformed completely into work, would produce
roughly a horsepower per square yard whenever the sun is high in
the sky. Thus even at 93,000,000 miles, the sun rays are tremen-
dously powerful. The sun itself sends them out in every direction
continually. This output equals the heat of the burning of 400,000,-
000,000,000,000,000,000 tons of anthracite coal per year.

Measurements of solar radiation at the earth’s surface are subject
to losses by absorption and scattering of the rays in our atmosphere.
High up, at an altitude of nearly 40 miles, there exists a small quan-
tity of ozone which is that form of oxygen whose molecules contain
3 atoms instead of the usual 2. Ozone is a complete absorber of all
rays in the extreme ultra-violet from wave length 2,900 A. onward
for a considerable range. This is very fortunate. Otherwise our
skin would be blistered and our eyes blinded, for these short-wave
rays which are totally absorbed by ozone are highly destructive to
animal tissues. On the other hand, it is not less fortunate that ozone
allows some rays on the border of its absorption band to pass, for
these rays between wave lengths 2,900 A. and 3,100 A. are indispen-
sable to prevent rickets. The total thickness of gas of the atmos-
pheric ozone layer, if it could be brought down to sea level, would
be less than one-eighth of an inch. It is astonishing and even terrify-
ing to contemplate the narrow margin of safety on which our lives
110 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

thus depend. Were this trifling quantity of atmospheric ozone re-
moved, we should all perish. If it were ten times greater, we could
not live. Rickets would prevail universally.

Other little-considered atmospheric gases of great importance to
our comfort are water vapor and carbonic acid, both minor constit-
uents of the air, quantitatively speaking. Without the water vapor,
our earth, like the moon, would cool far below freezing every night
within a few moments after the sun sinks below the horizon. Water
vapor hinders the incoming rays of the sun to the extent of 10 to 15
per cent, but it hinders the escape of the long-wave rays emitted by
the earth by over 70 per cent. Thus water vapor acts like the gar-
dener’s glass cover of his hotbed. It lets sun rays in profusely,
but holds earth rays from escaping, and so is an efficient regulator
of climate. Carbonic-acid gas also acts in a somewhat similar way,
but less efficiently than water vapor. The indispensable function of
carbonic-acid gas in our atmosphere is to be the essential food for
plants.

Other atmospheric constituents which greatly modify the income
and outgo of radiation for the earth’s surface are clouds and dust.
The permanent gases, oxygen and nitrogen, alter the incoming sun
rays, it is true, but weaken them only slightly, and hardly alter the
outgoing earth rays at all. The molecules of the permanent atmos-
pheric gases, oxygen and nitrogen, scatter sun rays more and more
powerfully toward the violet end of the spectrum. But what is thus
lost to the direct solar beam comes to us almost wholly in the beauti-
ful blue rays of the sky. Dust also scatters sun rays, but without
much selection of color. A dusty sky is therefore nearly white.
Sunset and sunrise owe their beautiful colors to the scattering of sun
rays by the atmosphere. When the sun is near the horizon, its rays
shine very obliquely through the atmosphere and therefore by
enormously long paths. The consequence is that the powerful tend-
ency to scattering of the blue and violet rays so far depletes that
part of the spectrum that the sky light which reaches us has a yel-
low or even a red tinge. §S. P. Langley, third secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution, was a profoundly interested student of
solar radiation and atmospheric absorption. He wrote:

If the observation of the amount of heat the sun sends the earth is among
the most important and difficult in astronomical physics, it may also be termed
the fundamental problem of meteorology, nearly all whose phenomena would
become predictable, if we knew both the original quantity and kind of this
heat; how it affects the constituents of the atmosphere on its passage earth-
ward; how much of it reaches the soil; how, through the aid of the atmosphere,

it maintains the surface temperature of this planet; and how, in diminished
quantity and altered kind, it is finally returned to outer space.’

2 Langley, S. P., Report of the Mount Whitney Expedition, Prof. Pap. Signal Service,
No. 15, p. 11, 1884.
SOLAR RADIATION—-ABBOT 19

Fifty years ago Langley invented the bolometer, an exquisitely
delicate electrical thermometer sensitive to a millionth of a degree.
He took it to Mount Whitney, Calif., in 1881, to measure the rays
of the solar spectrum under the purest of skies. He also perfected
and applied a method for determining the losses suffered by solar
rays in traversing the turbid and absorbing ocean of atmosphere
which always overlies even the choicest of observing stations. With
some improvements, we still use the Langley bolometer and the
Langley method.

For the past 12 years the Smithsonian Institution has maintained
stations on high mountains in desert lands where daily measurements
of the solar radiation are made. Our best station, at Mount Monte-
zuma, Chile, 9,000 feet in altitude, lies in a desert where rain seldom
falls and where neither animal nor vegetable life can exist. The ob-
servers must bring even water itself from the town 12 miles distant.
The observations are carried on in such a way that the losses caused
by the atmosphere are determined accurately. Thus we are able to
measure the intensity of solar radiation as it would be found outside
our atmosphere altogether, as if one were on the moon, for instance.
We allow for the ellipticity of the earth’s orbit, and thus reduce the
results to a constant solar distance. Following long custom, we call
the resulting value “the solar constant of radiation.” It is on the
average 1.94 calories per square centimeter per minute.

Yet the solar-radiation intensity is not perfectly constant. It
varies through a range of several per cent. Figure 1 shows how
two of our stations, one at Montezuma, Chile, the other at Table
Mountain, Calif., agree within 0.2 per cent in tracing the variation
of it by their monthly mean results over the past five years. The
total range of variation shown by these monthly means is 1.5 per cent.
Figure 2 shows in curve A the monthly Montezuma values since 1918.
The total range in this period is 2.5 per cent. Curves C, D, E, F, G
are regular periodic curves of 68, 45, 25, 11, and 8 months whose sum,
given in curve B, almost exactly reproduces the variation shown in
the original observations given by curve A. Other shorter periods
may be found in solar variation, as indicated for the year 1924 in
curve H. I have ventured to forecast in curve I the probable march
of solar variation in the years 1931 and 1932.3

Short-interval changes are also found as shown in Figure 3. I
have indicated by curved lines, full and dotted, respectively, over 100
cases each of rising and of falling sequences extending over several
days each. The smallest ranges considered in these short-period
changes are 0.45 per cent, and the largest found is 2.5 per cent. I
have compared with these sequences the weather of Washington,

3 Footnote added January 19383: The observations of 1931 and 1932 closely verified
this prediction.
112

Williston, and Yuma.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

The interesting result comes out that both

temperatures and barometric pressures in weather show opposite
courses depending on whether they accompany and follow rising or

as eeaEs a i

pine aaa, reiee

Rw gaeon Ea EL
a SAG) we ON I

Es
Coo
LP
t

CE

XY
Paae

Comparative results of monthly mean observations 5,000 miles apart at Montezuma, Chile,

The two stations agree on it within an average discrepancy of 0.2 per cent

NLL

e
|

i
fl
AL
yi
a

(929

12) F.
ae
Ve

+
E

N
ct
i
Hote

Teta
MW

ESS

an
HME

ey al RSC

1927

A S)"0.-N=(0. EM.

Ficurn 1.—Variation of the sun’s radiation.

4

J
TAL
LN

i

ah
YE

a
oF OM AL MJ.

HEE
3
N

\

\

936
932
928
924

and Table Mountain, Calif.

falling solar radiation. This is
shown for Washington weather
in Figure 4. Apparently major
changes in weather are caused by
small fluctuations in the solar
radiation.

If this is so, we ought to expect
that the regular periodicities which
are proved by Figure 2 to com-
prise the principal solar changes
since 1918 ought to be reflected
in the weather. In Figure 5 one
may see that this is indeed so.
The principal changes in Wash-
ington temperatures since 1918
are represented as the sum of
six regular periodicities, of which
five are those found in the solar
radiation. This gives us hope that
weather may be susceptible to
long-range forecasting. It would,
indeed, be a great boon if the
characteristics of coming seasons
and years could thus be approxi-
mately known in advance. But
much further study must be made
before this hope can be thoroughly
tested.

We see from these exhibits that
solar variation is of two types, the
long range and the short range,
respectively. Two kinds of causes
probably are involved. The long
periods of 68, 45, 25, 11, and 8
months are closely related to the
well-known interval of 1114 years
in which the numbers of sun spots
wax and wane. This suggests that
hese longer-range periodicities are
due to increasing and decreasing
agitation in the gaseous fluid
113

ABBOT

SOLAR RADIATION

HI OAINd ‘FZGT Ul punoz YISus, JazIOGS JO S[BoIpOlaq ‘J IAINd “ysvoa1O0F

GEG PUB TEGL Sivok ONT, “VY AAA [BULSIAO oy} Sfe[[vavd ATasoy[o q eAdnod Ul uns dloyL “HD “a ‘a ‘a ‘DO SeArnd UL UMOYS ‘syJUOUL g PUR ‘TT

‘ez ‘cE ‘GQ JO SalPoIpotied OUT pozATVUB ‘OSGT 0F SIGT ‘Son[BA JUBISMOD-Ie[OS Uvot AT YIUOT

‘UOIWLIAVA IVIOS UL Sof}IOIpOliead—Z GUN

A anes SCE ae
ea! \ (A he
sce - LEER
ase ac SV Gave Ss aikamn vi

Fae eae PBs Vaud alee iz neo eee

V9. 2h) Ore GCs. 06) VE). ces) OF 025 92 = 92> ee 10s Ol Ol 9lh 21) Ol SO ee Se

Lesaemns Sane ie Ce EL Bieler
Eaeenae SPREE ie ae neane eile cae ane ASE Pareeer.
BCE aE plaialsis Sunea@ncuaNeencaae DEEMED Pee Alesina
[ay hfe PIP STIS une elie Tal SI ree ee ce te a
see mee HAe CER URES SCs ees" Sasa ees Jones

seoseidfracetits an a eee ee gesaae's
Peas ia PRIME a NEE (ais aoasen ae Be i
foe Be Be DE as Slo ec ese ss MSS Sime eee
| (seas sean aE
an cane Saieeacees
Sirians NUN Esee sees
NEREREEEEEEET Bes 7 ooanee ies ole sages
CRE eee aan Pennine panival gee BERS are a>:
pall A AG AS Cp TK ez aeeeuee an ste
2 Sis ween RRS Ramee nace FCCC aS AMS Mc
ie z ae ECE ELL MAI ISS
EP sl le SEeeeeeeee ee mala BERRA ERCRAa enn

"wer d90 7 z 5 5 a 7
Stat ote! sa SET ie 961 £261

"" Zbl €25) (ety ey ~ O26!
114 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

which composes the sun. It is to be regarded like the stirring
of a fire with a poker, which brings up from below the hotter
materials, and throws out temporarily a greater radiation in our
rooms.

4
vo
|
SG m
2 ; oes
S % = Ss >a
= x 5 = ae
6 = = Ene
= = ag
= = ns = aw Cea
Cae, es ww
: = F ee) a8
sole =F =f, $3 -H
° al — _ Ka os =|
= = A ay aa oud
Al = sis aie woe “
b == aes + th 56 Be
: : SSE ee
al 4 = — <6
+e Ses ee a > as
rs “S 2 | 2 aE SS CT Nea Fe
a = pz -— Ee oG 7
(2S Se El GS 9 Ge ae Ee i eee = Be [ aa q
5 a ae i | 2
a ial 1 .
= po
2 = 2 = ae > P
e € jot Iles
a r nes
5 a r ep oe bp
7 ee 2 rel bres
5 — = gat tS
- p Sn
a = n ~
“spss a2
<n ms 2
Ql = tain
a an = Gage
2 mseH
———— = ae n
> oot 5
z = Fi 5)
5 Sao o Aap
a 5 oR &
al Fi
= hon
g a YY wy
wre nN =o
alfa = = Sap
AS
ot
* ~
e| s¢z
s| = % 3
ial
xz sae Se On
eS = RS
5 a= £56
* =. q
4 Se = H mb
2 +=— = ee ae
< = a2
< cafe = ~- 2+
3 =e a
ion
pe) Ss
Kept:
fo) HR
= a5 2
el sarge
7 £25
3 oy
rl nod
ts ~ [as
pines
2 Be og ©
2 or maoies
z =i = Spe
fe ar a te = = oOUn
= _
a 3 8 23 8 a: 33 3 3 28 § 2 8 ee

Lo
19!

The short-period changes of solar radiation, which run their
courses in a few days, are probably caused in other ways. We may
suppose that patches of increased or diminished radiating power
form occasionally on the solar surface. An example of this, indeed,
is often seen in the bright faculae which surround sun spots. On the
other hand, there may be areas of diminished intensity above the sun
115

ABBOT

SOLAR RADIATION

“81100 S8ATND po}JOP PUB [TNF 9} UWoosyoq uot}isoddo vy} o0N

A[TAATJIOdSaI ‘WOTLVIPB AV[OS SBurypey pur Surstt 0} Surpuods
‘sdvak UoAGS JO pofied vB JO S}[NSat aSBIOAV VIB DIO UOATS s}[Nsoa

ML “ MNS UT UMOYS eSuvyo IvlOs Jo soouanbos SuTMO[[oJ PUB YITA pojeloossv seanssoad pux soanjesodue} uoySuryse M—F wuaswy

sounss3aed

ooze

eaCay 2nanne

S3uNivu3dN34

9

146571—33
ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

116

SUOTIVAIASYO WOT} IPBIA-AV[OS WOAJ SuJSvooIo0J 1oyVIM OSuvA-Suo] 1oy edoy [Bod VB o}VoIpUL S}[MSed esoUL “V
JAIND [BUISIIO oy} Spor[ervd ATYSnoA q PAIND UT UNS ATeyT, “sq}UOM g pu ‘TT ‘ST ‘az ‘ep ‘gQ9 JO sapyorporsed jueserdod ‘YD ‘A ‘a ‘a
‘) SOAIND *Z OANSTY Ul UMOYS WOT}EIPVA ALTOS UP saq}ToTpoHod oy} YIP pozBloossB ain}eioduie} U0JSULySBAA UT BeriyIponed a: qe

e2rGGis!
seeeteera

i

a

a

Bee

Fy

Ti

(

=

i

iz

a

ul

1

ay

Po

SOLAR RADIATION—-ABBOT EZ

spots due to the outrush of gases from within the sun and their
consequent cooling by expansion as they reach elevations of dimin-
ished pressure. If in either of these ways local irregularities occur
in the sun’s surface brightness, the complete solar rotation which
takes place in about four weeks must present these fluctuating in-
tensities toward the earth in their turns, and so produce short-inter-
val variations of the solar constant of radiation.

There is another variation of solar radiation, not periodic, but ex-
ceptionally interesting to theorists, as it throws light on the sun’s
inner nature. I refer to the difference of brightness between the
edge and the center of the solar disk. Figure 6 illustrates this obser-
vation and shows how different is the phenomenon when viewed in
differently colored rays. In the ultra-violet, the sun’s center appears
about three times as bright as its edge, while in the infra-red the edge

BricHtness DistrisUTION Aone Sun's DIAMETER
For DIrr£RENT CoLors

Inrra-ReD InFRA-RED R ' ‘Birue—Green ULTRA-VIOLET
Az l.55u A= -986u a=. 503u A= 37

Fiaurp 6.—Contrast of brightness between center and edge of the sun’s disk as seen in
different colors. From Smithsonian observations

is almost as bright as the center. A great deal of theoretical investi-
gation has been based on exact measurements of these phenomena,
which have been carried out in the years 1913 to 1920 by Smith-
sonian observers on Mount Wilson, Calif. This study is also asso-
ciated with the determination of the distribution of brightness as
between different wave lengths in the solar spectrum. Smithsonian
observers have determined this as shown by Figure 7.

The study of the dependence of plant growth on radiation has
lately been taken up by the new division of radiation and organisms
at the Smithsonian Institution at Washington. In order to have a
better control of radiation intensity and hours of exposure than clouds
and night would permit if solar rays alone were employed, we use
mainly electrical lamps of special construction; the results will be
applicable to the understanding of plant growth under natural
conditions.

The essence of the problem lies in this, that plants grow by taking
in carbonic-acid gas from the air through millions of little mouths
called stomata which dot the under surfaces of the leaves. But this
feeding occurs only when certain rays found in sunlight and other
sources shine upon the plants. The questions are: Which are the
118 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

effective rays? What differences are created in plant growth when
the rays are changed either in color, in intensity, or in time of
exposure per day? What are the chemical processes which go on
in the laboratories of the plant leaves by which cellulose, sugars,
odoriferous materials, fruit and nut substances, poisons, and the host
of organic chemicals which plants produce are built up? Finally,
how does radiation cause plants to bend in those interesting ways
illustrated by the sunflower and nasturtium, and by the twining stalks
of the beans and peas?

All of these questions are being studied at the Smithsonian Insti-
tution. The investigation is stil young, so that little as yet has been
published. Plate 1 and Figure 8, however, give some idea of the

ad
Ea
ai
Fe a a
cig

oF

Intensity

poe te ie SES

Lt)

teal

Qju. 05 07
Wave LENGTH

Figure 7.—Wave length and intensity in the solar spectrum. Smithsonian observations
ingenious apparatus and interesting work which have been developed
already under the direction of Dr. F. 8. Brackett. I will but mention
the phototropic experiments in which a little oat sprout is being used
as an indicator. It is situated between two lights of different colors,
whose intensities may be graduated until the oat sprout grows ver-
tically. Then, of course, the two lights are equal in their tendencies
to produce bending. It is found that green is one thousand times
more active than yellow, and blue thirty times more active than green
to produce bending. Red and intra-red are like darkness, having no
bending influence at all.

Another very promising line of investigation is that illustrated in
Figure 8. Pure organic chemicals such as benzene, chlorobenzene,
and others of greater and greater complexity are introduced in a
spectroscope between the source of light and the recording thermopile
SOLAR RADIATION—-ABBOT 119

which automatically measures the spectrum energy. Absorption
effects are produced on the infra-red rays. ‘These effects are found
to be characteristic for each chemical studied. In this way we are
building up a system of organic chemical! analysis, whereby chemical
structure can be determined without making combustions. It is yet
uncertain how powerful this method will eventually prove, but we
hope it will throw much light on the abstruse reactions of plant
growth under the influence of radiation.

- ‘4

FARADICHLORBENZENE

FARAD/IBROM BENZENE

FARADIIODOBENZENE

1

16m ae
Ficur® 8.—Absorption spectra of benzene derivatives. Observed under the direction
of Dr. F. 8S. Brackett, Smithsonian Institution

Plate 2 shows an experimental cooking plant which I erected at
the Smithsonian station on Mount Wilson. Sun rays falling upon
the great concave cylindric mirror, 7 by 12 feet in surface, and moved
by clockwork to follow the sun, are reflected upon a blackened brass
tube incased by a vacuum-glass jacket. Within the tube, which lies
parallel to the earth’s axis, is high-test engine cylinder oil. It
grows hot, expands, and rises up into a reservoir containing about
60 gallons of oil. Two ovens for cooking are inserted in this reser-
voir of hot oil. A return tube from its bottom completes the circula-
tory system, bringing cooler oil to be heated by the mirror. For
120 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

weeks at a time on Mount Wilson, the ovens remained hot enough to
bake bread both day and night. All kinds of cooking except frying
and broiling are readily done with this solar cooker. ‘The kitchen
where food is prepared remains cool, and the housewife has a
delightful view of the mountains as she steps out to place it in the
ovens. The apparatus is too costly to be anything but a luxury.

The most successful solar power installation thus far made was
located near Cairo in Egypt, and was used to pump water from the
Nile for irrigation. A-description of it is given in the Smithsonian
Report for 1915. The principle is the same as that just illustrated in
the solar cooker, but vacuum jackets were not introduced to enhance
the heating.
Smithsonian Report, 1932.—Abbot PLATE 1

PLANTS GROWING UNDER CONTROLLED LIGHT, HUMIDITY, AND TEMPERATURE,
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTICN
NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLIWS ‘~ENOYdS LVYO AO ONIGN3g OS!

¢ alviald

dOYLOLOHd ONINNSVAW

yOGqY—ZEb| ‘Oday weruOsyItUS
PLATE 3

Smithsonian Report, 1932.—Abbot

ABBOT’S SOLAR COOKER ON MOUNT WILSON, CALIF.
VARIABLE STARS?

By Dr. L. V. Ropinson
Astronomer, Harvard College Observatory

The layman who has casually observed that the Big Dipper is
always a dipper regardless of its position in the sky may also have
noticed that all the stars appear to keep the same positions relative
to one another. In general, the only exceptions are the planets.
The layman, from somewhat hurried glances, may also be inclined to
think that all the stars remain unchanged in brightness. If he could
observe the stars a few thousand years hence, however, he would be
convinced that “ the stars do move,” and a few days or weeks of con-
tinuous observation would also show changes in brightness of many
of the brighter stars. The sun shares the motions of the other stars;
in fact, it is dragging our little earth through space with a velocity
of 12 miles per second relative to the other stars; but we move at
a very slow rate compared with some of the suns, which are so far
away in space that we call them stars.

The reason why the stars do not appear to move is that they are so
exceedingly far away. Even the nearest is 275,000 times as far away
as the sun is from us (that is 275,000 X 92,900,000 miles), and hght
from this star does not reach us until it has been on its journey four
and one-third years. Light from the sun reaches us after a short
journey of only eight minutes. By the way of contrast, it is said that
the sensation of a burn travels so slowly relative to the speed of
light, that an infant with an arm long enough to reach the sun
would live his allotted time of three score and ten years and die
in ripe old age before learning that his fingers had been burned.

But what of the brightness of all these far-away suns? By actu-
ally measuring their distances, astronomers can compare the bright-
ness of each one with that of the sun. The intrinsically brightest
star now known is one that is apparently associated with the great
Magellanic Clouds of the southern sky. At maximum brightness
this star, S Doradus, is half a million times as bright as our sun
and, according to the theory of relativity in which mass and light

1 Reprinted by permission, with author’s alterations, from The Scientific Monthly, vol.
34, pp. 343-350, April, 1932.

121
[99 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

energy are interchangeable, the light radiated in one second weighs
more than 2,000,000,000,000 tons. It represents one class of stars
known as “ variables,” on account of their variation in brightness.
Among the variables, S Doradus is probably related to the subclass
which the astronomer calls novae.

Within the earliest records of man the first star observed to vary
in brightness was indeed a nova in the constellation Scorpius and
was discovered by the Greek astronomer, Hipparchus, 134 years be-
fore Christ. This star, which appeared very suddenly as a dazzling
bright object where one had not before been seen, aroused the curiosity
of Hipparchus and undoubtedly prompted him to compile the first
catalogue of star positions, by reference to which the appearance of
any new star, or the disappearance of any of those which he had
already observed and catalogued, could be established.

The outstanding peculiarity of novae is that they manifest a sud-
den outburst in brightness and then gradually fade away, becoming
invisible to the unaided eye after a few weeks. The second known
star of this kind, a nova in Cassiopeia, was observed first by Tycho
Brahe, a Danish astronomer, in 1572. When Tycho first saw it,
this star was among the very brightest in the sky; within a few days
it grew still brighter so that it could be seen even in daytime without
the use of a telescope. When the planet Venus is at its brightest,
it is possible to observe it in the daytime, provided we know in what
part of the sky to look, but Tycho’s star is said to have been even
brighter, notwithstanding the fact that Venus approaches us as
closely as 26,000,000 miles, whereas most novae are probably hun-
dreds of millions times as distant.

In recent years a more careful watch has been kept over the stars;
in fact at Harvard, the whole sky is photographed many times in the
course of a year’s work. Also more people know the constellations
and recognize very quickly the presence of any new bright star
where previously none had appeared. As a result, known examples
of novae have increased fairly rapidly in recent years. The bright-
est of the recent ones appeared in 1918 in the constellation of Aquila.
In less than a week the normal brightness of this star increased
nearly 70,000 times, and on June 8 it was exceeded in brightness
by only one other star, Sirius.

Aside from the telescope, no instrument has been more useful
to the astronomer than the spectroscope. In its simplest form the
spectroscope is nothing more than a finely polished glass prism
through which light from a star, or from any other source, is allowed
to pass. In passing through the prism the blue rays are always
bent more than the red, depending upon wave length, so that ordi-
nary “ white light” is separated into all the colors of the rainbow.
VARIABLE STARS—ROBINSON 123

These colors projected on a screen back of the prism constitute a
“spectrum ” whose general structure depends upon the nature and
the source of the incident hght. In the case of ordinary starlight,
where a cooler atmosphere surrounds the source, very narrow widths
of light are apparently missing, thus giving rise to a dark-line spec-
trum, the relative positions of the lines depending upon the chem-
ical elements and conditions of temperature and pressure in the
source of light, thereby revealing important data on the stars and
their atmospheres. It may also happen that all the spectral lines may
be shifted toward the red or toward the violet end of the spectrum.
Wave lengths from a given source are all shortened by motion
toward the observer for the reason that the observer meets more
waves per second than he would were he at rest relative to the source.
This shortening of wave lengths indicating motion toward the ob-
server accounts for the shift toward the violet end of the spectrum
constituting the shorter wave lengths, and conversely a shift toward
the red indicates motion away from the observer. Thus the obser-
ver is able to distinguish motions of the stars in the line of sight
and to measure their velocities. This fact alone is a very important
one in the study of variable stars and of the very close double star
systems, called spectroscopic binaries.

From the spectra of novae the astronomer is able to detect the
presence of gases rushing out from these stars with velocities as
high as 1,200 miles per second. We are led to conclude, therefore,
that the great increase in brightness of these stars is due partly to
an increase in diameter caused by some kind of explosion. The fre-
quency of these explosions suggests to us that possibly similar dis-
turbances occur within every star, at least once in its lifetime. If so,
what warning are we to have of the approach of an explosion of
the sun? The sun is only a star among the 30,000 million others
which astronomers believe are in our Milky Way system. Why then
should it be the exception to the other stars? What if it should
explode? We frequently see spots on the sun large enough to hold
our little earth; we might therefore be justified in concluding that
in a solar conflagration, similar to that which apparently takes place
in a nova, the earth would disappear almost instantaneously.

As a representative of a second type of variable there is none bet-
ter than Mira, the Wonderful, a star in the constellation of Cetus,
which changes continuously in brightness, reaching a maximum and
minimum periodically. The variations of Mira were first seen by the
Dutch astronomer, Fabricus, in 1596; a star of moderate bright-
ness appeared where one had not previously been seen. In a few
weeks it had faded away and it was therefore thought to be a nova,
until the year 1638 when it was seen again by another Dutch astron-
124 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

omer, Holwarda, who observed that it appeared and disappeared
within a period of about 11 months. To the telescopic observer this
star does not actually disappear, but when it is faintest it gives only
about one per cent of the visual light which it gives when it is
brightest. Since the time of Fabricius and Holwarda, the number of
recognized stars of this type has increased, especially during the last
few years, until now our catalogues contain about two thousand
other examples.

All of the stars of this type are more or less red and appear to be
among the coolest stars in the sky. In their outer layers at least,
they apparently vary in temperature and in color as well as in
luminosity, but the highest temperature exhibited by a variable of
this type never exceeds that of a very hot furnace, while many of
the blue stars show temperatures ten times as high. Among the
giant stars, in general, low temperatures and large diameters are
very closely correlated and are thought to be characteristic of the
earliest stages of a star’s development. The enormous size of Mira
is illustrative, probably, of all long-period variable stars. If the
sun were placed at the center, inside the body of Mira, and the dis-
tance (92,900,000 miles) between the sun and its companion the
earth were unchanged, the earth would be several million miles be-
low the surface of the star. Not only the earth, but Mars, which is
50 per cent farther away from the sun than the earth, would be
beneath the surface of this giant star.

At the level which we call the surface of Mira, the constituent
gases are much rarer than those composing the atmosphere of the
earth, 50 miles above its surface; in fact, they are in a rarer condi-
tion than can be duplicated by exhausting the air of a vessel with the
best air-pump yet constructed. The rarity of the gases at the sur-
face of this star is due to the smallness of the gravitational pull
which varies inversely as the square of the diameter. A man weigh-
ing 200 pounds on the earth would weigh less than 4 ounces at the
surface of Mira, were it possible to weigh him with spring balances
in each case. On the small dwarf star circling about Sirius, by way
of further contrast, this man weighed by the same method would
weigh no less than 3,000 tons, whereas on our sun he would weigh
only 5,500 pounds, or somewhat less than 3 tons!

In many ways the class of variable stars to which Mira belongs,
ordinarily called long-period variables, is closely related to another
type known to astronomers as Cepheid variables. The earliest ob-
served type of this class is Delta Cephei, discovered by Goodricke
in 1784. ‘These stars are not so red as the long-period variables, and
their periods of variation extend from a few hours to about 70 days,
whereas the periods of long-period variables range from about 100
125

VARIABLE STARS—ROBINSON

days to about 2 years. Furthermore, the range of variation in
brightness is, in general, much less in the case of Cepheids than in
some Mira-type stars where the brightness at maximum is 50,000
times that at minimum. Astronomers believe, however, that Ce-
pheids are related to long-period variables because a correlation
between redness and period, which has been noted among Cepheids,
can also be extended to the long-period variables. The Cepheid
variables and those of long period are generally believed to be
pulsating—that is, both
classes may owe their
changes in brightness part-
ly or wholly to periodic
expansions and_ contrac-
tions of the gases compos-
ing them. There are some
astronomers, however, who
believe that the variations
in luminosity of the Ceph-
eids are due to rotation
and to their peculiar
shapes. It is claimed that
they are pear-shaped and
eventually break up into
two stars. Each theory has
its objections, and much
more work remains to be

CEPHEID

done before the matter can
be considered as_ settled.
Figure 1 illustrates how a
Cepheid may divide into a
binary system.

The question, “ What are

BINARY SYSTEM

Ficurn i1.—The transition of a binary system
from a Cepheid

According to the Jeans theory, the transition
from the Cepheid stage may be the result of con-
traction. Thus R, and R» decrease to R’; and
R’s, respectively. In the first case the sum of
R, and Re is greater than the distance from

: : 6 A to B, and in the second it is less.
Cepheid variables?” is

hardly more interesting than the question, “ What are they good for,
astronomically?” In fact, solving the latter question has served
astronomical advancement to a far greater extent probably than any
other research which has been pursued in many years. It happens
that in certain star clouds and clusters many Cepheid variables are
found. In studying the variables in the Magellanic Clouds, Miss
Leavitt, at Harvard, discovered that a relation exists between the pe-
riods of variation and the apparent brightness of these stars: The
longer the period, the brighter is the star—the so-called period-lumi-
nosity relation. Since all the stars in the Magellanic Clouds are at
very nearly the same distance from the earth, it can also be demon-
126 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

strated that a relation exists between period and actual or absolute
brightness. In other words, if we know the actual brightness of one
Cepheid variable, then we can compute the distance of any other
star of this type, once its period and apparent brightness are known.
This is equivalent to saying that we must know the “ zero point ” of
the period-luminosity relation in order to use it effectively. The
zero point is determined from the apparent motions of the stars,
since those nearest to us appear to move the fastest; hence the dis-
tance and therefore the brightness of an average star may be known.
This important relation be-
tween brightness and period
is illustrated in Figure 2.
The period-luminosity re-
lation proved to be the key
that unlocked one of the
secrets of the universe. The
ee es Ap key was immediately seized
gp a | i hay aes by a young astronomer at
400 Mount Wilson Observatory,
ar leg and soon we knew the dis-
tances of all the far-away
clouds in which the telescope
revealed the presence of
Cepheid variables whose pe-
Horizontal axis is period in days, and verti- riods could be determined.
cal axis is intrinsic luminosity in terms of sun’s This young astronomer was

brightness. The zero point is fixed when it is 2 J
known, for example, that the average Cepheid Di Harlow Shapley, the

with a period of two days is 200 times as bright present director of Harvard
Pincepea College Observatory.

The enormous brightness of Cepheids favors their use as yard-
sticks in measuring the size of the universe. The faintest of these
stars, the so-called cluster-type Cepbeids, are intrinsically about a
hundred times as bright as our sun; consequently one of these stars
can be seen when it is ten times as far away as a star of the bright-
ness of our sun. The brightest representatives of the Cepheid class,
which are about 10,000 times the brightness of the sun, can be seen
at vastly greater distances. The huge 100-inch Mount Wilson tele-
scope shows stars which give less than one-millionth the amount of
light of the faintest stars visible to the unaided eye, and conse-
quently with it one sees stars over a thousand times more distant.
In fact, Cepheids on the outskirts of our universe and among the
great star clouds of the Milky Way system are visible in the Mount
Wilson telescope. The farther cluster of stars measured by Shapley

16 32 DAYS

Figure 2.—The period-luminosity relation
VARIABLE STARS—ROBINSON 127

was so far away that light received from the members was over
200,000 years old; or, the cluster is said to be 200,000 light years
distant. In the opposite direction, clusters were observed at distances
of the order of 100,000 light years. For the first time in the history
of astronomy investigators could say definitely that the universe had
been sounded, and that its diameter was so large that 300,000 years
were required for light to traverse it. Yet only a short time later,
Hubble, at Mount Wilson, began to count variable stars, such as
Cepheids and novae, by the dozens in the Andromeda nebula, iden-
tifying it as a great collection of stars, sometimes called an “ Island
Universe.” Thus he was able to measure distances more than three
times as large as those previously determined. From this great col-
lection of stars, which to the unaided eye appears as a hazy spot in
the sky, nearly one million years is required for light to reach us.
Some idea of the distance of this far-away cloud of stars can be
gained when it is recalled that light from the sun reaches us in
only eight minutes (fig. 3).

The variable stars hitherto discussed are all intrinsically variable
and in this way differ from the class of objects represented by Algol
and Beta Lyrae. Algol, or Beta Persei, may have been recognized as
a variable by the Arabs, since it was called by them a/ Ghul, or the
demon, possibly on account of its apparent capricious drops in lumi-
nosity. The first historical evidence of its variability, however,
seems to rest with Montanari, who noticed its variability in 1669,
without attempting any careful study of the star. It was observed
again in 1782 by a young Englishman, John Goodricke, a deaf mute,
who not only determined its period of variation but also correctly
suggested the cause. Beta Lyrae was discovered two years later by
Pigot, a friend of Goodricke. Each of the two systems just men-
tioned owes its variability to periodic eclipses by the component star.
In the case of Algol, one of the components is faint relative to the
other, which is called the primary, whereas in the case of Beta
Lyrae both components are approximately of the same brightness
and relatively much closer together than the components of Algol.
In fact, for many systems of the Beta Lyrae type, the components,
which are generally of the same brightness, are very nearly in actual
contact. The range of periods of eclipsing stars, including those of
the Algol and Beta Lyrae types, agrees very closely with the range
of periods of Cepheids. The amount of change in brightness is also
about equal to that of Cepheids. For eclipsing stars, the amount of
change depends upon the relative brightness of the two components
of the system and upon the orientation of the plane in which they
revolve to the line of sight.
128 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

It is clear that eclipsing stars constitute a very special selection
among double stars: They are those systems where one star passes
in front of the other and cuts off a part or all of its light, in much
the same way that the moon cuts off the light of the sun when a solar

TAURUS

AURIGA

fo)

SAGITTARIUS °

°
SCORPIUS °

ce)

FIGURE 38.—Distribution of globular clusters

Plane of paper is plane of milky way; large concentric circles represent distances
from sun (at center of diagram), the unit being 25,000 light-years; the center of
the milky way system is represented by a cross. Small circles represent globular
clusters; farthest cluster is too far away to appear on the diagram.

eclipse occurs. They constitute only a part of those close doubles
which to the unaided eye or in the telescope appear as single stars.
There are other systems whose components revolve in planes so
oriented relative to the line of sight that no eclipse can occur. These
are the spectroscopic binaries, the duplicity of which is revealed from
VARIABLE STARS—-ROBINSON 129

analyses of the light received from them by means of the spectro-
scope. Still more complicated are those systems which the telescope
shows as double or multiple, where one or more components of the
visual system are in reality spectroscopic binaries. ‘Thus, the astron-
omer is able to discover that what appears as a single star to the
unaided eye is in some cases a complex system of stars revolving
about their centers of gravity, with periods from a fraction of a day
to hundreds or even thousands of years. Such a system is Castor,
the fainter member of Gemini, the twins. In this instance the tel-
escope shows two bright stars exceedingly close together where the
eye only sees what appears to be a single star. These two stars
revolve about each other with a period of about 350 years. The third
and fainter member of this same system is found a little farther
away revolving about the common center of gravity probably with
a period of more than a thousand years. Each of these three stars
is a spectroscopic binary, so that in reality we have six stars be-
longing to a system where the unaided eye would see a single bright
star. It is estimated that of all the stars in the sky, one of every
three or four is a double or a multiple system. This is only one bit
of evidence suggesting gregarious tendencies among the stars.

Astronomers believe that the distinction between visual telescopic
double stars and the class of eclipsing and spectroscopic binaries is
more real than apparent. Members of the former class have periods
measured in years while those of the latter class, with a few ex-
ceptions, have their periods restricted below 100 days. But why the
difference? This is one of the questions of modern astronomy. Un-
less the universe is very much older than we believe it to be, near
approaches and captures are not frequent enough to account for the
large number of visual and telescopic doubles even if, under such
circumstances, captures are possible. Serious doubts indeed arise if
we assume that capture of one star by another may result at all from
near approach. Probably the best suggestion is that visual doubles
result from condensations about two separate nuclei in an early nebu-
lar stage of evolution. The revolution of one star about another,
with reference to spectroscopic and eclipsing binaries as well as to
visual doubles, is not more strange than the much more general fact
now established by modern astronomy, that all the stars of the Milky
Way system are revolving about their common center of gravity.
To carry this idea further, it must also be concluded that visual and
telescopic binaries were formed at a time when the Milky Way
system was yet young and when all the stars were closer together
than at present. At least we now see no evidence of the formation of
such systems,
130 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

The question of the origin of eclipsing and spectroscopic binaries,
according to some astronomers, has a close connection with the ques-
tion of interrelationships of the different classes of variable stars:
Jeans has proposed the theory that all variable stars are rotating and
that when the period of rotation becomes sufficiently rapid, as in the
case of the short-period Cepheids, the stars can no longer hold
themselves together—a hypothesis known as the fission theory. If
then a Cepheid is the parent of a binary system, how are we to prove
it? Astronomical questions rarely lend themselves to direct proof,
unfortunately, but any clue serves as a valuable bit of evidence either
for or against a theory in question. We have evidence for extending
the connecting links between long-period and Cepheid variables to
eclipsing and spectroscopic binaries as well. We may mention: (1)
There are spectroscopic evidences indicating rotation of Cepheids
about their respective centers of gravity; (2) the mean densities of
Cepheids are approximately what we should expect of two embryo
stars in actual contact; (3) the mean radii of Cepheids compare
favorably with the separation of the components of short-period
binary systems; (4) slight evidences of correlations of colors and
brightnesses of short-period binaries with Cepheids are to be found;
(5) the agreement of periods is as good as can be expected; and (6)
the space distributions of the two classes of objects compare favor-
ably.

Of these arguments the first must carry considerable weight. By
means of the spectroscope it has been found that motion of the star
or of some part of it toward the observer is greatest at maximum
hight or shortly thereafter. It is also believed from the evidences
now available that the star is hottest at maximum lght, approxi-
mately. Both can not be true of a pulsating star; mathematical
analysis involving considerations of luminosity, radius, and tem-
perature shows that the star should be neither expanding nor con-
tracting, or in other words, it shows that the velocity in the line of
sight should be zero at maximum light, provided that the tempera-
ture is hottest at about this time, as is generally believed. On the
other hand, however, either of the two systems in Figure 1 should
show greatest velocity of approach at maximum lght if maximum
light is to be associated with maximum visible surface. To agree
with observations, the part of the Cepheid from which most of the
light apparently comes at this moment should also be hottest, and
consequently a very unequal temperature distribution over its sur-
face is demanded on the basis of the fission theory. It is evident
therefore, that although most of the above six arguments are neces-
sary conditions to substantiate a fission theory such as that of Jeans,
they are not sufficient; they prove nothing.

VARIABLE STARS—-ROBINSON it

Arguments against the theory are also serious and difficult to meet.
About the only alternative left for the fission theory proponent is to
ask: What are the ancestors of this class of binary stars? Equally
well may one ask the same question with regard to all double star
systems. For the visual and telescopic doubles, however, the above
conditions are neither necessary nor sufficient, and by no one is any
relationship claimed between these stars and any class of variables.

In our own galactic system the total number of known variable
stars given by the 1932 edition of Prager’s catalogue is 5,461, about
a large percentage of which nothing is known. A relatively large
percentage of the remainder belongs to classes of irregular or semi-
regular stars which may be intermediate between the various classes
of periodic variables. We know practically nothing about these
stars, since they demand series of observations more continuous than
those now available. It is quite possible also that continuous series
of observations made on all classes of variables would shed much
light on the peculiarities and the causes of their variations which
have hitherto escaped our attention.

Not only the professional astronomer but the amateur, likewise,
can assist in answering astronomical questions. The part of the
amateur astronomer is most strikingly manifested by the great work
of the American Association of Variable Star Observers, composed
of about 850 members working in this country and abroad, who in
the course of a year report more than 25,000 observations on vari-
able stars to its recorder, Mr. Leon Campbell, of Harvard College
Observatory. By this organization more than a third of a million
observations have been made on 500 variable stars, mostly of long
period, and for the peculiar variable SS Cygni not a single maxi-
mum brightness during the last 35 years has escaped their notice.
Besides this enormous program, a huge amount of variable star work
is done at Harvard College Observatory by temporary employees
who have other lines of activity and who do not claim to be profes-
sional astronomers. The field is a large one, and thus far we believe
that we have done little more than penetrate the surfaces of the
associated problems.

149571—33 10

Fala iow, ltt “ete, huerie attniai earl ta 197
alsin icomooteadsl rascrelamse fotat odd mrstoge ba)
itodys Gans imrmalatsea sonmutl te: nation hx
iri ayocer “7 paseo ee uaicbt: tha!

pieit aeias siiialion’ aiatinninakh ot  aidoeeecllheg
reed PONTO pene esol taeadee ‘hw dkieoisbramahiveds Sate letie’ Z
atitge eHotaitdesded) oakecadiskor mion ala theldeliar sd aon iano
dbayitte ey Ty Leseniny creel wcktunive Rol: Raaweko~ i tx voljnsel taboo hs
nig pomddabtsronbod) to caevied oabiebomsestirab leat ees ae
hiya Sa try thy wepavatees | oie es ei

. bide 4 a uae iit aaipiiede: Jaotmenmtiza., qireodenes tb te

; dupmihcopg adie beivebiedsriylyr(aintedeonsnbaamonotead el

oh age: devine Drath Widaias PEI RAL RAEI es sat ty

a thiodw ,broids Dae gives eidd. ai gaishow evdinon 006 dnode 16,
a inh’ ceeenGiisernsados (00, 02-cemdt: sneer sroque ting hl Aosathbs dig |
: oelivOh bby takiotodiadd maebod Ji ngiobrebanaiiontes

iol Lixo top bpiste ta: ccadd gudnt) aotiawira ro nei eMeee abr
Tuts, ko: yMeoohy, atute eldaire i006 atooobane webdi orale ;

ize Rinin)s dom idgyo Aeokisiney tkilnssqnsdh sb thane Ey
i okgoyy Tidatheqanesn caheraay O8i Seemann Ayiseh it
7 ied, sade elelsintem todaridie dand ofoieuneperc vnistpbh
: asono lure (rusty) Nel cto tevaeddO <eeohhiOr bearer iiean is
. ealeng, Ades asisio sogeoboda bine ythettalidovesaili olitoton oh
5° 2ipliodewn tidhbenit bie paodyiah wal MoirodT ¢faabato
| welt Fe tear pl sjonthowg aedicotony: ulssit| peoltamadl po ai

font baad hebvwtyear, atthe ee tie bvie.atys Ba Ammotdeny bite ae

¥ ptoatent whhtty of eppnedk ge papeper eget cern x

Hie ay be pe asec ted) ral ear Fie PBR,

ie ag :
wed Gh servic: tie DAE Cia 2 ia we raat 4 BRC 58) 0b ;
: ight apparels: come ae.thos mil Soule e160) die haat
q rey sharpen aint 3 a hs Peey ana Teepe ries stigteibution: G
: fok ts deicaandest: onic panies f the Savion heady. ie
; thane faire, wins Lt otigeh meteor the above tx argdsaent at
cage eS onlihian te oulysinialate & jit theory: sth, as chat tides
imy ate net aniielents! may oy Oaks Math mare i wile Gees

MPRALMN, ‘

; a
THE MASTER KEY OF SCIENCE: REVEALING THE
UNIVERSE THROUGH THE SPECTROSCOPE?

By Henry Norris RUSSELL
Professor of Astronomy, Princeton University

[With 2 plates]

The great French philosopher of the last century, Auguste Comte,
was an exceedingly well-informed and versatile man, but it was he
who once remarked: “There are some things of which the human
race must forever remain in ignorance; for example, the chemical
composition of the heavenly bodies.” ‘To Comte and the other intel-
ligent men of his time, this problem seemed hopelessly insoluble;
there was no way of attacking it.

Of course this statement sounds ridiculous to us now. It became
ridiculous because man’s dream came true of a master key that
would unlock many doors, one after another, and so open up many
new realms of knowledge.

That master key was the spectroscope. No sooner was it discovered
than the composition of the heavenly bodies, previously unknowable,
became an open book. With its use, many of the familiar chemical
elements were identified in the sun, and not long after, in the stars.
Later work has extended the number of elements identified in the
sun to 60, and spectroscopic study has shown that the atmosphere
of Mars contains oxygen and water vapor, while that of Venus shows
no signs of them.

All the stronger lines in the spectra of the sun and stars and a host
of the weaker ones have been identified. It has been demonstrated
that the same atoms are present on earth that are also present in
the remotest nebulae, in the relatively cold tail of a comet, and in
the intensely heated surface of a white star. By showing these
things, the spectroscope has given the most impressive of all proofs
of the unity of nature.

This achievement has been described in poetry, as it should be,
by Edmund Clarence Stedman, in one of his more philosophical

1An address delivered at the inauguration of the spectroscopic laboratories of the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Feb. 25, 1932. Reprinted by permission from
Technology Review, April, 1932,

133
134 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

poems “ Corda Concordia.” The stanza in which this is done is such

good science, as well as such good poetry, that I would like to quote
it:
White orbs like angels pass
Before the triple glass,
That men may scan the record of each flame—
Of spectral line and line
The legendry divine—
Finding their mould the same, and aye the same,
The atoms that we knew before
Of which ourselves are made—dust, and no more.

It is more than 200 years since Newton, passing his beam of light
in a darkened room through a prism, saw the rainbow-colored streak
of light upon the wall as the rays of different color were refracted
in different amount by the prism, and so was led to realize the
composite nature of white ight. Unfortunately, Newton took his
light through a small round hole and he took it from the large round
sun; consequently, even if the sun had been all one color, the image
that he would have had thrown on the wall would have been like
the image that he got when it came through a pinhole in the window
shade. If only he had had the wit to set up a narrow slit so that
the image would have been sharp and not round, the master key
might have been discovered.

Just after the first half of the nineteenth century was over, Kirch-
hoff and Bunsen made that simple but fundamental mechanical
change. Really this master key was found in a narrow slit—simply
in letting your light into this prismatic instrument through a slit so
narrow that you obtained a sharply defined image. As soon as that
was done, as soon as they took the light through a narrow slit into
their prism, with an eyepiece to look at it and a couple of other lenses
to make the light go in parallel rays through the prism—the new
doors were opened and the new worlds free to conquer.

The next necessary advancement was the development of a more
delicate method of spectrum analysis. This came with Rowland, the
great Johns Hopkins physicist in the nineties. He developed an
engine for ruling diffraction gratings, the device that is used for
breaking light up into its components. The best of Rowland’s
gratings are the joy, the envy, and the despair of the investigators
to-day—the joy of the man who has one, the envy of his colleagues,
and the despair of the man who tries to make one as good. Rowland
devoted years to the study of the solar spectrum and reported and
recorded in it the position of 20,000 lines, each one carrying its own
story of some substance in the sun. When Rowland was through
his work, 36 of the chemical elements had been identified in the sun.
Since that day, of course, a number more have been added because
MASTER KEY OF SCIENCE—RUSSELL 135

plates have been developed which are sensitive to the red end of the
spectrum, and Rowland had no such plates available. Partly for
that reason, and partly because some substances are now available
of which Rowland could not get specimens, 60 chemical elements
have now been identified in the sun—most of them with certainty.

In the stars, we can not observe such immense detail as we can in
the sun, although the big spectroscopes that are now being attached
to the great refractors such as the Mount Wilson 100-inch telescope
give us an amazing amount of information, and dozens of different
chemical elements have been definitely identified in the stars.

The minute shift in the position of the lines due to motions of
approach or recession has enabled us to detect and measure the rota-
tion of the sun and the planets, to prove that Saturn’s rings are not
solid, but composed of myriads of tiny satellites, and to get one of
the most accurate determinations of the sun’s distance. Applied to
the stars, it has determined the sun’s motion among them, the dis-
tances of hundreds of individual stars, and the average for thou-
sands more; has revealed hundreds of double stars too close to be
resolved by the telescope, and determined the masses and even the
diameters of some of them; and has disclosed those amazingly rapid
motions of the remote nebulae—some as high as 15,000 miles a sec-
ond—which point the way to new conceptions of the nature, the past,
and the future of the material universe. Spectroscopic tests have
shown that the nebulae are of two kinds, one consisting of masses of
luminous gas; the others, giving light hke stars, must themselves be
ereat clusters of stars at gigantic distances.

If the spectroscope has thus proved so profitable to the astronomer,
what has it accomplished for scientists in other fields?) The chemist
owes to spectroscopy the discovery of at least 10 of the elements,
some by optical methods, others more recently by the aid of X rays.
Among these is helium, which was detected in the sun and its nature
as a light gas correctly interpreted more than 20 years before it was
“run to earth.”

The classical physicist finds in the spectroscopic data his most
precise standards of length, and some of his more accurate methods
of measurement. My friend, Doctor Meggers, of the Bureau of
Standards, and his associates have developed very practical spectro-
scopy recently. Suppose, for example, you have some fusible plugs
that are used in our overhead sprinkler systems. They are made
of a fusible alloy which will be greatly damaged if it has any more
than the most minute quantity of iron in it. To find this out by
chemical analysis is a slow and tedious process; but you can take
one of these plugs and test it with the spectroscope, and if the strong
lines of iron show up, you know there is iron there. Comparative
136 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

tests with materials of different composition give you an idea of the
safe limits. Thus, with the spectroscope you can test these alloys in
a minute part of the time that chemical analysis requires.

But it is in the realm of atomic physics that spectroscopy has
played its greatest réle. Fifty years ago, Lockyer, from a study of
the spectra of electric arcs and sparks, and of the stars, concluded
that, in the spark and in the hotter stars, ordinary atoms are de-
composed into products which give different spectral lines. This
bold generalization was fully justified 40 years afterward, by the de-
velopment of the theory of ionization.

About 40 years ago, series of lines were detected in many of the
simpler spectra, and found to be representable by formulae in which
the “ Rydberg constant,” common to all spectra, appeared. Here was
evidence of some uniform feature in the constitution of the different
atoms. The Zeeman effect, according to which a spectral line emitted
by a source placed in a strong magnetic field is split up into polarized
components, again showed features common to different atoms, and
suggesting the presence within them of moving electrical charges.
The Bohr-Rutherford theory of atomic structure—with electrons in
orbital motion around a nucleus—was based very largely on these
spectroscopic data. It accounted at once for the typical spectral
series of hydrogen, and accurately predicted other series in the infra-
red and ultra-violet. With simple modifications, it explained the
more complicated system of series in the spectra of the alkalies. The
multiple character of the terms of the series was later interpreted
as a result of the spin of the electron—thus increasing the “ astronom-
ical” resemblance of the atom-model; while the appearance of nu-
merous terms in the more complex spectra was accounted for by
differently quantized inclinations of the electron orbits. The com-
plex multiplets of lines found in the spectra were thus fully ex-
plained. In its final form (due to Hund) this theory has been
brilliantly successful in elucidating the structure of atoms and inter-
preting and even predicting the details of their spectra. Work in
this field has been very active, and only the most complex spectra
(rare earths and some heavy metals) and those of a few very rare
elements remain to be deciphered.

In the case of molecules, changes in the states of oscillation and
rotation of the nuclei, as well as in the electronic states, are possible,
and the spectra are much more intricate, consisting of complex bands
comprised of closely packed lines. Those of diatomic molecules are
now well understood—with important gains in our knowledge of
molecular structure and the nature of chemical “ affinity ”—and the
still more intricate polyatomic molecules show signs of yelding. Dif-
ferent isotopes of the same element, when present in compounds, often
MASTER KEY OF SCIENCE—RUSSELL 187

give widely separated bands. From these, new isotopes of oxygen,
nitrogen, and carbon have been discovered, and the ratio of the
masses of the different atoms determined with extreme precision. In
atomic spectra, the isotope effect is extremely small, except for hydro-
gen—where it has recently permitted the identification of an isotope
of double weight.

Fine structure in the lines of heavier atoms arises partly from the
presence of isotopes and partly from some sort of “spin” within
the atomic nucleus; and its study affords a promising approach to
the problem of nuclear structure.

While all this was going on, X rays were also found to contain
monochromatic radiations, observable by using the atoms in a crystal
as a diffraction grating. These spectra have given us information
about the interior of atoms, comparable with that which optical spec-
tra furnish concerning the exterior. They are much simpler than
the latter, and now furnish the chemist with his most delicate test
for the detection of new elements. Incidentally, they make it certain
that except for the few well-recognized gaps, no elements lighter
than uranium remain to be discovered.

Working in the opposite direction, X-ray spectroscopy opens the
door to another untrodden realm—the exact study of the arrange-
ment of atoms in crystals, which can now be specified in minute
detail.

All through these triumphs ran a discordant note. Certain numer-
ical relations—notably in the Zeeman effect—though exact, differed
systematically from those predicted by the orbit theory, and every
calculation based on the relative positions of electrons in these orbits
led to a wrong answer. This discrepancy has vanished since the
orbital picture of the atom was replaced by the difficultly visualizable
wave-mechanics or the wholly unpicturable matrix theory. When a
modern lecturer tries to draw an atom on the blackboard, he uses not
chalk, but an eraser, and constructs a smudge illustrating the relative
probability of finding a unit charge in different regions. But as a
means of calculation—interpreting and, on occasion, predicting the
results of precise observation—the new theory advances from con-
quest to conquest.

The ramifications of these new ideas throughout the range of mo-
lecular and atomic physics are too numerous to mention. To take
but one instance at random, the magnetic susceptibilities of solutions
of salts of the rare earths may be fully explained by the theory of
spectral structure—even though the spectra of the trebly ionized
atoms (upon which these depend) have not yet been observed.

There is probably no field in which the new spectroscopy has been
of more aid than in astrophysics. The recognition that Lockyer’s
138 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

enhanced lines are produced by ionized atoms, and the general appli-
cation of the laws of ionization to stellar atmospheres have trans-
formed our whole viewpoint. We know now that the disappearance
of the lines of the metals from the hot stars means only that they
have been so highly ionized that they no longer give lines in the
observable region, and that the lines of the permanent gases, and the
nonmetals generally, are weak or absent in the cooler stars because
their atoms are not highly enough excited to be able to absorb the
observable lines. From measures of line width, and also by study
of multiplets, the actual number of atoms which produce a given
spectral line may be estimated, and an approximate quantitative
analysis made of the atmospheres of the sun and stars. The results
indicate a remarkable similarity of composition, despite the great
differences in the spectra of hot and cool stars. The relative abun-
dance of the elements is similar to that in the earth’s crust or in
meteorites, with one noteworthy exception. Hydrogen—a minor
constituent here—is overwhelmingly predominant in the stars. (The
excess very likely escaped during the formation of our planet.)
Both the temperature and pressure of a star’s atmosphere may be
found from the intensities of the spectral lines. The former agree
with the values deduced from the colors of starlight; the latter are
surprisingly small, and indicate that the atmospheres are of exceed-
ingly low density. The whole atmosphere of the sun, brought to
standard temperature and pressure, would make a layer of gas less
than a hundred feet thick, of which the metallic vapors form about
1 per cent.

A similar conclusion was reached more than 40 years ago by Lock-
yer, by the simple process of comparing the sodium lines in the solar
spectrum with those absorbed by the vapor present in a Bunsen flame.
The sun’s atmosphere, of course, is not sharply bounded at the bot-
tom; it grows hazier owing to the increasing density of the free elec-
trons and ions, and passes into the luminous photosphere. The prin-
ciples upon which this increasing opacity can be calculated are essen-
tially spectroscopic, and the data regarding the ionization and excita-
tion potentials of atoms, which it requires, have been derived spec-
iroscopically.

Two more applications may be mentioned—to matter in extreme
states of condensation and rarefaction.

From the spectroscopic data regarding atoms it follows that, at
very high temperatures, inside the stars, they will be completely ion-
ized down to bare nuclei and electrons. Matter in this state should
be exceedingly compressible, but not infinitely so—the limiting fac-
tor being the degeneracy of the gas (in the sense of the new quan-
tum theory) at a density several hundred thousand times that of
MASTER KEY OF SCIENCE—RUSSELL 139

water. The problematical white dwarf stars, like the companion of
Sirius, show conclusive evidence of being in this state, while the
shift toward the red of the lines in their spectra (coming from
the outer atmosphere) affords an important confirmation of general
relativity. At the other extreme, the gaseous nebulae—which from
gravitational considerations must be of extreme tenuity—show spec-
tral lines which were long a tantalizing problem. Modern spec:
troscopy revealed the existence of metastable atomic states, from
which light-producing transitions would not occur unless the in-
dividual atoms were left undisturbed much longer than they would
be except in an exceedingly rarefied gas. Bowen thus identified
the nebular lines as “ forbidden” lines of the sort produced by the
most familiar elements, oxygen and nitrogen above all. The hypo-
thetical unknown element nebulium thus very literally vanished into
thin air.

pane perme
fnifac* ane abtbhan:

Lancet sin ickoe—ta brio)

td

Bis gad sil ‘enol paneer
cbethe fivendda ne toll! caegedotosts |
ft asian esq diedeastil 7
disea of the vleweiie ay stele aus {sibs pore
rattunves, with ind aiptew ote name ii ay:
Me Wes Lt dread OVO N Sah shy | pee vitae ‘ead ths eter ‘
mg eroy hhh wseeprdl dering heel ae ate plane <)
Heth tae totapebony oan paneer i oakeee a kun HAIN ae
Yona! Phase Aye (atennd (nw, nF ils apie ieee, |e a hi tae ema
a ihe fudteot ded went) Teg ie ene space} ie Hehe gee |
Her pclsingiy sami, and Intend aha he Stieber al serene

: pmethy, Tye). whole x teauuphens Ok ihe ling —

' DDT Ee ee, a } Vidas, ie Telsacp of tb aii hairs
Evie a diaries feed. Chie oF esses Fiapante is hie FORE ,
q | ge , x ’

AE ANT Comma dibeny ye OT RB ghar: ao sea
ees, UP 23 EIA Mm sion el sae ay ee avo te an Hie
pet etiny “wily tel orme-u hel aie ey eae ea or: present in eae :
eA LUN eet ad are t Sou so: De Wok eit ie voundudaes oar
aida $l wre abtee., iw tty oe bite: rect PeRAT a pe Aiuivies ty ot the ‘
Exes ded leak) anat |i tiv Piactinis sitade plea
aia a ea Reeds beet VE aR ahi yee ‘"s - tloyh ‘ho tutoalataaal
a) ee Crelseegoty ae hie Hive t by lige pie: eee
AUN, yietartiiels wk Bhs: at ar STR, Tee been e
taceunically
» Wr tettt apnlisitiiie mee Sia IER ITO! iis ee
ats waa, penal: er and areata Sater) Gas, rt ay) ein
UT EASA RASA CN VR A BIR Oa ea aa idea %
omni light Rete xenebtiamels in iQig Hie: eta Cla WET hacen
Lined Doren bes a hielo and wleclvens Matter ia tee Oe
bist west bije-tei a es Dit Het — wae

PLATE 1

Smithsonian Report, 1932.—Russell

1. A VACUUM SPECTROGRAPH USED FOR STUDIES IN THE EXTREME ULTRA-
VIOLET REGION OF LIGHT
It was developed from a design of Prof. Karl T. Compton, of Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
with the assistance of Dr. Joseph C. Boyce, a research associate in the department of physics. It
is in the spectroscopic labcratory at M. 1. T., a “science wonderland,’’ which ‘‘represents the heaviest
artillery vet concentrated by science for assaulting the citadel of the atom.”

2. THE GREAT 21-FOOT VACUUM SPECTROGRAPH AT M. |. T., THE LARGEST
EVER BUILT

It was designed by Prof. George R. Harrison, director of the spectroscopic laboratory. When the
cylinder is evacuated, the force exerted by the atmosphere on the outside is approximately 88 tons.
The size of this huge spectroscope is indicated by comparing it with the one on the table which is of
the size customarily used in this field of research.
Smithsonian Report, 1932.—Russell PLATE 2

1. THE GREAT HOOKER 100-INCH TELESCOPE AT
MOUNT WILSON OBSERVATORY

It has been enormously valuable in spectroscopic research.

2. THE SPECTROHELIOGRAPH INVENTED BY GEORGE ELLERY HALE, 1890

THE DECLINE OF DETERMINISM?

By Sir Arruur Epprncron, F. R. S.

Determinism has faded out of theoretical physics. Its exit has
been commented on in various ways. Some writers are incredulous
and can not be persuaded that determinism has really been elimi-
nated. Some think that it is only a domestic change in physics,
having no reactions on general philosophic thought. Some imagine
that it is a justification for miracles. Some decide cynically to wait
and see if determinism fades in again.

The rejection of determinism is in no sense an abdication of
scientific method; indeed it has increased the power and precision
of the mathematical analysis of observed phenomena. On the other
hand I can not agree with those who belittle the general philosophical
significance of the change. The withdrawal of physical science from
an attitude it has adopted consistently for more than 200 years is
not to be treated lightly; and it involves a reconsideration of our
views with regard to one of the perplexing problems of our existence.
In this address, I shall deal mainly with the physical universe, and
say very little about mental determinism or free will. That might
well be left to those who are more accustomed to arguing about such
questions if only they could be awakened to the new situation which
has arisen on the physical side. At present I can see little sign of
such an awakening. Waking is a rude process; and if I sometimes
shout it is because current literature resounds with the snores of
those who are asleep.

DEFINITIONS OF DETERMINISM

Let us first be sure that we agree as to what is meant by determin-
ism. I quote three definitions or descriptions for your consideration.
The first is by a mathematician (Laplace) :

We ought then to regard the present state of the universe as the effect of its
antecedent state and the cause of the state that is to follow. An intelligence,
who for a given instant should be acquainted with all the forces by which
nature is animated and with the several positions of the entities composing it,

1 Presidential address to the Mathematical Association, 1932, Reprinted, by permis-
sion, from the Mathematica] Gazette, vol. 16, No. 218, May, 1932.

141
142 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

if further his intellect were vast enough to submit those data to analysis, would
include in one and the same formula the movements of the largest bodies in the
universe and those of the lightest atom. Nothing would be uncertain for him;
the future as well as the past would be present to his eyes. The human mind
in the perfection it has been able to give to astronomy affords a feeble outline
of such an intelligence. * * * All its efforts in the search for truth tend to
approximate without limit to the intelligence we have just imagined.

The second is by a philosopher (C. D. Broad) :

“ Determinism” is the name given to the following doctrine. Let S be any
substance, YW any characteristic, and t any moment. Suppose that § is in fact in
the state o with respect to wy at t. Then the compound supposition that every-
thing else in the world should have been exactly as it in fact was, and that S
should have been in one of the other two alternative states with respect to y
is an impossible one. [The three alternative states (of which o is one) are: To
have the characteristic ¥, not to have it, and to be changing. ]

The third is by a poet (Omar Khayyam) :

With Earth’s first Clay They did the Last Man’s knead,
And then of the Last Harvest sow’d the Seed:

Yea, the first Morning of Creation wrote

What the Last Dawn of Reckoning shall read.

I propose to take the poet’s description as my standard. Perhaps
you will think this is an odd choice; but there is no doubt that his
words express what is in our minds when we refer to determinism.
The other two definitions need to be scrutinized suspiciously; we
are afraid there may be a catch in them. In saying that the physi-
cal universe as now pictured is not a universe in which “the first
morning of creation wrote what the last dawn of reckoning shall
read,” we make it clear that the abandonment of determinism 1s no
technical quibble but is to be understood in the most ordinary sense
of the word.

It is important to notice that all three definitions introduce the
time element. Determinism postulates not merely causes but pre-
existing causes. Determinism means predetermination. Hence, in
any argument about determinism, the dating of the alleged causes
is an important matter; we must challenge them to produce their
birth certificates.

Ten years ago practically every physicist of repute was, or believed
himself to be, a determinist, at any rate so far as inorganic phenom-
ena are concerned. He believed that he had come across a scheme
of strictly causal law, and that it was the primary aim of science to
fit as much of our experience as possible into such a scheme. The
methods, definitions, and conceptions of physical science were so
much bound up with this assumption of determinism that the limits
(if any) of the scheme of causal law were looked upon as the ulti-
mate limits of physical science.
DECLINE OF DETERMINISM—EDDINGTON 143

To see the change that has occurred, we can consider a recent book
which goes as deeply as anyone has yet penetrated into the funda-
mental structure of the physical universe, Dirac’s Quantum Mechan-
ics. I do not know whether Dirac is a determinist or not; quite
possibly he believes as firmly as ever in the existence of a scheme of
strict causal law. But the significant thing is that in this book he
has no occasion to refer to it. In the fullest account of what has yet
been ascertained as to the way things work, causal law is not
mentioned.

This is a deliberate change in the aim of theoretical physics. If
the older physicist had been asked why he thought that progress
consisted in fitting more and more phenomena into a deterministic
scheme, his most effective reply would have been “ What else is there
to do?” A book such as Dirac’s supplies the answer. For the new
aim has been extraordinarily fruitful, and phenomena which had
hitherto baffled exact mathematical treatment are now calculated
and the predictions are verified by experiment. We shall see pres-
ently that indeterministic law is as useful a basis for practical pre-
dictions as deterministic law was. By all practical tests progress
along this new branch track must be recognized as a great advance
in knowledge. No doubt some will say “ Yes, but it is often neces-
sary to make a detour in order to get round an obstacle. Presently
we shall have passed the obstacle and be able to join the old road
again.” I should say rather that we are like explorers on whom at
last it has dawned that there are other enterprises worth pursuing
besides finding the Northwest Passage; and we need not take too
seriously the prophecy of the old mariners who regard these enter-
prises as a temporary diversion to be followed by a return to the
“true aim of geographical exploration.” But at the moment I am
not concerned with prophecy and counterprophecy; the important
thing is to grasp the facts of the present situation.

SECONDARY LAW

Let us first try to see how the new aim of physical science origi-
nated. We observe certain regularities in the course of nature and
formulate these as laws of nature. Laws may be stated positively
or negatively, “ Thou shalt ” or “ Thou shalt not.” For the present
purpose it is most convenient to formulate them negatively. Con-
sider the following two regularities which occur in our experience:

(a) We never come across equilateral triangles whose angles are
unequal.

(6) We never come across 13 trumps in our hand at bridge.

In our ordinary outlook we explain these regularities in funda-
mentally different ways. We say that the first occurs because the
144 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

contrary experience is impossible; the second occurs because the
contrary experience is too improbable.

This distinction is entirely theoretical; there is nothing in the
observations themselves to suggest which type a particular regularity
belongs to. We recognize that “impossible ” and “ too improbable ”
can both give adequate explanation of any observed uniformity of
experience, and the older theory rather haphazardly explained some
uniformities one way and other uniformities the other way. In the
new physics we make no such discrimination; the union obviously
must be on the basis of (b) not (a). It can scarcely be supposed that
there is a law of nature which makes the holding of 13 trumps
in a properly dealt hand impossible; but it can be supposed that our
failure to find equilateral triangles with unequal angles is only be-
cause such triangles are too improbable. Of course, my remark
does not refer to the theorem of pure geometry; I am speaking of
regularities of our experience and refer therefore to the experience
which is supposed to confirm this property of an equilateral triangle
as being true of actual measurement. Our measurements regularly
confirm it to within the highest accuracy attainable and no doubt
will always do so; but according to modern theory that is because
a failure could only occur as the result of an exceedingly improbable
coincidence in the behavior of the vast number of particles concerned
in any experimental measurement.

We must, however, first consider the older view which distin-
guished type (a) as a special class of regularity. Accordingly there
were two types of natural law. The earth keeps revolving round the
sun because it is impossible it should run away. Heat flows from a
hot body to a cold because it is too improbable that it should flow the
other way. I call the first type primary law, and the second type
secondary law. The recognition of secondary law was the thin end
of the wedge that ultimately cleft the deterministic scheme.

For practical purposes primary and secondary law exert equally
strict control. The improbability referred to in secondary law is so
enormous that failure even in an isolated case is not to be seriously
contemplated. You would be utterly astounded if heat flowed from
you to the fire so that you got chilled by standing in front of it,
although such an occurrence is judged by physical theory to be not
impossible but improbable. Now it is axiomatic that in a deter-
ministic scheme nothing is left to chance; a law which has the ghost
of a chance of failure cannot form part of the scheme. So long as
the aim of physics is to bring to light a deterministic scheme, the
pursuit of secondary law is a blind alley since it leads only to proba-
bilities. The determinist is not content with a law which prescribes
that, given reasonable luck, the fire will warm me; he admits that
DECLINE OF DETERMINISM—EDDINGTON 145

that is the probable effect, but adds that somewhere at the base of
physics there are other laws which prescribe just what the fire will
do to me, luck or no luck.

To borrow an analogy from genetics, determinism is a dominant
character. We can (and indeed must) have secondary indeterminis-
tic laws within any scheme of primary deterministic law—laws which
tell us what is likely to happen, but are overridden by the dominant
laws which tell us what must happen. So determinism watched with
equanimity the development of indeterministic law within itself.
What matter? Deterministic law remains dominant. It was not
foreseen that indeterministic law when fully grown might be able to
stand by itself and supplant its dominant parent. There is a game
called “Think of a number.” After doubling, adding, and other
calculations, there comes the direction “Take away the number you
first thought of.” We have reached that position in physics, and the
time has come to take away the determinism we first thought of.

The growth of secondary law within the deterministic scheme was
remarkable, and gradually sections of the subject formerly dealt
with by primary law were transferred to it. There came a time
when in some of the most progressive branches of physics secondary
law was used exclusively. The physicist might continue to profess
allegiance to primary law but he ceased to utilize it, Primary law
was the gold to be kept stored in vaults; secondary law was the paper
to be used for actual transactions. No one minded; it was taken for
granted that the paper was backed by gold. At last came the crisis
and physics went off the gold standard. This happened very re-
cently and opinions are divided as to what the result will be. Pro-
fessor Einstein, I believe, fears disastrous inflation and urges a
return to sound currency—if we can discover it. But most theoreti-
cal physicists have begun to wonder why the now idle gold should
have been credited with such magic properties. At any rate the
thing has happened and the immediate result has been a big advance
in atomic physics.

We have seen that indeterministic or secondary law accounts for
regularities of experience, so that it can be used for predicting the
future as satisfactorily as primary law. The predictions and
regularities refer to average behavior of the vast number of par-
ticles concerned in most of our observations. When we deal with
fewer particles the indeterminacy begins to be appreciable, and pre-
diction becomes more of a gamble; till finally the behavior of a
single atom or electron has a very large measure of indeterminacy.
Although some courses may be more probable than others, backing
an electron to do anything is in general as uncertain as backing a
horse.
146 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

It is commonly objected that our uncertainty as to what the
electron will do in the future is due not to indeterminism but to
ignorance. It is asserted that some character exists in the electron
or its surroundings which decides its future, only physicists have
not yet learned how to detect it. You will see later how I deal with
this suggestion. But I would here point out that if the physicist is
to take any part in the wider discussion on determinism as affecting
the significance of our lives and the responsibility of our decisions,
he must do so on the basis of what he has discovered, not on the
basis of what it is conjectured he might discover. His first step
should be to make clear that he no longer holds the position, occupied
for so long, of chief advocate for determinism, and that if there is any
deterministic law in the physical universe he is unaware of it. He
steps aside and leaves it to others—philosophers, psychologists, the-
ologians—to come forward and show, if they can, that they have
found indications of determinism in some other way.’ li no one
comes forward the hypothesis of determinism presumably drops;
and the question whether physics is actually antagonistic to it scarcely
arises. It is no use looking for an opposer until there is a proposer

in the field.
INFERENTIAL KNOW LEDGE

It is now necessary to examine rather closely the nature of our
knowledge of the physical universe.

All our knowledge of physical objects is by inference. Our minds
have no means of getting into direct contact with them ; but the objects
emit and scatter light waves, and they are the source of pressures
transmitted through adjacent material. They are like broadcasting
stations that send out signals which we can receive. At one stage
of the transmission the signals pass along nerves within our bodies.
Ultimately visual, tactual, and other sensations are provoked in the
mind. It is from these remote effects that we have to argue back
to the properties of the physical object at the far end of the chain
of transmission. The image which arises in the mind is not the
physical object, though it is a source of information about the
physical object; to confuse the mental object with the physical
object is to confuse the clue with the criminal. Life would be
impossible if there were no kind of correspondence between the
external world and the picture of it in our minds; and natural
selection (reinforced where necessary by the selective activity of the

2 With a view to learning what might be said from the philosophical side against the
abandonment of determinism, I took part in a symposium of the Aristotelian Society and
Mind Association in July, 1931. Indetermtinists were strongly represented, but unfortu-
nately there were no determinists in the symposium, and apparently none in the audience
which discussed it. I can scarcely suppose that determinist philosophers are extinct, but
it may be left to their colleagues to deal with them.
DECLINE OF DETERMINISM—EDDINGTON 147

lunacy commissioners) has seen to it that the correspondence is
sufficient for practical needs. But we cannot rely on the corre-
spondence, and in physics we do not accept any detail of the picture
unless it is confirmed by more exact methods of inference.

The external world of physics is thus a universe populated with
inferences. The inferences differ in degree and not in kind. Famil-
iar objects which I handle are just as much inferential as a remote
star which I infer from a faint image on a photographic plate or an
“undiscovered ” planet inferred from irregularities in the motion
of Uranus. It is sometimes asserted that electrons are essentially
more hypothetical than stars. There is no ground for such a distinc-
tion. By an instrument called a Geiger counter electrons may be
counted one by one as an observer counts one by one the stars in
the sky. In each case the actual counting depends on a remote
indication of the physical object. Erroneous properties may be
attributed to the electron by fallacious or insufficiently grounded
inference, so that we may have a totally wrong impression of what
it is we are counting; but the same is equally true of the stars. The
rules of inference are the laws of physics; thus the law that light
travels in straight lines enables us to infer the location of distant
objects; and so on. In fact a law of physics can be used either way—
to predict an effect from a cause or to infer a cause (i. e., a physical
object embodying certain properties) from an observed effect.

In the universe of inferences, past, present, and future appear
simultaneously and it requires scientific analysis to sort them out.
By a certain rule of inference, viz, the law of gravitation, we infer
the present or past existence of a dark companion to a star; by an
application of the same rule of inference we infer the existence on
August 11, 1999, of a configuration of the sun, earth, and moon,
which corresponds to a total eclipse of the sun. The shadow of the
moon on Cornwall in 1999 is already in the universe of inference.
It will not change its status when the year 1999 arrives and the
eclipse 1s observed; we shall merely substitute one method of infer-
ring the shadow for another. The shadow will always be an infer-
ence. I am speaking of the object or condition in the external
world which is called a shadow; our perception of darkness is not
the physical shadow, but is one of the possible clues from which its
existence can be inferred.

Of particular importance to the problem of determinism are our
inferences about the past. Strictly speaking our direct inferences
from sight, sound, touch, all relate to a time slightly antecedent;
but often the lag is more considerable. Suppose that we wish to
discover the constitution of a certain salt. We put it in a test tube,
apply certain reagents, and ultimately reach the conclusion that it

149571—33——11
148 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

was silver nitrate. It is no longer silver nitrate after our treatment
of it. This is an example of retrospective inference: The property
which we infer is not that of “being X ” but of “having been X.”

We noted at the outset that in considering determinism the alleged
causes must be challenged to produce their birth certificates so that
we may know whether they really were preexisting. Retrospective
inference is particularly dangerous in this connection because it
involves antedating a certificate. The experiment above mentioned
certifies the chemical constitution of a substance, but the date we
write on the certificate is earlier than the date of the experiment.
The antedating is often quite legitimate; but that makes the prac-
tice all the more dangerous, it lulls us into a feeling of security.

RETROSPECTIVE CHARACTERS

To show how retrospective inference might be abused, suppose
that there were no way of learning the chemical constitution of a
substance without destroying it. By hypothesis a chemist would
never know until after his experiment what substance he had been
handling, so that the result of every experiment he performed would
be entirely unforeseen. Must he then admit that the laws of
chemistry are chaotic? A man of resource would override such a
trifling obstacle. If he were discreet enough never to say beforehand
what his experiment was going to demonstrate, he might give edify-
ing lectures on the uniformity of nature. He puts a lighted match
in a cylinder of gas and the gas burns. “There you see that hydro-
gen is inflammable.” Or the match goes out. “That proves that
nitrogen does not support combustion.” Or it burns more brightly.
“ Evidently oxygen feeds combustion.” “How do you know it
was oxygen?” “ By retrospective inference from the fact that the
match burned more brightly.” And so the experimenter passes from
cylinder to cylinder; the match sometimes behaves one way and
sometimes another, thereby beautifully demonstrating the uniform-
ity of nature and the determinism of chemical law. It would be
unkind to ask how the match must behave in order to indicate
indeterminism.

If by retrospective inference we infer characters at an earlier date
and then say that those characters invariably produce at a future
date the manifestation from which we inferred them, we are working
in a circle. The connection is not causation but definition, and we
are not prophets but tautologists. We must not mix up the genuine
achievements of scientific prediction with this kind of charlatanry,
nor the observed uniformities of nature with those so easily invented
by our imaginary lecturer. It is easily seen that to avoid vicious
DECLINE OF DETERMINISM—EDDINGTON 149

circles we must abolish purely retrospective characteristics—those
which are never found as existing but always as having existed. If
they do not manifest themselves until the moment that they cease
to exist, they can never be used for prediction except by those who
prophesy after the event.

Chemical constitution is not a retrospective character though it is
often inferred retrospectively. The fact that silver nitrate can be
bought and sold shows that there is a property of being silver nitrate
as well as of having been silver nitrate. Apart from special methods
of determining the constitution or properties of a substance without
destroying it, there is one general method widely applicable. We
divide the specimen into two parts, analyze one part (destroying it
if necessary) and show that its constitution has been X; then it is
usually a fair inference that the constitution of the other part 7s X.
It is sometimes argued that in this way a character inferable retro-
spectively must always be also inferable contemporaneously; if that
were true 1t would remove all danger of using retrospective infer-
ence to invent fictitious characters as causes of the events observed.
Actually the danger arises just at the point where the method of
sampling breaks down, viz, when we are concerned with character-
istics supposed to distinguish one individual atom from another atom
of the same substance; for the individual atom can not be divided
into two samples, one to analyze and one to preserve. Let us take
an example.

It is known that potassium consists of two kinds of atoms, one
kind being radioactive and the other inert. Let us call the two kinds
kK, and K;. If we observe that a particular atom bursts in the
radioactive manner we shall infer that it was a H atom. Can we
say that the explosion was predetermined by the fact that it was a
K, and not a Kg atom? On the information stated there is no
justification at all; A, is merely an antedated label which we attach
to the atom when we see that it has burst. We can always do that
however undetermined the event may be which occasions the label.
Actually, however, there is more information which shows that the
burst is not undetermined. Potassium is found to consist of two
isotopes of atomic weights 39 and 41; and it is believed that 41 is
the radioactive kind, 39 being inert. It is possible to separate the
two isotopes and to pick out atoms known to be A,y,. Thus £4, is
a contemporaneous character and can legitimately predetermine the
subsequent radioactive outburst; it replaces K, which was a
retrospective character.

So much for the fact of outburst; now consider the time of out-
burst. Nothing is known as to the time when a particular A, atom
will burst except that it will probably be within the next thousand
150 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

million years. If, however, we observe that it bursts at a time ¢
we can ascribe to the atom the retrospective character H;, meaning
that it had (all along) the property that it was going to burst at
time ¢. Now according to modern physics the character A; is not
manifested in any way—is not even represented in our mathematical
description of the atom—until the time ¢ when the burst occurs and
the character A; having finished its job disappears. In these cir-
cumstances A; is not a predetermining cause. Our retrospective
labels and characters add nothing to the plain observational fact
that the burst occurred without warning at the moment ¢,; they are
merely devices for ringing a change on the tenses.

The time of break up of a radioactive atom is an example of ex-
treme indeterminism; but it must be understood that according
to current theory all future events are indeterminate in greater or
lesser degree, and differ only in the margin of uncertainty. When
the uncertainty is below our limits of measurement the event is
looked upon as practically determinate; determinacy in this sense
is relative to the refinement of our measurements. A being accus-
tomed to time on the cosmic scale, who was not particular to a few
hundred million years or so, might regard the time of break up of the
radioactive atom as practically determinate. There is one unified
system of secondary law throughout physics and a continuous grada-
tion from phenomena predictable with overwhelming probability to
phenomena which are altogether indeterminate.

The statement that all phenomena have some degree of indeter-
minacy will probably be criticized as too sweeping. I will consider
just one example. I have said that a Az) atom is not radioactive.
Then (it will be said) we can at least state one predetermined fact
about its future; we can predict without any indeterminacy that it
will not break up as a A,, atom would do. The answer of modern
physics is that strictly speaking there is no such thing as a A, atom,
but only an atom which has a high probability of being Az,. Such
an atom should contain 39 protons within a smail nucleus; but the
proton in modern physics has a very important peculiarity, viz, it
never is anywhere quite definitely though it may have a greater
probability of being in one place rather than another. Thus we can
never get beyond a high probability of 39 protons being collected
together. It is impossible to trap modern physics into predicting
anything with complete determinacy, because it deals with prob-
abilities from the outset.

It has seemed necessary for clearness to give an example of an
event believed to be widely indeterminate; but you must not sup-
pose that I have brought forward the phenomenon of radioactivity
as evidence for indeterminism. There is a widespread idea that
DECLINE OF DETERMINISM—EDDINGTON 151

physicists, having spent a few years investigating certain phenomena
and being bafiled to discover a cause, have jumped to the conclusion
that there is no cause. That is not the way in which the idea of
indeterminacy came into physics. I have tried to explain how it
originated in the earlier part of this address,

CRITICISM OF INDETERMINISM

In saying that there is no contemporaneous characteristic of the
radioactive atom determining the date at which it is going to break
up, we mean that in the picture of the atom as drawn in present-day
physics no such characteristic appears; the atom which will break
up in 1960 and the atom which will bieak up in the year 150000 are
drawn precisely alike. But, you will say, surely that only means
that the characteristic is one which physics has not yet discovered; in
due time it will be found and inserted in the picture either of the
atom or of its environment. If such indeterminacy were exceptional
that would be the natural conclusion and we should have no objec-
tion to accepting such an explanation as a likely way out of a diffi-
culty. But the radioactive atom was not brought forward as a
difficulty; it was brought forward as a favorable illustration of
that which applies in greater or lesser degree to all kinds of phenom-
ena. There is a difference between explaining away an exception
and explaining away a rule.

The persistent critic continues, “ You are evading the point. I
contend that there are characteristics unknown to you which com-
pletely predetermine not only the time of break up of the radio-
active atom but all physical phenomena. How do you know there
are not? You are not omniscient.” It is at this point I want to
shout and wake my critic. So I will tell you a story.

About the year 2000, the famous archeologist Professor Lambda
discovered an ancient Greek inscription which recorded that a for-
elgn prince, whose name was given as KaydexAys, came with his fol-
lowers into Greece and established his tribe there. The professor,
anxious to identify the prince, after exhausting other sources of
information, began to look through the letters C and K in the
Encyclopedia Athenica. His attention was attracted by an article
on Canticles who it appeared was the son of Solomon. Clearly that
was the required identification; no one could doubt that Kavde«Ays
was the Jewish prince Canticles. His theory attained great notoriety.
At that time the great powers of Greece and Palestine were con-
cluding an entente and the Greek Prime Minister in an eloquent per-
oration made touching reference to the newly discovered historical
ties of kinship between the two nations. Some time later Professor
Lambda happened to refer to the article again and discovered an
152 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

unfortunate mistake; he had misread “ Son of Solomon ” for “ Song
of Solomon.” ‘The correction was published widely, and it might
have been supposed that the Canticles theory would die a natural
death. But no; Greeks and Palestinians continued to believe in their
kinship, and the Greek Minister continued to make perorations.
Professor Lambda one day ventured to remonstrate with him. The
minister turned on him severely, “ How do you know that Solomon
had not a son called Canticles? You are not omniscient.” The
professor, having reflected on the rather extensive character of
Solomon’s matrimonial adventures, wisely made no reply.

The curious thing is that the determinist who takes this line is
under the illusion that he is adopting a more modest attitude in
regard to our scientific knowledge than the indeterminist. The
indeterminist is accused of claiming omniscience. I will not make
quite the same countercharge against the determinist; but surely it
is only the man who thinks himself nearly omniscient who would
have the audacity to start enumerating all the things which (it occurs
to him) might exist without his knowing it. Iam so far from omnis-
cient that my list would contain innumerable entries. If it is any
satisfaction to the critic, my list does include deterministic charac-
ters—along with Martian irrigation works, ectoplasm, etc.—as things
which might exist unknown to me.

It must be realized that determinism is a positive assertion about
the behavior of the universe. It is not sufficient for the determinist
to claim that there is no fatal objection to his assertion; he must
produce some reason for making it. I do not say he must prove it,
for in science we are ready to believe things on evidence falling
short of strict proof. If no reason for asserting it can be given, it
collapses as an idle speculation. It is astonishing that even scientific
writers on determinism advocate it without thinking it necessary
to say anything in its favor, merely pointing out that the new
physical theories do not actually disprove determinism. If that
really represents the status of determinism no reputable scientific
journal would waste space over it. Conjectures put forward on
slender evidence are the curse of science; a conjecture for which
there is no evidence at all is an outrage. So far as the physical
universe is concerned determinism appears to explain nothing; for
in the modern books which go farthest into the theory of the phe-
nomena no use is made of it.

Indeterminism is not a positive assertion. I am an indeterminist
in the same way that I am an anti-moon-is-made-of-green-cheese-ist.
That does not mean that I especially identify myself with the doc-
trine that the moon is not made of green cheese. Whether or not
this lunar theory can be reconciled with modern astronomy is scarcely

EE
~

DECLINE OF DETERMINISM—EDDINGTON 153

worth inquiring; the main point is that green-cheeseism like deter-
minism is a conjecture that we have no reason for entertaining.
Undisprovable hypotheses of that kind can be invented ad lib.

PRINCIPLE OF UNCERTAINTY

The mathematical treatment of an indeterminate universe does
not differ much in form from the older treatment designed for a
determinate universe. The equations of wave mechanics used in
the new theory are not different in principal from those of hydro-
dynamics. The fact is that since an algebraic symbol can be used to
represent either a known or an unknown quantity, we can symbolize a
definitely predetermined future or an unknown future in the same
way. ‘The difference is that whereas in the older formulae every
symbol was theoretically determinable by observation, in the present
theory there occur symbols whose values are not assignable by
observation.

Hence, if we use the equations to predict say the future velocity of
an electron the result will be an expression containing besides known
symbols a number of undeterminable symbols. The latter make the
prediction indeterminate. I am not here trying to prove or explain
the indeterminacy of the future; I am only stating how we adapt
our mathematical technique to deal with an indeterminate future.
The indeterminate symbols can often (or perhaps always) be ex-
pressed as unknown phase angles. When a large number of phase
angles are involved we may assume in averaging that they are
uniformly distributed from 0° to 360°, and so obtain predictions
which could only fail if there has been an unlikely coincidence of
phase angles. That is the secret of all our successful prophecies;
the unknowns are eliminated not by determinate equations but by
averaging.

There is a very remarkable relation between the determined and
the undetermined symbols which is known as Heisenberg’s prin-
ciple of uncertainty. The symbols are paired together, every
determined symbol having an undetermined symbol as partner. I
think that this regularity makes it clear that the occurrence of
undetermined symbols in the mathematical theory is not a blemish;
it gives a special kind of symmetry to the whole picture. The
theoretical limitation on our power of predicting the future is seen
to be systematic, and it can not be confused with other casual
limitations due to our lack of skill.

Let us consider an isolated system. It is part of a universe of
inference, and all that can be embodied in it must be capable of
being inferred from the influence which it ‘broadcasts over its
surroundings. Whenever we state the properties of a body in terms
154 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

of physical quantities we are imparting knowledge as to the response
of various external indicators to its presence and nothing more.
A knowledge of the response of all kinds of objects would determine
completely its relation to its environment, leaving only its un-get-
at-able inner nature which is outside the scope of physics. Thus if
the system is really isolated so that it has no interaction with its
surroundings, it has no properties belonging to physics but only an
inner nature which is beyond physics. So we must modify the
conditions a little. Let it for a moment have some interaction with
the world exterior to it; the interaction starts a train of influences
which may reach an observer; he can from this one signal draw
an inference about the system, i. e., fix the value of one of the symbols
describing the system or fix one equation for determining their values.
To determine more symbols there must be further interactions, one
for each new value fixed. It might seem that in time we could fix
all the symbols in this way so that there would be no undetermined
symbols in the description of the system. But it must be remem-
bered that the interaction which disturbs the external world by a
signal also reacts on the system. ‘There is thus a double conse-
quence; the interaction starts a signal through the external world
informing us that the value of a certain symbol p in the system is
pi, and at the same time it alters to an indeterminable extent the
value of another symbol g in the system. If we had learned from
former signals that the value of g was q,, our knowledge will cease
to apply, and we must start again to find the new value of g. Pres-
ently there may be another interaction which tells us that g is now
g.; but the same interaction knocks out the value p, and we no
longer know p. It is of the utmost importance for prediction that
a paired symbol and not the inferred symbol is upset by the inter-
action. If the signal taught us that at the moment of interaction
p was p, but that p had been upset by the interaction and the value
no longer held good, we should never have anything but retro-
spective knowledge—like the chemistry lecturer whom I described.
Actually we can have contemporaneous knowledge of the values
of half the symbols, but never more than half. We are like the
comedian picking up parcels; each time he picks up one he drops
another.

There are various possible transformations of the symbols and the
condition can be expressed in another way. Instead of two paired
symbols, the one wholly known and the other wholly unknown, we
can take two symbols each of which is known with some uncertainty ;
then the rule is that the product of the two uncertainties is fixed.
Any interaction which reduces the uncertainty of determination of
one increases the uncertainty of the other. For example, the posi-
DECLINE OF DETERMINISM—EDDINGTON 155

tion and velocity of an electron are paired in this way. We can
fix the position with a probable error of 0.001 millimeters and the
velocity with a probable error of about 1 km per sec.; or we can
fix the position to 0.0001 millimeters and the velocity to 10 km per
sec.; and so on. We divide the uncertainty how we lke but we
can not get rid of it. If current theory is right, this is not a question
of lack of skill or a perverse delight of Nature in tantalizing us, for
the uncertainty is actually embodied in the theoretical picture of the
electron; if we describe something as having exact position and
velocity we can not be describing an electron, just as (according to
Russell) if we describe a person who knows what he is talking about
and whether what he is saying is true we can not be describing a pure
mathematician.

If we divide the uncertainty in position and velocity at time 4%
in the most favorable way we find that the predicted position of
the electron one second later at time ¢2 is uncertain to about 5 centi-
meters. That represents the extent to which the future position is
not predetermined by anything existing one second earlier. If the
position at time ¢, always remained uncertain to this extent there
would be no failure of determination. But when the second has
elapsed we can measure the position of the electron to 0.001 milli-
meters or even more closely, as already stated. This accurate posi-
tion is not predetermined; we have to wait until the time arrives and
then measure it. It may be recalled that the new knowledge is
acquired at a price. Along with our rough knowledge of position
(to 5 cms) we had a fair knowledge of the velocity; but when we
acquire more accurate knowledge of the position the velocity goes
back into extreme uncertainty.

We might spend a long while admiring the detailed working of
this cunning arrangement by which we are prevented from finding
out more than we ought to know. But I do not think you should
look on these as Nature’s devices to prevent us from seeing too far
into the future. They are the devices of the mathematician who has
to protect himself from making impossible predictions. It commonly
happens that when we ask silly questions, mathematical theory does
not directly refuse to answer but gives a noncommittal answer lke
0/0 out of which we can not wring any meaning. Similarly when we
ask where the electron will be to-morrow, the mathematical theory
does not give the straightforward answer “It is impossible to say
because it is not yet decided ”—because that is beyond the resources
of an algebraic vocabulary. It gives us an ordinary formula of
#’s and y’s, but makes sure that we can not possibly find out what
the formula means—until to-morrow.

*For the thing we failed to predict (exact position at time t2) would be meaningless.
156 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

MIND AND INDETERMINISM

I have, perhaps fortunately, left myself no time to discuss the
effect of indeterminacy in the physical universe on our general
outlook. I will content myself with stating in summary form the
points which seem to arise.

(1) If the whole physical universe is deterministic, mental deci-
sions (or at least effective mental decisions) must also be predeter-
mined. For if it is predetermined in the physical world, to which
your body belongs, that there will be a pipe between your lips on
January 1, the result of your mental struggle on December 31 as to
whether you will give up smoking in the New Year is evidently
predetermined. The new physics thus opens the door to indeter-
minacy of mental phenomena, whereas the old deterministic physics
bolted and barred it completely.

(2) The door is opened slightly, but apparently the opening is not
wide enough. For according to analogy with inorganic physical
systems we should expect the indeterminacy of human movements
to be quantitatively insignificant. In some way we must transfer
to human movements the wide indeterminacy characteristic of atoms
instead of the almost negligible indeterminacy manifested by inor-
ganic systems of comparable scale. I think this difficulty is not
insuperable, but it must not be underrated.

(3) Although we may be uncertain as to the intermediate steps we
can scarcely doubt what is the final answer. If the atom has in-
determinacy, surely the human mind will have an equal indeter-
minacy; for we can scarcely accept a theory which makes out the
mind to be more mechanistic than the atom.

(4) Is the human will really more free if its decisions are swayed
by new factors born from moment to moment than if they are the
outcome solely of heredity, training and other predetermining
causes ?

On such questions as these we have nothing new to say. Argu-
ment will no doubt continue “about it and about.” But it seems to
me that there is a far more important aspect of indeterminacy. It
makes it possible that the mind is not utterly deceived as to the mode
in which its decisions are reached. On the deterministic theory of
the physical world my hand in writing this address is guided in a
predetermined course according to the equations of mathematical
physics; my mind is unessential—a busybody who invents an irrele-
vant story about a scientific argument as an explanation of what my
hand is doing—an explanation which can only be described as a
downright lie. If it is true that the mind is so utterly deceived in
the story it weaves round our human actions, I do not see where
DECLINE OF DETERMINISM—EDDINGTON 157

we are to obtain our confidence in the story it tells of the physical
universe.

Physics is becoming difficult to understand. First relativity
theory, then quantum theory, then wave mechanics have trans-
formed the universe, making it seem ever more fantastic to our
minds. Perhaps the end is not yet. But there is another side to
this transformation. Naive realism, materialism, the mechanistic
hypothesis were simple; but I think that it was only by closing our
eyes to the essential nature of experience, relating as it does to the
reactions of a conscious being, that they could be made to seem
credible. These revolutions of scientific thought are clearing up the
deeper contradictions between life and theoretical knowledge, and
the latest phase with its release from determinism marks a great step
onward. I will even venture to say that in the present theory of
the physical universe we have at last reached something which a
reasonable man might almost believe.
i. » eh! Reet + ee
ahotpiales, rae ae wh tk

‘

yp. eo ie eat tice

oes hea

cReRM weal .eoteusanaly ei tN ACineH,. ARIA
Upehs D4) SRATORY ONE TAN mate He yarddan, (serio
ody utile motions, et mals Auge do Non. Sit at Appia ah ou
Si. latoyg nae Ait ALE ORNS ime iar, eeh67 hank
ie Stipa 4 a“ aot AABN aid ¥ dod, salt 4 |
ise di: Ob, Bio leg at “i
none ed abaya ais Alina: oes saith ane patniimeaity ark,
anit Gu, Bamako rie tae ands, afitaqine)3 AO anoitsilovon nese wtf ‘a
Dita, .ommboliconal chee +1 baan: fil peowaad. ateohtudl eaagon + ‘
ote Jeane penlserte suainlopotoh, moth, oznokon enti clit aparacd
Gee wnogtl; inpacny jodi tetaotne 0}. omrttiancnere ie Dos
oh hd nae sapilieds ath te, ere ae ary ae ORS
pi Rie nnhonh). iter neatalerl iss issues dla :
ides Wiaalioe) Aree th Peay et Bevan pac viene "
a (lated y een a ae 0 sory ope Mee Plier triaRier ‘
eis HORA ee TO WRENS Tee Tey th bas! Cermak ti yak steiivas’ 7

Wail of cog RIE Helles yalleteoamcey. Meare ceed hey, tiie,
ee et out aly Sita Di oent ehee Sees my is wn,
‘ Wenak eer ve : i , Teter rg ¢ bee ine Ae
(a) Tele ede ia’ bo Date tar ihe ty Che pte ee q
; fib l ee | riety eal TET Ae ie) OS ee “thts ey ihe 43
lifer, “saiuly Die Dal Hl WAL et i eal indo pas. ;
riaay fone ie! aA niet ly ope eore gS en Pow brig canis Hee nt ia
wy 12s | pu Seay itor) | | 4
Tu thw ia a wilt dally yada ‘fee TP phe Sets fai nage
7 i 4 BGT yy AP TP tty ttn 4z hey PRYE the.

rat ark ‘ ek ei cee: erisry) ' tied oh Tea] Lured tied

r Ree to ay, Negi :

We Bea. Pay

Wh ch terbhosodinicts Meets ans hae bata & 8) Pa sounta Wes
So Ae eh Daal a Me TO Ni FORA Ramey Thao etar MAY. 4 ‘Tee
Pen le Pee Boke wi oe eee a sy Ge read ee to thee! oda”

) Ww He) ¢ tin wt CORA ee: Cn thea heii jakette chepby Wis

he Hie beep Dene ey Nae Tide chia a pete © sarced hy Ye
Dini eet ted alr aon ees: fire eas (othe nf “orate!
wrest yay Ryda: Tey Yapadeprtia a ‘ae brady Sel ny gy ey witete I
Kory etdab precimntine eipuntent wa an Oats caution af shoal may.
gweltl Te Maa ryseaeatteh: qeacged cialis Yn ea "ti onky bec Baseot bon ‘De
fewmwiehs iat. EP 1h biter Wie ist dint 2 edt itary. perc! r
Ene DAY Ft eas Pee Poy Sua attion# "te ie ee. SF le ee;

Ae tyra

THE MEASUREMENT OF NOISE?

By G. W. C. Kaye, O. B. E., M. A., D. Sc., M. R. I.
Superintendent, Physics Department, National Physical Laboratory

The problem of noise is one common to all civilized nations and
its steady increase with the industrial development of the present
generation is becoming a matter for concern. The mechanization
and growth of road transport, for example, have brought in their
train a sea of noises in which a large number of people are daily
submerged.

One reads that visitors to London extol it as the quietest capital
city in the world. If so, the merit is wholly relative. It is under-
stood, in this connection, that inquiries into the question of noise are
being conducted in certain cities abroad, for example, Paris, Rome,
and Berlin. New York, probably the outstanding example of a
mechanized city, and admittedly the noisiest, has already set about
the problem with characteristic expedition and remarkable thor-
oughness. A recent comprehensive report called City Noise, pub-
lished in 1930 by the Noise Abatement Commission of the Department
of Health, New York City, is a mine of information (from which I
have not hesitated to draw) and a model of what a report should be
which is intended to interest and educate the public and to secure its
friendly cooperation. The commission, composed of eminent medical
men, physicists, engineers, and lawyers, arranged for the measure-
ment and analysis of the various types of noise in many parts of
New York, succeeded in establishing a number of relations and gen-
eralizations, the truth of which kad only been vaguely suspected, and
so were enabled to make proposals designed to secure noise abate-
ment wherever it might be found practicable. Certain recommenda-
tions to this end have in fact already been given effect.

In Great Britain the introduction of legislation dealing with
excessive noise has so far not proved possible; and it may be that the
better plan is first to educate public opinion. ‘Traffic noises have,
however, been the subject of conferences under the auspices of the
Ministry of Transport, while aircraft noises are being studied by a

1 Paper delivered at the weekly evening meeting of the Royal Institution of Great Brit-
ain, May 8, 1981; reprinted by permission.
159
160 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

subcommittee appointed in 1929 by the Aeronautical Research Com-
mittee. To both these bodies I am indebted for permission to refer
to certain of the problems investigated.

Noise occasioned by the frequent repetition of street cries, cab
whistles, etc., is frequently the subject of local by-laws, which impose
penalties for infringement. The Middlesex County Council is seek-
ing powers next session to deal with excessive, unreasonable, or un-
necessary noise, on much the same lines as other nuisances are dealt
with under the public health act. Several towns, for example, Edin-
burgh and Stockton-on-Tees, have recently taken steps to obtain
similar powers.

City noises are, of course, no new thing, and no doubt London,
ever since it became a big city, has always been noisy in its business
thoroughfares. Steel tires and horseshoes on cobbles or stone or
granite sets were very noisy combinations in Victorian times, as
may still be verified in certain industrial towns. Asphalt or wooden-
surfaced roads and, above all, pneumatic tires must have brought
great relief.

But to-day is a machine age with noise as one of its by-products,
and the volume of traffic through busy streets is now such as to
create a background of noise, the level of which is brought home by
a stroli through the city on Sundays, or even more on the occasion
of the two minutes’ silence on Armistice Day.

Among the sufferers from the growth of traffic noise are schools
in busy thoroughfares, which find that classrooms fronting on the
street are well-nigh unusable, unless windows are kept closed to
the detriment of ventilation. By reason of the volume of industrial
and other traffic which now flows through the High in Oxford, many
rooms in adjacent colleges have become almost impossible for lectur-
ing, study, or examinations. Conversation and telephoning are mat-
ters of difficulty in many city offices. Some London hospitals are in
extremely busy streets, and the steady “ grumble ” of the traffic roar,
combined with the more trying irregular outbursts of constituent
noises, must be prejudicial to the welfare of some, at any rate, of the
patients. Nature has unfortunately not equipped the ears with a
device for excluding sound during sleep, in the same way as she has
provided eyelids for resting the eyes.

According to the New York commission, many motor horns are
unnecessarily loud—some of them, it is stated, can be heard 10
miles away in the quiet of the country. However, those who like to
reflect on the good old days may care to recall that the giant horn by
which Alexander the Great called his armies together is reputed to
have had much the same range.

MEASUREMENT OF NOISE—KAYE 161

So far in Great Britain, the menace of the public loudspeaker has
not attained the dimensions which it has reached in America. Giant
sound amplifiers now make it possible to hear the human voice nearly
2 miles away, and we learn that last Christmas, carols were broad-
cast by this means for 10 hours over an area of some 9 square miles.
The center of this acoustical disturbance was the eighty-first floor of
the Empire State Building—the latest and highest (1,250 feet)
skyscraper in New York.

As regards the effect of noise on human beings, there would appear
to be a volume of medical testimony in this country that the strain
of heavy traffic and other types of continuous din may act as a
powerful irritant to the nervous system; placid and normally un-
ruffled persons tending to become irritable and “ worn out.” Indus-
tries such as shipbuilding, boilermaking, cotton weaving, and print-
ing are, it is stated, prone to give the workers cumulative fatigue,
dizziness, headaches, and impaired hearing. Even relatively minor
noises, such as that of an electric fan or vacuum cleaner, can be
extraordinarily irritating at times. It is only when the noise is
stopped that the pronounced sense of relief makes one realize that one
has been unconsciously bracing one’s self against the noise all the
time. Some such reaction no doubt occurs to noise during sleep, and
may perhaps contribute to the difficulty which some people have of
obtaining really refreshing sleep in a railway sleeping-car.

In October, 1928, the British Medical Association submitted to the
Ministry of Health a valuable memorandum dealing with the effect
of noise on human beings. Their conclusions were in close accord-
ance with those arrived at by the New York Noise Commission, who
found that:

(1) Hearing is apt to be impaired in those exposed to constant
loud noises.

(2) Noise interferes seriously with the efficiency of the worker; it
lessens attention and makes concentration upon any task difficult.

(3) In the attempt to overcome the effect of noise, great strain is
put upon the nervous system, leading to neurasthenic states.

(4) Noise interferes seriously with sleep, even though in some
cases it appears that the system is able to adjust itself so that wake-
fulness does not result.

(5) It is well established that the normal development of infants
and young children is hindered by constant loud noises.

These conclusions are in general harmony with those of the Inter-
national Labor Office of the League of Nations, which in a recent
paper stressed the importance of the subject of the fatigue produced
by noise in relation to occupations.
162 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

Reaction to noise is no doubt largely temperamental, and acute-
ness of hearing varies widely in different people. There are those
to whom noise is absolute anathema. It is stated, for example,
that Carlyle had a sound-proof room to work in, and again that
Edison was inclined to attribute to the quietness with which his deaf-
ness had invested him, much of his success in finding solutions to his
problems. According to Professor Spooner, Herbert Spencer used
to plug his ears with cotton-wool and even went the length of declar-
ing that “you might gauge a man’s intellectual capacity by the
degree of his intolerance of unnecessary noises.”

Such sensitivity to noise may be bound up with the fact that even
a limited exposure to very loud noises—such as on an airplane flight—
has the effect of making some people partly deaf for some minutes
or even hours after the noise ceases.

It appears to be the case, however, that many people get used to
noisy surroundings and adjust themselves unconsciously to the con-
ditions. The man whose house abuts on the railway becomes in-
different to the noise of a passing train, no longer notices it, has
acquired a “habit” of noise in fact. There are those who, accus-
tomed to sleep with a clock in their bedrooms, wake up if it stops
ticking. One hears, too, of people used to sleeping in the hubbub
of a town who can not court slumber in the quietness of the country.
O. Henry, for example, sang the praises of the pandemonium of the
city streets. In his Adventures of Neurasthenia he protested that
he could not sleep without the comforting lullaby of noise, and that
the silence of the country was so deep that he could “ hear the grass
blades sharpening themselves against each other.”

It is even claimed that a love of noise has become common and
chronic in America, much as in the Latin countries; and the fact
that children love noise, at any rate of their own making,? is ad-
vanced in favor of the view that a feeling for noise is bred in the
bone, born out of the fact that noise must have been an indispensable
friend of primitive man in his hunting and fighting. Indeed, it is
suggested that one’s “jump ” or response to a sudden strident or dis-
cordant noise is a survival of the old instinctive reaction to a menacing
danger. Be that as it may, it is no doubt a fact that a great many
people are partial to mixed “ musical noises,” particularly in their
lighter moments. The haters of jazz, on the other hand, seek to
associate such a liking with immaturity, arrested education, or even
worse!

2This applies also to children of a larger growth. A man hammering, for example,
finds the noise much less trying than do his neighbors. It would seem that the ear auto-
matically desensitizes itself temporarily when it is aware of the impending arrival of a
loud sound.

MEASUREMENT OF NOISE—KAYE 163

The question of noise tolerance seems, however, to be largely one
not only of sensitivity, whether chronic or temporary, but of the
“background ” of noise that one is used to. If external sounds are
completely excluded, adventitious noises are the more trying. An
amusing illustration is provided in Mary Kingsley’s book on West
Africa (1897), where she complains that “'The African is usually
great at dreams and has them very noisily!”

It is within the experience of us all that the ticking of a clock, the
scratching of a mouse, the creaking of floors or furniture, the chirping
of birds are aggravatingly apparent during the stillness of night
in the country: such noises would be submerged in the higher noise
level of a city dwelling. What is unconsciously desired is not so
much the complete exclusion of noise, but only that the background
shall be at an agreeably low level to which one is accustomed.

To sum up, the searching investigations undertaken on behalf of
the New York commission would indicate that, while most indi-
viduals, particularly the hale and hearty, can accustom themselves to
living or working in a noisy environment, there can be little doubt
that, in general, noise has a harmful effect on the mind, even of those
who are to all appearances immune to it. ‘The evil effects are empha-
sized in the case of mental workers, young children, nervous or
fatigued individuals, and invalids.

Before passing on, it is interesting to recall that “ noise-money ”
was at one time a recognized payment at sea. We read in Chambers’
Journal for 1883 that:

So disagreeable is this fog-signaling duty ... that ... the whole crew re-
ceive what they call noise-money ... for the time the signal is actually in
operation,

DEFINITIONS OF NOISE

Before going further, we should, I think, do well to try to come to
some agreement as to what we mean by a noise. To begin with,
“noise ” has ominous etymological relationship with “ nuisance ” and
“noxious;” and so, by analogy with the famous definition of dirt,
there is perhaps some justification for referring to noise as “ sound out
of place.” Although we should scarcely expect to find this definition
in the New Oxford Dictionary, we are nevertheless given an almost
embarrassing choice reflecting the wealth of shades of meaning which
the word has assumed. In the sense, however, with which we are at
present concerned, we find that noise is there defind as:

A loud or harsh sound or din of any kind; the aggregate of loud sounds
arising in a busy community.

The latter use of the word is well established, for, as long ago as
1651, we find in Hobbes’s Leviathan, 1, ii, 5:
Obscured and made weak; as the voyce of man is in the noyse of the day.
149571—33 12

164 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

One is apt to forget, however, that at one time a noise is connoted
“an agreeable or melodius sound.” In the Bible, Moses refers to the
“noise of them that sing,” and David repeatedly enjoins us to “ sing
and make a joyful noise.” It is an easy step to the next definition:

A band, or company of musicians.
Shakespeare uses the word in this sense in King Henry IV (2, i, 4):

And see if thou canst find out Sneak’s noise;

Mistress Tearsheet would fain hear some music.
This obsolete association of noise with a band would seem to be
entering on a new lease of life, if one may judge from certain devel-
opments of modern music!

50
Cycles

|

FiGuRB 1.—Wave form of sound emitted by a motor generator set

Most textbooks on physics would, I think, differentiate a musical
sound from a noise by investing the latter with a complexity arising
from complete irregularity of period, amplitude, and wave form.
In other words, a noise is to be regarded as a medley of notes of defi-
nite frequencies, the mixing being sufficiently random to obscure the
musical quality of the individual notes. See, for example, Figure 1,
from observations by Churcher and King. (Journ. Inst. Electr.
Engs., 1930.)

As is very easy to demonstrate, it is, however, possible to generate
a note of high purity, but of such intensity or frequency as to be
voted a thoroughly objectionable “ noise ” by those who hear it. We
had better, I think, turn to the legal definition of noise. In law,
noise may be defined as an excessive, offensive, persistent, or startling
sound. Incidentally, by the common law of England, freedom from
noise is essential to the full enjoyment of a dwelling house, and acts
which affect that enjoyment may be actionable as nuisances. But
it has been laid down that a nuisance by noise, supposing malice to
MEASUREMENT OF NOISE—KAYR 165

be out of the question, is emphatically a question of degree. Only
if a noise is exceptional and unreasonable, is there any likelihood of
restraining it by injunction. (Encycl. Brit.)

So much for the legal aspect. It does, however, appear to point to
an acceptable popular definition of noise—“an acoustic redund-
ance ”—or perhaps “an acoustic annoyance,” and here we are re-
minded that the adjective “noisome” is literally “ annoy-some.”
(One recalls, too, that children have long been concerned with the
annoyance factor of noise as experienced by an oyster!)

In other words, a noise is an acoustic disturbance which is unwel-
come, whether because of its excessive loudness; its composition; its
persistency or frequency of occurrence (or alternatively, its inter-
mittency); its unexpectedness, untimeliness, or unfamiliarity; its
redundancy, inappropriateness, or unreasonableness; its suggestion
of intimidation, arrogance, malice, or thoughtlessness (it is well
known what depth of feeling can be stimulated in a pedestrian by
a motor horn); ... and so on.

We are clearly dealing with a subjective definition which takes
account of both the physiology and psychology of the individual, and
we ought not, therefore, to be surprised to find that “ One man’s
noise is another man’s music.” Incidentally the well-known fact that
listening to music engenders in some people an unquenchable desire
to converse, is doubtless associated with the rough-and-ready test
which we instinctively apply to a noise, that is, whether or not we
can hear one another speak. Conversation automatically languishes
in a tube train or airplane cabin, for example.

We are fortified in our outlook on noise by the recent proposal of
the Acoustical Society of America to define a noise as “ any unwanted
sound.” Such a definition would seem to be adequate for those few
occasions when it is necessary or desirable to draw a distinction be-
tween noise and any other kind of sound. It also conforms to the
views of the telephone engineer who regards noise as any extraneous
sound which tends to interfere with the reception of desired sounds.

THE FREQUENCY AND INTENSITY RANGES OF THE HAR

As is the case in many branches of science, the physics of acoustical
research owes its present facility and exactitude largely to the de-
velopment of electrical methods of measurement. The key lay in the
invention of the electronic valve, and to this the subject owes an
impetus which it had long needed.

Before we pass on to the question of noise measurement we shall be
well advised to review the relevant physical facts about the ear,
which is, of course, the ultimate critic in matters of noise. The foun-
dations of the subject rest largely on experiments with pure notes,
166 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

and here it should be recognized how greatly our present knowledge
of both hearing and speech is due to the noteworthy investigations
of Dr. Harvey Fletcher and his colleagues at the Bell Telephone
Laboratories in New York.

With reference to frequency, the average ear can perceive a range
of frequencies from about 20 to 20,000 cycles per second, the upper
limit declining with advancing years. In the various practical devel-
opments of acoustics, however, attention is largely restricted to the
ranges 50 to about 5,000 for speech and 35 to 7,000 for music.

As regards intensity, it has been shown by Wegel and others, from
experiments on pure notes, that there is a certain minimum amplitude

\d 0.
Kec # Ree

Auditory Sensation Area

Energy Ratio

Cycles per sec.
32 64 128 258 Si2 1024 20484096 8i92 16384

: C c e' ce" ce" Pond rod c ev"

Frequency and Pitch of Note.

FIGURE 2.—Average area of normal hearing, showing auditory ranges of
frequency and intensity

R.MS. Oscillatory Pressure (Dynes per sq. cm.)

for each frequency below which the average ear fails to detect the
note. Moreover, the ear is much more sensitive to notes of medium
pitch than to higher or lower notes. The threshold or lower limit of
intensity passes in fact through a minimum at about 2,000 cycles per
second as we steadily change the frequency.

Similarly there is a maximum amplitude peculiar to each fre-
quency, above which the ear no longer functions—hearing is subor-
dinated to a tickling sensation or even actual pain. Again the ear
shows to advantage in the middle of the range (about 500 cycles per
second), and so the upper limit of intensity or threshold of feeling
passes through a maximum as we progressively vary the frequency.

Figure 2 shows the auditory sensation area for the average ear as
determined by Fletcher and Wegel. (Fletcher’s Speech and Hear-
ing.) The boundaries are constituted by the two threshold curves,
MEASUREMENT OF NOISE—KAYE 167

the dotted portions being those which are difficult to determine. We
see that the range of audibility passes through a maximum (at about
1,000 cycles per second) as the frequency is varied, and is greatly
reduced toward each end of the musical scale. This maximum range
corresponds to about a million millionfold variation in power, or a
millionfold variation of acoustical pressure from about, say, 0.0005
to 3,000 dynes per square centimeter. We note also in the case of
very high and very low notes the great intensity that is essential for
audibility and how restricted the range of audibility is. A familar
illustration is the sound from a 32-foot organ pipe which one feels
rather than hears.

As will presently appear, the matching and masking of sounds
form the basis respectively of two aural methods of measuring the
loudness of noise; and it will be of interest, therefore, to examine the
basic physical facts of each method.

THE MATCHING OF SOUNDS

As regards the matching of sounds, it is found that the average
ear can recognize under very favorable conditions a 10 per cent *
difference of energy when two pure notes of medium loudness are
sounded alternately without break. Under ordinary conditions,
however, the smallest average change in energy level detectable by
the normal ear is of the order of 26 per cent for sounds of medium
intensity and frequency. The figure is greater for feeble sounds
and less for very loud sounds. The value is also greater for very
high or low frequencies than for the raiddle of the range.

From the fact that it is a percentage increase rather than an
additive increase of energy which the ear associates with a change
of loudness, it is evident that, while the steps in the scale of sensation
of loudness advance arithmetically, the physical intensities advance
geometrically, the relation thus resembling the logarithmic scale of
powers of a slide rule. Here is, then, another illustration of the
Weber-Fechner law—the physiological effect is roughly proportional
to the logarithm of the energy producing the stimulus.

Kingsbury (Fletcher’s Speech and Hearing, p. 230) has carried
out experiments on the matching of pure tones to determine the
relation between the physical intensity and the aural loudness for
different frequencies. These experiments indicated that for fre-
quencies between about 700 and 4,000 cycles per second, the relation
between loudness and intensity is independent of the frequency. For
notes of lower frequency the loudness increases proportionately more

*This figure is more than doubled if there is an interval of silence between the two
notes of as little as half a second.
168 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

rapidly than the intensity. Kingsbury’s results are set out in Figure
8, which shows a number of equal loudness contours superposed on
the auditory sensation area. As will be seen, these contours are
roughly parallel to each other for medium frequencies above about
700 cycles per second.

An experimental illustration based on such loudness contours is to
operate a pure sound at constant intensity and gradually increase the
frequency, when the loudness will be heard to pass through a maxi-
mum at about 2,000 cycles per second. This is evidenced by the track
of the horizontal line in Figure 3 at a level of about 0.1 dyne per
square centimeter.

Threshold Decibel Sensation
Steps

llatory Pressure (dynes per sq. cm.)

5 Threshold

° of Hearing

2 9.0001 7

= 16 32 64 128 256 5i2 Woz 2048 4096 8192 16384 Cycles
ite c. C e c' c" eu c ron c e" per sec ‘

Frequency and Pitch of Note.

Ficurn 3.—Auditory sensation area showing equal loudness contours; also decibel
“ladder”? and sensation-step ‘‘ladder’”’ for a frequency of 1,000 cycles per
second

THE MASKING OF SOUNDS

With reference to the masking of sounds, the masking of one pure
note by another is usually measured by the extent to which the
threshold of audibility of the masked note is raised. In general a
particular note is masked (1) most readily of all by another of ap-
proximately the same frequency, (2) more readily by a note of lower
frequency than one of higher, at any rate for loudnesses about and
above speech level,

The position is not so simple with loud complex sounds, such as
noises, as the masking may be confused by other factors, such as the
masking of the individual components and the formation of sub-
jective tones. (Fletcher’s Speech and Hearing.)
MEASUREMENT OF NOISE—KAYE 169

THE DECIBEL

We are now aware of the area of auditory sensations which we
have to mensurate, and we have to decide what is to be our “ yard-
stick” or “degree.” Our task is to try to correlate aural loudness
with physical intensity or energy; and already we have seen that
while the sensation of loudness advances, as it were, by simple addi-
tion, the energy level increases by leaps and bounds on a scale which
extends over almost astronomical magnitudes. This is a cumber-
some relation, and it is clear that there will be a real convenience in
adopting a scale of ratios of energy for our purpose. <A similar need
which arose in telephone engineering was met by the introduction of
the “bel,” a name chosen in honor of Alexander Graham Bell, the
inventor of the telephone. One “bel” expresses a tenfold increase
of power or energy; in other words, two intensities in the ratio 7:1
differ by (log 7) bels.* It has been generally agreed to adopt the
bel for acoustic requirements also, or rather the “decibel” (db.),
since the “bel” is a little too large for the purpose. We thus have
the following tabular relation:

Ratio (r) of | Number of
intensities decibels
(10 log r)
1 0
10 10
100 20
1, 000 30
10, 000 40
10 13 130

It will be realized that this scale of decibels is in no sense physio-
logical but is based wholly on intensity as measured by physical
methods. ‘The scale has, however, the specific advantages—

(1) Of being a rough fit with the aural scale of loudness sensation.

(2) That experiment shows that the decibel, as above defined, cor-
responds approximately to the least perceptible change in loudness of
a sound of medium loudness under average conditions. In actual
fact the loudness step in question is sometimes a little more and
sometimes a little less than a decibel (ranging from 0.2 to 9 db.)
according to the frequency and the location in the auditory sensation
area.

We are now in a position to set up a definition of the sensation
level of a pure note of specified frequency in physical terms. Our
“degree ” will be the decibel, our “zero” the threshold of audi-
bility for that frequency, and the sensation level of a pure sound

4 Logarithms are to base 10.
170 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

may accordingly be defined as the intensity in decibels above the
threshold of audibility of that frequency.

On this basis experiment shows that for pure sounds of medium
frequency the range of audibility between the thresholds of hearing
and feeling is covered by about 130 decibels. This figure is rather
less for high and low frequencies.

The position, however, is not so straightforward when we come to
the broader question of comparing the loudness of pure sounds of
different frequencies. We find at once that there is no simple rela-
tion of wide application between physical intensity and loudness.
Two pure sounds of different frequencies do not in general pro-
duce the same loudness sensation, even if (a) their physical inten-
sities are equal, or (6) their physical intensities bear the same ratio to
their respective threshold values, i. e., if the sounds have equal sensa-
tion levels. Further, if the intensity levels of two pure sounds of
different frequencies which appear equally loud are increased by the
same amount, the sounds will not in general remain equally loud.

It follows that in the case of sounds of different or mixed fre-
quencies neither the physical intensity level nor the sensation level
can be used as a measure of loudness. In the circumstances we
have to adopt an arbitrary scale as a practical standard, and a suit-
able one for the purpose is the sensation scale of a pure note having
a frequency in the region of 1,000 cycles per second. ‘Then the loud-
ness of any sound, whether pure or a mixture such as noise, is de-
fined as the sensation level (expressed in decibels above the threshold
value) of the standard note which appears equally loud to the ear.
It may be mentioned that zero or threshold value of a 1,000-cycle
scale corresponds to a pressure of about a millidyne per square
centimeter.

It should be reiterated that such a standard scale is quite arbi-
trary and that equal increments on the scale do not in general ap-
proximate very closely to an equal number of sensation steps. Tor
instance, in the case of the 1,000-cycle scale, the step from 0 to 10
decibels corresponds roughly to about 1 perceptible gradation of
loudness under average conditions, the step from 50 to 60 contains
about 10 gradations, and the step from 100 to 110 about 15. In other
words, we may ascend the range of physical intensity lying between
the two thresholds either by the decibel ladder, with equally spaced
rungs, or by the sensation-step ladder, with rungs first widely spaced
and afterwards more narrowly, though more evenly, spaced (fig. 3).

It may be added that, in adopting a practical scale of loudness,
some latitude is possible in the choice of the standard frequency,
in view of the fact that for medium frequencies above 700 cycles
per second there is a constant relation between loudness and sensa-
MEASUREMENT OF NOISE—KAYE wat

tion level. For example, the standard frequency chosen for much of
the work at the National Physical Laboratory is 800 cycles, while
in the United States 1,000 cycles has been largely used.

SPEECH AND NOISE

As already remarked, the masking effect of a background of noise
on the ease of conversation is one of primary interest. Conversation
begins to be diflicult when the background of noise reaches 70 or 80
decibels, while at 90 decibels conversation, even by shouting, is
virtually impossible.

It should be remembered that the greater part of the energy of the
human voice is in the low-frequency region. Some 60 per cent of the
energy lies in frequencies below about 500 cycles per second, and about
85 per cent below 1,000 cycles per second. It is known, however, that
the intelligibility of speech rests largely on the high-frequency con-
sonants—say, above 1,000 cycles per second—rather than on the low-
frequency vowels (say, 120 cycles for the male voice and 240 cycles
per second for the female), despite the fact that the low-frequency
components carry the major part of the energy.

Davis and Evans at the National Physical Laboratory have ob-
served that conversation in an inclosure is facilitated if high-pitched
noises are excluded from without. It is fortunate that such notes
can be more readily excluded than low notes, and particularly so,
where limits are set to the massiveness of the walls of the inclosure,
as in an aeroplane cabin. Furthermore, such high notes as gain
entrance are more readily absorbed by mounting absorbent on the
inner walls. (Davis, Journ. Roy. Aer. Soc., 1931.)

As regards the effects of noise on the hearing of speech, Knudsen
found in 1925 that if the interfering sound is a pure note at about
speech level, the interference with speech is almost independent of
frequency, but that for greater intensities low-pitched notes interfere
more than high. He also states that the interfering effect of noise is
greater than that of a pure note whatever the pitch. Figure 4 (due
to Mr. Fleming) summarizes Knudsen’s results on the effect of extra-
neous noise on the intelligibility of speech as interpreted by articu-
lation tests with speech of normal loudness (50 db.). As will be
seen, even a little noise affects speech reception adversely, while a
noise level of some 30 or 40 decibels reduces the intelligibility by an
intolerable amount.

ANNOYANCE AND NOISH

We have already referred to the association of annoyance and
noise, and the question has recently been the subject of experiment.
Precise measurement could scarcely be expected, perhaps, but it is
clear that both frequency and loudness are among the factors which
ye ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1932

play a part. As to pitch, it is probable that the majority of people
find shrill sounds more offensive than low. They find, for example,
the high-pitched motor horn, to the staccato use of which the Paris
taxi driver is so addicted, more irritating than the lower-pitched
horn which normally obtains in Great Britain. This impression is
confirmed by the work of Laird and Coye (Journ. Acoust. Soc. Amer.,
1929), who found that annoyance is a function of both loudness and
pitch, high pitches being intrinsically more annoying than low or
medium pitches, and very loud high pitches being especially irri-

¥
Good hearing
condifions

Satisfactory with
attentive listening

Unsatisfactory
hearing conditions

Percentage Syllable Acticulation

Background of noise in decibels

Esfect of extraneous noise on intelligibility of speech
of normal loudness (50 db) — Knudsen.
FiGuRH 4

tating. In the case of pitches below about 500 cycles per second, the
annoyance was, however, purely a matter of loudness. In this con-
nection it is of considerable interest to note that the range of pitches
which man normally employs in his own speech appears to be the
least annoying to him. The irritation produced by certain tenor and
soprano voices is claimed by Laird and Coye as being in harmony
with their findings.

The annoyance produced by complex noises such as those resulting

wert rw tt ttt sen cess,

with their findings.
The annoyance produced by complex noises such as those resulting

wert rw tt ttt sen cess,

with their findings.
The annoyance produced by complex noises such as those resulting

wert rw tt ttt sen cess,

with their findings.
The annoyance produced by complex noises such as those resulting

wert rw tt ttt sen cess,

with their findings.
The annovance nrodiured hy eqamniery noices ach ac thoce reanlting
