ae
On

Pk Y a.
4 ee

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF REGENTS OF

THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION

SHOWING THE

OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND
CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION
FOR THE. YEAR..ENDING,. JUNE...30

1917

Be
asp Hs ONO s.,
iTV
og ING rons

ers
if ACTIOUAL \ ye

RAL

WASHINGTON
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
1919
~ Tea

eon Sek & none ae

Por _
P

«et

gest: Te, Prk
iy,
LETTER

FROM THE

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

SUBMITTING

THE ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE
INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 380, 1917.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, June 30, 1918.
To the Congress of the United States:

In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, I have the honor, in behalf of the Board of Regents,
to submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expendi-
tures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year end-
ing June 30,1917. I have the honor to be,

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
Cuartes D. Waucottr, Secretary.
Iit
CONTENTS.

Page.
Letter from the Secretary submitting the Annual Report of the Regents to :
SEOTIET CASE ee pas Stee ee Ne ce sete poe eee chen Be eee ee I
MOTOR IA OMUOOMCDORG ir 42 nt a NS ei 9. as eR ere lo cl Vv
TSR CED) BYES 2 eS eae Se eee ay me ere Ren in we ean tray ere VII
iGeneraLsubyeeivortine annual Feport..2 24 224.2) See hehe es a ek ee IX
Officials of the:Institution and its;branches... —.. 24-22. dik. « ose ee oe XI
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.
ie sMicnsonian WNStUUIWOR: 60-45 ees hae eee pees sae au e aces eas fan 1
“LTE 2),] BIS) 22S CI RTSLT CET |Report aay Naat tee ante eh eras ahi 1
“| Pare Sioa hoy Be EST FRR fe a aa aes i aro LR ger lates SRO 1
L STEDNEUIVOSS)8 gu bees are as tt sre ep crt ean denne i Ream, ea er a Sanna 2
SECU P a ee OMSIOETD LIONS i oe ae Aaa en cre ay ee a ae ws cichon 4
Researches and explorations—
Geological explorations in the Canadian Rockies.............-- rane 6
SECO MCaIsield SiN Glee. set. s oe) aoc se Ram eon e weit s «hone cca 8
Hunting graptolites in the Appalachian Valley.......-.............. 8
Explorations in the Ohio Valley for fossil algae and coral reefs... .... 9
Examination of ancient human remains in Florida. ........-..--.--- 10
Biotosicalawork in Cuba and Halil o.< oo. oscc cee nce ecc oe see ape oe 12
Botanical work in the Mawalan Islands. 0.302 os et oe aye 12
RCaTen mrs DOLATIG SU StALIQU ane eis eee oe ke erie cy ete. ee as 13
USAGE Sat G27 bg a oc EW) 0 en Nl I aN a Mg Ai Le if)
ExpiOradOus 1 Santo OMmMmeOn.4. ok ones nee Sean So eae 14
Eapedt gn LOR ClEDes see e sateen rk SNe oe ere eee 14
Collins:Garner Conpo expedition®....2. 24.5. .235.5.--- 2222-222 e se 15
EpeeaNC un COLpOrailOlep yt tg iro eek 2 ae eta ee Se ee ee eee 15
Remoumeimcncatch Coumcie soon one otlne ast. tice ose eh ateaes eee 16
Rati Wea iQune st ne ee ee ean ce Sine heh oe een ee eee teas 19
PGIDTATY ee 2s oo5c 38 ae a i he aed Sh it a et RE I 21
fecepaon wo Mrench scientists.\2c a. S2 20-2 oe se a Se + wee ee 21
ureter] Monsen cs ER See TG ne ee ee ee ee eee aed 22
EECA OL MMROR CAT WEN NOLO se a2 04 ove = ait e ae ee atais a's 22 wee = als Deets 23
PARLOR BURCH AME CRS fee sit Ae eres San A SSeS nee oe eee 24
Pi pnleraly AOOlOPIGM RANK. sc =~ 2a sa aa ta apse ae a oe one eS ee heres 25
REM StCAl nN OUSENVALGNYin se a: wernt ot Sree yas ae SS AeA se ee eee ae 27
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature.....................--++-+--+-- 28
Appendix 1. Report on the United States National Museum. .........-.----- 31
2. Report on the Bureau of American Ethnology................-- 45
3; Report onthe International Exchanges. .....-...--=2225:6---+--- _ 62
4. 'Reporton the National Zeological Park... 2. --+--- 2-3... 2s-< ips
5. Report on the Astrophysical Observatory. ......-....---------- 88
Sreeporijen the \iNetaryy. 220 foo.) 5. cnet oe cee a ctia NW ones 96
7. Report on the International Catalogue of Scientific Literature... 104
SepceROvWOM, PUNMESTIONS 5: 22. % 25. ooo iy ts oe Satie ese Sse 107
Report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian
DESUPATERT OI? 2 cca PSS aa Se a eae aes oe na gee ee gE ee idee
Proceedings of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution... .----- EVs,
VI CONTENTS.

GENERAL APPENDIX.

Projectiles containing explosives, by Commandant A. R..........--.--------- 131
Gold and silver deposits in North and South America, by Waldemar Lindgren. 147
The composition and structure of meteorites compared with that of terrestrial

OCs}, ony Cones Lee Misusllles | Go8 BAe as sos sandt soso doneoueedoqogSees 5556 175
Corals and the formation of coral reefs, by Thomas Wayland Vaughan ...-..-.. 189
The correlation of the Quaternary deposits of the British Isles with those of the

continent of Hurope, by Charles*E: P: Brooks: <= 0.5622 Sc ooc cece cenine Ta
Natural history of Paradise Key and the near-by everglades of Florida, by

\WoWl2 SEUitT 0 hie Aare amen en ena mae cme T Nt iA e ear eee O66 377
Notes on the early history of the pecan in America, by Rodney H. True...... 435
Floral aspects of the Hawaiian Islands, by A. S. Hitchcock.................- 449
The social, educational, and scientific value of botanic gardens, by John Merle

COullivae. J hon senedasuss ce nus Soa nedddaooocaesonscgecoodSseusoossebeaEte 463
Birdirookeriesio! the Tortugas, by Paul! Bartsche. 2222225 eee era pia erel 469
Catalepsy.am phasmidae: by ie SChMIGtis.. 5 5 oes esa 9 eee eee 501
An economic consideration of orthoptera directly affecting man, by A. N.

Coinllll 553056 oa Se eee in See hee ae On ooaoc nua obaee 507
An outline of the relations of animals to their inland environments, by Charles

(6) OG Eis Paes See re Rae ES ens Cire mene he ae Oe eee noc 515
The national zoological park—A popular account of its collections, by N.

LEI 7e) ee eens one ae ars ee eae Ee ge Ne. or SoD me ADOAen Se So 543
The sea as a conservator of wastes and a reservoir of food, by H. F. Moore..... 595
Ojibway habitations and other structures, by David I. Bushnell, Jr. .-....-.. 609
National work at the British Museum—Museums and advancement of learn-

THaVG2, dokie 1 ee SA SEH NG) eine aene ais oo SOr Saab soS aA SA consent da ano eoes ve Ses 619
Leonhard Fuchs, physician and botanist, by Felix Neumann ......-.-------- 635
In memoriam—Edgar Alexander Mearns, by Charles W. Richmond .........-- 649

Walla imllockeOlarles = oer ose spy cle eter am apeererera leis tayo rercveys toe ve reve tele eevee _ 663
LIST OF PLATES.

Page
Meteorites (Merrill) :
Jea bs eS) 3 as es ee ee eee 176
IBIAL eS ose ee 182
VEN EAVCESSS LoS a al eo a oe ne a 184
Corals (Vaughan) :
Plates als 5 tie ie 240-276
Paradise Key (Safford) :
Hronbisplece=s==—— = == 2 317
Rtates al — G4 ose eee Eh eee 434
Floral Aspects of Hawaii (Hitch-
cock) :
UDtCSele ney steered. ele 462
Birds of Tortugas (Bartsch) :
RlatespHoSt a sea et ew ha 500
Zoological Park (Hollister) :
late: 1, -Cvlaypy) Ss es oan 543
12d Est: 2 ee ee ee are 544
Plates 4-5 _____ een = = AOL
PiatesiGat see eae ede. __ 548
PiatestS=bl poe 22) Pip lta 550
Platesmiaay be 552
1 2A SSG (6 ie nr 554
Platestl SOs Se 556
Plates 206210 ee 558

Page.
Zoological Park (Hollister)—Con.
Plates 22-23). 222 2 eee 560
Plates 24 2) = ae oe aes 564
RIBtes 2622 (eee ss 2 eee 566
Blates 28-29 2 sia Eee 568
Platest; S023I 2S. 20) Se T 570
PAGS S233 eae eee ee, 512
Plates'34-3b\ es ee oe
Plates36-30'=2 = sess eee 576
Platest S830" = aes ee 578
Plates\4 OA et jo ee 580
Plates42=43"—" oe = eee 582
Plates 44-452) Ooo oes 586
Plaster AG s 22 Sie ee 590
Sea a Food Reservoir (Moore) :
ets: 28 2 es aes 608
Ojibway Habitations (Bushnell) :
Plates =—G See eee See 618
Leonhard Fuchs (Neumann) :
Plater dis £ oot eed ska pee 635
Blntest2= (Se 648
EK. A. Mearns (Richmond) :
PL AUey ee re ee 649
5 SMO) matyisré,
ai Samer >
Ooh ee onsia oh eSeajats z

pee age iss AS weet

ri ee Dakss

SAS

4

FEAR R SR ee at eng vo ze
coi Peashe Sia anel ita. aa a tenet
is R258)
Daan Ee set ;
Bt cr, ¥ fee Brees i

f .
tohbe rok
SI Pow

; ae ae Pen f f ae
OE ants RE ae ae gel eles i tes
; 4 eae

(Dannie | wine. f.8 | Loree
~ hares eae J fut faci

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1917,

SUBJECTS.

1. Annual report of the secretary, giving an account of the opera-
tions and condition of the Institution for the year ending June 30,
1917, with statistics of exchanges, ete.

2. Report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents,
exhibiting the financial affairs of the Institution, including a state-
ment of the Smithsonian fund, and receipts and expenditures for the
year ending June 30, 1917.

3. Proceedings of the Board of Regents for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1917.

4, General appendix, comprising a selection of miscellaneous mem-
oirs of interest to collaborators and correspondents of the Institution,
teachers, and others engaged in the promotion of knowledge. These
memoirs relate chiefly to the calendar year 1917.

Ix
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

June 30, 1917.

Presiding officer ex officio —Wooprow WILsoNn, President of the United States.
Chancellor —Epwarp DouGLAss WHITE, Chief Justice of the United States.
Members of the Institution:
Wooprow WIxson, President of the United States.
THoMAS R. MARSHALL, Vice President of the United States.
Epwarp DouGLAss WHITE, Chief Justice of the United States.
RoBERT LANSING, Secretary of State.
WILLIAM Gisps McApoo, Secretary of the Treasury.
NEWTON DirHt Baker, Secretary of War.
THOMAS WatTr Grecory, Attorney General.
ALBERT SIDNEY BURLESON, Postmaster General.
JOSEPHUS DANIELS, Secretary of the Navy.
FRANKLIN KnicHtT LANE, Secretary of the Interior.
Davip FRANKLIN Houston, Secretary of Agriculture.
WILLIAM Cox REDFIELD, Secretary of Commerce.
WILLIAM BaucHop WItson, Secretary of Labor.
Regents of the Institution:
Epwarp Douciass WHITE, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor.
THoMAS R. MARSHALL, Vice President of the United States.
Henry Carnot Lopcr, Member of the Senate.
WiLiiAM J. Stone, Member of the Senate.
Henry FrRENcH Ho.iis, Member of the Senate.
Scorr Ferris, Member of the House of Representatives.
Ernest W. Rogerts, former Member of the House of Representatives.
JAMES T. Liuoyp, former Member of the House of Representatives.
ALEXANDER GRAHAM BELL, citizen of Washington, D. C.
GEORGE GRAY, citizen of Delaware.
CHARLES F’. CHOATE, Jr., citizen of Massachusetts.
JOHN B. HENDERSON, -Jr., citizen of Washington, D. C.
CHARLES W. FAIRBANKS, citizen of Indiana.
HENRY WHITE, citizen of Maryland. :
Executive committee.—Gtoree GRAY, ALEXANDER GRAHAM BELL, HRNEST W.
ROBERTS.
Secretary of the Institution CHARLES D. WALCOTT.
Assistant Secretary.—RIcHARD RATHBUN.
Chief Clerk.—Harry W. Dorsery.
Accountant and disbursing agent.—W. I. ADAMS.
fditor.—A. Howarp CLARK.
Assistant librarian.—PAUL BROcKETT.
Property clerk.—J. H. Hix.
XII ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

THE NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Keeper ex officio —CHARLES D. WaAtcotTT, Secretary of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution.

Assistant secretary in charge.—RicHARD RATHBUN.

Administrative assistant.—W. DE C. RAVENEL.

Head curators.—Witt1AM H. Ho~tmes, LEONHARD STEJNEGER, G. P. MERRILL.

Curators.—PAvUL BartscH, R. S. Basster, A. Howarp CrarK, F. W. CLARKE,
F. V. Coviriz, W. H. Dat, CHESTER G. GILBERT, WALTER HoucH, L. O. Howarp,
ALES HrpiiéKa, FREDERICK L. LEwTon, GEoRGE C. MAYNARD, GERRIT S. MILLER,
Jr., ROBERT RIDGWAY.

Associate curators.—J. C. Crawrorp, W. R. Maxon, DAvip WHITE,

Curator, National Gallery of Art—W. H. HoLtMEs.

Chief of correspondence and documents.

Disbursing agent.—W. I. ADAMS.

Chief of exhibits (Biology). —JAMES BH. BENEDICT.

Superintendent of buildings and labor.—J. S. GOLDSMITH.

Editor.—Marcus BENJAMIN.

Assistant librarian.—N,. P. ScuppEr.

Photographer.—L. W. BEESON.

Registrar.—sS. C. Brown.

Property clerk.—W. A. KNOWLES.

Engineer.—C, R. DENMARK.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

Ethnologist-in-charge.—F. W. Hopce.

Ethnologists.—J. WALTER FEWKES, JOHN P. Harrineton, J. N. B. Hewitt,
Francis LA FLESCHE, TRUMAN MICHELSON, JAMES Moonry, JOHN R. SwWANTON.

Special ethnologist—Lro J. FRACHTENBERG.

Honorary philologist —FRANZ BOAs.

Editor.—JosErH G. GURLEY.

Librarian.—HLua LEARY.

Illustrator. —DrE LANCEY GILL.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES.

Chief clerk—C. W. SHOEMAKER.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK.

Superintendent.—Nrp HOo.Luister.
Assistant Superintendent.—A. B. BAKER.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.

Director.—C. G. ABBOT.
Aid.—F. B®. Fow te, Jr.
Bolometric assistant.—L. B. ALDRICH.

REGIONAL BUREAU FOR THE UNITED STATES, INTERNATIONAL
CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE.

Assistant in charge.—Lronarp C. GUNNELL.
REPORT
OF THE
SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
Cuar_tes D. Watcotr

FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1917.

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

GENTLEMEN: I have the honor to submit herewith the customary
annual report on the operations of the Smithsonion Institution and
its branches during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1917, including
work placed by Congress under the direction of the Board of Regents
in the United States National Museum, the Bureau of American
Ethnology, the International Exchanges, the National Zoological
Park, the Astrophysical Observatory, and the United States Bureau
of the International Catalogue of Scientific Literature.

The general report reviews the affairs of the Institution proper and
briefly summarizes the operations of its several branches, while the
appendices contain detailed reports by the assistant secretary and
others directly in charge of various activities. The reports on opera-
tions of the National Museum and the Bureau of American Ethnology
will also be published as independent volumes.

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.
THE ESTABLISHMENT.

The Smithsonian Institution was created an establishment by act
of Congress approved August 10, 1846. Its statutory members are
the President of the United States, the Vice President, the Chief
Justice, and the heads of the executive departments.

THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

The Board of Regents, which is charged with the administration of
the Institution, consists of the Vice President and the Chief Justice
of the United States as ex officio members, three Members of the
Senate, three Members of the House of Representatives, and six citi-
zens, “two of whom shall be residents in the city of Washington and

1
2 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

the other four shall be inhabitants of some State, but no two of them
from the same State.”

In the personnel of the board the only change was the appoint-
ment on January 15, 1917, of Hon. Henry White, of Maryland, to
succeed Dr. Andrew D. White, of New York, who because of the in-
firmities of age felt compelled to resign after serving as Regent for
nearly 29 years. The roll of Regents on June 30, 1917, was as fol-
lows: Edward D. White, Chief Justice of the United States, Chan-
cellor; Thomas R. Marshall, Vice President of the United States;
Henry Cabot Lodge, Member of the Senate; William J. Stone,
Member of the Senate; Henry French Hollis, Member of the Sen-
ate; Scott Ferris, Member of the House of Representatives; Ernest
W. Roberts, former Member of the House of Representatives; James
T. Lloyd, former Member of the House of Representatives; Alex-
ander Graham Bell, citizen of Washington, D. C.; George Gray,
citizen of Delaware; Charles F. Choate, jr., citizen of Massachusetts ;
John B. Henderson, jr., citizen of Washington, D. C.; Charles W.
Fairbanks, citizen of Indiana, and Henry White, citizen of Mary-
land.

The board held its annual meeting on December 14, 1916. The
proceedings of that meeting, as also the annual financial report of
the executive committee, have been printed, as usual, for the use of
the Regents, while such important matters acted upon as are of public
interest are reviewed under appropriate heads in the present report
of the secretary. A detailed statement of disbursements from Gov-
ernment appropriations, under the direction of the Institution for
the maintenance of the National Museum, the National Zoological
Park, and other branches, will be submitted to Congress by the secre-
tary in the usual manner, in compliance with the law.

FINANCES.

By the deposit of $4,000 derived from revenues during the year,
the permanent fund of the Institution deposited in the Treasury
of the United States now amounts to $1,000,000, the limit authorized
by Congress, and is divided as follows:

Smithson) fund 2s. tere 8 se ee Be ae ee ee $727, 640. 00
Eales ese me ee ee ee 500. 00
EVamiltony tun) 22 = ee ee ee ie ronan AE ork 2, 500. 00
Teioroked tonnes} apne ae Se eee 216, 000. 00
nheesslund ates. See eee Sl aA OAES RG RNR Oe 590. 00
INSTA VUNG Eee ee ee ese tat eee 14, 000. 00
Mddisonets, Reid efund 2.22 = Se ew. ee ee ae 11, 000. 00
Toya ae, eiaVGl GreoreEyey \WYG JEXovonREY ravbaOl = Es = 26, 670. 00
Gana TX Salinas) wWohnGle a ee eee ee ee Be eee 1, 100. 00

Total fund in the Treasury of the United States____-_______ 1, 000, 000. 00
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 3

Other resources.

Registered and guaranteed 4 per cent bonds of the West Shore
Railroad Co., part of legacy of Thomas G. Hodgkins (par

VEL) gee eee eee ee eee $42, 000. 00
Coupon 5 per cent bonds of the Brooklyn Rapid Transit Co., due
mA Nivagp lees oS (COSTA) eee eas eee eee LR OR ote ae ee Oe 5, 040. 63
Coupon 6 per cent bonds of the Argentine Nation, due Dec. 15,
HARI Ciama (COS) ees es ea eS es, 5, 093. 75
Rotailpinvested ining Seen de ee es pe 1, 052, 184. 38

With the exception of $4,000 deposited in the Treasury, above
noted, no other permanent investments were made during the year.
These deposits consisted of interest accumulations and rentals only.

The principal revenues of the Institution being collectable July 1
and January 1 each year, a surplus of cash accumulated at these
times. Instead of allowing this surplus to be idle in the Treasury,
the plan has been adopted to invest such sums as may be spared in
time certificates of deposit issued by strong financial institutions of
this city. The rate of interest obtained on these certificates is 3 per
cent per annum and it is believed that approximately $1,000 can be
gained each year by this method.

The income of the Institution during the year, amounting to
$88,649.52, was derived as follows: Interest on the permanent foun-
dation, $61,490.59; contributions from various sources for specific
purposes, $16,630; and from other miscellaneous sources, $10,528.93.

Adding the cash balance of $44,711.02 on July 1, 1916, the total
resources for the fiscal year amounted to $133,360.54.

The disbursements, which are given in detail in the annual report
of the executive commitee, amounted to $124,127.98, leaving a
balance of $9,232.56 in cash and on deposit in the Treasury of the
United States June 30, 1917.

In addition to the above specific amounts to be disbursed by the
Institution there was included under the general appropriation for
printing and binding an allotment of $76,200 to cover the cost of
printing and binding the Smithsonian annual report, and reports and
miscellaneous printing for the Government branches of the Insti-
tution.

The Institution was charged by Congress with the disbursement of
the following appropriations for the year ending June 30, 1917.

interna tionalyexchangeges -404 vinedeis lg hor sida be oir Al eT $32, 000
International exchanges, deficiency act of Apr. 17, 1917______________ 3, 500
SIME LICAMIME THN O1O Ryness ae beh eniee i A Pe ee 42, 000
PAS ER OP ELV Ctl bv ODSCIV AL OLY sateen ee es wy aD 13, 000
National Museum:

Hurnliqgne cand: frxtures.!. Ore iie ere Fis aC ERE ea Eis 25, 000

Heating apd Wishting sp toes e4 ssh te ae ne aet Leen ole 46, 000
4. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

National Museum—Continued.

Ipreservations of, .collections= =) Sse 2 ah ee pares eee $300, 000
OOS ye See eS Sk Be ae ee ee ea ah pe eee 2, 000
ROStAS Cris eee. See he ee 500
Builging | repairs: <=> Sa ee eS 10, 000
NationaleZoological’ Parks =< 222s S222 ae ee ee 100, 000
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature_____________________ 7, 500
TO tals ss=- es sass SS See a eee eee eee aes ae 581, 500

GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS.

Throughout its history the Smithsonian Institution has constantly
cooperated with the executive departments and other establishments
of the Government in all matters pertaining to scientific activities.
Particularly during the period of the present world war has the
Institution been of service in connection with many important meas-
ures. Every member of its scientific staff, every one of its 500
or more employees, has aided the Nation to the utmost in every
possible manner. The laboratories and workshops of the Institution
and its branches have been utilized to their fullest extent and routine
affairs have taken second place whenever important national matters
have needed attention. Your Secretary, as president of the National
Academy of Sciences, as chairman of the military committee of the
National Research Council, and as chairman of the executive com-
mittee of the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics, has had
opportunity to keep in close touch with the needs of the Nation and to
give such advice as has been in his power, especially in connection
with the development of aeronautics.

The Institution was particularly fortunate in having as former
Secretary, Prof. S. P. Langley, who in 1896 gave to the world a prac-
tical demonstration of the feasibility of mechanical flight by a ma-
chine heavier than air propelled by its own power. To him the
Nation to-day owes more than can be told, and as an indication of that
debt his memory is fittingly preserved in the name “Langley Field,” a
tract of some 1,800 acres near Hampton, Virginia, where extensive ex-
periments of the highest importance to the art of aviation are now
being carried on. The Government has now been aroused to the su-
preme worth of airplanes, machines which Professor Langley 20 years
ago foresaw would be of great service in times of war as well as
peace. His prophecy has been fulfilled far beyond his hopes or
dreams. The large machine with which his personal experiments
ceased in 1903 proved its worth and its capability of actual flight
during the past year. Change after change in the design of air-
planes to adapt them for scouting, for fighting, and other military
purposes has followed in rapid succession until now aerial battles
are of daily occurrence and nations are looking ahead to their ex-
tended use under peace conditions.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 5

As stated in my last report, the organization of the National Ad-
visory Committee for Aeronautics has made unnecessary for the
present the permanent establishment by the Smithsonian Institution
of the Langley Aerodyanmical Laboratory. Every facility continues,
however, to be afforded to Federal bureaus to study aviation models
and records possessed by the Institution and, in particular, to con-
sult the large Smithsonian Library on Aeronautics, together with a
general card index of aeronautical literature.

There has recently been erected adjacent to the Smithsonian build-
ing a temporary structure for the use of the United States Signal
Serivee especially for housing aeroplanes of various designs and
aviation appliances.

The executive committee of the National Advisory Committee has
held monthly meetings during the year, and many problems of deep
importance have been discussed.

Upon the recommendation of the committee there was organized
by the Council of National Defense the “Aircraft Production Board,”
“to consider the situation in relation to the quantity production of
aircraft in the United States and to cooperate with the officers of
the Army and Navy and of other departments interested in the
production and delivery to these departments of the needed aircraft
in accordance with the requirements of each department.”

The committee also recommended to the Government the adoption
of a continuing program for the training of aviators and the preduc-
tion of airplanes and the establishment of schools and an adequate
organization and personnel of regular officers, both in the Army and
Navy for the efficient use of aircraft and direction of the aviators pro-
vided for. As a result of the committee’s activities the advance in
aerial preparedness has been accelerated.

The committee has established a research laboratory at Langley
Field, Virginia, for the carrying on of scientific investigations.
Among the several subcommittees engaged in the study of aeronautic
problems are those on aerial mail service, aero torpedoes, aircraft
communication, airplane mapping, relation of the atmosphere to
aeronautics, standardization of specifications for aeronautic materials
and aeronautic nomenclature, specifications for aeronautic instru-
ments, radiator design, motive power, and safe design, construction,
and navigation of aircraft.

The second annual report of the National Advisory Committee for
Aeronautics was published during the year in a volume of 630 octavo
pages, including technical reports on “ General specifications covering
requirements of aeronautic instruments,” “ Nomenclature for aero-
nautics,” “ Mufflers for aeronautics,” “Gasoline carbureter design,”
and “ Experimental researches on the resistance of air.”

65133°—sm 1917—— 2
6 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917,
RESEARCHES AND EXPLORATIONS.

The usual activities were continued during the past year in advanc-
ing one of the fundamental objects of the Smithsonian Institution,
the increase of knowledge. In this work various explorations and
researches were inaugurated or participated in by the Institution and
its branches, covering practically all divisions of astronomical, an-
thropological, biological, and geological science. The extent of these
explorations and researches during the history of the Institution
covers a wide range, although a great deal more of most important
work could have been accomplished had adequate funds been avail-
able. Friends of the Institution have generously aided this work,
particularly during the last few years, through the contribution of
funds for specific purposes, but much yet remains undone, and op-
portunities for undertaking important lines of investigation are
constantly being lost through lack of means to carry them into
execution.

Several proposed expeditions to various parts of the world have
been temporarily delayed by the war in Europe.

I will here mention only briefly some of the recent activities of the
Institution in these directions, and for details of other researches and
explorations may refer to the appendices containing the reports of
those directly in charge of the several branches of the Institution
and also to the accounts given in the customary pamphlet review of
this work published each year in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous
Collections.

GEOLOGICAL EXPLORATIONS IN THE CANADIAN ROCKIES.

In continuation of geological work carried on by me for several
years past in the Canadian Rocky Mountains, I was engaged during
the summer and early fall of 1916 in field investigations on the Con-
tinental Divide forming the boundary between Alberta and British
Columbia, south of the Canadian Pacific Railway. The very heavy
snowfall of the previous winter, together with frequent snow and
rain squalls during the summer, had made the conditions unusually
favorable for taking photographs, the air being exceptionally pure
and clear during the field season, conditions, however, very unfavor-
able for geological investigations. A large number of photographs
were secured, including a number of panoramic views made on con-
tinuous films 8 feet in length.

The sections examined and measured extend from the Mount
Assiniboine region southwest of Banff, Alberta, northwest to the
Kicking Horse Pass, where the Canadian Pacific Railway has bored
a double loop through the mountains on the north and south sides of
the pass,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. |

The season’s work was undertaken with two principal objects in
view: First, to determine, if possible, the base line of demarcation
between the Lower and Middle Cambrian; and second, to locate the
exact horizon of a Cambrian subfauna (Albertella) that had in its
entirety been found only in drift bowlders in the Kicking Horse Val-
ley east of Wapta Lake.

One of the important incidental results obtained was the discovery
at Wonder Pass of a great overthrust fault by which the basal
Cambrian rocks forming the mountains on the west side of the pass
have been thrust eastward over upon:the limestones of the Devonian,
shown in the slope on the east side of the pass. The thrust along
this fault has carried the rocks forming the main range of the
Rockies in this area several miles to the eastward. The fault crosses
through Wonder Pass and then curves to the northwest, southeast
of Magog Lake, to the great cliff forming the northern extension of
the Assiniboine massif. During the million or more years that the
agencies of erosion had been wearing away the great mass of rocks
above the fault, mountain peaks, canyons, and ridges have been
carved and polished by frost, snow, and the grinding force of huge
glaciers. The glaciers have now retreated to a point near their
origin, high up on the mountains, but they have left behind them
basins that are filled with beautiful lakes, such as Magog, Sunburst,
and Ross.

The line of demarcation between the Lower and Middle Cambrian
was found to be high up in the section on the face of the cliffs at
Wonder Pass, and throughout the Assiniboine massif.

While camped on Magog Lake, below Mount Assiniboine, some
marvelous reflections of the peak in the waters of the lake were seen
in the quiet of the early morning. The changes in the “cloud ban-
ners,” at the peak occur very rapidly. These views led us to regard
the grand pyramid of Mount Assiniboine as the Matterhorn of
America.

Northwest of Banff the broad valley of the Bow has been eroded
diagonally back through the massive scarf of the overthrust massif
and thus exposed to erosion the heart of the great arch that had its
crest over the region now occupied by Mount Victoria and other
peaks of the Bow Range.

Some photographic views were secured looking south across the
Bow Valley into the heart of the Rockies. A view of Pinnacle Peak
tells the story of the tremendous power of erosive agencies, where the
colossal quartzites and limestones are shattered and eroded into the
most fantastic forms.

West of Pinnacle Peak, at the head of Paradise Valley, Mount
Hungabee rises in a terraced wall 4,000 feet above the glacier at its
foot, while another glimpse of these great cliffs is seen under Mount
8 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

Lefroy, where the melting snows cascade down as a beautiful brook
over the quartzite ledges.

At last, in the cliffs above Ross Lake the Albertella fauna was
located in situ, and from the slopes above the lake a panoramic view
was taken of Mount Bosworth, above Kicking Horse Pass on the
Continental Divide. Although only 9,083 feet in height, Mount Bos-
worth exposed in its slopes over 12,000 feet in thickness of bedded
rocks that constitute one of the best sections of the Cambrian rocks
found in the Canadian Rockies.

Considerable collections of Cambrian fossils were obtained by
myself and Mrs. Walcott, who accompanied and worked with me
throughout the entire trip, before the storms of late September drove
us back to Banff and ended the research for the season.

Many of the photographs taken in this wonderful region are repro-
duced in one of the publications of the Institution.

GEOLOGICAL FIELD STUDIES.

Dr. George P. Merrill, head curator of geology in the National
Museum, devoted several days of the summer vacation period in 1916
to visiting the gem and feldspar quarries of Auburn, Topsham, and
neighboring areas in Maine. While nothing new was secured, he
was able to add interesting material to the Museum exhibit illustrat-_
ing the character and association of the pegmatite dikes, which is
now being installed in the Museum.

HUNTING GRAPTOLITES IN THE APPALACHIAN VALLEY.

The great value of the extinct organisms known as graptolites in
determining the age of geological formations which contain few and
often no other kinds of fossils, has been proved time and again.
During the summer of 1916 Dr. R. S. Bassler and Mr. C. E. Resser,
both of the division of paleontology, United States National Mu-
seum, had occasion to test this particular group of fossils in the
course of a study of the Cambrian and Ordovician shale formations
of western Maryland. They report that—

Recent excavations along the Western Maryland Railroad, in the great shale
belt just west of Williamsport and extending north and south for hundreds of
miles, exposed these rocks to such advantage that it was thought possible
enough fossils could be found in them to determine their exact geologic age and
structure. However, no fossils of any kind were found after much search. It
was then decided that the rocks were either barren of organic life or the cleav-
age produced in the strata by the great forces resulting in their present folded
condition destroyed all traces of fossils.

Finally a fold of black shale was observed and at the point where the
cleavage and the bedding planes coincided, abundant graptolite remains were

1 Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, vol. 66, No. 17, 1917.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 9

discovered. The species which were collected proved to be of such typical
Trenton forms that there could be no doubt of the Middle Ordovician age of
this particular shale. Limestones known to be much older outcrop so short
a distance to the east of this that a great fault or displacement between the
two kinds of rocks is clearly indicated. -

With these facts in hand, the fault was traced for a distance of 30 miles
north and south, thus again showing that the graptolites proved the key to the
geologic structure of the region.

EXPLORATIONS IN THE OHIO VALLEY FOR FOSSIL ALGAE AND CORAL REEFS.

Through the extensive studies of the Secretary for several years
past, the collections of the National Museum are rich in limestone-
forming pre-Cambrian algae—a low order of water plants that
secrete lime or silica. An instructive series of these fossils has been

-placed on exhibition, but in order to show the geologic occurrence
and evolution of this group of plants it was necessary to supplement
the pre-Cambrian forms with specimens of more recent age. Ac-
cordingly Dr. R. S. Bassler, curator of paleontology, spent some
weeks in the Ohio Valley, particularly in the blue grass region of
Kentucky, in a search for large exhibition specimens, and in a study
of their mode of occurrence. He was successful in procuring a num-
ber of showy exhibition specimens as well as numerous study collec-
tions.

More difficult, however, was the discovery and quarrying of a
fossil coral reef suitable for exhibition in the Museum. Coral reefs
are known at several horizons in the Paleozoic rocks of the Ohio
Valley but they are seldom so exposed that an instructive section
can be quarried out without injury to the specimens. <A great reef of
corals outcrops in the strata along the banks of Chenoweth Creek at
Jeffersontown, near Louisville, Kentucky, and this was selected to
furnish an exhibit for the Museum. A section of the stratified rocks
6 feet by 10 feet was bodily quarried out of the bank, and these strata
with their contained corals were later set up in the exhibition hall of
paleontology.

The lowest layer of limestone is composed largely of fossil brachi-
opod shells. Next above is a layer with scattered corals belonging to
a long-tubed species (Columnaria calcina Nicholson), probably torn
by waves from a near-by coral reef. Overlying this is a limestone
stratum largely made of the twiglike stems of stony Bryozoa (Tre-
postomata).

The main reef of corals is chiefly composed of the rounded heads
of three species of honeycomb corals, some with radial partitions in
the tubes (Columnaria alveolata Goldfuss) , others without such par-
titions (Columnaria vacua Foerste), and still others with spongy
walls (Calapoecia cribriformis Nicholson). Large stems of fluted or
10 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

nodular Hydrozoa (Beatricea) are scattered among the honeycomb
coral masses.

Horn corals (Streptelasma rusticum Billings) are to be seen in
both the lower and upper coral beds. The spaces between the lime-
stone layers and also between the heads of coral were filled with
clay which contained many other examples of fossil life.

Another coral reef in central Kentucky composed of a single
species (Stromatocerium pusiulosum Safford) was investigated and
several massive and complete specimens excavated for exhibition.
The smallest of these was several feet in diameter. ‘These conical
coral masses‘are restricted to a single layer of limestone, on which
account they serve to identify the bed from place to place. This
coral reef occurs in the Trenton limestone and fine outcrops occur
around Lexington, Kentucky, and it has been noted at many localities.
in central Kentucky and central Tennessee.

EXAMINATION OF ANCIENT HUMAN REMAINS IN FLORIDA.

A good deal of public and scientific interest was aroused by the
finding of human remains in Florida under conditions which seemed
possibly to indicate extreme age. It was therefore desirable that a
critical examination be made of the bones and their environment.
Accordingly, on the invitation of Dr. E. H. Sellards, State geologist
of Florida, and as his guest, Doctor Hrdlicka, of the United States
National Museum, spent four days in the latter part of October,
1916, at Vero, Florida, where his time was devoted to the study of
the site from which certain human bones described by Doctor Sel-
lards were obtained, and to a preliminary examination of the bones
themselves.

Doctor Hrdlicka reports as follows:

Laborers were engaged, and with their help there was made a clean exposure
about 160 feet in length of the geological deposits in close proximity to the
localities where the human bones had been discovered. This afforded a com-
prehensive and enlightening view of the formations involved.

The two human skeletons had been found in the south bank of a recently
excavated drainage canal. ‘They occurred one in fairly close proximity to,
and the other within the broad, shallow bed of a small fresh-water stream,
now drained by a lateral cut from the canal. The former lay in dark and
somewhat indurated sands, the latter for the most part at the base of the muck
deposit of the stream bed, and between this and the next older stratum. A
few smaller bones, which probably belonged to the second skeleton, were found
at about the same level a short distance from the rest of the remains in an
elevation of the lower sandy layer.

The first skeleton lay at a depth of 24 feet, the second at a depth of 2 to 34
feet from the surface. The deposits above the first skeleton consisted partly
of somewhat indurated and partly of ordinary sands, overlaid by a layer of
marl. The marl when freshly exposed was found to be of the consistency of
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 11

fresh mortar, but on longer exposure hardened to fairly solid rock. Above
skeleton No. II there was only muck and irregular sandy patches.

Skeleton No. I is that of a woman, probably adult; skeleton No. II that of an
adult man of somewhat advanced years. The bones of the former lay close to-
gether ; those of the latter were dissociated, though lying within a moderate-sized
ellipse. Broken pottery, bone and stone implements, and stone chips were found
in the same strata, more particularly in the muck layers, with the human bones.

‘Besides the two skeletons, single bones of three additional human bodies—one
a child, one a young person, and one adult—were discovered in the vicinity.

The human bones were considerably mineralized, and in the same strata in
which they occurred are found many bones of long-extinct animals, such as
mastodons, tapirs, ete.

Due to the presence of the fossil animal bones in the same strata with the
human remains, and to the mineralization of the latter, the opinion was ad-
vanced that the human remains were of the same age as the animal bones,
which would relegate them to the early part of the Quaternary.

This is not sustained by an anthropological study of the case and of the
remains. The human bones show no signs of weathering, gnawing, or trampling,
and the two skeletons were represented by so many parts that the only satis-
factory explanation of the conditions can be found in the assumption that the
remains are those of intentional burials.

The pottery and the bone and stone implements are all identical with similar
artifacts of the Florida or southeastern Indians, while the human bones them-
selves show, without exception, modern features, with numerous characteristics
which permit their identification also as Indian.

The conclusions arrived at are that the Vero finds represent another of those
cases, which are bound to occur from time to time, where the circumstances
seem to point to antiquity of the human bones, but where a thorough, all-sided
inquiry shows that the mass of the evidence is decisively against such an as-
sumption.

Following the visit to Vero, Doctor Hrdlitka made a trip to Fort
Myers, Florida, and to several of the outlying keys, where human re-
mains were reported. The particular object of this trip was to visit
a small island off Fort Myers known as the Demorest or Demere Key,
on which, according to information obtained from Mr. Sam L. King,
of Bristol, Tennessee, human bones could be found “ imbedded in con-
cretionary materials.” Concerning these remains Doctor Hrdlitka
says:

Demere Key, the surface of which measures about 15 acres, was originally
a low and swampy island, like all of the small keys in the vicinity, but a larger
part of its surface was in the course of time artificially elevated by the Indians,
by means of shells, sand, and soil, for the purpose of habitation and cultivation.
Along the middle of this large artificial elevation runs a remarkable platform
about 80 feet long, the eastern boundary of which is supported by a still fairly
well preserved, well-made wall of conch shells. This structure has been briefly
reported by Cushing and by Mr. Clarence B. Moore, but its origin is in doubt.
At a short distance northeast of this elevation there is a low, irregular heap
which contains numerous Indian burials. On examining the surface of this
heap it was found to consist of shells, detritus, sand, and vegetable matter, and
to be everywhere more or less consolidated to the depth of from 6 to 18 inches.
The consolidation was such that in many places it was very hard to penetrate
12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

the crust with an ordinary mattock. Within this crust, on breaking parts of it
off and turning them over, were found numerous human bones, including some
more or less defective skulls. Beneath the crust was white sand, which also
contained many bones, with a few Indian ornaments and fragments of pottery.
The consolidated crust differed in composition. For the larger part it was
coquina, of just about such a composition as beach accumulations along the
sea; but in other places the solidified part consisted almost entirely of white
sand, while in still others it was a dark concretionary mass inclosing shells,
sand, and vegetable matter, besides the bones. The human bones, though evi-
dently more or less changed, were not yet petrified; and the mound as a whole
appears to have no claim to antiquity greater than perhaps a few hundred
years; but its surface offers a fine example of what favorable conditions can
accomplish in no great space of time in the way of consolidation and inclusion
into rock of human remains.

BIOLOGICAL WORK IN CUBA AND HAITI.

Mr. John B. Henderson, a Regent of the Institution, and Dr. Paul
Bartsch, curator of marine invertebrates, spent the last half of March
in the region about the Guantanamo Naval Station in eastern Cuba,
collecting a large quantity of very interesting land shells, birds,
plants, fossils, and marine invertebrates. The month of April was
spent in Haiti, where they thoroughly explored the Cul-de-Sac region,
the north coast of the western peninsula, and the coastal range from
the Cul-de-Sac north as far as San Marcos. They secured many in-
teresting specimens of land and fresh-water mollusks, several new
birds, some very interesting cacti and other plants, and a general in-
vertebrate collection from this much-neglected island. <A large series
of interesting photographs was also made, many of which will be
used in a report on the expedition which the explorers hope to pub-
lish in the near future.

BOTANICAL EXPLORATIONS IN THE HAWATIAN ISLANDS.

During the summer of 1916, from June to November, Mr. A. S.
Hitchcock, custodian of the section of grasses of the division of plants
in the National Museum, traveled in the Hawaiian Islands studying
and collecting the flora, especially the grasses. Concerning his explo-
rations Mr. Hitchcock says:

The islands are all of volcanic origin and the rock is lava except a very little
that is coral formation. Kauai, the geologically oldest island, shows the great-
est effect of erosion, the deep canyons rivaling in beauty the Grand Canyon
of the Colorado. On the island of Hawaii are the two highest peaks of the
group—Mauna Kea, 13,825 feet, and Mauna Loa, 13,675 feet in height. Above
10,000 feet there is scarcely any vegetation upon these peaks, especially upon
Mauna Loa, which is made up of comparatively recent lava.

The important agricultural industries are the raising of sugar, live stock,
and pineapples. The cultivated trees and shrubs are of great variety and
beauty, and are drawn from all tropical and subtropical lands. One of the in-
troduced trees of great economic importance is the algaroba tree, or kiawe, as
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. ° 13

the Hawaiians call it. It is found in a belt on the lowlands along the shores
of all the islands and occupies the soil almost to the exclusion of other plants.
The pods are very nutritious and are eagerly eaten by all kinds of stock. The
flowers furnish an excellent quality of honey. The prickly-pear cactus has
become extensively naturalized in the dryer portions of all the islands. The
ranchmen utilize this for feed when other kinds become scarce, the cattle eating
the succulent joints in spite of the thorns. Two introduced shrubs now occupy
extensive areas and have become great pests. These are guava, whose fruit
furnishes the delicious guava jelly, and lantana, with clusters of handsome
parti-colored flowers.

The indigenous flora is highly interesting though not abundant in species.
Two of the commonest trees are the ohia and the koa. The former, also called
ohia lehua and lehua, resembles, in the appearance of the trunk, our white
oak, but bears beautiful clusters of scarlet flowers with long-protruding sta-
mens. The koa produces a valuable wood much used in cabinetmaking, now
becoming familiar through its use for making ukuleles. Among the peculiar
plants of the islands is the silversword, a strikingly beautiful composite with
glistening silvery leaves, which grows only on the slopes of cinder cones in
the crater of Haleakala and in a few very limited localities on Hawaii. The
family Lobeliaceae is represented by about 100 species belonging to 6 genera.
The numerous arborescent species are very peculiar and characteristic. Many
of them form slender trunks like small palms, crowned with a large cluster of
long narrow leaves. The trunks of some species are as much as 30 or 40
feet high, and the large bright colored flowers are sometimes remarkably
beautiful.

The indigenous grasses of the Hawaiian Islands are not numerous. Three
peculiar species of Panicum inhabit the open bogs formed on the tops of many
of the high mountains in the wet zone such as Mount Eeka and Mount Kukui
in west Maui, some of the peaks of Molokai and Oahu, and Waialeale in
Kauai, that upon the latter covering in all several square miles. These bogs
are found near the summits or ridges in the regions of heavy rainfall, are de-
void of trees and shrubs, and harbor a peculiar vegetation.

CINCHONA BOTANICAL STATION.

Recently the Institution has acquired a three years’ lease of the
Cinchona Botanical Station at Jamaica, comprising about 10 acres
of land, with offices, laboratories, and other buildings, for the fur-
therance of our knowledge of West Indian botany. Assignments of
botanists who desire to prosecute studies there are made on the
recommendation of organizations which have cooperated with the
Institution in securing the use of this important field for botanical
investigations,

BIOLOGICAL WORK IN CHINA.

Mr. Arthur de C. Sowerby has continued his work in northeastern
China though conditions have been so unsettled as to make collecting
extremely difficult. A shipment of natural history specimens to the
Museum from Mr. Sowerby received May 27, included 186 bird skins,
44 mammals, 1 reptile, 16 fishes, and other miscellaneous natural his-
tory objects,
14 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

EXPLORATIONS IN SANTO DOMINGO.

Dr. W. L. Abbott, whose energies for nearly 30 years past have
been devoted to explorations in the Old World, made a short visit to
Santo Domingo (the scene of his earliest expedition, in 1883), where
he spent a few weeks in late summer and fall, 1916, at the eastern end
of the island, chiefly in the vicinity of the Bay of Samana, with
trips to several localities in the highlands of the interior, notably at
Constanza and El Rio. On this expedition he made a very interesting
collection of mammals, birds, reptiles, mollusks, insects, and Indian
relics.

In the coast region, Doctor Abbott investigated numerous caves in
search of remains of an extinct mammalian fauna. One of the most
interesting mammals whose remains were found in these caves is a
large rodent, described from a freshly killed specimen in 1836, but ;
not captured since then. Whether it is extinct or not is at present
an uncertainty. At San Lorenzo Bay, on the south side of the Bay
of Samana, there are “many precipitous limestone hills,” which,
Doctor Abbott writes, are “literally honeycombed with caves. The
cave (usually inhabited) near the pier of the abandoned railroad
is full of shell heaps, and contains many Indian carvings, more or
less obliterated by smoke and lime deposits.” Here he uncovered
200 or more archeological objects, including terra-cotta images, frag-
ments of pottery, stone pestles, carved stone plates, and similar
material.

After exhausting the caves in the vicinity of Samana, Doctor Ab-
bott visited the mountains of the interior, where, at El Rio, he made
a most surprising discovery in the bird fauna. He writes “TI had
heard of a very small ‘ parrot’ which lived in flocks in the pines on
the pine cones. I suspected a crossbill—said to occur here at Jara-
bocoa, below 2,000 feet, but the pair I shot were at near 5,000 feet.”
The bird proved to be a veritable crossbill and, what was most ex-
traordinary, a form closely related to the white-winged crossbill, a
species restricted in the breeding season to the Boreal zone of North
America (from Alaska to the higher Adirondacks), migrating in
winter at rare intervals as far south as North Carolina.

The series of birds totaled about 250 specimens, of 50 or more
species, over 30 of which are peculiar to the island. The indigenous
species of this island have long constituted the Museum’s chief de-
siderata among the birds of the West Indies, hence Doctor Abbott's
collection has proved of great interest, aside from the special dis-
coveries mentioned above.

EXPEDITION TO CELEBES.

Through the generosity of Dr. W. L. Abbott, associate in zoology
in the Museum, Mr. H. C. Raven has continued to make natural
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15

history and ethnological collections in Celebes. In April the Museum
received a shipment of ethnological objects from Mr. Raven, includ-
ing native fish traps, baskets, cloth, rope, hats, dishes, blowguns used
for hunting birds, and a curious native musical instrument.

COLLINS-GARNER CONGO EXPEDITION.

Early in 1917 an expedition with the title of the Collins-Garner
Congo expedition in the interests of the Smithsonian Institution, left
for the French Congo and neighboring parts of west Africa. Mr.
C. R. W. Aschemeier, of the department of biology, National Mu-
seum, is representing the Smithsonian Institution and the Museum as
natural history collector. All of the natural history specimens col-
lected by the expedition will come to the National Museum. The
other members of the expedition are Mr. Alfred M. Collins, of Phila-
delphia, chief; Prof. Richard L. Garner, of New York, who is mak-
ing special studies concerning apes and monkeys, manager; and Prof.
Charles W. Furlong, of Boston, scientist, artist, and explorer.

RESEARCH CORPORATION.

In my annual reports for several years past I have called atten-
tion to the Research Corporation organized in 1912 under the laws
of New York State, and having as its officers and directors a group
of men particularly interested in the development of the industrial
arts. The present Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution is one
of the directors and a member of the executive committee. The
certificate of incorporation declares it to be the purpose of the cor-
poration to—

Provide means for the advancement and extension of technical and scientific
investigation, research, and experimentation by contributing the net earnings
of the corporation over and above such sum or sums as may be reserved or re-
tained and held as an endowment fund or working capital, and also such other
moneys and property belonging to the corporation as the board of directors
shall from time to time deem proper, to the Smithsonian Institution, and such
other scientific and educational institutions and societies as the board of
directors may from time to time select, in order to enable such institutions and
societies to conduct such investigation, research, and experimentation.

The principal income of the corporation is at present derived from
royalties for the use of the Cottrell process for the electrical precipi-
tation of suspended particles. Dr. F. G. Cottrell, the inventor of this
process, offered his patents to the Smithsonian Institution, but since
is was not practicable for the institution to administer them commer-
cially, the Research Corporation was organized for that purpose.
The process is now in successful use by a score of smelting and
refining companies and other industrial plants and the financial con-
dition of the corporation is very gratifying.
16 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

The corporation seeks to do for industrial arts what some other
institutions are now doing for the sciences generally, for medicine,
and for the improvement of social conditions. There has now been
established an annual fellowship “open to general competition for
the purpose of encouraging and assisting scientists in the prosecu-
tion of their investigations. To the successful competitor, the cor-
poration offers an honorarium of twenty-five hundred dollars and
the assistance of the corporation in securing the most favorable op-
portunity for prosecuting the particular object of study.”

The Cottrell process in operation has been described in publica-
tions of the Smithsonian Institution. The precipitation processes
and their applications have been briefly described as follows:

Electrical precipitation consists of the removal of suspended particles from
gases by the aid of electrical discharges. The precipitation process operates
by passing the gases carrying the suspended, finely divided particles between
two systems of electrodes, one of which is made to carry a negative electrical
charge while the other carries a positive charge. In ordinary practice the
negative electrodes are small in size, such as iron wires or chains, and the
positive electrodes are large, such as iron plates or pipes. The gases are di-
vided into several channels and passed through the space between the wires
and the plates or pipes, in the latter case each pipe having a wire placed
along its longitudinal axis. The electrodes are charged by being connected
with a source of high voltage electricity, consisting ordinarily of a high volt-
age transformer for increasing the electricity up to the working voltage
which varies with the size and character of the installation from 20,000 to
100,000 volts; a rectifier for changing alternating current into’direct current,
and a switchboard provided with the necessary standard control equipment.
The suspended particles while passing between the electrodes become electri-
cally charged and are then driven to the plates or the inner surface of the pipes
by the forces of the electric field. A common example of the application of
the process is in the precipitation of minute particles containing copper, silver,
gold, lead, zine, and other valuable metals ordinarly carried away from smelt-
ing and refining furnaces which may by this process be recovered from such
gases without interfering with the operation of the plant. The recovered dust
or fume, in such cases, is often valuable and constitutes a large financial sav-
ing. In many other industrial operations where noxious gases, fumes, or dusts
are given off, the process has been successfully applied, some of the materials
precipitated being sulphuric, nitric, and hydrochloric acids; arsenic, bleaching
powder, lead, zinc, and other poisonous materials,

NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL.

As stated in my last report, the National Research Council was
organized by the National Academy of Sciences, the President of the
United States appointing the representatives of the Government and
authorizing the appointment of other members by the president of
the academy. There were thus brought together about 50 members
representing various branches of science, and they were subdivided
in several subcommittees. Joint committees were also formed in
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 17

cooperation with national scientific societies. The Research Council
has since become a part of the Council of National Defense and
operates in coordination with that body. In the membership of the
Research Council are several of the scientific staff of the United
States National Museum, your Secretary being vice chairman of the
council and chairman of the military committee.

With the preparations for actual participation by the United
States in the world war, the council became an important factor in
the scientific work of the Government. On February 29, 1917, the
Council of National Defense adopted the following resolution:

Resolved, That the Council of National Defense, recognizing that the National
Research Council, at the request of the President of the United States, has organ-
ized the scientific forces of the country in the interest of national defense and
national welfare, requests that the National Research Council cooperate with
it in matters pertaining to scientific research for national defense; and to this
end the Council of National Defense suggests that the National Research Council
appoint a committee of not more than three, at least one of whom shall be located
in Washington, for the purpose of maintaining active relations with the director
of the Council of National Defense.

Since that time the National Research Council has served as the
department of science and research of the Council of National
Defense and in such capacity has been charged with the organization
of scientific investigations bearing on the national defense and on
industries affected by the war.

Shortly after this action Dr. George E. Hale, chairman of the
council, initially undertook the organization of research activities
in direct cooperation with the United States Government and its
various departments. Office accommodations were provided for
chemistry, engineering, medicine and hygienic, and physics commit-
tees of the council, and arrangements were made to provide such
accommodations also for the agriculture and psychology committees.
Dr. Robert A. Millikan, chairman of the physics committee, was
appointed vice chairman of the council and consented to give his
entire time, upon leave of absence from the University of Chicago,
to work in Washington as the executive officer of the council. Offices
in New York were retained with the secretary, Dr. Carey T. Hutchin-
son, in charge.

Particular mention may perhaps be made of the appointment of
a foreign service committee of the council and of its important
mission and work as a direct aid in acquainting investigators in this
country with the scientific problems which have been confronted both
in military and industrial pursuits in England and France.

Two other committees of the council have been especially organized
as the result of the cooperation brought about with the Council of
National Defense; one a committee on navigation and nautical instru-
18

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

ments, appointed upon the request of the General Munitions Board

and the other a committee on relations with State research councils

>

appointed to consider and report upon desirable means of cooperation
between the Council and State research committees.

OFFICERS OF THE COUNCIL.

George EH. Hale, chairman; Charles D. Walcott, first vice chairman;

Gano

Dunn, second vice chairman; R. A. Millikan, third vice chairman and executive

officer ; Cary T. Hutchinson, secretary.

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE,

J. J. Carty, chairman.

Marston T. Bogert.
Russell H. Chittenden.
Edwin G. Conklin.
Gano Dunn.

George HE. Hale.

Van H. Manning.
R. A. Millikan.
Arthur A. Noyes.
Raymond Pearl.
Michael I. Pupin.

S. W. Stratton.
Victor C. Vaughan.
Charles D. Walcott.
William H. Welch.

The following members and new committees have been added to

the council since my last report:

LIST OF NEW

Carl L. Alsberg.

Joseph S. Ames.

Admiral Willam S. Benson.
Walter B. Cannon.

John M. Clarke.

Howard E. Coffin.

William M. Davis.

Arthur L. Day.

Henry H. Donaldson.
William F. Durant.

Rear Admiral Ralph Earle.

MEMBERS.

John R. Freeman.
Hollis Godfrey.
Rear Admiral Robert S. Griffin.
Herbert C. Hoover.
Franklin H. Martin.
John C. Merriman.
Eliakim H. Moore.
Frederick H. Newell.
George O. Smith.
Lewis B. Stillwell.
Robert W. Wood.

LIST OF COMMITTEES.

Military committee.

Agriculture committee.

Committee on Anthropology.

Botany committee.

Chemistry committee.

Food committee.

Committee on gases used in warfare.

Committee on Industrial Research.

Committee on Medicine and Hygiene.

Committee on Optical Glass.

Physiology committee.

Committee on Relations with
Research Councils.

Aeronautics committee.

Anatomy committee.

State

Astronomy committee.

Committee on census of research.

Engineering committee.

Foreign service committee.

Geography committee.

Geology and paleontology committee.

Mathematics committee.

Committee on navigation and nautical
instruments.

Physics committee. |

Psychology committee.

Committee on research in educational
institutions.

Zoology committee.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 19

Since the close of the year the Signal Corps, desiring to avail itself
of the assistance of the National Research Council, appointed Dr.
R. A. Millikan, third vice chairman and executive officer, and Dr.
Charles E. Mendenhall majors in the United States Army.

PUBLICATIONS.

The Institution proper issues three series of publications: Smith-
sonian Contributions to Knowledge, Smithsonian Miscellaneous Col-
lections, and Smithsonian Annual Reports. The publications of the
various branches of the Institution issued under its direction include
the Annual Reports, Proceedings, and Bulletins of the United States
National Museum, including the Contributions from the National
Herbarium; Annual Reports and Bulletins of the Bureau of Ameri-
can Ethnology; and the Annals of the Astrophysical Observatory.
All of the publications of these branches and the Annual Report of
the Institution are printed by means of congressional allotments.

Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge—Of this series, which
contains in quarto form the results of studies constituting important
contributions to knowledge, one memoir was published, entitled “ A
Contribution to the Comparative Histology of the Femur,” by Dr.
J. S. Foote, of Creighton Medical College, embodying the results of
the author’s work for a number of years on this subject.

Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections—Of this series, 19 papers
forming parts of five volumes were issued, including three papers by
your Secretary containing the results of his field work in Cambrian
geology. The annual Smithsonian exploration pamphlet appears
im this series, which describes briefly the work in the field of the
Smithsonian scientists and scientific expeditions, illustrated by pho-
tographs taken by the explorers in every quarter of the globe. The
necessity for a second reprinting of the sixth revised edition of the
Smithsonian Physical Tables indicates the continued usefulness of
this work. In this series also appeared the important paper by
H. Helm Clayton on the effect of variations in solar radiation on the
earth’s atmosphere, the possibilities of which for use in forecasting
temperature are discussed elsewhere in this report.

Smithsonian report—As stated in the report on the publications,
Appendix 8, although the final proof of the 1916 report was returned
to the printer in April, the books were not received before the close
of the year because of the great rush of war printing at the Govern-
ment Printing Office.

Special publications—Among the special publications may be men-
tioned an illustrated folder describing the Smithsonian and _ its
branches, for the use of visitors and correspondents.

20 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

National Museum publications —The Museum issued during the
year 1 volume of the proceedings, 73 papers forming parts of this
and other volumes, and 6 bulletins. .

Bureau of Ethnology publications—The Bureau of American
Ethnology published 1 annual report, 2 bulletins, and a list of pub-
lications of the bureau.

Reports of historical and patriotic societies—In accordance with
a provision in the charters of the American Historical Association
and the National Society of the Daughters of the American Revolu-
tion, the annual reports of those organizations were submitted to
your Secretary, and communicated by him to Congress.

Allotments for printing.—The allotments for the printing of the
Smithsonian report and the various publications of the branches
of the Institution were practically used up, a small balance remaining
in one or two cases owing to the impossibility of getting certain pub-
lications off the press before the close of the year.

The allotments for the year ending June 30, 1918, are as follows:

For the Smithsonian Institution: For printing and binding the annual

reports of the Board of Regents, with general appendices, the editions

of which shall not exceed 10,000 copies____________ a he See = SOO)
For the annual reports of the National Museum, with general appen-

dices, and for printing labels and blanks, and for the bulletins and

proceedings of the National Museum, the editions of which shall not

exceed 4,000 copies; and binding, in half morocco or material not

more expensive, scientific books, and pamphlets presented to or. ac-

quired by the National Museum 1 Rai ys ae ee ee ES 37, 500
For the annual reports and bulletins of the Bureau of American Eth-

nology and for miscellaneous printing and binding for the bureau___ 21, 000
For miscellaneous printing and binding:

International Exchanges perge yee ones st ae ie B 200
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature___ Ese! = 100
National sZo0locicalmbark.-- = 2 2. 2s ee ee ae 200
ANSYHEOIO) MyGIG M a (O) OSEAN KON eres 200
For the annual report of the American Historical Association______-__ 7, 000
HIS Tiga ee as ae a Eee eer a eS ne ae peg ry rE = aes Eee! 76, 200

Committee on printing and publication.—The Smithsonian advis-
ory committee on printing and publication considers all manuscripts
offered for publication by the Institution or its branches. During
the past year 16 meetings were held, at which 101 manuscripts were
considered and acted upon. The membership of the committee was
as follows: Dr. Leonhard Stejneger, head curator of biology, National
Museum, chairman; Dr. C. G. Abbot, director of the Astrophysical
Observatory; Mr. Ned Hollister, superintendent of the National
Zoological Park; Mr. A. Howard Clark, editor of the Institution, sec-
retary of the committee; Mr. F. W. Hodge, ethnologist in charge of
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. redh

the Bureau of American Ethnology; and Dr. George P. Merrill, head
curator of geology, National Museum.

LIBRARY,

The main purpose of the library of the Smithsonian Institution
has been to assemble a collection of periodicals and publications of
a scientific nature as well as the journals and other publications
of the scientific institutions and learned societies of the world, the
whole to be a library of reference for research in the broadest
sense. In carrying out this policy an accumulation of over half a
million titles has been made, the main part of which is housed in
the Library of Congress with the designation of the Smithsonian
deposit of the Library of Congress. In addition to this main part
of the Smithsonian library there are maintained a number of smaller
libraries at the various branches of the Institution, the National
Museum library, the Bureau of American Ethnology library, the
Astrophysical Observatory library, and the National Zoological Park
library. In the various offices of the Institution and the Museum
sectional libraries of technical works in all branches of science are
maintained for the use of the scientific staff. There are 35 of these
sectional technica] libraries.

The accessions to the libraries of the Institution and its branches
during the year aggregated more than 9,000. volumes, parts of
volumes, and pamphlets. Among important gifts during the year
was a first consignment of 561 volumes and 293 pamphlets, part of
the botanical library of Dr. John Donnell Smith, of Baltimore; the
whole of which, amounting to 1,500 volumes, he has offered to the
Institution.

In the Museum library, 1,572 volumes and 3,556 pamphlets were
accessioned during the year, among them the scientific library of Dr.
Edgar A. Mearns, associate in zoology, who died last fall. This
collection is rich in works on mammals, birds, and plants. Through
the continued generosity of Dr. William H. Dall, honorary curator
of mollusks, the sectional library of the division of mollusks has
been enriched by the addition of 307 titles during the year.

RECEPTION IN HONOR OF FRENCH SCIENTISTS.

On the evening of June 14, under the auspices of the National
Academy of Sciences, a reception was held in the Smithsonian build-
ing for the members of the French Scientific Mission to the United
States. Prof. Charles Fabry told of what France is doing in the
war; Commander Bridge spoke of Great Britain’s work in submarine
warfare; and Sir Ernest Rutherford sketched the situation as Eng-
land seesit. President Walcott, of the National Academy of Sciences,

65133°—sm 1917——3 °
22 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

and Mrs. Walcott were assisted by Lieut. Maurice Paternot, Prof.
Charles Fabry, and Prof. Henri Abraham in receiving the guests.

NATIONAL MUSEUM.

One of the most important features to be recorded in the opera-
tions of the National Museum during the year was the actual begin-
ning of the building for the Charles L. Freer Art Collections.
Excavation was started on October 2, 1916, and by June 30, 1917,
the foundations and concrete walls inclosing the subbasement had
been complete. The structure, covering 228 by 185 feet, will be
of Milford granite and in exterior and interior design best adapted
to its purpose. Assistant Secretary Rathbun in the appendix to the
present report gives some interesting details regarding this addition
to the Smithsonian group of buildings. The construction of this
art building is made possible through the most generous gift of
$1,000,000 by Mr. Freer for the housing and study of the magnificent
collection he has presented to the Nation. His gift of the building
and collection is the most valued donation which any individual has
ever made to the Government.

The accessions to the National Museum collections during the year
ageregated about 200,000 specimens pertaining to anthropology,
zoology, botany, geology and mineralogy, paleontology, textiles and
woods, mineral technology, and objects of art. In his report Assis-
tant Secretary Rathbun enumerates the sources and importance of
these accessions, so that it is not necessary here to do more than to
mention some of the principal items. Interesting collections of
anthropological objects were received from the island of Celebes,
gathered at the expense of Dr. W. L. Abbott, who for many years has
most generously contributed toward the growth of the Museum in
ethnological and biological material from various parts of the world.
Doctor Abbott personally visited the West Indies during the year and
met with gratifying success in adding to our knowledge of the
early history of man and of the fauna of that region. A large col-
lection of stone implements belonging to the ancient town builders
of Mexico was received through Captains Wright and Cooper of
General Pershing’s expedition, and extensive archeological collec-
tions from the Southwestern States were gathered by Doctor Fewkes
and others connected with the Bureau of American Ethnology.
Hundreds of objects of great value in the study of physical anthro-
pology came to the museum as the result of explorations by Doctor
Hrdlicka.and others in Peru.

To the division of American history memorials were added per-
taining to eminent military and naval men and other prominent
Americans and objects commemorative of historic events, besides
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. Ze

costumes, furniture, and other articles illustrative of colonial and
later periods.

Although the Museum is without funds for carrying on extended
biological explorations, yet through the generosity of friends it has
been greatly enriched by the results of field work in various parts of
the world, particularly the work of Dr. W. L. Abbott so often men-
tioned heretofore. A large and fine collection of reptiles and
batrachians came as a bequest by the late Julius Hurter, sr., of St.
Louis.

To the botanical collections were added about 25,000 specimens and
the remnant of the botanical library saved from the flood which so
nearly destroyed the Vanderbilt Herbarium at Biltmore, N. C., in
July, 1916. These objects were presented by Mrs. Vanderbilt. Prof.
O. F. Cook gave to the Museum about 15,000 specimens of crypto-
gams gathered in the United States and Liberia.

In geological material, likewise, and in the department of textiles,
mineral technology, and other divisions of the Museum, there were
important additions described by the assistant secretary.

The attendance of visitors to the Natural History building ag-
gregated about 400,000 and the Arts and Industries building about
250,000.

In calling attention to the present needs of the Museum, I may
mention the fact that on account of the great growth of the collec-
tions during the last few years there is already presented a lack of
exhibition and storage facilities in some of the departments, par-
ticularly in connection with the applied arts, the fine arts, and Ameri-
can history. It is exceedingly gratifying that the accessions should
increase in such great proportions from year to year, but it is like-
wise important that there be a corresponding increase in the number
of the scientific staff and other employees necessary for the proper
care and study of this mass of material made up in great measure
through gifts by the people of the Nation.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

The Bureau of American Ethnology, which conducts ethnological
researches among the American Indians and the natives of Hawaii,
is under the direction of Mr. F. W. Hodge, whose report is given in
Appendix 2.

Among the important researches of the year was the excavation
and study of Hawikuh, a large reservation on the Zufi Reserva-
tion in western New Mexico. This work was carried on by Mr.
. Hodge in cooperation with the Museum of the American Indian,
Heye Foundation, of New York City. The purpose of the excava-
tion of Hawikuh was to study a Zufii pueblo, known to have been
24 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

inhabited from prehistoric times well into the historic period, to de-
termine as far as possible the character and arts of the Zuni people
in early times, as well as the effect of Spanish contact during the six-
teenth and seventeenth centuries. The results of this important
study, which were highly successful, will be published in the near
future.

In the Mesa Verde National Park Dr. J. Walter Fewkes exca-
vated and repaired a large rectangular ruin, 100 by 113 feet, to which
he gave the name of Far View House, by reason of its commanding
situation on the mesa. The most important result of the study of this
structure is the revelation of a new type of Mesa Verde building, the
form and character of which throw lght on the close relation of
pueblos and cliff dwellings. Dr. Fewkes believes that this structure
is the only example of a pure type of pueblo ever completely exca-
vated, the term “ pure type” meaning a terraced community building
constructed of shaped stones and having circular kivas, or ceremonial
rooms, united with surrounding rectangular rooms. This type of
pueblo may be considered a stage in architectural development be-
tween the older type of structure and the mixed or modern form
which shows a retrogression in the art of masonry.

Mr. J. N. B. Hewitt, while conducting studies in Canada relative
to the Iroquois League, was selected as an official delegate from the
council of the Six Nations to attend a condolence and installation
ceremony at Muncietown, in which he took a leading part, requiring
the intoning of an address of comforting in the Onondaga language
and also in acting the part of the Seneca chiefs in such a council.

Among: the special researches carried on during the year may be
mentioned the completion of the manuscript on the ethnology of the
Kwakiutl Indians by Dr. Franz Boas, honorary philologist. Work
is nearly completed on the results of the field work on the Salishan
language, carried on through the generosity of Mr. Homer E. Sar-
gent, of Chicago, by Mr. James Teit. The study of Indian music
has been continued by Miss Frances Densmore, sufficient data now
being on hand to complete a work on the music of the Ute Indians,
among whom Miss Densmore has now spent two field seasons.

The bureau has published during the year 1 annual report, 2 bulle-
tins, and a list of publications of the bureau. In press or in prepara-
tion at the close of the year were 4 reports and 8 bulletins. The
library of the bureau accessioned 435 new books and 3888 pamphlets.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES.

The International Exchange Service, for the exchange of govern-
mental and scientific publications with other countries, though very
much hampered in its operations by war conditions, has nevertheless
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 25

handled during the year a total of 268,625 packages, weighing 290,193
pounds. On account of the very high ocean freight rates Congress
allowed a small additional appropriation to meet the expense of
foreign shipments.

Suspension of shipments is still found to be necessary in the case
of. about 10 countries. It is gratifying to note that since the begin-
ning of the war only three shipments sent out by the Institution have
been lost through hostile action, two of these being on vessels sunk by
hostile warships. Wherever possible duplicate copies of the publica-
tions in lost consignments are procured and another shipment made.

It has been the custom of the Government of India to refer requests
from establishments in this country for Indian official documents to
the Exchange Service for indorsement, and this year a request for
similar services by the director of the Government press at Cairo,
Egypt, has been granted.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK.

The National Zoological Park is each year becoming more and
more recognized as a means of natural history education and as a
place of recreation and amusement for the public, and the collection
‘of animals is now one of the most varied and interesting of its kind
in the country.

In October, 1916, Dr. Frank Baker, superintendent of the park
for 26 years, resigned to take effect November 1, and was succeeded
by Mr. Ned Hollister, assistant curator of the division of mammals
in the National Museum,

The total number of animals in the park at the close of the fiscal
year was 1,223, including 484 mammals, 683 birds, and 56 reptiles.
Among important additions may be mentioned five adult Rocky
Mountain sheep received from the Canadian Government; four Bed-
ford deer or Manchurian stags, from the Duke of Bedford; and
some desirable Australian marsupials presented by Mr. Victor J.
Evans, of Washington, District of Columbia.

Visitors to the park during the year numbered 1,106,800, a daily
average of 3,032. One hundred and fifty-three schools and classes
examined the collection for educational purposes.

Among recent improvements the superintendent notes that the
hospital and laboratory, on which work has been in progress for the
past two years, now lacks only the laboratory equipment for the use
of pathologists and the outside yards for the animals to be con-
fined in the hospital limits. The lake for North American water
fowl has been enlarged and reconstructed to show as many as pos-
sible of these birds in their natural surroundings. At present no
26 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

less than 136 American water birds of 24 species are to be seen in
the lake.

Every effort is being made to make the park a sanctuary for native
wild birds. Over 100 nesting boxes have been put in place and dur-
ing the cold weather food is provided, resulting in a notable increase
in the bird population of the park.

As noted in last year’s report, the appropriation made by Congress
in 1913 for the acquisition of a frontage for the park on Connecticut
Avenue, lapsed owing to delays caused by legal complications, and
it is regretted that Congress has not made a new appropriation for
this purpose. As the principal entrance to the park will probably
be on Connecticut Avenue for all time, it is exceedingly important
that the land in question be acquired before it is too late.

Among the imperative needs of the park, the superintendent men-
tions some provision for the parking of the increasing number of
automobiles that visit the Zoo, outdoor dens for carnivorous animals,
additional ponds for waterfowl, a bird house, and a reptile house.
The most urgent need, however, is a substantial increase in the gen-
eral appropriation. Owing to the steady advance in the cost of sup-
plies and the increasing expense occasioned by the larger number
of visitors, the point has now been reached where the entire appro-
priation, which has remained the same for the past seven years, does
not cover actual maintenance expenses.

For some years past the National Zoological Park, in common with
other similar institutions in the United States, has felt the effect of
conditions that operated to hinder more and more the importation of
wild animals from abroad and to reduce the supply.

At the suggestion of Dr. W. T. Hornaday, director of the New
York Zoological Park, a conference was held at the Philadelphia
Zoological Garden to consider the question of sending a joint expe-
dition, on behalf of the New York, Philadelphia, and National Zo-
ological Parks, to South Africa for animals. It was decided to send
a man out to look the ground over, see what could be done in the way
of arranging for a supply of animals for the future, and bring back
anything desirable that could be secured at the time. Mr. J. Alden
Loring, who had been successful in bringing animals from Europe
for the New York Zoological Park, and had also had experience in
Africa as a member of the Smithsonian expedition to East Africa,
was selected to make the trip.

Mr. Loring sailed from New York July 22, 1916, taking with him
hay and grain enough to feed as many antelopes and other herbivora
as he was likely to obtain, for one of the conditions necessary to se-
cure their entry into the United States was that no forage from
Africa should be brought with the animals. He arrived at Port
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. ra

Elizabeth, South Africa, August 81, and, returning, sailed from
Durban November 22.

The opportunities for securing animals to bring back were found
to be in some respects less favorable than had been anticipated, but
fortunately the zoological garden at Pretoria was fairly well stocked,
and the director was kind enough to deplete the collection somewhat
for the benefit of his distant colleagues. Most of the animals which
Mr. Loring brought back were obtained there,an interesting collec-
tion of mammals and birds being secured. The mammals obtained
include a gemsbuck, a blessbuck, a white-tailed gnu, a nilgai, four
springbucks, a pair of duikers, a pair of meerkats, and a few mon-
keys and rodents. Among the birds are two secretary vultures, a
bateleur eagle, a hornbill, francolins of several species, a few
touracous and hawks,anda number of smaller birds. The collection
has been divided between the three institutions concerned, accord-
ing to their choice, and in proportion to the share of the expenses
that was borne by each. Altogether there were secured 28 mammals,
representing 13 species; 60 birds, of 25 species; and 55 snakes and
tortoises, of 8 species.

While in South Africa Mr. Loring visited and made notes on the
zoological gardens at Cape Town, Durban, Bloemfontein, Johannes-
burg, and Pretoria.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.

Measurements of solar radiation were continued as usual on Mount
Wilson. As stated in connection with the Hodgkins fund, an allot-
ment has been made to undertake similar work in South America.
Much attention was devoted by Director Abbot to the preparation
of the equipment of this expedition. Valuable new instruments were
devised and constructed under his direction. Owing to war condi-
tions the expedition was located temporarily at Hump Mountain,
North Carolina, in May, 1917, and shelters ‘prepared and apparatus
set up and adjusted under the care of Messrs. Abbot and Aldrich.
The research on the absorption of terrestrial radiation by vapors
of the atmosphere, upon which Mr. Fowle has been engaged for
several years, has been completed, and the results, which are of
great importance to meteorology, have been made ready for pub-
lication by the Institution. A paper of uncommon interest by
H. Helm Clayton, based upon observations by the Astrophysical Ob-
servatory, has been published in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Col-
lections. The author shows that the short-interval solar variations,
discovered in Mount Wilson work, affect terrestrial temperatures
and pressures the world over in a well-marked and _ predictable
manner. It is greatly to be hoped that daily solar-radiation obser-
28 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

vations at all times of the year may be obtained for use in such
meteorological researches. It was for this purpose that the South
American expedition was planned, and it will be unfortunate, indeed,
if war conditions should long delay the carrying out of this work.

POSSIBILITY OF FORECASTING FROM SOLAR OBSERVATIONS.

As Doctor Clayton has shown that variations of the sun are fol-
lowed a day or two later by correlated variations of temperature, it is
of interest to inquire if the fluctuations of temperature thus caused
are large enough to be worth predicting. From Clayton’s curves it
seems to be shown that in 1913 and 1914 changes of solar radiation
of 1 per cent produced changes of maximum temperatures as follows:

Pilar, Argentina, +5.2° ©.
Manila, Philippine Islands, +1.5° C
Winnipeg, Canada, —6.8° C.

Tt may be supposed that the mean temperatures changed half as
much, or -++-2.6°, +0.75°, and —3.15° corresponding to 1 per cent
rise of solar radiation. Changes of 3 per cent or even 5 per cent in
solar radiation within 10 days are not very uncommon. For instance
note the following values of “solar constant” observed on Mount
Wilson in 1911:

Date, Sept. 3 4 5 6 it 8 9 10 aul
Vale Meee Se 1.888 1.906 1.917 1.960 1,988 1.9938 1.948 1.908 1.892

The observed range was 5.5 per cent in 8 days.

Obviously, the subject presents possibilities that when sufficient
observing stations are equipped in various cloudless regions to yield
accurate “solar constant” values every day, 1t may be possible to
forecast for one or two days in advance a very considerable part
of the now outstanding, temperature fluctuations. At present the
two stations of the Smithsonian Institution in California and North
Carolina are the only ones making the required solar observations,
and not in half of the days in the year, especially in midwinter
and midsummer, can observations be made on account of cloudiness.
A bequest of $500,000 would enable the Institution to equip and
maintain indefinitely the required observing stations.

INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC LITERA-
TURE.

As the greater part of the countries supporting regional bureaus
of the International Catalogue of Scientific Literature are now actu-
ally engaged in hostilities, a great deal of difficulty has been encoun-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 29

tered in preparing and financing the Catalogue. The number of
scientific papers being published has greatly decreased and it has
been found practically impossible to obtain the necessary scientific
and clerical assistance for the preparation of the Catalogue. How-
ever, the Central Bureau at London has succeeded in issuing four
volumes, the twelfth annual issue of geology, and the thirteenth
annual issue of chemistry, anatomy, and botany. This brings the
total number of volumes published since the inception of the Cata-
logue in 1901, up to 216 volumes containing about 3,000,000 refer-
ences to current scientific periodicals. The organization as a whole
is holding together very well under extremely adverse conditions, and
when peace is declared it will be necessary only to resume, rather
than reorganize the work.

It is becoming more and more difficult to draw the line between pure
science and applied science, and the present limitation of the Cata-
logue to pure science should be broadened to include at least some of
the applied sciences which are advancing with such great strides.
Although this would increase the size and cost of the Catalogue, yet
its enhanced value would by increasing the demand for it and con-
— sequently its sale, offset any additional cost.

Respectfully submitted.
Cuartes D. Watcort, Secretary.
ai b

uae ae Soe ; aS. as sabe poe © =. a. ‘3 a 4a ;

mae acrid Sahay Was, a an ak ie iad nee mac
ZA he the. ab peot. prenre Pata ne. hae es

“ane prepa, eas te Pee

1s
ok ey. eee
ee 28 ie °F ike bie in Pee * eee mans ae ratte.
ery er art ont gph. AT. ‘Sbeaeis ee
Pade site alihosiia AAO
ee es ‘ate aires Site ones ee ee, pate 2 otont Rites
Bad For Sa Mull OT the: Tics tic the: Soar ame by Sede
ae ee eopret! cine ive tits te nes ie meme %
Ss a ok Shay would ee tp We

APPENDIX I.
REPORT ON THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Srr: I have the honor to submit the following report on the op-
erations of the United States National Museum for the fiscal year
ending June 380, 1917:

INTRODUCTORY.

In the last report it was stated that Mr. Charles L. Freer had
made arrangements for the immediate erection of the building to
house the valuable collections of American and oriental art which
he has presented to the Nation through the Smithsonian Institution,
and also that the preliminary plans had been approved, the site se-
lected and the necessary funds, amounting to $1,000,000, transmitted
by him to the Institution. Tt is exceedingly gratifying to announce
that the detailed plans having been sufficiently advanced by that time
the work of excavating was begun on October 2, 1916, and by the
close of the fiscal year the foundations, including the concrete walls
inclosing the subbasement, had been completed.

This addition to the Smithsonian group of buildings, with a front-
age of 228 feet, a depth of 185 feet, and a height of 46 feet, and
containing an open central court about 65 feet square, will present
an exterior of pink granite from quarries at Milford, Massachusetts,
a stone which has been employed with good effect for several promi-
nent structures in Washington. Above the ground level it will consist
only of a basement and main story, the former lighted by windows,
the latter almost wholly by skylights, leaving the upper part of the
walls essentially unpierced except for the entrances, of which that
on the north front comprises three large arched openings. The loca-
tion, at the corner of Twelfth and B streets SW., between the build-
ings of the Smithsonian Institution and the Department of Agricul-
ture, seems to assure favorable surroundings for the future, as there
is sight probability of intrusion by any high or otherwise objection-
able constructions in that vicinity.

Not only beautiful and effective in general design, but showing
in interior plan a thorough adaptation to the requirements of the
collections both as to space and to lighting, with such facilities as
will make it practically an independent unit of the Smithsonian

31
32 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

group, the character of the construction work so far as it has been
carried leaves nothing to be desired in respect either to enduring
quality or to interpretation of the architect’s conception.

The subbasement will contain the appliances connected with the
heating, lighting, and ventilation of the building, but steam and
electric current will be supplied from the central plant of the Mu-
seum. In the basement, which will be a well-lighted story, will be
located large studios and rooms for the storage of such parts of the
collections as are not on exhibition, a capacious lecture hall, an office
for the curator, and work and comfort rooms, furnishing, in fact,
all necessary conveniences for administration, for serious study, and
for popular instruction.

The main story will be entirely devoted to exhibition purposes and
be divided into 19 rooms, each designed for a particular subject or
class of objects, reached by wide corridors. The Whistler collection
will occupy 5 of these rooms, in one of which the decorations of the
famous peacock room will be installed. The central court, to con-
tain a fountain, will be a special feature of this story, large, arched
openings lighting the adjoining corridors and loggias. The entire
available floor space of the main and basement stories will aggre-
gate some 55,000 square feet, about equally divided between the two
floors.

It will be recalled that this building is designed to accommodate
only the Freer collections and to provide for the study and appre-
ciation of their varied contents which supply a vast amount of ma-
terial for research work by specialists. As an integral part of this
specific gift of art, the most important and valued donation which
any individual has ever made, freely and unconditionally, to the
Nation, it can not be otherwise employed. Its completion, an event
anticipated for the fiscal year 1918-19, while insuring an incalculable
gain for the Museum and the public, will not, therefore, satisfy any
of the needs, set forth in the last report, in respect to additional space
for the national collections of both the applied and the fine arts, as
also of American history. The valuable materials in these depart-
ments, which have long since been seriously overcrowded, can at
present be neither properly utilized nor appropriately brought to the
attention of the public. In one branch especially, that of the in-
dustrial arts, it is unfortunate that such a condition should now
exist, particularly as it is coupled with lack of means for securing an
adequate staff of practical experts, as the collections are closely as-
sociated with many of the vital problems now confronting the coun-
try. With its limited facilities, however, an effort is being made to
demonstrate the value of Museum work in time of crisis, and con-
tributions made since the close of the year but in time to mention
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 38

the fact of their publication here, have been recognized as of great
national importance by those high in authority.
COLLECTIONS,

The additions to the collections, received in 1,450 accessions, aggre-
gated approximately 195,845 specimens and articles, classified by
subjects as follows: Anthropology, 10,775; zoology, 71,761; botany,
79,155; geology and mineralogy, 9,800; paleontology, 23,190; textiles
and woods, 933; mineral technology, 213; and National Gallery of
Art, 18. Many loans were also accepted for exhibition, chiefly in
the Gallery of Art and the division of American history; and 906
lots of material, consisting mainly of rocks, ores, minerals, and zoo-
logical specimens were received from various parts of the country
for examination and report.

Anthropology.—A varied collection from the island of Celebes,
made by Mr. H. C. Raven and presented by Dr. W. L. Abbott, and a
large number of objects exhibiting every phase of the textile art as
practiced among the Indians of British Guiana, assembled by Dr.
Walter Roth, constituted the most important accessions in ethnology.
Pertaining to aborigines of the North American Continent were rare
Papago Indian baskets, baskets of interesting weaves and designs,
carved and painted house posts, etc., from the Quileute Indians of
Washington; articles of ivory, horn, wood, bark, and stone from
Eskimo and British Columbian tribes; and many objects pertaining
to the Pueblo Indians of Arizona and New Mexico. Other acquisi-
tions were from Mexico, Central America, Abyssinia, Japan, China,
and the Philippines.

Especially noteworthy was a large collection of antiquities made
by Capts. John W. Wright and Alexander T. Cooper, United States
Army, while with General Pershing’s expedition in the State of Chi-
huahua, Mexico, comprising nearly every variety of artifact of stone
belonging to the ancient mound builders of that region.

Explorations under the Smithsonian Institution resulted in exten-
sive archeological collections from the Mesa Verde National Park,
Colorado, and from old Zufi ruins near Gallup, New Mexico, made
by Dr. J. Walter Fewkes; from ancient pit villages in New Mexico
and ruins at Awatobi, Arizona, made by Dr. Walter Hough; from
sites of prehistoric adobe dwellings in western Utah, made by Mr.
Neil M. Judd; and from a cave in the southern wall of Cibollita
Valley, New Mexico, made by Mr. F. W. Hodge. Dr. W. L. Abbott
presented much valuable archeological material obtained during his
investigations in Santo Domingo, and among the smaller accessions
were many rare specimens from North and Central America.
34 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917,

Hadji Ephraim and Mr. Mordecai Benguiat made important ad-
ditions to the rich collection of antique Jewish objects lent by them
during previous years. Included in a valuable gift from the estate
of the late John Chandler Bancroft Davis were necklaces, scarabs,
figurines, and Ptolemaic coins from Egypt, a sculptured brick from
the Colosseum at Rome, and marble and terra-cotta vases. From
Miss Isobel H. Lenman were received as a loan a collection of ancient
glassware, comprising bottles, flasks, bowls, cups, tear bottles, brace-
lets, beads, and other articles, displaying the marvelous irridescence
characteristic of the ancient glassware of Syria and Phoenicia.

The principal accession in physical anthropology consisted of ma-
terial obtained in Peru by Dr. AleS Hrdli¢ka in 1915 in connection
with the assembling of exhibits for the Panama-California Exposi-
tion. It includes hundreds of objects of great value, among which
are many specimens representing rare and in some instances unique
anatomical features. Besides an excellent series of brains of gorillas
and chimpanzees from the Cameroons and casts of the Sivapithecus
remains from India, aboriginal skulls and other bones were received
from the vicinity of Vero and Fort Myers, Florida, representing the
supposedly very ancient man of that region, from ancient mounds
in Utah and the Mesa Verde ruins in Colorado, from Tennessee and
Illinois, and from Colombia and Hawaii.

Among the many acquisitions in the division of mechanical tech-
nology were rare watch movements; early pieces of apparatus re-
lating to the invention and history of the telegraph, the telephone,
the telautograph, the phonograph, and the graphophone; a Howe
sewing machine, which sewed the first seam done by machinery; and
numerous interesting firearms, some of early make.

To his previous munificent donation, illustrating the history and
development of the pianoforte and including dulcimers, spinets,
clavichords, harpsichords, and organs, Mr. Hugo Worch added 28
pieces, increasing the extent of this remarkable collection to 117
instruments.

An instructive addition to the exhibition series in graphic arts
was a life-size figure of a Japanese wood-cut printer at work, the
outfit, complete in every detail, having been a gift from the Im-
perial Government of Japan. A much earlier stage in the develop-
ment of graphic methods is illustrated by an original Mexican paint-
ing, executed on a sheet of palmetto fiber smoothly surfaced with
white clay. Among other interesting acquisitions were one of the
earliest forms of the machine for casting linotype slugs; materials
of the various kinds employed in miniature painting, with examples
of miniature work on ivory, parchment, and porcelain; and a series
of specimens illustrating processes in making line-cut and halftone
engraving,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 35

American history.—The most notable memorial accession consisted
of a large number of relics of Admiral David G. Farragut, United
States Navy, including a jeweled sword presented by the Union
League Club of New York and a portrait of Farragut by William
Swain, which were received as a donation from the estate of the late
Loyall Farragut, only son of the Admiral. Other officers of the
Navy represented by contributions were Commodore Stephen De-
catur, Commodore John Rodgers, and Rear Admiral C. M. Chester.
Among the furniture secured for the collection were pieces which had
belonged to Presidents Washington and Jefferson, President and Mrs.
Madison, and Charles Cotesworth Pinckney, American minister to
France in 1796-1798. To the large series of medals awarded Com-
mander Matthew Fontaine Maury in recognition of his services to
science, and placed in the Museum by several of his descendants,
was added the ribbon of the Grand Cross of the Order of Our Lady
of Guadaloupe, presented by Emperor Maximilian of Mexico in 1866,
a gift from Mrs. Mary Maury Werth.

For the gift of the wedding dress of Harriet Lane Johnston, niece
of President Buchanan, for several years shown in the section of
historical costumes, the Museum was indebted to Miss May S. Ken-
nedy. Other hostesses of the White House represented by costumes
more or less complete, lent during the year for incorporation in the
central feature of the hall, were Mrs. Martha Jefferson Randolph,
daughter of President Jefferson; Mrs. Martha Johnson Patterson,
daughter of President Johnson; and Mrs. Theodore Roosevelt.
Among interesting relics were a silk dressing gown of Lafayette, an
eiderdown quilt used by Jefferson, a beaded bag of Mrs. James Mon-
roe, and a handkerchief that had belonged to Queen Anne.

A large number of decorations, medals, and badges of the United
States and foreign countries, which had been assembled by the late
Lieut. Thomas Kelly Boggs and were presented by Mrs. Boggs,
formed a very gratifying addition to the numismatic collection. The
greater part of these tokens are foreign war decorations of very
timely interest, and 23 countries are represented. The philatelic col-
lection was augmented to the extent of 3,398 specimens, mainly re-
ceived through the Post Office Department, and including 1,893 ex-
amples of new issues of stamps from countries in the Universal Postal
Union.

Biology.—tThrough the generosity of friends the department of
biology was greatly enriched by the results of field work in different
parts of the world, adding new genera and species and many forms
not previously represented in the Museum. Mr. H. C. Raven, under
a further grant of funds by Dr. W. L. Abbott, continued his collect-
ing on the island of Celebes, sending to Washington about 900 mam-
mal skins, besides over 1,000 specimens each of birds and mollusks.
36 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

Doctor Abbott personally spent some time in Haiti, where he obtained
many birds, including species whose occurrence on that island was
unexpected, reptiles, and mollusks, and also a large quantity of bones
of mammels from prehistoric kitchenmiddens. The study of simi-
lar deposits on this and other islands of the Antilles was an inter-
esting feature of the year’s activities, a large collection of bones
gathered by Mr. Theodoor de Booy in Cuba, Santo Domingo, and
the Virgin Islands, and presented by Mr. George G. Heye, having
yielded new genera of rodents, birds, and reptiles, which have ap-
parently become extinct within comparatively recent times.

As the proceeds of an expedition to Cuba and Haiti by Mr. John
B. Henderson, accompanied by Dr. Paul Bartsch, the Museum re-
ceived from Mr. Henderson numerous birds, reptiles, and fishes, and
over 15,000 land and marine invertebrates, mostly mollusks. Mr. F.
J. Dyer, American consul at Ceiba, Honduras, contributed a large
number of insects and mollusks from that country; and Mr. Arthur
de C. Sowerby transmitted mammals, birds, crustaceans, and mol-
lusks from northern China and Manchuria.

The Bureau of Fisheries deposited, as usual, valuable collections
of fishes and marine invertebrates, besides many interesting speci-
mens of mammals, birds, and reptiles. Among the fishes were 72
types, cotypes, and paratypes, 40 of which were of species obtained
on the Philippine cruise of the steamer Albatross in 1907-1911. The
marine invertebrates, numbering several thousand specimens, in-
cluded recently described type collections of annelids and parasitic
copepods. Transfers, chiefly of mollusks and crustaceans, aggregat-
ing over 400 specimens, were made by the Biological Survey and
Bureaus of Entomology and Plant Industry of the Department of
Agriculture.

Exceptionally noteworthy was a bequest to the Museum by the
late Julius Hurter, sr., of St. Louis. An enthusiastic collector, he
had gathered one of the largest and finest private collections of
reptiles and batrachians in existence. Its principal scientific value
lies in its splendid series of Missouri forms which served as the basis
for Mr. Hurter’s “ Herpetology of Missouri,” published in 1911. Not
solely confined to that region, however, it contains valuable material
from various parts of the world, and most of the important sub-
divisions of the group are represented.

From the Santa Marta Mountains in Colombia were received 149
specimens of birds, which added 6 species new to the Museum, and
from Panama, 213 specimens of reptiles and batrachians, the latter
collected by the Smithsonian biological survey of the Canal Zone.
Mr. James Zetek transmitted 769 specimens of mollusks’ and other
marine invertebrates from Panama, and Prof. G. S. Dodds, of the
University of Missouri, presented a large number of Entomostraca,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 37

representing 55 species, collected in 124 lakes and ponds in Colorado
and forming the basis of a paper which he had published.

The Bureau of Entomology was the principal contributor of
insects, transferring about 3,000 specimens of various orders. The
material from American Consul Dyer in Honduras has already been
mentioned. The other more important accessions comprised Lepi-
doptera from Peru, Mexico, and Alaska; Hymenoptera from western
Argentina, and a collection of miscellaneous insects from Mount
Kinabalu, British North Borneo.

The additions to the botanical collections exceeded 79,000 speci-
mens, including about 25,000 specimens from the Vanderbilt Her-
barium at Biltmore, North Carolina, comprising all that were saved
from the disastrous flood of July 15-16, 1916. This valuable her-
barium, which was established and maintained for many years by the
late George W. Vanderbilt, contained at the time of the flood upward
of 100,000 specimens, and was especially noteworthy for its repre-
sentation of the plants of the southeastern United States. This ac-
cession, which was accompanied by the remnant of the botanical
library attached to the herbarium, was a gift from Mrs. Vanderbilt.

Another notable accession consisted of about 15,000 specimens of
cryptogams, mainly mosses, hepatics, fungi, and myxomycetes, from
the northeastern United States and Liberia, presented by Prof. O. F.
Cook. The Department of Agriculture deposited over 5,800 speci-
mens, resulting principally from field work of the Bureau of Plant
Industry and including many tropical American palms and Alaskan
and Hawaiian plants. Through exchanges, important collections
were obtained from the New York Botanical Garden, the Gray
Herbarium of Harvard University, the Missouri Botanical Garden,
the British Museum, and the Bureau of Science at Manila. A gift of
about 1,000 Venezuelan plants was received from the Carnegie Insti-
tution of Washington, and about 5,000 specimens were collected in
New Mexico for the Museum by Mr. Paul C. Standley, assistant
curator.

Geology—rThe Charles U. Shepard collection of meteorites, the
bequest of which was announced in the last report, was formally
transferred to the Museum during the year, and constitutes one of
the most important accessions ever acquired by the department of
geology. It comprises 238 falls and finds. Additional specimens of
meteorites to the number of 26 were obtained by gift and exchange,
and there were many acquisitions of valuable ores and rocks from
various localities.

The more prominent accessions of minerals, as also of petrological
material, were from the Geological Survey. Among the former,
were a fine large series illustrating the occurrence of turquoise, a

65133°—sm 1917—— 4
388 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

number of amethyst crystals, many semiprecious stones, and a large
number of minerals and rocks collected in connection with studies
of the gem deposits of southern California. Among the latter were
extensive collections of rocks and ores representing geological re-
searches in several districts in the western United States.

From other sources were obtained many rare as well as some in-
structive series of minerals and a number of showy specimens espe-
cially desired for exhibition. Among these were type specimens of
stevensite and creedite, material illustrating the genesis of the zeo-
lites and their association with glauberite cavities, a remarkable
specimen of glendonite from Australia, an exceptionally large crys-
tal of iron pyrite and a fine specimen of crystallized anglesite.

The principal acquisitions in invertebrate paleontology were a
collection of Silurian fossils, transferred by the Geological Survey,
which had formed the basis of papers illustrating the geology and
paleontology of Maine, the types of nine species of Paleozoic crin-
oids, a series of rare and recently described insects from the Tertiary
rocks of Colorado, several hundred species of European invertebrates,
and about 2,000 specimens of Lower Ordovician fossils from the zine
mines of Arkansas.

A collection of Permian vertebrates from Baylor County, Texas,
contains the greater part of a skeleton of the large finbacked reptile
Dimetrodon, complete enough to mount for exhibition, besides re-
mains in less perfect condition of the same form and of Cardiocepha-
lus, Lyosorophus, Diplocaulus, Seymouria, and Labidosaurus, and
many bones of small reptiles and batrachians. The skull and lower
jaw of a fossil horse, the type of a recently described species, from
the Pleistocene gravels of the Yukon Territory, and part of the skull
of a fossil muskox from the Pleistocene of Miami County, Indiana,
were also obtained.

About 400 specimens of small mammalian remains of rare forms
from cave deposits in the mountains of western Cuba were collected
for the Museum by Mr. William Palmer, and a large part of the
skeleton of an extinct and probably undescribed species of bird was
received from the Geological Survey. Goucher College, of Balti-
more, deposited a collection of reptiles and cetacean remains from the
Arundel formation of Maryland, bringing together in the National
Museum practically all of the known vertebrate material from that
formation in Maryland.

Secretary Walcott and party spent the summer and early fall
on the Continental Divide between Alberta and British Columbia,
south of the Canadian Pacific Railway, and besides extensive geo-
logical observations collected about 1,000 pounds of Cambrian mate-
rial containing fossils, which were shipped to Washington.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 39

Tecxtiles—The accessions in the division of textiles comprised
many excellent examples of the present-day productions of American
textile industries. The largest group of specimens received consisted
of the most important types of cotton threads, arranged to show the
various ways in which they are wound and put up for family and
faetory use. They were accompanied by several beautiful examples
of tatting, crochet, embroidery, and cut work, in white and colors,
suggesting artistic and practical uses for many of the threads in
the series, and supplemented an extensive series of models and ma-
chine parts illustrating the manufacture of cotton thread previously
received from the same contributor.

The hearty cooperation of many American manufacturers has con-
tinued to keep the collections supplied with new types and designs
of dress goods as soon as these novelties appear on the market. The
exhibits illustrating the principal methods used in decorating fabrics
were enriched by numerous examples of tied and dyed work and
many samples of skein-dyed plaid silks for comparison with piece-
dyed and printed fabrics.

Fresh samples of the standard types of ribbons commonly used
and many beautiful specimens of novelty and fancy ribbons, show-
ing Aztec, Indian, Chinese, and Byzantine designs, augmented the
ribbon section. The adaptability of mohair, by reason of its luster
and resiliency, to the manufacture of plushes, velvets, and fur fabrics
was shown in an instructive series of specimens comprising up-
holstery goods, cloakings, trimmings, and automobile rugs. Ex-
amples of household industry in the textile arts of a former period
were received in the form of hand-woven coverlets and quilts, while
valuable specimens of foreign hand-worked textiles from China,
Spain, and Germany were added to the collection through friends of
the Museum.

Additions were obtained for the collection of implements illustrat-
ing the preparation and use of flax and other fibers in former times,
including an old wooden rope machine which had seen many years’
service in twisting bed cords and wash lines. The utilization of pine
needles in the manufacture of coiled baskets and of split-palm stems
for large pack baskets was shown in other accessions.

Wood technology—aAlthough circumstances greatly retarded the
progress of work in wood technology, some interesting exhibits were
secured. A model measuring 12 by 15 feet and contributed by the
Forest Service is designed to show the various important uses of the
national forests and their administration. A comprehensive cork
exhibit covers every phase of the industry from the raw bark to the
many articles made from this substance, and certain modern methods
of preserving wood are represented by a model and samples of the
materials employed. Examples of 15 species of Argentine woods
40 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

and 49 specimens of wood from Surinam were added to the com-
mercial series of timbers, and the series illustrating wood finishing
and tanning materials were also increased.

Mineral technology—Most important among the additions in min-
eral technology was an impressive model of the Bingham Canyon
copper property in Utah, measuring 16 by 19 feet, accurately sculp-
tured and colored, representing what is probably the most significant
mining achievement of the present generation. It was a gift from
the Utah Copper Co. The manufacture of white lead is shown in
another excellent model presented by the National Lead Co., of New
York, while among the models made in the Museum are five visual-
izing the mode of occurrence, the recovery, and the preparation, re-
spectively, of tin, sulphur, asphalt, lime, and oil. A specimen exhibit
illustrative of design and execution in cut glassware, specially pre-
pared for the Museum, was contributed by T. G. Hawkes & Co., of
Corning, New York, and another series of specimens exemplifying
the properties and uses of asphalt came from the Barber Asphalt
Paving Co.

Exhibits more or less representative or at least covering some
phase of 18 mineral resource types are now available to the public in
the halls of the division. Of these, abrasives, asbestos, asphalt, coal
and coal products, copper, graphite, lime, mica, petroleum, plaster,
Portland cement, and sulphur have been treated with sufficient full-
ness to warrant the publication of descriptive accounts of them and of
their significance.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART.

The progress of work in the erection of the building for the Freer
collections has already been mentioned. Next in importance to
record in this connection are the terms of the will of Henry W.
Ranger, N. A., one of the best-known of contemporary American
painters, who died on November 7, 1916, leaving his residuary estate,
estimated at over $200,000, to the National Academy of Design to be
held as a permanent fund of which the income is to be used for pur-
chasing paintings by American artists, the paintings so obtained to be
given to art or other institutions in America which maintain a gal-
lery open to the public, upon the express condition that the National
Gallery of Art shall have the option and right to take, reclaim, and
own any picture for its collection provided such option and right is
exercised at any time during the five-year period beginning 10 years
after the artist’s death and ending 15 years after his death.

This generous provision by Mr. Ranger, which has been most
eratifying to all lovers of art in this country and may be expected
to have a stimulating influence upon the work of American artists,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 4)

will result in a much wider circulation than hitherto of good Ameri-
can paintings and insure the gradual assembling for perpetual ex-
hibition at Washington of some of the best that our painters can
produce. The system of selection will, in its working, be not unlike
that which has been followed by the French Government in Paris,
and it is to be hoped that the fund for so worthy a purpose may in
time be greatly increased through corresponding action by other
public benefactors. The National Gallery contains five of Mr.
Ranger’s paintings, all of which were presented by Mr. William T.
Evans. ;

Among the permanent acquisitions by the Gallery during the year
were the following oil paintings: “ June,” by John W. Alexander ;
“On the Lagoon, Venice,” by R. Swain Gifford; “ Portrait of Ben-
jamin West,” by himself; “ Portrait of J. J. Shannon, R. A.,” by
Orlando Rouland; “The Song of the Sea,” by William F. Halsall;
“Portrait of Ellwood Hendrick,” by Augustus Vincent Tack;
“Evening,” by William J. Kaula; “ Landscape,” by Chauncey F.
Ryder; “A Breton Sunday,” by Eugene Vail; “ The Happy Mother,”
by Max Bohm; “ Portrait of Maj. Gen. Julius Stahel, U. S. Volun-
teers,” by J. Mortimer Lichtenauer; and “Portrait of Joseph Henry,”
first Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, by Henry Ulke.
Among the sculptures were a bronze “Statue of Robert Emmet,”
by Jerome Connor; a bronze figure, “The Fire Dance,” by Louis
Potter; and a marble statue “The Dying Tecumseh,” by Chevalier
Ferdinand Pettrich.

An oil portrait of Dr. Charles D. Walcott, recently painted by
Ossip Perelma, was deposited by the Smithsonian Institution, as
were also large oil portraits of Washington, Jackson, Henry Clay,
and W. W. Corcoran, by the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia.

Through the kindness of Mr. Ralph Cross Johnson, many fine
examples from his splendid private collection of paintings were con-
tinued on exhibition throughout the year, while the collection of
Mr. W. A. Slater remained in the Gallery until in December. Seven-
teen paintings from 11 friends of the Gallery were also added to the
general loan collection.

The Gallery held four special loan exhibitions during the year.
The most notable of these, given under the auspices of the National
Park Service of the Department of the Interior during January
and February, and designed to bring to the attention of American
tourists some of the marvelous natural attractions of their own
country, consisted of 45 oi] paintings illustrating scenes mainly in
the National Parks and Monuments of the United States, among the
27 artists represented being Albert Bierstadt and Thomas Moran.
Assembled in connection with the meeting of the National Parks
42, ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

Conference held in the Museum auditorium from January 2 to 6,
this interesting exhibition was opened with a special view on. the
evening of the second and the majority of the paintings remained on
display until March. It was supplemented by series of photo-
graphs, studies in oil, and other pictorial matter shown in several
rooms.

The other special exhibitions were as follows: Twenty oil paint-
ings and 1 bronze group, by Edwin Willard Deming, illustrating
the old-time Indian, his war, hunting, and religious life and mythol-
ogy; a collection of 27 oil portraits and other paintings by Orlando
Rouland, which was opened on the evening of April 2, and was es-
pecially noteworthy for the number of prominent men represented ;
and a collection of 48 paintings, mostly portraits, by the Russian
painter, Ossip Perelma, which began on April 28.

Mention should also be made of the ceremonies attending the pres-
entation to the Gallery by the Emmet Statue Committee of the
bronze full-length figure of Robert Emmet by Jerome Connor, which
took place in the rotunda of the new building on the afternoon of
June 28. A distinguished audience, including the President of the
United States and other high officials of the Government, was in
attendance and several addresses were made.

MEETINGS AND CONGRESSES.

The accommodations afforded by the auditorium and committee
rooms in the natural history building were utilized on many occa-
sions. Three courses of lectures, extending from November to April,
were given under the auspices of the Washington Society of the Fine
Arts, while three other local societies, the Anthropological Society of
Washington, the District of Columbia Dental Society, and the So-
ciety of Federal Photographers, also made this building their regular
meeting place.

The National Academy of Sciences had its annual meeting in
April, and lectures were delivered under the auspices of the Wash-
ington Academy of Sciences, the War College, the Audubon Society
of the District of Columbia, the Bureau of Commercial Economics,
the Washington Center of the Drama League of America, the
Shakespeare Society of Washington, and George Washington Uni-
versity.

Several bureaus of the Department of Agriculture made use of
the auditorium or committee rooms for conferences and hearings, and
meetings were held by four societies representing special fields of
agricultural subjects. The exhibition halls in the natural history
building were opened one evening for the benefit of the Ohio Corn
Boys and Domestic Science Girls, then visiting Washington. Other
meetings of a governmental character were as follows: By the Na-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 43

tional Association of Postmasters, holding its nineteenth annual con-
vention; by the Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce of the
Department of Commerce; by the National Parks Conference, under
the auspices of the National Park Service of the Department of the
Interior, accompanied by an exhibition of paintings; by the Na-
tional Research Council; and by the Bureau of Commercial Eco-
nomics, which gave an exhibition of lantern slides and motion pic-
tures relative to the prevention of contagious diseases, for the bene-
fit of the Council of National Defense. Mr. Eugene E. Thompson
addressed the employees of the Institution and its branches on the
subject of the first Liberty loan, and two rehearsals of the inter-
Departmental chorus in preparation for Flag Day exercises were
held in the auditorium.

Receptions were given, on the invitation of the Regents and Secre-
tary of the Institution, on the occasion of a special view of paintings
by. Mr. Orlando Rouland, and to the Daughters of the American
Revolution at the time of their annual congress and the delegates to
the eighth annual convention of the American Federation of Arts.
The exhibition halls in the natural history building were opened on
the evening of June 6 in honor of the visiting Confederate Veterans,
Sons of Confederate Veterans, and Daughters of the Confederacy,
the receiving party consisting of Secretary and Mrs. Walcott, Miss
Mary Lee, and members of the local reception committee.

MISCELLANEOUS.

Over 6,000 duplicate specimens, included in 16 regular sets of mol-
lusks, 19 regular sets of fossils, and a number of special sets, were
distributed to schools and colleges. Exchanges for securing addi-
tions to the collections involved the use of about 19,500 duplicates,
while above 14,000 specimens, chiefly biological and geological, were
lent to specialists for study.

The attendance of visitors at the natural history building aggre-
gated 343,183 persons for week days and 63,842 persons for Sundays,
being a daily average of 1,096 for the former and 1,227 for the latter.
At the arts and industries building and the Smithsonian building,
which are open only on week days, the totals were, respectively,
161,700 and 86,336, and the daily averages, 516 and 275.

By the terms of three wills admitted to probate during the year
the Museum will be materially benefited, and in another case the
testator’s desires have already been carried out. Attention has been
called to two of these bequests in other connections. That of Henry
Ward Ranger is destined to have an important bearing on the future
welfare of the National Gallery of Art, while the collection of rep-
tiles left by Julius Hurter, sr., is especially noteworthy and valuable.
To the late Miss Sarah J. Farmer, of Eliot, Maine, the Museum is
44 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

indebted for the bequest of the models and apparatus left by her
father, Moses G. Farmer, a prominent pioneer in the development of
the electrical industries, many of whose inventions have for some
time been represented in the Museum. Through the wishes of the
late Rev. Bruce Hughes, of Lebanon, Pennsylvania, the Smithsonian
Institution becomes the recipient of a small sum, the residue of his
estate, to found the Hughes Alcove, which will be established in some
form in the Museum and be added to perpetually from the interest
on principal.

The publications of the year consist of one volume of Proceed-
ings, two volumes of Contributions from the United States National
Herbarium, and four Bulletins, besides 76 separate papers, all of
which were from the Proceedings, except two from the Contributions
and two catalogues of special loan exhibitions in the National Gallery
of Art. The total number of copies of publications distributed was
about 64,000.

The library obtained, by purchase, gift, and exchange, 1,572 vol-
umes, 65 parts of volumes and 3,556 pamphlets. The more impor-
tant donations were from Capt. John Donnell Smith, the estate of
the late Dr. E. A. Mearns, United States Army, and Dr. William
H. Dall.

Respectfully submitted.

Ricuarp Rarueun,
Assistant Secretary in Charge,
United States National Museum.
Dr. Cuartes D. Watcort,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
NoveMeBer 10, 1917.
APPENDIX 2.

REPORT OF THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

Sir: Pursuant to your request dated July 3, I have the honor to
submit the following report of the operations of the Bureau of
American Ethnology during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1917,
conducted in accordance with the act of Congress approved July 1,
1916, making provisions for the sundry civil expenses of the Govern-
ment, and with a plan of operations submitted by the ethnologist-in-
charge and approved by the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion. The act referred to contains the following item:

American ethnology : For continuing ethnological researches among the Ameri-
can Indians and the natives of Hawaii, including the excavation and preserva-
tion of archzeologic remains, under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution,
including necessary employees and the purchase of necessary books and periodi-
cals, $42,000.

In addition to conducting the administrative affairs of the bureau,
Mr. F. W. Hodge, ethnologist-in-charge, assisted by Miss Florence
M. Poast, continued the preparation of the annotated bibliography
of the Pueblo Indians as opportunity offered, adding about 1,000
cards to the 3,800 previously prepared.

SYSTEMATIC RESEARCHES.

In April.Mr. Hodge proceeded to New Mexico for the purpose of
making final arrangements with the Zuni Indians for the excava-
tion of the ruins of the large pueblo of Hawikuh, situated on their
reservation in the western-central part of the State. This having
been accomplished, Mr. Hodge returned to Washington and in the
latter part of May again proceeded to Zuni and established camp at
Hawikuh, where excavations were immediately commenced under the
joint auspices of the Bureau of American Ethnology and the Museum
of the American Indian, Heye Foundation, of New York City, the
latter institution bearing most of the expense of the expedition, and
assigning Mr. Alanson Skinner and Mr. E. F. Coffin to aid in the
work. Authority for conducting the excavations was courteously
granted by the Secretary of the Interior.

The excavation of Hawikuh has as its chief object the study of
a Zuni pueblo known to have been’ inhabited from prehistoric times
well into the historic period, for the purpose of determining, so far

45
46 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

as possible, the character and arts of the Zuni people in early times,
as well as the effect of Spanish contact during the sixteenth and sev-
enteenth centuries. Hawikuh was one of the famed “Seven Cities
of Cibola” of early Spanish narrative, and its history from the time
of its discovery in 1539 until its abandonment in 1670 is quite well
known. Consequently the information that the ruins may be ex-
pected to yield will in all probability shed considerable light on a
phase of the culture of a branch of the Pueblo Indians at an impor-
tant period in their life.

It is not necessary in this brief report to present the results of the
Hawikuh excavations, which were successful beyond anticipation in
both a subjective and a objective way. It is expected that a sum-
mary report on the work, which was still in progress at the close of
the fiscal year, will be presented for publication in the near future.

The beginning of the fiscal year found Dr. J. Walter Fewkes, eth-
nologist, engaged in an archeological reconnoissance in the vicinity
of Gallup, New Mexico. Early in July he proceeded to Mancos, Colo-
rado, examining ancient ruins en route and commencing intensive
archeological work in the Mesa Verde National Park, where he re-
mained until the close of September. These excavations, conducted
with the cooperation of the Department of the Interior, were in con-
tinuation of the work initiated several years ago, of uncovering and
repairing the remains of the more important prehistoric ruins in that
great area, thus making them available for study and adding to the
park’s many attractions.

The scene of Doctor Fewkes’s activities during this season was one
of a cluster of 16 ruins known as the Mummy Lake group, situated
above Soda Canyon. None of the walls of this large ruin projected
above the surface of the mound of fallen building stones and other dé-
bris covered with sagebrush, but on excavation the remains were shown
to be those of a rectangular pueblo, 100 by 113 feet, with three stories
at the north and an annexed court inclosed by a low wall on the south.
By reason of its commanding situation, Doctor Fewkes has named this
former pueblo Far View House. After clearing the ruin of the great
quantity of débris accumulated during centuries, the tops of the walls
of the four kivas uncovered were protected with a capping of con-
crete, and so far as means would permit the walls of other chambers
were similarly treated. Asa report on Doctor Fewkes’s work at Far
View House will appear shortly,! it is not necessary to present the
details here; but it may be mentioned that the most important result
of the study of this site is the fact that a new type of Mesa Verde
structure has been revealed, the form and character of which shed
light on the close relation of pueblos and cliff dwellings. Indeed,

1“ A Mesa Verde Pueblo and its People,’ Smithsonian Report for 1916, pp. 461-488,
pl. 1-15, figs. 1-7, Washington, 1917.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 47

Doctor Fewkes reports that Far View House is the only known ex-
ample of a pure type of pueblo ever completely excavated, the term
“pure type” signifying a terraced community building constructed of
shaped stones and having circular kivas united with surrounding
rectangular rooms. Other significant features are the vaulted roofs
of the kivas, the supporting beams of which rest on pilasters, and
the presence of a ventilator and a deflector in each kiva, as in the case
of certain cliff dwellings. As this pure type of pueblo is entirely
prehistoric, it may be regarded as representing a stage in architec-
tural development between the older stage of pueblo structures and
the mixed type or more modern form in which the arrangement of
the rooms and the art of the mason exhibits a retrogression.

On finishing his work at Far View House, Doctor Fewkes visited
Utah primarily for the purpose of determining the geographic dis-
tribution of ruins in the northern limits of Pueblo culture. This
reconnoissance extended to the Uintah Reservation, where hitherto
unknown ruins of Hill Canyon, near Ouray, were examined and
where a number of stone towers similar to those along San Juan River
were found. These ruins, to which Doctor Fewkes’s attention was
called by Mr. Kneale, agent for the Uncompahgre Ute, are espe-
cially striking owing to their unusual situation on eroded rocks of
mushroom shape. These towers mark the northernmost limit of
Pueblo culture in eastern Utah, and some of them are especially in-
structive by reason of their relation to prehistoric towers much
further south. An illustrated report on these remains, by Doctor
Fewkes, has already appeared.?

Mr. James Mooney, ethnologist, was engaged in field work among
the Eastern Cherokee of western North Carolina at the opening of
the fiscal year, and on his return to Washington, August 10, resumed
the translation and annotation of the Sacred Formulas of the Chero-
kee, as well as the identification of the plants, etc., used by the tribe
in its medicine and other rites. Mr. Mooney reports this work to
be well advanced, but its complicated nature, coupled with the
author’s iil health during the year, has made progress somewhat
slow. Mr. Mooney also spent considerable time in supplying in-
formation on technical subjects for official correspondence.

Dr. John R. Swanton, ethnologist, was occupied chiefly with two
lines of investigation—the one historical, the other philological. In
July and August he made a thorough examination of the Woodbury
Lowery and Brooks collections of manuscripts in the Library of Con-
gress bearing on the early Spanish history of Florida, finding many
important items for incorporation in his “History of the Southeast-

1“ Archeological Investigations in New Mexico, Colorado, and Utah,” Smithsonian Misc.
Coll., vol. 68, no..1, pp. 1-38, May, 1917.
48 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

ern Tribes.” In September Doctor Swanton visited the Newberry
Library in Chicago, where other valuable early documents were found
in the Edward E. Ayer collection, which subsequently were copied
for the bureau’s use by the courtesy of the librarian. These latter
manuscripts include a report on the Indians of Louisiana by Bien-
ville, a Louisiana memoir with an extended description of the Choc-
taw, and a memoir by the French captain Berenger, containing,
besides historical and ethnological information, vocabularies of the
extinct Karankawa and Akokiska tribes. A Spanish census of the
Indians of Florida after the period of the English invasions should
also be mentioned. For some months after his return Doctor Swanton
was engaged in adding to his monograph the historical notes thus
obtained, and in copying and translating the more important parts
of the manuscripts mentioned, including all of the Berenger memoir.

Although Doctor Swanton’s History of the Southeastern Tribes
nad been completed a year ago, so far as the information was then
available, the manuscript discoveries described have enabled him to
augment and to improve it substantially, and more recently he has
obtained some supplementary notes from the Louisiana Historical
Society. The preparation of the maps to accompany the monograph,
chiefly from early sources, did not progress as satisfactorily as was
hoped, owing largely to pressure of other illustration work, but they
are now practically finished.

Doctor Swanton’s second paper, also referred to in last year’s report
remains as then practically complete so far as the available material
is concerned, but it awaits further data respecting the social organi-
zation of the Chikisaw and the Choctaw. A third paper, on the
religious beliefs and medical practices of the Creeks and their con-
geners, has been brought to the same stage as the last, namely, with
all the available material incorporated and arranged, and the foot-
notes added.

With a view of furnishing the basis of a general study of the
social organization of the tribes north of Mexico, Doctor ‘Swanton
spent a few weeks collecting material bearing on Indian economic life,
but this has been laid aside temporarily on account of the greater ur-
gency of a closer comparative study of the Indian languages of the
southeastern part of the United States, particularly as indications of
relationship between some of them have already been noted. Asa basis
for this work Doctor Swanton has recorded a comparative vocabulary
of Creek, Choctaw, Alabama, Hitchiti, Natchez, Tunica, Chitimacha,
Atakapa, Tonkawa, Comecrudo, Cotoname, Coahuilteco, and Ka-
rankawa. Of these languages about 500 words were chosen, but as the
lexical material from several of the tribles is scanty, the comparison
can never be complete. It was the intention to follow the compila-
tion of this table with a closer comparison of Chitimacha and Ata-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 49

kapa, which show many resemblances, but in the course of the work
so many more similarities between Chitimacha and Tunica presented
themselves that these were selected instead. In partial furtherance
of this research Doctor Swanton proceeded to Louisiana in May,
where he remained almost until the close of the fiscal year, visiting,
studying, and photographing the mixed Indian population along the
Gulf coast in La Fourche and Terra Bonne Parishes, the Chitimacha
at Charenton, and the Koasati northeast of Kinder. From the Koa-
sati about 150 pages of native text with interljnear translation were’
recorded, and 134 pages previously procured from an Alabama In-
dian in Texas were corrected.

Mr. J. N. B. Hewitt, ethnologist, at the beginning of March went
to Canada for the purpose of continuing his Iroquois studies. Estab-
lishing headquarters at Brantford, Ontario, he at once undertook the
work of revising the extended texts relating to the Iroquois League,
recorded during former field trips. Shortly thereafter this work
was interrupted when Mr. Hewitt was selected as an official delegate
from the council of the Six Nations to attend a condolence and
installation ceremony at Muncietown, in which he took a leading
part, requiring the intoning of an address of comforting in the
Onondaga language and also in acting the part of the Seneca chiefs
in such a council. This official recognition gave Mr. Hewitt the rare
opportunity of observing how such a ceremony is conducted from
an esoteric point of view.

On returning to Brantford, March 16, Mr. Hewitt resumed work
on the texts pertaining to the league, which necessitated the reading
of the words and the immediate context several times to determine
their final form. Moreover, it was desirable to read the texts over
with every informant separately in order to obtain a full expression
of the informant’s knowledge or criticism of the work of another.
In this manner it was possible to study about 70 per cent of the
texts, and this led, naturally, to the collection of other corrective or
amplifying texts and notes. These aggregate 502 pages, comprising
42 topics, recorded from rituals received by Shaman Joshua Buck
and Chief Abram Charles. In addition, Mr. Hewitt recorded in
English translation three traditions, comprising 45 pages, purporting
to relate events and to express ideas alleged to have led to the found-
ing of the League of the Iroquois, showing naively the birth of the
idea of human brotherhood and fellowhood in contradistinction to
mere local tribalism.

Mr. Hewitt also made important discoveries regarding Iroquois
social organization, namely, that certain so-called clans do not exist
outside of the names used to designate them. For instance, the
“Ball” clan is in reality the Hawk clan; the “Hand” clan of the
50 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

Cayuga is the Gray Wolf clan, and the “Potato” clan of that tribe
is in fact a Duck clan or possibly a Wolf clan. This confusion has
been due to popular acceptance of a sobriquet for the real name, hence
the doubt in the last instance between the Duck and the Wolf, which
it is probable will ultimately be removed. Mr. Hewitt was fortunate
also in obtaining a set of wooden masks of the various wind gods, and
also two masks of food gods—eight in all. He also procured the
gourd rattle used by the late Chief John Buck, a medicine flute, and
- what was probably the last cradle board with a beaded belt on the
reservation.

On returning from the field early in July, Mr. Hewitt undertook
at once the editing and copying of the texts of some of his material
relating to the Iroquois League. Among these are the following,
chiefly in the Onondaga language: (1) The eulogy of the grandsires
and founders, one of the essential chants in the condolence ritual, in
the version used by the “ father side” of the league; (2) the laws gov-
erning federal chiefs in intertribal relations; (8) the laws relating to
murder committed by a federal chief; (4) the charge made to a newly
installed federal chief; (5) the important tradition of the Bear-foot
episode; (6) the address made at the lodge of a deceased federal chief
three days after his burial; and (7) the laws relating to the nomina-
tion and election of a candidate for a federal chiefship. Mr. Hewitt
also commenced the translation of the extended “ father-side” tra-
dition of the founding of the League by the Deganawida and his
associates, read the available proofs of “Seneca fiction, legends,
and myths” for the thirty-second annual report, and supplied nu-
merous technical data for use in responses to inquiries by corre-
spondents.

Mr. Francis La Flesche, ethnologist, when not engaged in field-
work, was occupied in assembling his notes on the Osage Indians, the
greater portion of which consists of phonographic records taken
from men versed in the tribal rituals, which evidently were composed.
for the preservation and transmission of the religious concepts of
the tribe. Three forms are used in their construction, namely, reci-
tation, song, and dramatic action. The spoken parts, called “ wigie,”
are intoned by the masters of ceremony and by male members of the
various gentes of the tribe who have memorized them. These wigie
tell of the genesis of the tribe; they recount the stories of the adop-
tion of life symbols and explain their significance, and narrate the
finding and selection of the materials used in making the ceremonial
paraphernalia. The songs used by the master of ceremonies, with
the aid of a few chosen assistants, make the emotional appeal to the
various symbols employed in the ritual. Ceremonial acts, proces-
sions, and dances accompany some of the songs and wigie.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 51

The theme of these composite rites is the desire of the people for
a long, peaceful life and a never-ending line of descendants, and the
wigie, songs, and dramatic acts constitute a supplication to the unseen
power for aid toward the realization of this desire. The never-ending
life so devoutly sought for the tribe seemed to the people to be ex-
emplified in the unfailing recurrence of night and day, in the con-
stancy of the movements of the heavenly bodies, in the manifestation
of a like desire among the living forms upon the earth, and thus to
point to an ever-present unseen animating power to which the people
must appeal for the granting of their prayers. In this appeal for
never-ending life the Osage naturally personified, and to a degree
deified, those objects to which, as he thought, the unseen power had
granted this form of life. Among these he included the vast. space
within which the heavenly bodies mysteriously moved and into which
all living forms are born and exercise their functions. Thus all as-
pects of nature are made to play a part in the great drama of life as
presented in these rituals.

Early in the year Mr. La Flesche finished transcribing the wigie,
as well as his notes on two complete versions and a portion of a third
version of the child-naming rituals, comprising 107 typewritten
pages. On completing this task he undertook the translation of the
“Osage personal names in current use and of arranging them by
gentes. The Osage generally cling tenaciously to the ancient custom
of ceremonially naming their children in the belief that the cere-
monies aid the young in attaining old age. In this work Mr. La
Flesche was able to determine that many members of the Osage Tribe
enrolled as full bloods are in reality of mixed blood. The tabulation
of these names by sex and gentes, with their translations, together
with a transcription of some characteristic tales, occupies 201 type-
written pages.

During the last four months of the fiscal year Mr. La Flesche was
engaged in assembling his notes on the fasting ritual of the Tsizhu
‘Washtage gens. Most of the songs are quite different from those be-
longing to the fasting rituals of the Honga, while some of the wigie
are the same, these being used in common with slight modifications
among the different gentes. These fasting rituals cover 139 com-
pleted pages, including the music.

A. wigie was obtained by Mr. La Flesche from an old woman during
his visit to the Osage in January, 1917. This wigie, which consists
of eight pages, fills a hiatus in the rush-mat ceremony previously
recorded.

At the opening of the fiscal year Dr. Truman Michelson, ethnol-
ogist, was engaged in continuing his studies among the Sauk and Fox
Indians of Iowa, the main work accomplished being the phonetic
59 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

restoration of a long text, written in the current syllabary, on the
origin of the white buffalo dance, intended for publication as a bul-
letin of the bureau. Considerable information pertaining to a number
of sacred bundles of the Fox Indians was obtained, as well as various
data of a sociological nature. Nearly 300 personal names were re-
corded, together with the names of the gentes to which their owners
belonged; in this manner about nine-tenths of the population of the
Fox Indians has been catalogued.

About the middle of August Doctor Michelson proceeded to Okla-
homa where, with the cooperation of the [lincis Centennial Commis-
sion, he conducted researches among the Peoria. The ethnology of
this tribe, properly speaking, has practically vanished, but their lan-
guage and folklore still persist, though knowledge thereof is confined
to only a few individuals. Contrary to ordinary belief, the Peoria
language, phonetically, is extremely complicated. From notes left
by the late Dr. A. S. Gatschet, it had been inferred that the Peoria
belongs fundamentally with the Chippewa or Ojibwa group of cen-
tral Algonquian languages, and this was fully confirmed. It is quite
clear, however, that there has been another and more recent associa-
tion with the Sauk, Fox, and Kickapoo group, and Peoria folklore
and mythology also point to this double association. The system
of consanguinity is clearly that of the Sauk, Fox, and Kickapoo
group, rather than that of the Ojibwa. Doctor Michelson recorded,
mostly in English, an almost exhaustive collection of Peoria folk-
tales and myths.

After devoting about a month’s time to the Peoria Doctor Michelson
returned to Iowa and renewed his work among the Sauk and Fox by
making a phonetic restoration of a number of texts on minor sacred
packs pertaining to the white buffalo dance, as well as by recording
about 200 pages of the extremely long myth of the Fox culture hero.
Most of the ceremonies in connection with the presentation of a new
drum of the so-called religious dance of the Potawatomi of Wisconsin
were witnessed, as also were parts of a number of clan feasts.

On returning to Washington in November Doctor Michelson com-
menced the revision of the English translation of the texts relating
to the white buffalo dance, and devoted attention also to paragraph-
ing and punctuating the Indian originals for the purpose of making
them correspond with the English equivalents. By the close of the
year the English translations were typewritten and put in almost
final shape, while little work remained to complete the editing of the
native texts. :

Mr. J. P. Harrington, ethnologist, spent the entire year in continua-
tion of his intensive study of the Chumashan Tribes of California, °
obtaining a large body of important information which at present is
in various stages of elaboration and which will comprise about 1,200
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 53

typewritten pages. From the beginning of the fiscal year until Sep-
tember 15 Mr. Harrington devoted his attention to the Purismefio
dialect, the existing vocabularies being corrected by the informant,
and many new words and grammatical forms added. The next three
weeks were spent on the Obispenio with satisfactory results, inasmuch
as the material obtained in former years was more than doubled.
The sole informant’s feeble health made the recording of this ma-
terial unusually difficult, but it will prove to be of great local as well
as of general interest. The remainder of the fiscal year was devoted
to Venturefio and Inesefio. While not so nearly lost as Obispefio, it
is too late to obtain complete information on these dialects, but in
the process of their study many important points have been deter-
mined. It is largely from their study that the picture of former
Chumashan life must be reconstructed.

The study of the material culture of the Chumashan Tribes has
not been neglected, and in this work archeological material has
been of assistance. Among the important points determined are
details concerning the making of the ancient deerskin dress of the
women, which consisted of a large back flap and a smaller apron.

From the beginning of the fiscal year to the middle of January,
1917, Dr. Leo J. Frachtenberg, special ethnologist, was engaged in
field work in the State of Washington, where he devoted special
attention to the Quileute Indians and to collecting additional lin-
guistic and mythological material. The ethnologic investigations
covered the subjects of history and distribution, manufacture, houses
and households, clothing and ornaments, subsistence, travel and
transportation, warfare, games and pastimes, social organization
and festivals, social customs, religion, medicines, charms and current
beliefs, and art, and the recorded results consist of 577 manuscript
pages. In addition, Doctor Frachtenberg recorded 156 native songs,
including words and translations; he also obtained several hundred
native drawings illustrating the material culture of the Quileute,
and photographed a like number of ethnologic specimens. Further-
more, he materially added to his linguistic and ethnologic studies
of this people, commenced during the preceding year, by collecting
several thousand additional grammatical forms and phrases, and by
recording 22 new native traditions with interlinear translations, and
8 stories in English. These texts, in the form of field notes, comprise
176 pages. While engaged in this field work Doctor Frachtenberg
was instrumental in inducing Mrs. Martha Washburn, of Neah Bay,
Mr. and Mrs. Theo R. Rixon, of Clallam Bay, and Mrs. Fannie Tay-
lor, of Moran, to give to the National Museum a part of their collec-
tions of Makah and Quileute specimens, including two old totem poles,
approximately 100 baskets, and more than 30 other ethnologic speci-
mens. In addition to the Quileute studies mentioned, Doctor Frach-

€5133°—sm 1917——5
54 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

tenberg collected 88 pages of Makah (Nootka) linguistic data, 57
pages of Quinault (Salish), and 18 pages of Clallam (Lkungen).
While in Portland, Oregon, he obtained through the courtesy of the
municipal authorities a fine collection of photographs representing
several hundred archeological objects owned by the city.

Doctor Frachtenberg returned to Washington early in February.
Subsequently, after conference with Dr. Franz Boas, honorary
philologist of the bureau, it was arranged that Doctor Frachtenberg
prepare for the Handbook of American Indian Languages compara-
tive sketches of the Kalapuya, Molala, Klamath, and Quileute, and
possibly one of the Salish languages. He also engaged in the final
preparation of his paper, Alsea Texts and Myths, which is now in
process of printing as Bulletin 67. He next proceeded to prepare
for publication the results of his earlier investigations of the lan-
guage, ethnology, and mythology of the Kalapuya Indians, which
will consist of two papers: A Grammatical Sketch of the Kala-
puya Languages and Kalapuya Myths and Texts. The Kalapuya
grammatical material consists of extended field notes gathered in
1913 and 1914, and of grammatical notes on the Atfalati collected by
Doctor Gatschet in 1877. Doctor Gatschet’s material, comprising
491 pages of field notes, is ef inestimable value; indeed it is to the
efforts of this untiring scholar that we owe the preservation of this
most important dialect of the Kalapuya language, since he obtained
his material, which includes also some valuable ethnologic data, from
the last full-blood Atfalati. Doctor Frachtenberg’s own material
comprises several thousand grammatical forms, phrases, and voca-
bles, and 32 native texts with interlinear translation—630 pages in
all. The preparation of these linguistic data, as well as the work on
the Kalapuya myths and texts, is well under way. Six of the texts,
comprising 386 pages, have been prepared for publication; five of
these are provided with interlinear translation and with voluminous
notes in which attention is directed to the occurrence of similar myths
among other tribes. During his studies of the Kalapuya languages
Doctor Frachtenberg discovered that there is sufficient reason to be-
lieve that the Kalapuya, Takelman, and Chinookan languages are
genetically related, the determination being based not only on lexical
but alse on structural and morphological material. This discovery
tends to establish a connecting link between some of the languages
of California and most ef the languages spoken in Oregon.

During the last two weeks of the fiscal year Doctor Frachtenberg
was temporarily detailed for special work in the Bureau of Investi-
gation of the Department of Justice.

SPECIAL RESEARCHES.

Dr. Franz Boas, honorary philologist, completed the preparation
of his manuscript on the ethnology of the Kwakiutl Indians, about
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 55

2,700 pages of which was submitted to the bureau and assigned as
the accompanying paper of the thirty-fifth annual report, the com-
position of which was commenced before the close of the fiscal year.
At the same time progress was made on the preparatory work for
the second part of the memoir. Under Doctor Boas’s direction Miss
Mildred Downs listed the incidents of the Kwakiutl mythology
preparatory to a discussion of the subject, and necessary additional
information for this purpose was obtained from Mr. George Hunt, of
Fort Rupert, Vancouver Island. Mr. Hunt submitted in all 460
pages of manuscript in response to questions, and sent botanical
specimens that have been identified through the kindness of Dr. N. L.
Britton, director of the New York Botanical Garden.

The manuscript for Bulletin 59, Kutenai Tales, has been completed.
All the texts having been set up during the preceding year, the ab-
stracts and comparative notes, referring to the pages of the bulletin,
were written out (32 pages of printed matter), and a vocabulary
(140 pages of manuscript) based on the text was prepared.

For the second part of the Handbook of American Indian Lan-
guages Doctor Frachtenberg submitted his sketch of the Alsea gram-
mar, which will be prepared for publication as soon as a sufficient
number of texts are available. Considerable progress has been made
in the preparation of the Kutenai grammar. Owing to the impossi-
bility of communicating with Mr. Bogoras in Russia, no progress has
been made in proof reading the Chukchee grammar, which has been
in type for more than three years, but which can not be completed
without submitting the proof to the author. During the year, how-
ever, Doctor Boas revised the Eskimo texts by Mr. Bogoras, for
which a brief ethnological introduction has been written by Dr.
Ernest Hawkes.

The results of the extended field work of Mr. James Teit, made
possible through the generosity of Mr. Homer E. Sargent of Chicago,
are nearing completion. At the present time two manuscripts are
well advanced. One of these, consisting of about 1,000 pages, pre-
pared jointly by Doctor Boas and Dr. H. K. Haeberlin, was sub-
mitted in May, accompanied with a number of maps showing the
distribution of Salishan dialects at various periods. It consists of a
discussion of the characteristics of the various dialetic groups, com-
parative vocabularies on which the deductions are based, and a few
simple texts. The material on which these studies are founded was
collected from field expeditions by Doctor Boas between 1886 and
1900, and by additional material gathered by Mr. Teit between the
latter date and the present year.

Doctor Haeberlin has also undertaken to discuss the Salishan
basketry, for which purpose he has made detailed studies of various
collections in the United States and Canada. In connection with
56 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

this and other necessary researches on the Salishan tribes, Doctor
Haeberlin visited British Columbia and Washington in 1915, and
again in June, 1917, for the purpose of obtaining additional material.
These expeditions were also made possible by the generosity of Mr.
Sargent.

In his investigations Doctor Boas has had the valued help of Miss
H. A. Andrews and Miss Mildred Downs.

In behalf of the bureau, Mr. W. H. Holmes, of the National
Museum, visited New York, Boston, and Cambridge, for the purpose
of studying archeological material in the museums of those cities in
connection with the completion of Bulletin 60, Handbook of Ameri-
can Antiquities, part 1 of which is in type. The proof reading of
this publication was well in hand at the close of the fiscal year, and
progress was made by Mr. Holmes in the preparation of part 2.

The study of Indian music, undertaken by Miss Frances Densmore
several years ago under the auspices of the bureau, was successfully
continued through the year. The proof reading of Bulletin 61,
Teton Sioux Music, was brought to completion. A second season of
field work was devoted to the Ute Indians, sufficient data being ob-
tained to complete a work on the music of that tribe. Of this mate-
rial 73 new songs were transcribed and analyzed, 23 songs previously
recorded were likewise analyzed, and 5 songs also previously sub-
mitted with analyses were further studied. Five group analyses, to-
gether with about 30 pages of manuscript description, were prepared.
All except about 15 Ute records are now ready for publication; these
cover a considerable variety of songs, analyses of which show impor-
tant differences from songs of other tribes, one peculiarity being an
added importance of rhythm.

For purposes of comparison, Miss Densmore undertook on her
own account a study of primitive Slovak music, 10 songs of which
were analyzed by the method employed in connection with Indian
songs, and these were found to contain interesting points of differ-
ence.

Through the courtesy of Dr. Davton C. Miller, of the Case School
of Applied Science in Cleveland, Miss Densmore procured graphic
evidence of peculiarities of drum and voice combination noted by ear
in Indian music. Doctor Miller made two photographs, about 30 feet
in length, each representing about 15 seconds’ duration of sound. It
is the intention to utilize part of these as illustrations in the forth-
coming bulletin on Ute music, the songs geese being Ute
dance songs with strong rhythmic peculiarities.

Early in June Miss Densmore proceeded to the White Earth Res-
ervation, Minnesota, for the purpose of conducting a study of the
material culture of the Chippewa Indians, and at the close of the
year good progress was reported.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. Lv

Mr. D. I. Bushnell, jr., continued the preparation of the manu-
script for the Handbook of Aboriginal Remains East of the Mis-
sissippi, about 50,000 words being added to the material previously
furnished, not including a portion that was rewritten as a result of a
discovery of new and valuable information pertaining to certain
localities. Introductions to the archeology of various States remain
to be written, but it is believed that both the manuscript and the
illustrations for the entire bulletin will be completed before the close
of the fiscal year 1918.

Under the joint auspices of the bureau and the National Museum
Dr. A. Hrdicka visited in October, 1916, a site at Vero, Florida, at
which were found certain human remains reputed to be of great
antiquity. As asummary account of Doctor Hrdli¢ka’s observations
has already appeared in Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections (vol.
66, no. 17, pp. 24-29, 1917) and an extended report will be published
in Bulletin 66 of the bureau, now in press, it need only be mentioned
that a thorough inquiry has resulted decisively against the assump-
tion of great antiquity of the remains. The pottery and the bone
and stone objects found in association with the human burials are
identical with similar artifacts of the Florida and other southeastern
Indians, while the bones themselves without exception exhibit mod-
ern features, with numerous characteristics that permit their identi--
fication as purely Indian.

Owing to the fact that Dr. A. L. Kroeber, of the Univesity of
California, found it expedient to elaborate certain portions of his
handbook of the Indians of California, it was not practicable to
submit the entire manuscript before the close of the fiscal year, but
at this writing there is every prospect that the work will be ready
for publication within a short time.

MANUSCRIPTS.

The following manuscripts, exclusive of those submitted for publi-
cation, were received by the bureau:

Photostat copy of a San Blas vocabulary, recorded by Ensign J. M. Creigh-
ton, United States Navy, transmitted to the Smithsonian Institution by the
Secretary of the Navy.

Phillipine songs presented by Mr. E. H. Hammond, of Albuquerque, New
Mexico.

Photograph of a picture writing on elk skin by Washakie, the Shoshoni chief,
with a key thereto.

Reports on prehistoric ruins in Arizona, with numerous photographs, pre-
pared by the late S. J. Holsinger, of the General Land Office, and deposited
in the bureau by the United States Forest Service.

Abnaki hymns from John Tahamont, of Pierreville, Quebec, presented by
George G. Heye, Esq.
or
ie)

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.
PUBLICATIONS.

The editing of the: publications of the bureau was continued
through the year by Mr. J. G. Gurley, assisted as occasion required
by Mrs. Frances S. Nichols. The status of the publications is pre-
sented in the following summary:

PUBLICATIONS ISSUED.

Thirty-first Annual Report. Accompanying paper: Tsimshian Mythology
(Boas).

Coos, An Illustrative Sketch, separate (Frachtenberg), Bulletin 40, part 2
(Boas).

Bulletin 55, Ethnobotany of the Tewa Indians (Robbins, Harrington, Freire-
Marreco).

List of Publications of the Bureau.

PUBLICATIONS IN PRESS OR IN PREPARATION.

Thirty-second Annual Report. Accompanying paper: Seneca Fiction, Legends,
and Myths (Hewitt and Curtin).

Thirty-third Annual Report. Accompanying papers: (1) Uses of Plants by
the Indians of the Nebraska Region (Gilmore) ; (2) Preliminary Account of
the Antiquities of the Region between the Mancos and La Plata Rivers in
Southwestern Colorado (Morris); (8) Designs on Prehistoric Hopi Pottery
(Fewkes) ; (4) The Hawaiian Romance of Laie-i-ka-wai (Beckwith).

Thirty-fourth Annual Report. Accompanying paper: An Introductory Study
of the Arts, Crafts, and Customs of the Guiana Indians (Roth).

Thirty-fifth Annual Report. Accompanying paper: Ethnology of the Kwakiutl
Indians (Hunt, edited by Boas).

Bulletin 59, Kutnai Tales (Boas).

Bulletin 60, Handbook of Aboriginal American Antiquities. Part 1. Intro-
ductory: The Lithic Industries (Holmes).

Bulletin 61, Teton Sioux Music (Densmore).

Bulletin 63, Analytical and Critical Bibliography of the Tribes of Tierra del
Fuego and Adjacent Territory (Cooper).

Bulletin 64, The Maya Indians of Southern Yucatan and Northern British
Honduras (Gann).

Bulletin 65, Archeological Explorations in Northeastern Arizona (Kidder and
Guernsey ).

Bulletin 66, Recent Discoveries of Remains Attributed to Early Man in
America (Hrdli¢ka).

Bulletin 67, Alsea Texts and Myths (Frachtenberg).

The distribution of publications has been continued under the
immediate charge of Miss Helen Munroe and at times by Mr. E. L.
Springer, of the Smithsonian Institution, assisted during the first
part of the year by Miss Lana V. Schelski, and latterly by Miss Ora
A. Sowersby, stenographer and typewriter. Notwithstanding con-
ditions incident to the war and the consequent necessity of withhold-
ing the transmission of various foreign shipments, publications were
distributed as follows:
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 59

Copies.

AMNTalereports, and) Separatesea see. ee ee ee 5, 954
Bulletins and? Semana tes ee nse st eee ae eres espe he Pity ee i hs ee 5, 804
Contributions to North American Ethnology and separates_____-_---_~ 28
Introduections22—2— "= Ty tg Ne ata eS eg yep eo a f
MESCellAaneOuS mp UDCA IOS see Ss es ee ee Se Se 191
oN Ro 61) PE As 1 EE TAS 8 8 Be 2 es Me 49 eg Me ess eee 11, 984

ILLUSTRATIONS.

Mr. DeLancey Gill, with the assistance of Mr. Albert E. Sweeney,
continued the preparation of the illustrations required for the pub-
lications of the bureau and devoted the usual attention to photo-
graphing visiting Indians. The results of this work may be sum-
marized as follows:

Photographic prints for distribution and office use___________-_-----___~- 578
Negatives of ethnologic and archeologic subjects___________ ee ae 173
Negative films developed from field exposures__________________________ 214
Photostat prints from books and manuscripts_—-----_______ sig ON SNe 950
J DPR ra ay easy TATU (Sheet be ES i il Riek balidey Meant LA LEER abl th ALA ee Le Li 54
TOUTES USC Chee eee ee pee er Nea ee ee ea ee eee eee 62
Portrait negatives of visiting Indians (Creek 9, Arapaho 4, Cheyenne 16) _ 29
IN EPERINGSE TREAT TAG VEY bet a SS 9 a hl tat A a v3)
Illustration proofs examined at Government Printing Office_____________ 9, 000
Illustrations submitted for reproduction and engraver’s proofs edited____ 781
LIBRARY.

The reference library of the bureau continued in the immediate
care of Miss Ella Leary, librarian, assisted by Mr. Charles B. New-
man. During the year 435 books were accessioned, of which 97 were
purchased, 286 acquired by gift or exchange, and 52 by the entry of
newly bound volumes of periodicals previously received. In addi-
tion the bureau acquired 388 pamphlets. The aggregate number of
books in the library at the close of the year was 21,750; of pam-
phlets, about 13,848. In addition there are many volumes of un-
bound periodicals. Several new periodicals were added to the ex-
change list and about 50 defective series were either wholly or partly
completed. As might be expected, the publication of various Euro-
pean periodicals devoted to anthropology has either been suspended
or has ceased entirely. Largely with the assistance of Mrs. Frances
S. Nichols many of the older books and pamphlets were newly cata-
logued by both subject and author, and thus made more readily
available. Of 133 volumes sent to the bindery about half were re-
turned before the close of the year. Books borrowed from the
Library of Congress numbered about 400.
=

60 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.
COLLECTIONS.

The following collections were acquired by the bureau, by mem-
bers of its staff, or by those detailed in connection with its reseaches,
and have been transferred to the National Museum:

Six ethnologic objects from British Guiana, presented by Dr. Walter E. Roth,
of Marlborough, Pomeroon River, British Guiana. (60049.)

A small collection of archeological objects of earthenware, jadeite, etc., from
the Kiché district of Totonicopan, Guatemala. (61097.)

A collection of archeological objects, including human bones, gathered by Mr.
Neil M. Judd in Utah. (60194.)

Seven specimens found by Mr. Joseph Dame in Millard County, Utah, and
purchased from him through Mr. Neil M. Judd. (60105.)

A collection of archeological objects and skeletal material gathered by Dr.
Walter Hough at the Luna pit village in western New Mexico. (66196.)

Ten baskets of the Guiana Indians of South America, presented to the bureau
by Dr. Walter E. Roth, of Marlborough, Pomeroon River, British Guiana.
(60452. )

Seventeen prehistoric pottery vessels, one piece of matting, and a few small
objects collected by F. W. Hodge in a cist in a cave in a southern wall of Cibol-
lita Valley, Valencia County, New Mexico. (60453.)

Twenty-five archeological specimens gathered by Dr. J. Walter Fewkes from
ancient ruins near Gallup, New Mexico. (60502.)

_ A small black-ware vase from Santa Clara pueblo, New Mexico, presented by
Robert H. Chapman, of Washington, District of Columbia. (60826.)

Twelve stone artifacts from Reeves Mill, near Pitman, Gloucester County,
New Jersey, presented by Mrs. M. B. C. Shuman. (60836.)

Archeological material collected by Dr. J. Walter Fewkes from exeavations
conducted at Mummy Lake Ruins, Mesa Verde National Park, Colorado. (60880.)

Archeological material collected by Dr. J. Walter Fewkes from excavations
conducted at Oak Tree House, Mesa Verde National Park, Colorado. (60901.)

An Assiniboine headdress from Alberta, Canada, presented by Mr. Robert H.
Chapman, Washington, District of Columbia. (61007.)

Skulls, skeletons, and parts of skeletons, an Indian ornament embedded in
stone, and pottery fragments, collected in the vicinity of Vero and Fort Myers,
Florida, by Dr. A. Hrdli¢ka. (61291.)

Seven baskets made by the Koasati Indians of Louisiana, collected by Dr.
John R. Swanton. (61815.)

PROPERTY.

Furniture was purchased to the amount of $196.25; the cost of
typewriting machines was $206, and of a camera $10.50, making a
total of $412.75 expended for furniture and apparatus. On the whole
the furniture of the bureau is in good condition, but there are a few
unserviceable pieces that should be replaced, while need of a few
filing cases for current notes and manuscripts is felt.

MISCELLANEOUS.
Quarters.—One of the rooms on the third fioor of the north tower

of the Smithsonian building, occupied by the bureau, was painted,
and the electric lighting of three rooms improved.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 61

Personnel.—The only change in the personnel of the bureau was
the appointment of Miss Ora A. Sowersby, stenographer and type-
writer, on February 14, 1917, to succeed Miss Lena V. Schelski, trans-
ferred. A temporary laborer was employed from time to time when
required.

. Clerical—The correspondence and other clerical work of the office,
including the copying of manuscripts, has been conducted with the
aid of Miss Florence M. Poast, clerk to the ethnologist-in-charge;
Miss May S. Clark, and Mrs. Frances S. Nichols. Miss Sowersby
was assigned to the division of publications of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution for duty in connection with correspondence arising from the
distribution of the bureau’s publications.

Respectfully submitted,

F. W. Hoper,
Ethnologist-in-Charge.
Dr. Cuartes D. Waucort,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 3.

REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES.

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera-
tions of the International Exchange Service during the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1917.

The regular congressional appropriation for the support of the
service during the year, including the allotment for printing and
binding, was $32,200, but in order to enable the Institution to meet
the very high ocean freight rates on foreign shipments Congress
granted an additional appropriation of $3,500. The repayments
from departmental and other establishments aggregated $3,687.58,
making the total available resources for carrying on the system of
exchanges $39,387.58.

During the year 1917 the total number of packages handled was
268,625, which weighed 290,193 pounds.

The number and weight of the packages of different classes are in-
dicated in the following table:

Packages. Weight (pounds).
| Zeal
Sent. /|Received.| Sent. |Received.
United States parliamentary documents sent abroad.........-- IRV GSS} eso goccabe DD OU Onl eee eee
Publications received in return for parliamentary documents...|........-. Spal Gul seeecocese 7,646
United States departmental documents sent abroad............ 60}948ii| jc cicce cee LLG S190 | Sects
Publications received in return for departmental documents....|....-....- 631833) || eeeteeises 6, 304
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications sent abroad..| 37,111 }...--...-.. 685334 |Secmecniens
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications received from

abroad for distribution in the United States..................|-...-.--.. D2 EO54 NW ciase eter 36, 012
MO tales arise nintaia ature aio ls'a)aiersin siaraicinteletaye co's nisin diviniatenie e(ciecetmiereteie 235, 922 32,703 | 240, 229 | 49, 962

GrandetObaleyereristestereeesesericisecisiceceeeinesicsteiiae eters 268, 625 290, 191

As referred to in previous reports, many returns for publications
sent abroad reach their destinations in this country direct by mail
and not through the exchange service.

Shipments are still suspended to Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Ger-
many, Hungary, Montenegro, Roumania, Russia, Serbia, and Turkey.
Shipments both to and from Germany, which were arranged by the

62
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 63

Institution through the State Department, as referred to in the last
report, were discontinued at the outbreak of hostilities between the
United States and Germany. The further efforts of the Russian
Commission of International Exchanges to resume shipments were
not successful, and the commission stated that it would be necessary
to withhold consignments until the end of the war.

In accordance with the proclamation of the British Government
prohibiting the importation into the United Kingdom of books in
bulk, it was necessary to suspend shipments to that country for a
time. However, the London agents of the Institution, Messrs. Wil-
lam Wesley & Son, succeeded in procuring from the Royal Commis-
sion on Paper a special license to import consignments of interna-
tional exchanges into England. Owing to the lack of requisite ocean
transportation facilities, it was also necessary to suspend shipments
for a time to Norway, Sweeden, Denmark, and Holland.

The director of the Government Press at Cairo advises the Institu-
tion that four boxes of Egyptian exchange en route to this country
were lost at sea, and suggests that shipments be withheld until the
end of the war. This suggestion will be followed. On account of
the abnormal conditions in the Mediterranean, shipments to Greece
will also be suspended.

Since the beginning of the war the Institution has suffered the
loss of only three shipments from hostile action. One small ship-
ment—consisting of 24 governmental documents—was lost in transit
to India during the first year of the war. Through the sinking of a
vessel by a warship during the past year 18 packages in transit to
India were also lost. Twenty-one boxes for the French Bureau of
Exchanges were lost when the steamship Juno was torpedoed in
February last. Nineteen of these contained miscellaneous govern-
mental and scientific publications for distribution to various ad-
dresses throughout France and the other two the regular series of
United States official documents for deposit in the National Library
at Paris and the office of the prefect of the Seine.

In the early part of the present fiscal year the Italian Exchange
office in Rome reported that one of the boxes of the consignment
sent to that office in July, 1915, had not been delivered. Steps taken
to have the box traced were unsuccessful.

Wherever possible the Institution has, as formerly in the case of
lost consignments, procured duplicate copies of the publications con-
tained in the above-mentioned boxes.

The Government publications office at Bulaq—which acts as the
Egyptian Exchange agency—has kindly taken charge until the close
of the war of a box addressed to the Jewish Agricultural Experi-
ment Station, Haifa, Palestine, which was detained at Alexandria.
64 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

I am pleased to state that the four boxes held at Bahia, Brazil,
to which reference was made in the 1915 report, have been released
and forwarded to the Government printing works at Pretoria.

Reference has previously been made to the custom of the Govern-
ment of India to refer requests from establishments in this country
for Indian official documents to the exchange service for indorse-
ment. The director of the Government Press at Cairo has requested
that the Institution take similar action on applications for Egyptian
official publications. This request has been granted.

Of the 1,217 boxes used in forwarding exchanges to foreign agen-
cies for distribution during 1917, 170 contained full sets of United
States official documents for authorized depositories, and 1,047 were
filled with departmental and other publications for depositories of
partial sets and for miscellaneous correspondents. The number of
boxes sent to each foreign country and the dates of transmission are
shown in the following table:

Consignments of exchanges for foreign countries.

|
Country. srumaber Date of transmission.

Arventinas-teereosessee ssasale 43 | July 23, Sept. 13, Nov. 15, 1916; Jan. 13, Mar. 20, June 8, 1917.

IBarbadostccsesnc score nes = ae 1 | May 28, 1917.

BOlivias.cceeceenes eee seer eG se 2| Aug. 29, 1916; Mar. 31, 1917.

Brazil seep ec ase eee eee eee 25 | July 25, Sept. 14, Nov. 15, 1916; Jan. 15, Mar. 28, June 9, 1917.

British Colonies. ....-....----. 8 | July 19, Aug. 3, 23, Sept. 11, Oct. 9, Nov. 1, 24, Dec. 20, 1916;
Feb. 7, Apr. 14, 1917.

BritishiGuianas.---5-222--- 2| Sept. 21, 1916; Feb. 16, 1917.

Canadaze2).28. Abi eases 16 | Sept. 25, Dec. 18, 1916; Feb. 17, May 17, 1917.

Chiless 226s) cine tees See 19 | July 26, Sept. 16, Nov. 16, 1916; Jan. 16, Mar. 29, June 11, 1917.

China aac eee es: ocean 26 | Sept. 5, Oct. 25, Nov. 28, 1916; Feb. 8, Mar. 8, May 23, 1917.

Colom bistesme-crcnsraececcece 33 | July 16, Oct. 7, Nov. 12, Dec. 13, 1916; May 19, 1917.

CostatRica tan sce tar ee ose: 12! Aug. 12, Oct. 25, 1916; Jan. 17, Mar. 30, Apr. 6, June i3, 1917.

Cubak 22135 soe sean ee 4 | Sept. 25, Dec. 18, 1916; Feb. 17, May 17, 1917.

Denmark. 25. eqel a tee sci 20 | Aug. 9, Sept. 29, 1916; Jan. 6, Mar. 12, May 21, 1917.

BS CUR GON arse seiner ielie ae cree siche 4 | Aug. 3, 1916; Apr. 10, 1917.

HW gypteesacaeec ae eseec aeane ee | 8 | Aug. 11, 1916; May 16, 1917.

BTANCO: saesas eeeee eee ss esas 123 | July 10, Aug. 18, Oct. 12, Nov. 14, 1916; Jan. 10, Mar. 21, May 9,
1917.

Germanyeeessneee eee ee sae ar 48 | Dec. 16, 1916.

Great Britain and ITreland..... 250 | July 20, Aug. 3, 23, Sept. 11, Oct. 9, Nov. 1, 24, Dec. 20, 1916;
Feb. 7, Apr. 11, 18, June 6, 1917.

Greeces= s-cpeewaccetcemc ke eee 7 | Aug. 14, Nov. 9, 1916.

Guatemalatseeeces. seeeesecece 2} Aug. 30, 1916; Apr. 6, 1917.

alti. 32s Pe ess 4 | Sept. 25, Dec. 18, 1916; Feb. 17, May 17, 1917.

Hon durasa: to. cece ce see se 2 | Aug. 30, 1916; Apr. 4, 1917.

ENC ide ews cocios seen see e mic: 30 | July 19, Aug. 3, 23, Sept. 11, Oct. 9, Nov. 1, 24, Dec. 20, 1916;
Feb. 7, Apr. 14, 1917.

Ttaliy ssseoe bade ee eee ees 90 | July 6, Aug. 4, Sept. 22, Nov. 10, Dec. 23, 1916; Jan. 20, Apr. 20,
June 4, 1917.

JAINA CA eaters cs sss aces eiecces 5 | Aug. 29, 1916; Feb. 9, May 24, 1917.

Wa paneer cecraccctcieeaclecicce | 50 | July 7, Aug. 16, Nov. 28, 1916; Jan. 19, Mar. 2, May 13, 1917.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 65

Consignments of exchanges for foreign countries—Continued.

Country. lod Date of transmission.
| =

Koreas: oe 52 ccc arene siseae 1 | Aug. 30, 1916.

WADOUIS const cscs ccneeeee ee see 2| Aug. 29, 1916; May 28, 1917.

Lourenco Marquez.....-..---- 1 | May 29, 1917.

MGXiCONs pac. cckiccisee does ck 4 | Sept. 25, Dec. 18, 1916; Feb. 17, May 17, 1917.

INetherlands:5.-ee-eo ace ee 30 | July 7, Aug. 5, Sept. 25, Nov. 8, 1916; Jan. 5, 1917.

New South Wales............- 43 | July 20, Aug. 26, Sept. 25, Oct. 16, Dec. 5, 1916; Jan. 13, Feb. 15,
Apr. 16, June 19, 1917.

New Zealand. ..:..<cs.cccs-+-- 17 | July 20, Aug. 26, Oct. 20, Dec. 12, 1916; Feb. 13, Apr. 17, June 21,
1917.

INICATACUA Seam nc csaee re sce ease 2| Aug. 30, 1916; Apr. 10, 1917.

INOTWAY ocise osoeem nest Onn coees 13 | Aug. 9, Sept. 26, Nov. 11, 1916; Jan. 6, Mar. 14, 1917.

IPATALUAY) = «a )1ccisesseiicismece'== 1, Aug. 30, 1916.

POT eet eases niscceesiscesciess<3 12 | July 26, Sept. 16, Nov. 16, 1916; Mar. 29, June 12, 1917.

Portugaleey. assesses 22 ok 15 | Aug. 10, Sept. 28, Nov. 20, 1916; Mar. 15, May 22, 1917.

Queensland....... SE Bo ee eee 11 | July 20, Aug. 26, Oct. 20, Dec. 12, 1916; Feb. 15, Apr. 17, June
21, 1917.

Salyadansn 2. ees foe san: 5 4| Aug. 3, 1916; Apr. 7, 1917.

SIRI 33 Agape ee eC eee 3 | Aug. 30, 1916; Feb. 16, 1917.

South Australia..........-.--: 18 | July 20, Aug. 26, Oct. 18, Dec. 18, 1916; Feb, 12, Apr. 17, June
20, 1917.

Spainwcee se sccescesscet ccs 22 | Aug. 11, Sept. 30, Nov. 17, 1916; Jan. 11, May 14, 1917.

(SiKeG lls Saiee BS eoe Re aCe rae 43 | Aug. 9, Sept. 27, Nov. 11, 1916; Jan. 18, May 1, 1917.

Switzerland's. 25.25.23 S<ce. 52 | Sept. 25, Aug. 9, Nov. 11, 1916; Jan. 10, May 9, 1917.

MAsMAnials .ae\saiscllsas tins s\et=iste 10 | July 19, Aug. 3, 23, Sept. 11, Oct. 9, Nov. 1, 24, Dec. 20, 1916;
Jan. 10, Mar. 21, May 9, 1917.

Tf Sarvs Reece ea 2 | Aug. 29, 1916; May 25, 1917.

Union of South Africa......... 17 | July 6, Sept. 20, Nov. 13, 1916; Jan. 19, 1917.

Wrupuay: <5 5.50 cse'se cease 15 | July 27, Sept. 16, Nov. 17, 1916; Jan. 17, Mar. 29, June 13, 1917.

WeneZUCl8..2-.s <2ac cs oee- ce 10 | Aug. 12, Oct. 26, 1916; Jan. 17, Mar. 29, June 13, 1917.

Victoria......... gs he es de 22 | July 20, Aug. 26, Oct. 17, Dec. 9, 1916.

Western Australia............. 12 | July 19, Aug. 3, 23, Sept. 11, Oct. 9, Nov. 1, 24, Dec. 20, Feb. 7,
Apr. 14,-1917.

Windward and Leeward Is- 1 | May 28, 1917.

lands.

FOREIGN DEPOSITORIES OF UNITED STATES GOVERNMENTAL
DOCUMENTS.

Ninety-one sets of United States governmental documents were
received for distribution to foreign depositories in accordance with
treaty stipulations and under the authority of the congressional
resolutions of March 2, 1867, and March 2, 1901. A communication
was received during the year from the assistant secretary to the
Government of India, department of education, stating that the
United States governmental documents sent to his department are
turned over to the Imperial Library at Calcutta, and requesting that
future consignments be addressed directly to that library.

A list of the foreign depositories is given below. Consignments
for those countries to which shipments are suspended on account of
66 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

the war are being held at the Institution for transmission to the
various depositories at the close of hostilities.

DEPOSITORIES OF FULL SETS.

ARGENTINA: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Buenos Aires.

AUSTRALIA: Library of the Commonwealth Parliament, Melbourne.

AustTRIA: K. K. Statistiche Zentral-Kommission, Vienna.

BApEN: Universitits-Bibliothek, Freiburg. (Depository of the Grand Duchy
of Baden.)

BAvaARTIA: K6nigliche Hof- und Staats-Bibliothek, Munich.

BELGIUM: Bibliotheque Royale, Brussels.

BraziL: Bibliatheca Nacional, Rio de Janeiro.

BuENos AtrES: Biblioteca de la Universidad Nacional de La Plata. ( Deposi-
tory of the Province of Buenos Aires.)

CANADA: Library of Parliament, Ottawa.

CHILE: Biblioteca del Congresso Nacional, Santiago.

CuiIna: American-Chinese Publication Exchange Department, Shanghai Bureau
of Foreign Affairs, Shanghai.

CoLoMBIA: Biblioteca Nacional, Bogota.

Costa Rica: Oficina de Depésito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, San
José,

CuBA: Secretaria de Hstado (Asuntos Generales y Canje Internacional), Ha-
bana.

DENMARK: Kongelige Bibliotheket, Copenhagen.

ENGLAND: British Museum, London.

FRANCE: Bibliothéque Nationale, Paris.

GERMANY: Deutsche Reichstags-Bibliothek, Berlin.

GLascow: City Librarian, Mitchell Library, Glasgow.

GREECE: Bibliothéque Nationale, Athens.

Harr: Secrétaire d’Etat des Relations Extérieures, Port au Prince.

Huneary: Hungarian House of Delegates, Budapest.

TnprA: Imperial Library, Calcutta.

IRELAND: National Library of Ireland, Dublin.

Iraty: Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio Emanuele, Rome.

JAPAN: Imperial Library of Japan, Tokyo.

Lonpon: London School of Economics and Political Science. (Depository of
the London County Council.)

MANITOBA: Provincial Library, Winnipeg.

Mexico: Instituto Biblicgrafico, Biblioteca Nacional, Mexico.

NETHERLANDS: Library of the States General, The Hague.

New SoutH WALES: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.

NEw ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.

Norway: Storthingets Bibliothek, Christiania.

ONTARIO: Legislative Library, Toronto.

Parts: Préfecture de la Seine.

PERU: Biblioteca Nacional, Lima.

PortuGAL: Bibliotheca Nacional, Lisbon.

Prussia: Kodnigliche Bibliothek, Berlin.

QUEBEC: Library of the Legislature of the Province of Quebec, Quebec.

QUEENSLAND: Parliamentary Library, Brisbane.

RusstA: Imperial Public Library, Petrograd.

Saxony: K6nigliche Oeffentliche Bibliothek, Dresden.

SERBIA: Section Administrative du Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Belgrade.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 67

SoutH AUSTRALIA: Parliamentary Library, Adelaide.

Spain: Servicio del Cambio Internacional de Publicaciones, Cuerpo Facultative
de Archiveros, Bibliotecarios y Arquedédlogos, Madrid.

SWEDEN: Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm.

SWITZERLAND: Bibliothéque Fédérale, Berne.

TASMANIA: Parliamentary Library, Hobart.

TurRKEY: Department of Public Instruction, Constantinople.

Union oF SoutH Arrica: State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal.

Urueuay: Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Montevidio,

VENEZUELA: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.

VictortA: Public Library, Melbourne.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.

WURTTEMBERG: KoO6nigliche Landesbibliothek, Stuttgart.

DEPOSITORIES OF PARTIAL SETS.

ALBERTA! Provincial Library, Edmonton.

ALSACE-LORRAINE: K,. Ministerium ftir Elsass-Lothringen, Strassburg.

Bottvia: Ministerio de Colonizacién y Agricultura, La Paz.

BREMEN: Senatskommission fiir Reichs- und Auswirtige Angelegenheiten.

BritisH CoLtumMBIA: Legislative Library, Victoria.

BriTIsH GUIANA: Government Secretary’s Office, Georgetown, Demerara.

Butearia: Minister of Foreign Affairs, Sofia.

CryYLon: Colonial Secretary’s Office (Record Department of the Library), Co-
lombo.

Ecuapor: Biblioteca Nacional, Quito.

Eeypt: Bibliothéque Khédiviale, Cairo.

FINLAND: Chancery of Governor Helsingfors.

JUATEMALA: Secretary of the Government, Guatemala.

HameBure: Senatskommission fiir die Reichs- und Auswirtigen Angelegenheiten,

Hesse: Grossherzogliche Hof-Bibliothek, Darmstadt.

Honpvuras: Secretary of the Government, Tegucigalpa.

JAMAICA: Colonial Secretary, Kingston.

Liserta: Department of State, Monrovia.

LouRENGO MARQUEZ: Government Library, Lourenco Marquez.

LisEcK: President of the Senate.

Mapras, Province oF: Chief Secretary to the Government of Madras, Public
Department, Madras.

Marra: Lieutenant Governor, Valetta.

MontTENEGRO: Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Cetinje.

NEw BruNswick: Legislative Library, Fredericton.

NEWFOUNDLAND: Colonial Secretary, St. John’s.

NicARAGuA: Superintendente de Archivos Nacionales, Managua.

NokTHWEST TERRITORIES: Government Library, Regina.

Nova Scotia: Provincial Secretary of Nova Scotia, Halifax.

PANAMA: Secretaria de Relaciones Exteriores, Panama.

PARAGUAY: Oficina General de Inmigracion, Asuncion.

PRINCE Epwarp IstAnp: Legislative Library, Charlottetown.

RoOUMANIA: Academia Romana, Bucharest.

SALVADOR: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador.

Sram: Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok.

STRAITS SETTLEMENTS: Colonial Secretary, Singapore.

UNITED PROVINCES OF AGRA AND OupH: Under Secretary to Government, Alla-
habad.

Vienna: Btirgermeister der Haupt- und Residenz-Stadt.
68 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.
INTERPARLIAMENTARY EXCHANGE OF OFFICIAL JOURNALS.

Following is a complete list of the Governments to which copies
of the daily issue of the Congressional Record are now sent. The
records for those countries to which it is not possible to forward
consignments at present are being held at the Institution:

Argentine Republic. France. Prussia.

Australia. Great Britain. Queensland.
Austria. : Greece. Roumania,

Baden. Guatemala. Russia.

Belgium. Honduras. Serbia.

Bolivia. Hungary. Spain.

Brazil. Italy. Switzerland.
Buenos Aires, Province of. Liberia. Transvaal.

Canada. New South Wales. Union of South Africa.
Costa Rica. New Zealand. Uruguay.

Cuba. Peru. Venezuela.
Denmark, Portugal. Western Australia.

LIST OF BUREAUS OR AGENCIES THROUGH WHICH EXCHANGES
ARE TRANSMITTED.

The following is a list of the bureaus or agencies through which
exchanges are transmitted:

ALGERIA, via France.

ANGOLA, via Portugal.

ARGENTINA: Comisi6n Protectora de Bibliotecas Populares, Santa Fé 880,
Buenos Aires.

Austria: K. K. Statistische Zentral-Kommission, Vienna.*

AZORES, via Portugal.

Betcium: Service Belge des Echanges Internationaux, Rue des Longs-Chariots
46, Brussels.’

BoriviA: Oficina Nacional de Estadistica, La Paz.

BraziL: Servico de Permutacdes Internacionaes, Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio de
Janeiro.

BritisH Cononies: Crown Agents for the Colonies, London.

BritisH GurtaAna: Royal Agricultural and Commercial Society, Georgetown.

British HonpurAs: Colonial Secretary, Belize.

BureartA: Institutions Scientifiques de S. M. le Roi de Bulgarie, Sofia.’

CANARY ISLANDS, via Spain.

CHILE: Servicio de Canjes Internacionales, Biblioteca Nacional, Santiago.

Cutna: American-Chinese Publication Exchange Department, Shanghai Bureau
of Foreign Affairs, Shanghai.

CotomBiA: Oficina de Canjes Internacionales y Reparto, Biblioteca Nacional,
Bogota.

Costa Rica: Oficina de Depésito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, San
José.

DENMARK: Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen.

DutcH GUIANA: Surinaamsche Koloniale Bibliotheek, Paramaribo.

Ecuapor: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Quito.

Ecyrr: Government Publications Office, Printing Department, Cairo."

1 Shipments suspended on account of the war.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 69

FRANCE: Service Francais des Echanges Internationaux, 110 Rue de Grenelle,
Paris.

GERMANY: Amerika-Institut, Berlin, N. W. 7.

GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND: Messrs. William Wesley & Son, 28 Essex Street,
Strand, London.

GREECE: Bibliothéque Nationale, Athens.*

GREENLAND, via Denmark.

GUADELOUPE, via France.

GUATEMALA: Instituto Nacional de Varones, Guatemala.

GUINEA, via Portugal.

Harrr: Secrétaire d’Etat des Relations Extérieures, Port au Prince.

Honpuras: Biblioteca Nacional, Tegucigalpa.

Huncary: Dr. Julius Pikler, Municipal Office of Statistics, Vaci-utca 80, Buda-
pest.*

ICELAND, via Denmark.

InpIA; India Store Department, India Office, London.

IraLy: Ufficio degli Scambi Internazionali, Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio Eman-
uele, Rome.

JAMAICA: Institute of Jamaica, Kingston.

JAPAN: Imperial Library of Japan, Tokyo.

JAVA, via Netherlands.

KoreA: Government General, Keijo.

LipertA: Bureau of Exchanges, Department of State, Monrovia.

LouRgENcGO MARQUEZ: Government Library, Lourenco, Marquez.

LUXEMBURG, via Germany.

MADAGASCAR, via France.

Maperra, via Portugal.

MontENEGRO: Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Cetinje.

MozAMBIQUE, via Portugal.

NETHERLANDS: Bureau Scientifique Central Néerlandais, Bibliothéque de l’Uni-
versité, Leyden.

NEw GUINEA, via Netherlands.

NEw SoutH WaAtgEs: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.

NEw ZEALAND: Dominion Museum, Wellington.

NicARAGUA: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Managua.

Norway: Kongelige Norske Frederiks Universitet Bibliotheket, Christiania.

PANAMA: Secretaria de Relaciones Exteriores, Panama.

PARAGUAY: Servicio de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Seccién Consular
y de Comercio, Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Asuncion.

Persia: Board of Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian Church, New York City.

Peru: Oficino de Reparto, Depésito y Canje Internacional de Publivaciones,
Ministerio de Fomento, Lima.

PorTUGAL: Servico de Permutacdes Internacionales, Inspeccao Geral das Biblio-
theeas e Archivos Publicos, Lisbon.

QUEENSLAND: Bureau of Exchanges of International Publications, Chief Sec-
retary’s Office, Brisbane.

RouMANIA: Academia Romana, Bucharest.’

Russta: Commission Russe des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Impé-
riale Publique, Petrograd.

SALvApoR: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador.

Serbia: Section Administrative du Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Belgrade.’

Sram: Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok.

tShipments suspended on account of the war.

65133°—sm 19176

Sy.
70 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

SoutH AusTrRALIA: Public Library of South Australia, Adelaide.

Spain: Servicio del Cambio Internacional de Publicaciones, Cuerpo Facultativo
de Archiveros, Bibliotecarios y Arqueélogos, Madrid.

SuMATRA, via Netherlands.

SWEDEN: Kongliga Svenska Vetenskaps Akademien, Stockholm.

SwITzERLAND: Service des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Fédérale
Centrale, Berne.

Syrra: Board of Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian Church, New York.

TASMANIA: Secretary to the Premier, Hobart.

TRINIDAD: Royal Victoria Institute of Trinidad and Tobago, Port-of-Spain.

TUNIS, via France.

TurKEY: American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, Boston.*

Union oF SoutH Arrica: Government Printing Works, Pretoria, Transvaal.

Urvueuay: Oficina de Canje Internacional, Montevideo.

VENEZUELA: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas,

Victor1A: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.

WINDWARD AND LEEWARD ISLANDS: Imperial Department of Agriculture, Bridge-
town, Barbados.

Respectfully submitted.
C. W. SHOEMAKER,
Chief Clerk, International Kuchange Service.
Dr. Cuartes D. WaALcort,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
Avueust 15, 1917.
APPENDIX 4.
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK.

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera-
tions of the National Zoological Park for the fiscal year ending June
30, 1917:

There was allowed by Congress in the sundry civil bill the sum of
$100,000 for all expenses, except printing and binding, for which
$200 additional was granted.

The continued increase from year to year in the cost of nearly all
supplies used at the park has so greatly enlarged the bills for main-
tenance expenses that very little could be done this year in the way
of permanent improvements on buildings and grounds. The collec-
tions have, nevertheless, been kept in excellent condition and at nearly
the normal numbers, though much-needed repairs and alterations, for
the comfort and safety of the public, or to improve housing conditions
of animals, could not be made. The number of specimens is slightly
below that for a number of years, but the actual value and scientific
importance of the collection is probably as great as at any time in the
history of the park.

In October, 1916, Dr. Frank Baker, for 26 years the superintend-
ent, tendered his resignation to take effect November 1. To quote
from an editorial in the Washington Times of October 6, entitled
“The loss of Dr. Baker ”:

The resignation of Dr. Frank Baker as superintendent of the National
Zoological Park marks the close of 26 years of valuable service in that capacity.

A reading of the reports of the Smithsonian Institution shows how much the
Zoo here has developed under Doctor Baker, until it now possesses one of the
most varied and interesting collections of animals of any such institution in
the country.

The average citizen does not bother much about zoos except as a form of
Sunday afternoon entertainment for children. But the educational value of the
parks is becoming more generally recognized. School children of Washington
are now sent to the Zoo to observe the animals, and they can learn and assimi-
late much more there in a few visits than they could accumulate in weeks of
studying geographies.

As a professor of anatomy for 38 years at Georgetown University, as presi-
dent of the National Association of Anatomists, and as an active member of
half a dozen other scientific bodies, Doctor Baker has also attained note outside
his work at the Zoo. His capacity for work is suggested in the calm announce-

71
(92 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

ment that he, at the age of 75 years, must retire from the Zoo, not to seek
leisure, but because of the pressure of other duties. Doctor Baker is one of a
notable group of scientists to be found in Washington whose reputation is
world-wide.

ACCESSIONS. :

Gifts—Animals to the number of 99 were presented by friends of
the park, or placed on indefinite deposit. These include many of the
more common species of the native fauna as well as some especially
desirable animals rarely obtained.

One of the most notable gifts was that of five adult Rocky Moun-
tain sheep received from the Canadian Government, through Mr.
J. B. Harkin, commissioner of Dominion parks. These animals were
captured in the Rocky Mountains Park near Banff, Alberta, and
reached Washington March 7 in perfect condition. The shipment
included one 5-year-old ram, a younger ram, and three ewes. A ewe
lamb was born on May 27. Two paddocks were opened together to
give the sheep sufficient range, and the exhibit is one of the most
important now shown by the park. The animals are doing well to
date and although the wild sheep is one of the species most difficult
to keep in eastern zoological gardens it is hoped that the animals
comprising this accession may be kept on show for a considerable
time. The Duke of Bedford made a further gift of four Bedford
deer, or Manchurian stags, from his collection at Woburn Abbey,
England. The Bedford deer (Cervus xanthropygus) is one of a large
group of Old World deer related to the American elk or wapiti, and
has not heretofore been exhibited. The animals received have been
given a commodious yard bordering the creek on the eastern side
of the park, near the yaks, and are doing splendidly in their new
home. <A thrifty fawn was born June 14, Mr. Victor J. Evans, of
Washington, District of Columbia, showed continued interest in the
exhibit by depositing some desirable Australian marsupials, including
two wombats and a nail-tailed wallaby, both new to the collection.

The complete list of the donors and gifts is as follows:

Adams Express Co., Washington, District of Columbia. mink.

Mr. and Mrs. Carl E. Akeley, New York City, vervet monkey and a bonnet
monkey.

Mrs. Ida Bangs, Washington, District of Columbia, yellow-naped parrot.

Mr. J. C. Beard, Brightwood, District of Columbia, two barred owls.

The Duke of Bedford, Woburn Abbey, England, four Bedford deer.

Mr. C. BE. Brewster and Dr. F. Kent, Eagle Pass, Texas, Inca dove, a hybrid
quail, and eight chestnut-bellied scaled quails.

Mrs. C. 8. Briggs, Washington, District of Columbia, alligator.

Mrs. F. 8S. Brown, Washington, D. C., sparrowhawk.

Postmaster General Burleson, Washington, District of Columbia, alligator.

Mrs. E. Caminetti, Washington, District of Columbia, yellow rail,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY,

-~I
xs)

vo

Canadian Government, through Hon. J. B. Harkin, 5 Rocky Mountain sheep.

Prof. W. E. Castle, Bussey Institution, Harvard University, 4 Peruvian wild
guinea-pigs.

Mrs. Chatham, Washington, District of Columbia, yellow-headed parrot.

Mr. D. Crovo, Washington, District of Columbia, boa constrictor and a murine
opossum.

Mr. John O. Darlington, Washington, District of Columbia, 2 alligators.

Dr. Ned Dearborn, Laurel, Maryland, common ferret.

Mr. R. F. Dunham, Allegan, Michigan, alligator.

Dr, W. O. Emery, Washington, District of Columbia, Cooper’s hawk.

Mr. Victor J. Evans, Washington, District of Columbia, nail-tailed wallaby
and 2 wombats.

Mr. E. G. Fletcher, Washington, District of Columbia, alligator.

Mr. J. M. Frank, jr., Washington, District of Columbia, alligator.

Mrs. W. S. Groh, Burke, Virginia, alligator.

Mr. M. E. Heeter, Washington, District of Columbia, alligator.

Mr. John Heywood, Gardner, Massachusetts, 10 mallards.

Mr. J. J. Hoffman, Washington, District of Columbia, alligator.

Mrs. Katherine Hunter, Washington, District of Columbia, yellow-headed
parrot.

Mrs. J. W. Jenks, Washington, District of Columbia, blue jay.

Dr. Guy W. Latimer, Hyattsville, Maryland, ring-necked pheasant.

Mr. Willis Lillycrop, Washington, District of Columbia, white-throated
capuchin. :

Mr. T. P. Lovering, Washington, District of Columbia, 2 chicken snakes, a
black snake, a southern brown snake, and a brown water snake.

Miss Eleanor Marshall, Washington, District of Columbia, alligator.

Mr. D. W. May, Mayaguez, Porto Rico, Mona Island iguana.

Misses Margaret and Lily Meldahl, Washington, West Virginia, curassow and
a red-yellow-and-blue macaw.

Mr. J. C. Meyer, Washington, District of Columbia, fox sparrow.

Mr. Irvin Miller, second officer, steamship Northland, Norfolk, Virginia, green
heron.

Mr. James Mooney, jr., Washington, District of Columbia, alligator.

Miss Niles, Washington, District of Columbia, alligator.

Mr. William H. Ottemiller, York, Pennsylvania, alligator.

Mrs. M. A. Pitt, Washington, District of Columbia, 3 grass parrakeets.

Mr. T. J. Poole, Washington, District of Columbia, 2 screech owls.

Mrs. J. L. Primm, Washington, District of Columbia, 3 Virginia opossums.

Mr. Louis Rueger, Richmond, Virginia, Mexican puma.

Mr. W. E. Safford, Washington, District of Columbia, gopher turtle.

Mr. E. 8S. Schmid, Washington, District of Columbia, woodchuck.

Dr. R. W. Shufeldt, Washington, District of Columbia, water snake.

Miss Pearl Smith and Mr. J. C. Lamon, Alcoa, Tennessee, 2 banded rattle-
snakes.

Dr. John S. Stearns, Washington, District of Columbia, horned grebe.

Mr. Wilfred Stevens, Wesley Heights, District of Columbia, indigo bunting.

Mr. C. E. Swihart, Fort Barrancas, Florida, horned toad.

Mr. J. E. Taylor, Oxford, Maryland, common skunk.

Mr. Hall Vermillion, Washington, District of Columbia, sparrow hawk.

Mr. Clark Vernon, Washington, District of Columbia, alligator.

Mr. J. W. Weaver, Nashville, Tennessee, common skunk,
74 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

Births Fifty-two mammals were born, and 41 birds were hatched
during the year. The births include 3 bears, 1 hippopotamus, 8 red
deer, 1 Bedford deer, 2 elk, 2 mule deer, 2 Virginia deer, 1 fallow deer,
1 axis deer, 2 hog deer, 4 barasingha deer, 3 Japanese deer, 1 black
buck, 1 yak, 3 bison, 1 Rocky Mountain sheep, 1 aoudad, 2 guanacos,
3 llamas, 2 great red kangaroos, 1 wallaroo, 6 coypus, and 1 monkey.
The birds hatched include Canada geese, ducks, Java sparrows, and
peafowl. The hippopotamus is the first one born in the park, and
one of very few ever born in America. It is a thrifty male and has
attracted great attention.

Ewchanges.—In exchange for surplus animals the park received
12 mammals and 62 birds. A drill, a young male sea lion, a pair
of scarlet ibises, and numerous ducks for the North American water-
fowl] lake were obtained in this manner, as well as other species much
needed to fill gaps in the collection.

Purchases.—Owing to lack of sufficient funds for the purchase of
animals, many desirable species greatly needed in the collection,
and offered from time to time, could not be obtained. A total of
26 mammals, 23 birds, and 22 reptiles were received through pur-
chase, mostly small native species at low cost.

Transfers—Four elk were received from Yellowstone Park
through the Department of the Interior, but only two reached Wash-
ington in good condition and were saved. There were shipped east
with a carload of elk for the State of Virginia, and were obtained
with the idea of introducing new blood in the herd maintained at
the park. The Biological Survey, of the Department of Agriculture,
transferred to the park certain North American mammals, including
a mountain lion from Arizona, a dusky marmot from New Mexico,
and some mountain beavers from Washington.

Captured in the park.—One bird and one reptile captured within
the boundaries of the park, were added to the collection.

Deposited.—Hon. R. M. Barnes, of Lacon, Illinois, sent to the park
as a loan a male of the almost extinct trumpeter swan, one of the
finest species of North American waterfowl. The park owned a single
female of this rare swan and efforts are now being made to mate
these surviving birds and preserve the species from extinction, The
two swans are quartered in an ideal place, and although they were
apparently placed together too late to breed this season, hopes are
entertained that by next spring they will be sufficiently familiar with
their surroundings to nest. A number of fur-bearing animals from
the Bureau of Biological Survey, Department of Agriculture, and
some rhesus monkeys from the Hygienic Laboratory were received
on temporary deposit.
On

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. i
REMOVALS.

Surplus birds and mammals to the number of 51 were exchanged to
other zoological gardens, and 62 animals on deposit were returned to
the Bureau of Biological Survey, Department of Agriculture, and
to the Hygienic Laboratory. A number of specimens of native
species were liberated in the Park and dropped from the list of ani-
mals in the collection.

The number of animals lost by death is comparatively small, but
some important and valuable animals are included in the list. The
death of Dunk, the Indian elephant, was the most notable loss. Dunk
was the first animal to be placed in the Zoological Park when the
present site was occupied. He was presented to the park by Mr.
James E, Cooper, proprietor of the Adam Forepaugh Shows, April
30, 1891, and was then about 25 years old. Over 50 years of age at
the time of his death, Dunk had reached the average limit for animals
of his kind, for contrary to common belief the longevity of the ele-
phant is not great in proportion to the size of the beast. Others of
the more serious losses were a large Galapagos tortoise (Zestudo
ephippium), February 21, from enteritis; the harpy eagle (7hrasaé-
tos harpyia) April 14, from aspergillosis; and a female Manchurian
tiger which was mercifully killed as unfit for exhibition June 29.
The Galapagos tortoise, with others of his kind, had been in the col-
lection since October 1, 1898. The record for the harpy eagle is a
matter of pride for the keepers in the bird department, for this rare
bird of prey had been kept in good health for nearly 18 years. He
was received May 19, 1899, as a gift from the governor of the State
~ of Amazonas, Brazil, through Commander C. C. Todd, United States
Navy. It is believed that the species has never before been kept in
any gardens for a similar period.

Post-mortem examinations were made, as usual, by the pathological
division of the Bureau of Animal Industry, United States Depart-
ment of Agriculture. The following list shows the cause of death of
animals in each general group. It is believed that the publication of
such lists is to be encouraged, as they are of undoubted value to
gardens less fortunately provided for up-to-date pathological inves-
tigations.

CAUSES OF DEATH.

MAMMALS.

Primates: Gastritis, 1; enteritis, 3; gastroenteritis, 2; no cause found, 1.

Carnivora: Enteritis, 3; gastroenteritis, 7; malnutrition, 1; anemia, 1; peri-
tonitis, 1; internal hemorrhage, 1.

Ungulates: Enteritis, 3; gastroenteritis, 1; pneumonia, 3; congestion of lungs,
1; tuberculosis, 2; uremia, 1; peritonitis, 1; necrosis of jaw, 1; cachexia, 1;
malnutrition, 1.

Rodents: Enteritis, 1; gastroenteritis, 1; tuberculosis, 2; anemia, 1.

Marsupials: Enteritis, 1; pneumonia, 1; septicemia, 1.
76 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

Passeriformes: Enteritis, 1.

BIRDS.

Coraciiformes: Aspergillosis, 1; no cause found, 2.
Cuculiformes: Gastroenteritis, 1; internal hemorrhage, 1; cause not found, 10.*
Charadriiformes: Enteritis, 2; tuberculosis, 3; pneumonia, 2.

wuiformes: Tuberculosis, 2.

Galliformes: Enteritis, 2; gastroenteritis, 2; quail disease, 22.
Faleoniformes: Enteritis, 1; aspergillosis, 3; no cause found, 1.
Anseriformes: Enteritis, 2; tuberculosis, 4; pneumonia, 1; aspergillosis, 2; no

cause found, 38.

Ciconiiformes: Enteritis, 5; anemia, 1; internal hemorrhage, 1; fibroma of in-

testines, 1.
Colymbiformes: Septicemia, 1.

Testudinata: Enteritis, 1.
Loricata: No cause found, 1.

REPTILES.

Serpentes: Enteritis, 1; intestinal necrosis, 1; no cause found, 1.

Thirty-three of the animals lost by death were transferred to the
National Museum for mounting. These included all the rarer speci-
mens or those of special scientific importance.

ANIMALS IN THE COLLECTION JUNE 30, 1917.

MAMMALS,

MARSUPIALIA. CARNIVORA—continued.
Murine opossum (Marmosa murina) —~ 1 | Kenai black bear (Ursus americanus
Virginia opossum (Didelphis_ virgin- MDOTNAGEr) | Saree ee ate Se ee
10ND) Osan wt Ee 3 | Cinnamon bear (Ursus _americanus
Tasmanian devil (Sarcophilus  har- Cinnamonimn)) —— = eee
wist) Ch. NM et EEE ees 2 | Sloth bear (Melursus ursinus) —_____~
Phalanger (Trichosurus vulpecula) —_- 2 | Polar bear (Thalarctos maritimus) __
Dusky phalanger (Trichosurus fulig- Eskimo dog (Canis familiaris) _______
G2OSUS) pe ee ee ee 2 | Gray wolf (Canis nubilus) -__________
Nail-tailed wallaby (Onychogale fre- Southern wolf (Canis floridanus) ——__~
NO) ee ee See 1 | Woodhouse’s wolf (Canis frustror) __
Brush-tailed rock kangaroo (Petrogale Coyote (Canis latrans)=———————
penicillata) -------------------___ 2 | Red fox (Vulpes fulva)—__-__-__---__
Great gray kangaroo (Macropus gi- Swift fox (Vulpes velow)_.__-_______
CG ONTCALS) a 2 | Gray fox (Urocyon cinereoargenteus) —
Red kangaroo (Macropus rufus) —--~- 5 | Cacomistle (Bassariscus astutus)————
Wallaroo (Macropus robustus) —~-__--~ 3 | Raccoon (Procyon lotor) _-______=___
Black-tailed wallaby (Macropus uala- Gray coatimundi (Nasua narica)——_—~
batus) i otene 225s _saslt Jee 1 | Kinkajou (Potos flavus) -----_______
Parma wallaby (Macropus parma)_-- 1 | Werret (Mustela furo)_---___________
Wombat (Phascolomys mitchelli) _--_- 2 | Mink (Mustela vison) _-_____________
Tayra ((Tayra_varbara) 22-3. aes
CASES UNO EES Skunk (Mephitis nigra) ————_--_-=-=
Kadiak bear (Ursus middendorffi)._._-_ 1 | American badger (J’avidea tarus) —_——
Alaska Peninsula bear (Ursus gyas) ~~ 2 | European badger (Meles meie:, _-__-_
Yakutat bear (Ursus dalli) ___------- 1 | Florida otter (Lutra canadensis vaya) —
Kidder’s bear (Ursus kidderi) _--__--_- 2 | African civet (Viverra civetta) ___-
Hybrid bear (Ursus kidderi-arctos) —~ 3 i Genet (Genetta genetta)=—-——_
European bear (Ursus arctos)____-- 2 | Spotted hyena (Orocuta crocuta)___~
Himalayan bear (Ursus thibetanus) —- 1 | African cheetah (Acinonye jubatus) ——
Japanese bear (Ursus japonicus) —_-- 4. Welton’ Cielvis=leo) ssa a nw aoe
Grizzly bear (Ursus horribilis) __--~- 3 | Somaliland lion (Felis leo somaliensis) —
Black bear (Ursus americanus) —-~~~~- 3: | Bengaliytigera (felis, tigris)2s-2 sere"

1 Nine lorikeets, while apparently healthy, died suddenly after convulsions.
pathologists have thus far been unable to find the cause.

Be bw

~

De I a 2 ce ce ce BL 0 2 OP

The
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

MAMMALS—continued.

CARNIVORA—continued.
Manchurian tiger (Felis tigris longi-
pilis)
Leopard (Felis pardus) ----__--------
East African leopard (Felis pardus
suahelica)
DASUar A CMeHS ONCE). eee
Mexican puma (Felis azteca) ~------
Mountain lion (Felis hippolestes) -_~
Canada lynx (Lynx canadensis) ——~~—-
Bay lynx (Zana rujfus)———- —---_—-_-
California lynx (Lynz californicus) —--

PINNIPEDIA.

California sea lion (Zalophus califor-

nianus)
Steller’s sea lion (Humetopias jubata) —
Harbor seal (Phoca vitulina) ~--_--~--

RODENTIA,

Patagonian cavy (Dolichotis patagon-
ica)
Peruvian guinea pig (Cavia tschudii
pallidior)
Guinea pig (Cavia porcellus)_-------
Coypu (Myocastor coypus) —----------
Mexican agouti (Dasyprocta mevicana) —~
Azara’s agouti (Dasyprocta azar@) ___
Crested agouti (Dasyprocta cristata) —
Paca (Ounieulus paca). -25—= 26 ===>
Viscacha (Lagostomus mazimus) -----~-
Crested porcupine (Hystrix cristata) ~~
Mountain beaver (Aplodontia rufa) —--
Woodchuck (Marmota monag) —------
Dusky marmot (Mamota flaviventris
obscura)
Prairie dog (Oynomys ludovicianus) ~~
Striped spermophile (Citellus tridecem-
lineatus)
Albino squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis) —
American beaver (Castor canadensis) —

LAGOMORPHA.

Domestic rabbit (Oryctolagus cunicu-
lus)

EDENTATA,

Hairy armadillo (Huphractus villosus) —

PRIMATES,

Mongoose lemur (Lemur mongoz)_-_-
Black lemur (Lemur macaco) —------~
Titi monkey (Saimiri sciureus) ~--__~
Gray spider monkey (Ateles geoffroyi) —-
White-throated capuchin (Cebus ca-

DUCTIVUS PR Se 10 ee ae
Brown capuchin (Cebus fatuellus) ___~
Guinea baboon (Papio papio)_-----_-
Chacma (Papio porcarius) ~----------

he

tor be RPOWrRN Re

HPNERPNDRPRNHEANOG WNW

no =

ee

15

PRIMATES—continued.

Yellow baboon (Papio cynocephalus) ~~
Hamadryas baboon (Papio hamadryas) —
Mandrill (Papio.sphing) —~___.___-_—
Drill (Papio leucopheus) —_-_---—_—
Moor macaque (Cynopithecus maurus) —
Brown macaque (Macaca speciosa) —~—-_
Japanese monkey (Macaca fuscata) —_
Pig-tailed monkey (Macaca nemes-

trina)
Rhesus monkey (Macaca rhesus) —---~
Bonnet monkey (Macaca sinica) __---~
Javan macaque (Macaca mordaz)_—---
Sooty mangabey (Cercocebus fuligi-

NOSU8) \25. Jf es Jee eee
Green guenon (Lasiopyga callitrichus) —
Vervet guenon (Lasiopyga pygery-

thr@)iLss. 2S See eet essa Sss
Mona (Lasiopyga mona) __----_-----~
Roloway guenon (Lasiopyga roloway) —
Patas monkey (Hrythrocebus patas) _-
Chimpanzee (Pan troglodytes) -------

ARTIODACTYLA,

Collared peccary (Pecaria angulatus) —
Wild boar) (Sus7s¢ro] a) ——
Wart hog (Phacocherus ethiopicus) —-
Hippopotamus (Hippopotamus amphib-

Vus)rasae NW SUSE i Se ee
Bactrian camel (Camelus bactrianus) —
Arabian camel (Camelus dromeda-

ris) G2 800 2B ews) sie ge

Guanaco (Lama huanachus) ~~-~-~---~
Llams: (Lama glama) 222 2= = 2 See eet
Alpaca (Lama pacos) ~------~---- ee ee
Vicuna (Lama vicugna) 222222222. -=.
Fallow deer (Dama dama)___-------
Axis deer*(Alpisvaris)2h4 esas eee
Hog deer (Hyelaphus porcinus) —~-~--
Sambar. (Rusa wnicotor) 22222) 22k e =
Luzon deer (Rusa philippinus)_____~
Barasingha (Rucervus duvaucelii) —-_~-
Japanese deer (Sika nippon) —~~--_--_-
Red deer (Cervus elaphus) —~_-_--_- IS _ fs
Kashmir deer (Oervus hanglu) _--~---
Bedford deer (Cervus ranthopygus) ~~
American elk (Cervus canadensis) __~
Virginia deer (Odocoileus virginianus ) ~
Mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) ~~---
Black-tailed deer (Odocoileus columbt

anus)
Blesbok (Damaliscus albifrons)—----~-~
White-tailed gnu (Connochetes gnu) —_
Defassa water-buck (Kobus defassa) —
Indian antelope (Antilope cervicapra) —
Springbok (Antidorcas marsupialis

centralis)
Sable antelope (Ozanna niger) ~------
Nilgai (Boselaphus tragocamelus) ---~
Congo harnessed antelope (Tragela-

phus gratus)

ue

Heeb

bo

~

bo
RW oh

eh

me Oe oo bo

bo ee

Co Os

i
RPI OTA AOWR NAD Ne bh © ow

r=

oH ee oo

Nee
78

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

MAMMALS—continued.

ARTIODACTYLA—continued.

East African eland (Taurotragus onyx

UNI StON) ee
Tahr (Hemitragus jemlahicus) ——~~~ a
Aoudad (Ammotragus lervia)________
Cireassian goat (Capra hircus) —~_-~~
Rocky Mountain sheep (Ovis canaden-

sis)
Barbados sheep (Ovis aries) ~-_-----
Zepigiceos WnOiCws) = eee
Anoa (Anoa depressicornis) _—~—_______-
Yak (Poéphayus grunniens)_—~—______-
American bison (Bison bison) —~---__~

RATITAD,

South African ostrich (Struthio aus-
UTR) Ol ee ee eS
Somaliland ostrich (Struthio molybdo-
phanes)
Rhea (Rhea americana) -------------
Cassowary (Casuarius galeatus)_—-_~

Emu (Dromiceius novehollandie) ——--
CICONIIFORMES.

American white pelican (Pelecanus

Crythnornyn Ch0s) Aaa eaa— = ee ae

European white pelican (Pelecanus

ONOPCROTOVUS )2~ = ohare A. Fee oe ek

Roseate pelican (Pelecanus roseus) ——~
Australian pelican (Pelecanus conspic-

hiatus); 232 en eee eee PA nee
Brown pelican (Pelecanus occidentalis ) —
Florida cormorant (Phalacrocoraz au-

TiULMLS LOTIOONUS) —2 ae ee
White-necked heron (Ardea cocoi)___~
Great blue heron (Ardea herodias) ___
Snowy egret (Hgretta candidissima) __
Green heron (Butorides virescens) ___~
Black-crowned night heron (Nycticoraxz

NY CTICONAG NGViUNs eens eee
Boatbill (Cochlearius cochlearius) —-_-~
White stork (Ciconia ciconia) _~-_-___-
Black stork (Ciconia nigra) __~________
Marabou stork (Leptoptilos dubius) —__
Sacred ibis (Threskiornis cethiopicus) —
White ibis (Guara alba)_____-______
Scarlet ibis (Guara rubra) ~___~____
Roseate spoonbill (Ajaia ajaja)______

European flamingo (Phenicopterus

TOSCUS) = 2eeRe iin penotinwiads yo apy
ANSERIFORMES.

Black-necked screamer (Chauna_ tor-

LORE ID) ee aad Es Rome ele a oh SA cee iid
Horned screamer (Anhima cornuta) __
Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) ~~ ~__~__~
Hast Indian black duck (Anas platy-

WY IECILOS MU OTs) en eae ns epee ee ee
Black duck (An@s rubripes) ---...-__-

PERISSODACTYLA,

Brazilian tapir (Tapirus terrestris) __

3 | Mongolian horse (Hquus przewalskii) —
4 | Grant’s zebra (Hquus burchelli granti) —
9 | Grevy’s zebra (Hquus grevyi)_-----_~
2 | Zebra horse, hybrid (Hquus grevyi-
caballus) 2-5 == a
6 | Zebra ass, hybrid (Hquus  grevyi-
8 ASUNUS:) {Set SOND ara ek see
i PROBOSCIDBA,
4 | Abyssinian elephant (Loxzodonta afri-
18 COND OCYOS) ee eee eee
BIRDS.
ANSBRIFORMES— continued.
European widgeon (Mareca penelope) —
4 | Baldpate (Mareca americana) ________~
Green-winged teal (Nettion caro-
i UNCIVSC) Be a 2 eee ee
2 | Blue-winged teal (Querquedula dis-
il C078) '32 282-523 ae ees Se = aan = AN
2 | Ruddy sheldrake (Casarca ferruginea)
Pintail =(Daftia-acute) ===
Wood duck (Aix sponsa) 2-—---_ = ==
Mandarin duck (Dendronessa galericu-
lata) reese Sie EU ERM 2 22 SS Se
9 | Canvas-back (Marila valisineria) —~-~~
Lesser scaup duck (Marila affinis) ___
2 Rosy-billed pochard (Metopiana pepo-
2 SACO)) == NSE SEN a eh :
Snow goose (Chen hyperboreus) __--__~
2 | Blue goose (Chen cerulescens) —_~-—_~~
3 | Ross’s goose (Chen rossti) __________-
White-fronted goose (Anser albifrons) —
16 | American white-fronted goose (Anser
1 albifrons gambeli) —2_ 2 ~~
1 | Toulouse goose (Anser cinereus do-
3 MeSsStiCus) === == =e see n=
1 | Bar-headed goose (Anser indicus) ~~~
Canada goose (Branta canadensis) ~___~
14 | Futchins’s goose (Branta canadensis
. hutchineit), ae ee ee
3 Cackling goose (Branta canadensis
1 MUNG) es a oe ee ee
i Barnacle goose (Branta leucopsis) —--~-
3 Upland goose (Chloéphagaleucoptera) —
1 Spur-winged goose (Plectropterus gam-
2 bensis) 2022 SE EEE SEES
* Cape Barren goose (Cereopsis novehol-
1 lOndi@) a ee
Wandering tree duck (Dendrocygna ar-
CUCL) ee een es
White-faced tree duck (Dendrocygna
AME CLUE) ye ne
8 | Black-bellied tree duck (Dendrocygna
TW UOT GHIID) Sa a Se ES SSE SS =
10 | Mute swan (Cygnus gibbus) —-_-------
Whistling swan (Olor columbianus) ——
14 | Trumpeter swan (Olor buecinator) —--
1 | Black swan (Ohenopsis atrata)—~---~

ars

om

iil

co 0 oO
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY,

BIRDS—continued.

FALCONIFORMES.

South American condor (Vultur gry-

MNUS) Sse oO ee se ee
California condor (Gymnogyps califor-

nianus)
Turkey vulture (Cathartes aura) _——---~
Black vulture (Coragyps urubu) —---~--
King vulture (Sarcoramphus papa) _—-
Secretary bird (Sagittarius serpenta-

rius)
Griffon vulture (Gyps fulwus) ------~-
Cinerous vulture (Aegypius mona-

Chis jas eee een ee Pw eS
Lammergeyer (Gypaétus barbatus) __-
Caracara (Polyborus cheriway) —--~-~
Yellow-throated caracara (Ibycter

CLG) * 2s oi ee ee eee
Crowned hawk eagle (Spizaétus coro-

natus)
Wedge-tailed eagle (Uroaétus audag) __
Golden eagle (Aquila chrysaétos) —~____
Bald eagle (Haliwetus leucocephalus) —
Alaskan bald eagle (Haliwetus leuco-

cephalus. alascanus) ——-— = ——-—-——_
Sparrow hawk (Falco sparverius) ----

GALLIFORMES,

Mexican curassow (Crag globicera) —---~
Daubenton’s curassow (Crazr danben-

Wild turkey (Meleagris gallopave)__-
Peafowl (Pawo cristatus) ___--~----__
Peacock pheasant (Polyplectron bical-

COLILUIN) = ee ee
Silver pheasant (Huplocamus nycthe-

merus)
Natal francolin (Francolinus natalen-

ona)
Curacao crested quail (Hupsychortyr
cristatus)
Bobwhite (Oolinus virginianus) —___-~
Scaled quail (Callipepla squamata) ___
Gambel’s quail (Lophortyx gambelii) __
Valley quail (Lophortyr californica
VAUiCOld) LS LE) Se Seek

GRUIFORMES.

American coot (Fulica americana) —_~
Whooping crane (Grus americana) __-—
Sandhill crane (Grus mew«icana) _____~
White-necked crane (Grus lewcauchen) —
Indian white crane (Grus leucogera-

TALS) ee eae BO
Lilford’s crane (Grus lifordi) _-______
Australian crane (Grus rubicunda) —__
Demoiselle crane (Anthropoides virgo) —

bo

OT OW co

mh OF to

rar

22

mt OO

ae wre

GRUIFORMES—continued,

Crowned crane (Balearica pavonina) —
Cariama (Cariama eristata)----___~

CHARADRIFORMES.
Great black-backed gull (Larus mari-

Herring gull (Larus argentatus) —~____
Laughing gull (Larus atricilla) ______
Australian crested pigeon (Ocyphaps

lODROLES) a a ee es
Wonga-wonga pigeon

DU CHULO) eee a ee ee
Speckled pigeon (Columba pheonota) —
Snow pigeon (Columba leuconota) —___

White-crowned pigeon (Patagienas
LCUCOCEDN ALG )h en ee Se eae
Band - tailed pigeon (Chlorenas fas-
Ci Gt) pa ee 2 are se ee

Red-billed pigeon (Chlorenas flaviros-
iG Sy ee ee SS ee ee eee ee
White-winged dove (Melopelia asia-
tica)
Mourning dove (Cenaidura macroura) —
Peaceful dove (Geopelia tranquilla) —
Zebra dove (Geopelia striata) .----~-
Cape masked dove (Gna capensis) —--
Inca dove (Scardafella inca) _--------~
Blue-headed quail-dove (Starnenas
cyanocephala)
Collared turtle-dove
risoria) =.322=— 3.5 =e

x CUCULIFORMES,

White-crested touraco (Turacus cory-
thaiz ) :
Grass parrakeet (Melopsittacus wun-

dutatus), 22222202220. = ene
Black - tailed parrakeet (Polytelis
melanure)—==—— === 2. 2S ee
Banded parakeet (Palwornis_ fas-
TALE ee eee ee

Lesser vasa parrot (Coracopsis nigra) —
Gray parrot (Psittacus erithacus) --__-
Cuban parrot (Amazona leucocephala) —
Porto Rican parrot (Amazona vittata) —
Yellow-winged parrot (Amazona bar-

1D CL CIES 8.) ee ee ee
Festive parrot (Amazona festiva) _—___
Yellow-fronted parrot (Amazona och-

rocephala)
Yellow-naped parrot (Amazona auro-

palliata)
Yellow-headed parrot (Amazgona ora-

bVAD) ao oe Ae = ee
Quaker parrot (Myiopsitta monachus) -

Red-and-blue macaw (Ara_ chlorop-
LOO) = eee Se ee ee
Red-and-yellow-and-blue macaw (Ara
MACAO Nets Bae a Se ee
Yellow-and-blue macaw (Ara arara-
UNG) Rene ete ee Soe oe

79

me ho

ar

es
wwonc

bo
80

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

BIRDS—continued.

CUCULIFORMES—continued.

PASSERIFORMES—continued.

Sulphur-crested cockatoo (Cacatoes American magpie (Pica pica hudson-
GALETTED) Nee ann ee ees 3 ACG) V2e TE Se Ss Nat ae ee ee eee EE
Great red-crested cockatoo (Cacatoes Blue jay (Cyanoecitta cristata) ___-____~_
ANOLE CENSUS) ee re ae a ee as 1 | American crow (Corvus brachyrhyn-
White cockatoo (Cacatoes alba) ——-__-~ 3 Chos) 223 =— he eee 2 ae ee
Leadbeater’s cockatoo (Cacatoes lead- Australian crow (Corvus coronoides) —
COLE Catt se ee 1 | European raven (Corvus coraxr)—~____
Bare-eyed cockatoo (Cacatoes gym- Glossy starling (Lamprotornis cauda-
AUO D148) ate en ee ee 3 tus) eS St Ss ee ee ot ee
Roseate cockatoo (Cacatoes rosecica- Malabar starling (Spodiopsar mata-
Dill) eae eee, «SO 12 baricus)! 222 ee Aa ee ee
Sealy-breasted lorikeet (Psitteuteles Napolean weave® (Pyromelana afra)_——
chlorolepidotus) _-____-____--_____ 1 | Crimson-crowned weaver (Pyromelana
AOIMMACED &)\e re eee eee ae Sree
CORACIIFORMES. Madagascar weaver (Foudia madagas-
COTLENSTS) See 2 ete ees eee
Giant kingfisher (Dacelo gigas) _--__ 2 | Paradise weaver (Steganura para-
Coneave-casqued hornbill (Dichoceros disca) 2222s eee Se Se
OLCOTNTS) ee ee ee ee? ee il Cut-throat finch (Amadina fasciata) —_
Barred owl (Strig varia) ——__-__---- 5 | Black-faced Gouldian finch (Poéphila
Screech owl (Otws asio)__~____-—__ 1 OULU CLC.) ee ee oe ee ee
Great horned owl (Bubo virginianus)—- 14 | Black-headed finch (Munia atricapilla) —
Three-colored finch (Munia malacca) —_
PASSHRIFORMES. Nutmeg finch (Munia punctularia) ——___~
Java sparrow (Munia oryzivora) __-_-
Yellow tyrant (Pitangus  sulphur- White Java sparrow (Munia oryzi-
Cts) a =a ee ee 1 HORE) SaaS ee Se eS
Japanese robin (Liothria luteus) —~~-~- 4 | Cowbird (Molothrus ater) ~___-_-_---__-
Laughing thrush (Garrulaxr  leucolo- Tox sparrow (Passerella iliaca) ~_-~-~
PRUs) Soe eT ae De ee ee oes 2 | Nonpareil (Passerina ciris)-__-------
Mockingbird (Mimus polyglottos) —--___ 1 | Saffron finch (Sicalis flaveola) —~~~~-~
Brown thrasher (Toxostoma rufum)_—-_— 1 | Canary (Serinus canarius) —__-__-----
Australian gray jumper (Struthidea Green singing finch (Serinus icterus) —
cinerea) Avene 2) se yot — hel eerie 1 | Red-crested cardinal (Paroaria cucul-
Red-billed magpie (Urocissa occipi- (ata) )/-=ss2s26s55-s525e58s—551 Oem
EQUS)) a eens ee ee Oe Eso Beep pee. 2 1 | Cardinal (Cardinalis cardinalis) —-~-_~
REPTILES.
Gopher tortoise (Gopherus polyphe- Horned toad (Phrynosoma cornutum) —
MNS) po he ak ey 1 | Rock python (Python molurus)__----~
Duncan Island tortoise (Testudo ephip- Anaconda (Hunectes murinus)_—_—---
ITAL TD) ee a ee a ee ee 1 | Boa constrictor (Constrictor constric-
Albemarle Island tortoise (Testudo CON) ee le
AYUCUIU) iy em a a Sp 1 | Water snake (Natriaz sipedon) _______-
Alligator (Alligator mississippiensis)_ 30 | Black snake (Coluber constrictor) ~~
Mona Island iguana (Cyclura stejne- Coach-whip snake (Coluber flagellum) —
OT) ee ee 1 | Chicken snake (Hlaphe obsoleta quad-
Gila monster (Heloderma suspectum) — Ki NDE AtG) oe eee eee

bo Oe

Bo

RPh w&

bo
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 81

STATEMENT OF THE COLLECTION.

ACCESSIONS DURING THE YEAR.

Presented : Transferred from other Govy-
WY ehaabares Klee ee TS 28 ernment departments:
Birds! Sp hel. AVeenes 44 Mammals 22th si sa4s ar 5
(Reptiles 2218) 29) pets 27 ee EE Bea
— 99
Born and hatched in the Na-
tional Zoological Park: Captured in National Zoologi-
Mamminise oo ce aD cal lik:
ing see ee en eee AN Binds. Peete re ue er 1
93 Reptilesm. ea. 2.24 Bites. aye 1
Received in exchange: . SO
Mam mal oross eeire sree ase 12
: 9
NGS pa eee aS Be 74 Deposited :
Mammals& «84 22)i 5. es 52
Purchased : Birds 1
Mammal Sees ee ee POUL QUICHE Tiss TOM ERT Tet
Birdee pent the Sarvs 23 are 88
Reptiles) Se sae Cees oh 22 Toa
71 TNotalgaecessions)=———_ = 397
SUMMARY.
Animals onGhande July's aAOlG AD isy OPE Vi peso OF) 2 Be 1, 383
Aecessions during phegyeares 2 aay eh Stet. latipes Uae te 397
1, 780
Deduct loss (by exchange, death, return of animals, and animals lib-
Grated) ppeessp hil pris! tay saiteritep od itio po byrwersirgits ory Al mare 55ST
Onwrandshunegs0 maOleee = ween wie! Rese ee eee tee ioe
Class. Species. teete
Mamita] Sor meer te eer ee a A. ee CR Cet 2. ees. Bye Vee Spee tin 4 eerie ey ety 43 159 484
Birds (att ee LL pe EERE A ees eh ae A Se 88 ee 8 be ed Se et OE oe Sree ee 182 683
Reptilesa pases. = serysech Coe eG seria: Pedsebo ab. = cee iol wceek tees ts ese 14 56
Totalsg tse ISS. - Pra ttn aee see ee oe STIS ABE EMCE Te ERED 355 1, 223
VISITORS.

The number of visitors to the park during the year, as determined
by count and estimate, was 1,106,800, a daily average of 3,032. The
greatest number in any one month was 171,400, in April, 1917, an
average per day of 5,713. The attendance by months was as follows:

1916: July, 78,800; August, 80,500; September, 122,550; October, 92,200;
November, 48,250; December, 44,625.

1917: January, 37,750; February, 55,675; March, 108,400; April, 171,400;
May, 110,550; June, 161,100.
82 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

Excepting 1916, this was the largest attendance in the history of
the park. The number of visitors was only 50,310 less than in 1916,
and doubtless would have exceeded that record year but for the
unseasonable weather on Easter Monday.

One hundred and fifty-three schools and classes visited the park,
with a total of 8,492 individuals. In addition to the local schools
and those from near-by States, these included schools from Alabama,
Arkansas, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Oklahoma,
Pennsylvania, and Vermont. A number of officials from other zoo-
logical gardens visited the park.

The exceptionally favorable weather made the skating pond an
attractive feature during the past winter and for a much longer
period than usual. The ice was kept clean of snow throughout the
season and the appreciation of the public would seem to warrant
the construction of additional lakes to be used for exhibits of water-
fowl during the summer and skating in winter.

IMPROVEMENTS.

The hospital and laboratory, which has been mentioned in the
reports for the last two years, is still unfinished, but a considerable
amount of work was done on the interior cages so that the building
now lacks only the necessary outside yards and the laboratory equip-
ment. The hospital cages are designed for the care and special
comfort of indisposed or quarantined animals, and accommoda-
tions are provided for two mammals of lion size, three of leopard
size, three large ruminants, and a number of smaller animals. In
addition, there is a large, well lighted, central room for laboratory
use. The completion of this building will greatly facilitate the
work of the pathologists from the Department of Agriculture who
visit the park.

The largest waterfowl lake, in the southeastern part of the park,
was enlarged and reconstructed to provide safe and retired breeding
and resting places for the birds. It had formerly been inclosed by
a fence of ordinary poultry wire without special protection from pre-
dacious animals, and there had been frequent loss from the depreda-
tions of rats and the smaller native carnivores. In order to increase
sufficiently the land area it was necessary to construct a stone wall
along Rock Creek at the rear of the inclosure. By lowering the
erade of the hill bordering the lake, sufficient earth was produced to
fill up to the level of the wall on the inner side.- A rat-proof fence
was woven in the machine shop and further provided with guards
against cats and raccoons. The level of the water was raised about
12 inches, greatly increasing the size of the lake, and the new fence
was constructed on a concrete coping considerably outside the former
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 83

boundary. Numerous shrubs, small trees, canes, and grasses were
planted to supplement the fine growth of larger trees already on the
area. Visitors walk along one side of the lake only and as the thick
vegetation virtually hides the fence on the opposite side at all points
the effect is that of a wilderness breeding lake for ducks and geese.
As completed, the inclosure provides almost natural conditions for
the waterfowl of numerous species and forms a very attractive ex-
hibit. It has been given over entirely to North American species,
and it is hoped that a large representation of the ducks, geese, and
other aquatic birds commonly associated with them native to our
continent may be kept here. On June 30, no less than 136 North
American waterfowl, of 24 species, were to be seen on the lake. The
natural surroundings and the fact that only American species are
shown here makes this waterfowl lake of special interest to school
classes, sportsmen, and bird lovers, and it has become one of the
popular features of the park. A cement walk was extended from
the bridge near the Harvard Street entrance along the south side of
the road to the crossroads, to connect with the cinder path bordering
the lake.

The work of grading and filling around the old buffalo house and
the remodeling of the building for other uses, which was commenced
last year, has been completed. As reconstructed the building makes
an ideal shelter of pleasing design and furnishes house space for the
animals occupying the six large paddocks that surround it. The
Canadian Rocky Mountain sheep, the elands, and the Kashmir deer
are provided for in this group of yards.

An outdoor cage and shelter, summer quarters for the chimpanzee,
were built near the north entrance to the lion house. This provides
not only for the better health of this interesting trained ape, but
makes it possible for larger crowds to gather about at the time his
meals are served.

New paddocks were provided for ungulate mammals on the piece
of ground recently leveled by grading northwest of the llama yards.
Much-needed repairs were made on the wolf dens and to the lion
house roof.

A considerable portion of the pasture land near the office was
plowed as an addition to the garden, in an effort to decrease the cost
of feed for the animals. For the same reason horseflesh has been
substituted for beef as food for the carnivorous animals, with the
prospect of saving at least $6,000 on this item alone during the next
fiscal year. A portion of the nursery was fenced and breeding pens
for quail and other game birds were installed within the inclosure.
Tt is hoped that most of the quail of various species needed for park
purposes may be reared in this place and that important experiments
in the breeding of game birds may at the same time be conducted
without additional expense.
84 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

THE PARK AS A BIRD SANCTUARY.

The entire 169 acres of the National Zoological Park constitutes a
carefully preserved sanctuary for native wild birds. Every effort is
being made to increase the bird population within this area and to
give better protection to the resident species. During the past year
over 100 nesting boxes were provided for those species which com-
monly nest in holes in trees. These were made in the carpenter shop
at odd tames during the winter months from trunks and limbs of
fallen trees with the bark in place. Attached to trees of the same
kind or with bark of the same color these nesting boxes are much less
conspicuous and unsightly in the park trees than square boxes made
from planed boards. Many of the boxes were occupied during the
summer by bluebirds, chickadees, nuthatches, wrens, and flickers, and
additional nests will be provided from year to year. During the
colder months food is provided for the winter residents in various
parts of the park.

Of all the native wild birds within the park perhaps none attract
so much attention as the turkey vultures, or “buzzards,” which con-
gregate here in great number during the fall and winter months.
Food, at practically no expense, is provided for the vultures, and they
become very tame and confiding. Many visitors from the Northern
States, to whom the birds are a novel sight, greatly admire the grace-
ful flight of these interesting creatures. During the summer months
the vultures scatter out over the surrounding country to nest, and
only a few appear within the boundaries of the park, but the security
afforded for winter roosts brings them back in great numbers with
the approach of autumn.

Bobwhite quail appear to be increasing in numbers within the
park and are now fairly abundant. A considerable number of these
birds much help stock the surrounding country from year to year.

Numerous bird classes from the schools and parties of Audubon
Society members find the wilder parts of the park ideal grounds for
observation of the birds.

ALTERATION OF WESTERN BOUNDARY.

It again appears desirable to recapitulate for future reference the
various stages through which the matter of the adjustment of the
western boundary, near the Connecticut Avenue entrance, has passed.

The following appropriation was made by the act approved June
93, LOTS:

Readjustment of boundaries: For acquiring, by condemnation, all the lots,
pieces, or parcels of land, other than the one hereinafter excepted, that lie
between the present western boundary of the National Zoological Park and

Connecticut Avenue from Cathedral Avenue to Klingle Road, $107,200, or such
portion thereof as may be necessary, said land when acquired, together with
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 85

the included highways, to be added to and become a part of the National
Zoological Park. The proceedings for the condemnation of said land shall be
instituted by the Secretary of the Treasury under and in accordance with the
terms and provisions of subchapter one of chapter fifteen of the Code of Law
for the District of Columbia.

As the act required that the proceedings be instituted by the Secre-
tary of the Treasury, the attention of that official was called to the
matter in a letter from the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution,
dated June 28, 1913. A special survey and plat of the land required
was necessary, but this plat was not forwarded to the Department of
Justice until November 5, 1913. Other delays ensued; the title of
the various owners of the land had to be investigated, and it was not
until March 11, 1914, that the district court ordered a jury to be
summoned. <A hearing was set for April 10, 1914, and a final hearing
of the case was heard by the jury on July 2 following. The verdict
of the jury was not filed until December 11, 1914. The hearing of
objections to the verdict much delayed a final conclusion, especially
as the time of the court was almost wholly occupied by a contest in
an important will case. It was not until June 28, 1915, over two
years from the passage of the appropriation act, that the court con-
firmed the verdict as regards the awards for damages for the land
to be taken. The benefits assessed against the neighboring property
were set aside by this and by a subsequent decision of January 28,
1916. The decree of the court fixed the amount required for the
purchase of the land at $194,488.08. The cost of the proceedings for
condemnation was $2,203.35.

The great delay caused by these legal proceedings occasioned an-
other complication. The appropriation made by the act of June 23,
1913, was not a continuing one, but lapsed at the end of one year.
Consequently after June 30, 1915, there was nothing available to de-
fray the purchase of the land.

An item for an additional appropriation and for a reappropria-
tion of the original sum appropriated by the act of June 23, 1913,
was submitted to the first and second sessions of the Sixty-fourth
Congress, but was not favorably considered.

It is greatly to be regretted that this appropriation failed, as it
is exceedingly desirable that the land in question be obtained for
park purposes before it is too late. A frontage on Connecticut Ave-
nue at this point is most important, because the principal entrance to
the park will probably be here for all time, and it is essential that
the control of the land be in the hands of park authorities.

IMPORTANT NEEDS.

Grading and filling —The work of grading and filling, commenced
last year, should be continued. The further cutting away of the

65133°—sm 1917——7
86 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

irregular hill in the center of the western part of the park and the
filling in of a nearby ravine will level nearly 70,000 square feet of
ground which is now of little use and make available about 25,000
square feet of ground at the ravine, besides straightening out the
automobile road at this point. More inclosures are seriously needed
for deer and similar animals, and this grading would provide for a
number of these yards on flat ground.

Public-comfort building and restaurant.—The need of a suitable
structure for a rest house and refreshment room is strongly felt.
This rest house should provide toilet facilities for both women and
men. It is probably true that the present restaurant occasions more
unfavorable comment from visitors than any other one feature in
the park. It is only a rude wooden platform with cover, but with
open sides; the kitchen and other facilities are inadequate, and the
entire structure is in a bad state of repair.

Roads, bridle paths, and automobile parking—The question of
providing space for the parking of automobiles near the main build-
ings in the center of the park is becoming serious. The available
space is entirely insufficient on nearly every Sunday and on all holi-
days. In order to provide suitable accommodations for the con-
stantly increasing number of cars it will be necessary to make some
change in the roads and lawns at the central point. It will be neces-
sary to make extensive repairs to the roads during the coming year,
which will involve a considerable expenditure. The roads need
repair now, but under the stringent economy that is compelled during
1918 it will not be possible to make even the repairs already needed,
nor to provide proper upkeep of the roads. The greatly increased
auto traffic (sometimes 2,500 cars in a day) makes necessary each
year greater expenditures to keep the roads in order. Some change
should be made in the bridle paths in order that equestrians would
not be forced to use the bridge and the main road from the Harvard
Street gate to the crossroads. Numerous complaints have been made
as to the danger at these points, not only to children, but to the riders
themselves. The bridle path could, at some expense, be carried up
the west side of the creek from the crossroads, and a ford constructed
to connect with the bridle path on the east side of the creek.

Outdoor dens for carnivorous mammals.—Recent experiments have
shown that many kinds of animals usually kept in heated houses are
much better off in outdoor yards, with warm, but unheated sleeping
quarters. Such accommodations should be provided for the Siberian
tiger, some of the lions, and other animals now occupying quarters in
crowded heated houses. The health of these animals would unques-
tionably be improved and their lives prolonged under such condi-
tions, and the space they now occupy in heated houses would become
available for other animals really needing such accommodations.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 87

A series of outdoor, unheated cages and shelters should also be pro-
vided to replace the series of unsightly old wooden cages along the
hilltop north of the bird house.

Additional ponds for waterfowl—Additional lakes to be used for
waterfowl in summer and for skating in winter could be provided at
comparatively small expense both in the open flat near the Harvard
Street entrance and near the pelican pond across the road. Exhibits
of waterfowl are very popular and instructive, and the skating
privilege is much appreciated by the public in winter.

Aviary building—The park reports have for a number of years
urged the appropriation of funds for a new bird house. That such a
structure is badly needed is apparent. The building now used for
the birds was erected in the cheapest manner possible for temporary
use and is now in a bad state of repair. The collection is an im-
portant one, and a suitable bird house would without doubt prove one
of the most attractive and instructive features of the park.

Reptile house——A properly constructed reptile house would, it is
certain, prove almost as attractive to the public as a bird house. The
comparatively small collection of reptiles now kept in crowded quar-
ters in the lion house is very popular.

The most urgent need of the park is a substantial increase in the
general appropriation. When the amount provided was raised to
the present figure, seven years ago, it was recognized that there was
necessity for a considerable sum above the cost of actual maintenance,
in order that improvements could be made and the grounds and
buildings be kept in a good state of repair. Owing to the steady
advance in the price of supplies and to the additional expense neces-
sitated by the constantly increasing number of visitors, the point has
now been reached where the entire appropriation does not cover
actual maintenance expenses. It is only by rigid economy, and by the
elimination of some things really necessary, that the cost of operation
can be kept within the amount.

Respectfully submitted.

N. Howuister,
Superintendent.
Dr. Cuarites D. WaAtcort,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 5D.
REPORT OF THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.

Sir: I have the honor to present the following report on the opera-
tions of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory for the year
ending June 30, 1917.

EQUIPMENT.

The equipment of the observatory is as follows:

(a) At Washington there is an inclosure of about 16,000 square
feet, containing five small frame buildings used for observing and
computing purposes, three movable frame shelters covering several
out-of-door pieces of apparatus, and also one small brick building
containing a storage battery and electrical distribution apparatus.

(b) At Mount Wilson, California, upon a leased plat of ground
100 feet square, in horizontal projection, are located a one-story ce-
ment observing structure, designed especially for solar-constant meas-
urements, and also a little frame cottage, 21 feet by 25 feet, for ob-
server’s quarters. Upon the observing shelter at Mount Wilson there
is a tower 40 feet high above the 12-foot piers which had been pre-
pared in the original construction of the building. This tower is
equipped with a tower telescope for use when observing (with the
spectrobolometer) the distribution of radiation over the sun’s disk.

During the year apparatus for research has been purchased or
constructed at the observatory shop. The value of these additions
to the instrumental equipment is estimated at $1,000.

WORK OF THE YEAR.
1. AT WASHINGTON.

Three copies of the pyranometer, our new instrument for measur-
ing sky radiation, have been prepared by the Institution, respectively, »
for the United States Weather Bureau, the University of Wisconsin,
and for the proposed expedition to South America mentioned in my
report for 1916. These instruments were finished and standardized
by Mr. Aldrich. The tests made led to long investigations and im-
provements, which greatly increased the sensitiveness of the pyrano-
meter. All three instruments are now in use and, so far as known,
with satisfaction.

88
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 89

Two silver-disk pyrheliometers were standardized for the proposed
South American expedition.

Considerable work was done on the apparatus mentioned last year,
designed to measure the constant of the fourth power radiation
formula. Owing to trouble found in maintaining a vacuum in the
apparatus no actual determinations were made.

Much attention was devoted to the preparation of the equipment
ot a solar-constant expedition for South America. The purpose of
the expedition, as stated last year, is by cooperation with Mount
Wilson to secure daily values as far as possible throughout the year
for several years, and thus to investigate the influence of solar vari-
ation on terrestrial temperature. Many improved devices were in-
vented and constructed for the expedition. Among them is a new
vacuum bolometer of very high sensitiveness and in every way exem-
plary behavior. This instrument is constructed in such a way as to
be sealed off when highly exhausted, like an X-ray tube. Having no
cocks or windows it requires no further attention to maintain a
vacuum indefinitely. The construction of the sensitive strip follows
the indications of mathematical analysis covering the whole theory
of the bolometer, so that a maximum sensitiveness is obtained. A
similar instrument was prepared also for Mount Wilson work. The
high sensitiveness of the new bolometer is indicated by the statement
that when used with the same spectroscope and galvanometer em-
ployed in our Algerian expedition of 1912 more than tenfold de-
flections on the solar spectrum were observed with similar conditions.

Another new instrument is a special machine designed to aid in
reducing spectrobolometry, in solar-constant work. Heretofore we
have plotted, on large cross-section paper, logarithms of observed
radiation against the air masses traversed by the solar beam. Nearly
40 such plots, each of six points, are required to represent a morning’s
spectrobolometry. The plotted points fall in approximately straight
lines, whose projection to the zero of air mass yields logarithms of
intensities as they would be observed outside our atmosphere. The
inclinations of the representative straight lines give the logarithms
of the atmospheric transmission coefficients. What I desire to point
out is that the process requires taking out about 300 logarithms,
besides plotting and extrapolating.

In the new instrument as shown in the illustration six 16-inch
shde rules are arranged to be set at chosen places and at right angles
to a horizontal linear scale of air masses. The observations are set
up by reading the crossline of the sliders against the central movable
slide-rule scales, these latter being set with respect to the fixed scales
on the sides so as to apply a small correction for sensitiveness of the
bolometric apparatus. A stretched wire is then adjusted to fit the
six points as thus plotted. On another slide rule fixed at zero air
90 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

mass one reading of the crossing point of the wire over the fixed
scale gives the intensity as it would be outside the atmosphere, and a
second reading on the movable scale gives the atmosphere transmis-
sion coefficient. No logarithms or computing are required.

The equipment of the expedition was all boxed ready for ship-
ment to South America when circumstances connected with the war
with Germany led to a postponement. Under these circumstances it
was deemed best to send the expedition to Hump Mountain in North
Carolina, a station at 4,800 feet elevation, where it is now located.
This location was chosen with a view to its being at a great distance
from Mount Wilson, in a region where Weather Bureau observers
reported uncommonly little cloudiness, and easily accessible from
the railroad and from Washington.

The expedition with over 3 tons of equipment went forward in
May, 1917. It is in charge of Mr. A. F. Moore, who is assisted by
Mr. L. H. Abbot. Two small frame buildings were erected for the
observing and living quarters. The apparatus was set up and ad-
justed by Messrs. C. G. Abbot, L. B. Aldrich, and A. F. Moore, and
gotten ready for observing about June 15. Unfortunately the most
cloudy and rainy summer in the recollection of old residents had
been experienced up to August 1. Otherwise, everything is highly
favorable to excellent solar-constant work. If war conditions war-
rant, the Institution still hopes to send the expedition to South
America later, where a station is selected at which 300 cloudless
forenoons for observing per year are to be expected.

Before leaving this subject I desire to call attention to the remark-
able paper by Dr. Helm Clayton (Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol.
68, No. 8) on the “ Effect of Short Period Variations of Solar Radia-
tion on the Earth’s Atmosphere.” Doctor Clayton shows by the mathe-
matical method of correlations, free from all influence of personal
judgment, that variations of solar radiation observed by us at Mount
Wilson in 1913 and 1914 were reflected in variations of terrestrial
temperatures .all over the world. The correlations were positive in
and near the Tropics, negative in Temperate Zones, and positive near
the poles. A lag of from 1 to 5 days occurred, the lag being less for
Tropical Zones. The barometric pressure also appeared to join in
the correlations. By an ingenious application of his method Doctor
Clayton shows that the short interval fluctuations of solar radiation
are not altogether without periodicity, for the changes tend to repeat
themselves after 11 and 22 days, respectively. The same tendency is
found in the temperature records of Buenos Aires. We are now en-
gaged in testing this conclusion by computations for other years.

Computations of Mount Wilson solar observations went on in the
hands of Miss Graves as usual at Washington, and the computing is
practically up to date,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 91

Mr. Fowle’s research on the effect of water vapor and carbon
dioxide of the atmosphere to absorb long-wave rays, such as the earth
sends out, is now ready for publication. Many of the best observa-
tions were made by him during the past year. Some observations
made in February, 1917, at a time when the humidity of the atmos-
phere was very small, proved of special value. Opportunity was
taken of using some of the apparatus prepared for the South Amer-
ican expedition to aid in making bolographic observations on the
solar spectrum at very great wave lengths, reaching to 17 microns.
By means of the spectrobolometer prepared for South America it
was possible to determine accurately the quantities of water vapor
in the path of the solar beam.

Certain conclusions stated in Volume II of the Annals of the Astro-
physical Observatory may now be corrected to correspond with the
new information. We stated:

We can by no means admit that the radiation from the solid and liquid sur-
face of the earth passes unhindered to space. * * * The clouds, whose
average presence includes 52 per cent of the time, * * * are even more
efficient screens to the radiation of the earth than they are to the radiation of
the sun, so during 52 per cent of the time we may regard the radiation of the
solid and liquid earth to space as zero. During the remainder of the time
water vapor presents almost as effective a screen * * *, From the com-
bined work of Rubens and Aschkinass, Langley, Keeler and Very, and Nichols,
we * * * eonclude that a tenth part of the average amount of water vapor
in the vertical column of atmosphere above sea level is enough to absorb more
than half of the radiation of the earth to space, and it is highly probable that,
considering the greater air mass attending the oblique passage of many of the
rays to space, nine-tenths of the radiation of the solid and liquid surface of
the earth is absorbed by the water vapor of the atmosphere even on clear days.
On cloudy days none is transmitted, so that the average escape of radiation
from the earth’s surface to space probably does not exceed 5 per cent.

Some writers have attributed a-large share of the absorption of the atmos-
phere to the carbonic-acid gas which it contains, but * * * in atmospheric
conditions the absorption of carbonic-acid gas in the spectrum of the earth
appears to be confined to two bands extending from wave lengths 3.6 to 5.4u,
and from 13.0 to 16.0u, respectively. In these bands its absorption is nearly
total from 4.0 to 4.84 and from 14.0 to 15.64 even when carbonic-acid gas is
present in much less quantities than the atmosphere contains. * * * In the
absence of water vapor the total absorption possible by carbonic-acid gas would
be 14 per cent. In all the lower regions of the atmosphere, however, water
vapor is present in such quantities as almost completely to extinguish the radi-
ation of the earth’s surface in these two special regions. * * * It therefore
does not appear possible that the presence or absence, or increase or decrease,
of the carbonic acid contents of the air is likely to appreciably influence the
temperature of the earth’s surface.

It seems certain, in view of what has been said that the earth’s solid and
liquid surfaces, and the lower parts of the atmosphere, contribute directly
almost nothing to the amount of radiation which the earth as a planet sends
to space. The earth’s surface and the lower atmosphere, of course, exchange
radiation together, and by this process and by convection the heat of these
92 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

regions ascends toward space. But convection grows less and less as the air
becomes rarer, and must at length cease to be an appreciable factor. It is the
water vapor and carbonic-acid gas far above the earth’s surface, where the
absorption of the rays by the water vapor and carbonic-acid gas lying still
higher becomes small, that form the true radiating surface of the earth con-
sidered as a planet. * * * With the scanty material at hand, and in con-
sideration of the distribution of water vapor in the free air, it seems safe to
put the effective position of the radiating surface at fully 4,000 meters above
sea level * * * at a probable mean temperature of 263° absolute centi-
grade or —10° centrigrade.

Some writers have misinterpreted these remarks and understood
us as Supposing that there is a special layer at 4,000 meters elevation
above sea level which prevents radiation escaping from below and
whose own radiation passes unhindered to space. Our meaning was
quite different. Every layer from sea level to the limit of the atmos-
phere contributes something to the total radiation output of the earth.
But, because of the great absorption of superposed water vapor and
clouds, the lower solid and liquid and atmospheric layers contribute
little, while because of their dryness the higher atmospheric layers
contribute little. Roughly estimating the various factors, we con-
cluded that the center of activity of the radiation of the earth as a
planet could be set at about 4,000 meters elevation.

How far are these conclusions now to be altered? As to the effect
of cloudiness, not at all. As to water vapor Mr. Fowle finds the
following results on the percentages of absorption of rays from a
perfect radiator at the earth’s mean temperature in atmospheric
columns containing besides carbon dioxide sufficient to produce maxi-
mum absorption, water vapor which if precipitated would produce
certain depths of liquid water:

Ppa Webern === 05003 0. 08 0.3 3. 0
IN OSOIG G AKON = 49 57 66 75
In order to apply these data I give figures for the average quantities
of terrestrial water vapor which, according to Hann, exist in vertical
columns from sea level to the limit of the atmosphere over different
zones of the earth.
Watitudes 4s 0-20° 20°-30° 30°-40° 40°-50° 50°-60° 60°-90°
Dts Wabel aes} ay 22, 1.6 1.0 0.6

From these figures it may be seen that the statement, “a tenth
part of the average amount of water vapor in the vertical column
above sea level is enough to absorb more than half of the radiation of
the earth to space,” is confirmed. But the conclusion therefrom that
‘nine-tenths of the radiation of the solid and liquid surface of the
earth is absorbed by the water vapor of the atmosphere on clear days ”
is not confirmed. Mr. Fowle has computed the absorption of the at-
mosphere in a state of humidity corresponding to 1.0 cm. ppt. water,
and finds it 72 per cent, Considering that the ppt. water in a vertical
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 93

column over most of the earth exceeds 3.0 em., it now seems probable
that the proper figure should be eight-tenths instead of nine-tenths.

As regards the absorption of carbonic-acid gas Mr. Fowle finds
that one-fortieth part of the amount of this.gas found in a vertical
atmospheric column produces the maximum possible effect. This
does not lead to any modification of our conclusions as to the effect of
atmospheric carbonic-acid gas as stated above.

With ordinary humidity, at sea level a layer of air 10 meters long,
according to Fowle, will absorb 50 per cent of the radiation of a
perfect radiator at terrestrial temperatures. Similarly the layer of
air above 11 kilometers, or 6 miles, altitude contains enough water
vapor to absorb 50 per cent of such radiation.

In view of what has been said and remembering the presence of
clouds, only about one-tenth of the radiation of the solid and liquid
surface of the earth escapes directly to space. The atmosphere above
11 kilometers apparently contributes more than half of the radiation
of the earth viewed as a planet and prevents half of the radiation of
lower layers from escaping. Nearly the entire output of radiation
of the earth to space, certainly more than three-fourths, arises from
the atmosphere and its clouds as its source. The “effective radiat-
ing layer,” meaning a layer which if perfectly radiating to space
would equal in radiation the actual earth viewed as a planet, may still
he thought of as at several kilometers altitude and at a temperature
well below freezing.

The subject of atmospheric absorption is so difficult both theoreti-
cally and experimentally that much more investigation ought still to
be done on it. Mr. Fowle’s long experience has well fitted him for
making further advances. It is hoped to put at his disposal soon
the necessary means to make new researches. These include bolo-
metric apparatus of greatly increased sensitiveness, such as recent
studies now enable us to construct. The one obstacle to complete
success Which now seems insuperable is the lack of any means to
form an intense unabsorbed spectrum free from stray light, extend-
ing from 15 to 50 microns in wave length.

2. AT MOUNT WILSON.

The expedition of 1916 continued solar-constant and other observa-
tions at Mount Wilson until late in October. The expedition was
renewed late in June, 1917. Improvements in the supply of electric-
ity and water to the station were completed in June, 1917.

In 1916 many observations of the sky by day and by night were
made at Mount Wilson with the pyranometer. The plan was fol-
lowed from August to October of measuring with this instrument the
total solar radiation at a fixed zenith distance of the sun, and almost
94 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

simultaneously the total sky radiation over a fixed small area imme-
diately surrounding the sun. It seems probable that as the bright-
ness of the sky depends on the prevailing humidity and dust, and as
the radiation of the sun is diminished by presence of humidity and
dust, a method of combination of the two measurements may be
found, adapted to give approximately the solar constant. When com-
putations are further advanced the matter will be tested.

Restandardization of secondary pyrheliometers in 1916 against our
standard water-flow pyrheliometer indicated no change in their
constants.

A vacuum bolometer was employed during a large part of the ob-
serving season. The sensitiveness was so much greater that consider-
able improvement in the work on the investigation of the distribution
of radiation over the sun’s disk was possible.

Redeterminations were made with great care on the form of dis-
tribution of the solar energy curve outside the atmosphere. New
mirrors of stellite, a very hard nontarnishing alloy, were substituted
for the silvered mirrors of the spectrobolometer. It is hoped that
the work of 1916 will indicate conclusively how the sun’s variations
affect the distribution of energy in the solar spectrum.

SUMMARY.

Preparation of apparatus and equipment for a new solar-constant
station of the Smithsonian Institution, now located at Hump Moun-
tain, North Carolina, led to valuable improvements in the bolometer
and the pyranometer, and to the invention and construction of a new
instrument for avoiding computation in reduction of spectrobolo-
metric observations.

A long research on the transmission of long-wave rays by atmos-
pheric columns of known humidity and carbon dioxide contents,
has been completed and prepared for publication by Mr. Fowle. In
expeditions to Mount Wilson the observation of the amount and
distribution of solar radiation has been continued. In cooperation
with the new station above mentioned it is hoped to obtain much
more complete records of the variation of the sun, now shown by
Clayton to be of great meteorological significance.

Respectfully submitted.

C. G. Appor,
Director Astrophysical Observatory.
Dr. CHartes D. Watcort,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution,
APPENDIX 6.
REPORT ON THE LIBRARY.

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report on the
activities of the library of the Smithsonian Institution during the
fiscal year ending June 30, 1917:

The Smithsonian library was founded with ie definite plan that
it should contain publications of the scientific institutions and
learned societies of the world, together with a collection of periodicals
and publications of a scientific nature. The most important function
contemplated was that of reference for research in the broadest
sense, and in this connection a complete collection of the catalogues
of the libraries of the world was also contemplated. This policy has
been continued with the result that the vast series of scientific publi-
cations in the Smithsonian library, now numbering a half million of
titles, has been brought together.

As early as 1865 Secretary Henry realized that it would not be
possible to adequately care for the entire collection in the Smith-
sonian building, even if the entire building were devoted to the
purpose; and a special act of Congress authorized the Library of
Congress to assume the care of thé main library of the Smithsonian
Institution, the Institution to retain ownership of the publications
and to have the same use of the books as if they were in its own
building, and in addition to have the same privileges in the use of
the Library of Congress as Members of Congress. While the main
collection is in the Library of Congress, there are smaller collections
here in the Institution, i. e., the books for office reference, dictionaries,
encyclopedias, etc., the Government branch libraries of the Astro-
physical Observatory, Bureau of American Ethnology, and the
United States National Museum. All of these are confined to special
publications relating to the subjects covered by the bureaus, and
supplement rather than duplicate books in other libraries.

The library of the Smithsonian Institution is augmented in two
ways, 1. e., by gift, and through the exchange of the Institution’s
publications for those of similar institutions.

JOHN DONNELL SMITH LIBRARY.

In 1905 Dr. John Donnell Smith, of Baltimore, Maryland, offered
to the Smithsonian Institution his botanical library, consisting of
95
96 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

over 1,500 volumes, to accompany his herbarium, to which it is closely
related. The proposed gift was the most valuable of its kind that
had been offered to the Institution, and it will be of great assist-
ance in the development of botanical research in the Museum. The
conditions were that Doctor Smith should retain possession of the
books as long as he desired, and that when his library should come to
the Institution it should be kept separately and each book should
have a bookplate indicating that he was the donor. A plate was im-
mediately designed and engraved, and the ex-libris labels were
printed and sent to Doctor Smith, who had them placed in each one
of the books. In January of the present year the first consignment
of these books for the library was received, and they were at once
placed in a separate stack in the Smithsonian building and kept to-
gether. The number sent amounted to 461 bound volumes, 100
unbound volumes, some incomplete, and 293 pamphlets.

EXCHANGES.

Special efforts have been made to meet the conditions coexistent
with the third year of war in the matter of preserving and pro-
moting foreign exchange relations, and the generous response met
with has been very gratifying. On the other hand, a number of
important publications have been suspended owing to the death or
absence of collaborators; and still others will be withheld pending -
termination of the war, while the uncertainties of transportation
have resulted in the loss of a number of valuable publications from
abroad. The policy of broadening exchange relations with South
and Central America has been inaugurated.

ACCESSIONS.

Additions to the library, consisting mainly of gifts and exchanges,
were received in 24,292 packages. Of these, 23,307 were received by
mail and 985 through the International Exchange Service. Corre-
spondence in connection therewith amounted to about 1,245 letters
and 2,126 acknowledgments on the regular printed forms.

The cataloguing, not including publications for the Bureau of
American Ethnology and the National Museum, reported elsewhere,
covered 3,546 volumes and 47 charts. Of these, 698 were new titles
added to the author catalogue and 59 new periodicals. In addition
to 1,500 printed cards received from the Library of Congress, 1,855
new typewritten cards were prepared. There were 976 volumes
recatalogued.

SMITHSONIAN MAIN LIBRARY.

Publications for the Smithsonian main library have been for-
warded to the Smithsonian deposit in the Library of Congress as
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 97

received, after being duly entered on the records. During the fiscal
year 2,886 of these were catalogued and accessioned, consisting of
1,736 volumes, 301 parts of volumes, 805 pamphlets, and 44 charts,
thereby extending the accession numbers from 525,256 to 527,150.
Several thousand publications remained unaccessioned at the close
of the year, owing to a position of cataloguer being vacant for over
nine months. The existing practice of transferring to the Library
of Congress, without stamping or recording, public documents re-
ceived in exchange for Smithsonian publications, mainly of a sta-
tistical character, has been continued, with the result that 2,349 were
forwarded in this manner.

During the year the titles of 757 new publications were added to
the catalogue. Want cards to the number of 535 for series in the
Smithsonian division at the Library of Congress were considered,
with the result that 154 volumes, 571 parts of volumes, and 51 title-
pages were secured, thus completing 44 sets to date. There were re-
ceived from the periodical division 105 cards, action on which re-
sulted in securing 9 volumes, 79 parts of volumes, and 32 title-pages;
and in response to 32 cards from the order division, 28 volumes and
12 parts were obtained.

The number of dissertations and technological publications re-
ceived showed a marked decrease over previous years. They were
contributed by the following:

Kejserliga Alexanders-Universitet i Finland.
Technische Hochschule, Breslau.

Kongliga Tekniska Hédgskolan, Stockholm.

University of Whirzburg.

University of Breslau.

Koniglich Sachsische Technische Hochschule, Dresden.

Office reference library—The accessions for the office library,
which includes the Astrophysical Observatory and the National Zoo-
logical Park, amounted to 1,025 publications, distributed as follows:
Office library, 899 volumes and pamphlets; Astrophysical Observa-
tory, 55 volumes, 18 parts of volumes, and 39 pamphlets; National
Zoological Park, 11 volumes and 3 pamphlets.

Reading room.—The reading room has now about 311 foreign and
domestic periodicals, which have been in constant use by the staff
and members of the scientific bureaus of the Government. During
the year 3,701 publications from the reading and reference rooms
were in circulation, of which 3,367 were single numbers of periodicals
and 334 were bound volumes.

The aeronautical library—tThe aeronautical library is probably
one of the most complete series on the subject in the United States,
and the policy has been to maintain it as such.
98 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

Before Doctor Langley came to the Smithsonian Institution as As-
sistant Secretary he had made a collection of what had been pub-
lished relating to aeronautics. Later, when he became Secretary and
published his epoch-making works ‘“ Experiments in Aerodynamics”
and “Internal Work of the Wind,” the number of publications was
gradually growing, so that when his successful experiments were
made with the heavier-than-air models the Institution had the most
complete library of aeronautical literature in the United States.
With this collection of books as a basis, a bibliography was prepared
by me to cover all existing literature up to 1909. Since that time
the securing of publications has continued, and every possible effort
has been made to have it complete. Dr. Alexander Graham Bell,
a Regent of the Institution, has also shown an interest in this collec-
tion by contributing his entire working library of books and news-
paper clippings relating to aeronautics, arranged and mounted, which
is a valuable addition in supplementing the series already in the
Institution.

There are now on hand 1,009 volumes and 83 titles of periodicals.
With the close of the year a second part of the bibliography of
aeronautics is In preparation by me for the National Advisory Com-
mittee for Aeronautics, at the suggestion of the Secretary, which will
complete the references from 1909 to the end of 1916.

Art room.—No additions have been made to the collection of pub-
lications relating to art in the art room, in view of the fact that all
of those relating to the fine arts have been placed in the sectional
library of administration for use in connection with the National
Gallery of Art, and those relating to the reproductive processes for
engraving have been placed in the sectional library of the division
of graphic arts in the Museum.

Employees’ library.—The condition of the employees’ library has
remained practically the same as last year, with no additions. If
money were available it could be used to great advantage in adding
some of the latest literature in fiction and other classes. The library
has been in constant use, and 304 volumes were circulated during the
year.

John Watts de Peyster collection—This collection of Napoleona
is probably the most unique collection of publications relating to
Napoleon in the United States, and was brought together by Gen.
John Watts de Peyster to include works relating to Napoleon asa gen-
eral. It covers the period from the end of the Napoleonic wars tothe ~
present great struggle. There are many calls for these publications,
and some means must be found to make them available. So far it
has not been possible to do this with the present staff, and a cata-
loguer with a knowledge of French history should be employed for
the special purpose of cataloguing this collection. Every effort is
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 99

being made now to make the books available, but without an adequate
catalogue they can not be used to the fullest extent.

NATIONAL MUSEUM LIBRARY.

The value of the library of the National Museum is largely due to
the systematic collecting of works relating to the subjects covered by
the collections in the Museum and at the same time supplementing as
far as possible series in other libraries of Washington. The books
are consulted by persons carrying on research work in almost every
branch of the Government service, including those who are doing
scientific work along similar lines. The publications for the library
come to the Museum by gift, by exchange of publications, and by
purchase. Many important gifts have been received from specialists,
and those received during the year are given in detail. The ex-
changes, as is the case with the Smithsonian library, have met with
many difficulties raised by war conditions in the matter of securing
foreign publications, which have been but partially overcome. The
situation in this respect has, on the whole, shown no appreciable
amelioration over the preceding year. Special effort, however, has
been directed toward maintaining the foreign exchanges at the maxi-
mum compatible with existing conditions. In connection with this
work 271 letters were written in securing a number of new titles and
in filling “wants” in many of the incomplete sets on hand. The
appropriation for the purchase of books is very small and has been
the same for a number of years, and it is only by judicious spending
that the urgent needs of the Museum can be secured.

The library was fortunate enough to secure by purchase the fol-
lowing three rare books, the editions of which are not represented in
the United States:

Boddaert, P.: Elenchus animalium, I Roterdami, 1784.

FWorster, J. R.: Afrikanischen Vogel, Halle, 1798.

Vroeg, A.: Catalogus . . . Vogelen, ete, s’Gravenhage, 1764, with
separately paged “ adumbratiunculae.”

Mearns collection.—One collaborator who had taken a special in-
terest in the library was Dr. Edgar A. Mearns, the announcement of
whose death was received with deep regret last fall. Doctor Mearns
contributed publications to the library each year as well as a collec-
tion of Korans, and after his demise his widow carried out his ex-
pressed wish in presenting the remainder of his scientific library to
the Museum. This collection is especially rich in works on mammals,
birds, and plants.

Dall collection—The continued interest of Dr. William Healey
Dall in the books relating to mollusks, which form the sectional
library of the division of mollusks, has resulted in the further addi-
tion of 307 titles during the past year.
100 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

Other members of the scientific staff who have contributed to the
collection in the library are: Dr. C. D. Walcott, Dr. O. P. Hay, Dr.
C. W. Richmond, Mr. W. R. Maxon, Mr. W H Holmes, Dr J. C.
Crawford.

Accessions.—There are now in the Museum library 132,203 publi-
cations, consisting of 49,285 volumes, 82,794 pamphlets and unbound
papers, and 124 manuscripts. Of these, 1,572 volumes, including 949
completed volumes of periodicals, 3,556 pamphlets, and 65 parts of
volumes, were accessioned during the past year.

Cataloguing.—As in the past, new material has been promptly
entered and placed on the shelves or assigned to the sectional libra-
ries. The cataloguing covered 623 books, 949 completed volumes of
periodicals, and 373 pamphlets; in addition, 10,142 periodicals were
entered. There were also 4,522 section cards made out covering pub-
lications assigned to sectional libraries.

Loans.—The loans from the general library during the year coy-
ered by this report totaled 12,869 publications, in which are included
3,035 books borrowed from the Library of Congress, including the
Smithsonian deposit, and 496 books borrowed from other libraries.
Tn addition, 5,580 books were consulted in the reading room of the
library.

Binding.—The serious situation with regard to publications re-
maining unbound is being gradually relieved, but much remains to
be done. During the past year 1,377 such publications were prepared
for binding and sent to the Government binder. Of these 685 were
returned within the year.

Technological series—Additions to the technological library were
composed of 374 volumes, 3,826 parts of volumes, 802 pamphlets, and
5 maps. There were filed 352 cards for books catalogued. A file of
approximately 2,500 printed cards covering Smithsonian publica-
tions was received and incorporated in the catalogue. In the scien-
tific depository catalogue 1,507 author cards were filed, and to 4,515
additional cards subject headings were added, increasing the cata-
logue by 6,022 cards.

Books and periodicals loaned during the year numbered 1383 vol-
umes and 297 parts of volumes and pamphlets, making a total circu-
lation of 430 publications. About 620 volumes were consulted in the
reading room of the library.

Several sets have been rearranged and more logically classified.
In addition, a set of duplicates has been gone over, sorted, and ar-
ranged by class number. Of the duplicates received 89 were volumes
and 1,328 parts of volumes and pamphlets.

Sectional libraries——The series of publications in the sectional
libraries were dormant until a few years ago, and no effort was
made to add to the collection of books in these libraries, the whole
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 101

matter being held in abeyance until the work on the collections had
been resumed. Books on the various subjects covered have, there-
fore, been sought and the number augmented. During the interval,
however, the future need of publications for working up the collec-
tions was never lost sight of and there was a number of the serials
bound and ready for use. Toward the end of the year. two cata-
loguers were employed in the division of mineral technology to put
the books on hand in the very best of order and for the making of a
special author and subject catalogue, so that with the close of the
year the work has been completed and this sectional library is in
excellent condition. It is hoped that during the present year it will
be possible to do the same thing for the division of textiles. This
will, however, not be possible with the present force, which is too
small.

With the death of Mr. Thomas W. Smillie, who was for many
years custodian of the section of photography in the division of
graphic arts, it was necessary that all books in the section should be
checked up. A special cataloguer was employed for the purpose and
the books and pamphlets were put in order and catalogued, periodical
series arranged on the shelves and lacking numbers indicated in order
that sets could be completed. The work was finished by June 30.

The following is a complete list of the sectional libraries:

Administration. Graphie arts. Mollusks.

Administrative assist- History. - Oriental archeology.
ant’s office. Insects. Paleobotany.

Anthropology. Invertebrate paleon- Parasites.

Biology. tology. Photography.

Birds. Mammals, Physical anthropology.

Botany. Marine invertebrates. Prehistoric archeology.

Comparative anatomy. Materia medica. Property clerk.

Editor’s office. Organic industries. Reptiles and batrachians.

Ethnology. Mechanical technology. Superintendent’s office.

Fishes. Mesozoic fossils. Taxidermy.

Forestry. Mineral technology. Textiles.

Geology. Minerals. Vertebrate paleontology.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY LIBRARY.

This library is administered under the direct care of the ethnologist
in charge, and a report on its operations will be found in the report of
that bureau.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY LIBRARY.

The collection of reference works relating to astrophysics has been
in constant use. During the year 55 volumes, 18 parts of volumes,
and 389 pamphlets were added to this library.

65133°—sm 1917——_§
102 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK LIBRARY.

This collection contains publications relating to the work of the
park, and while not large is a strictly working brary. During the
past year 11 volumes and 3 pamphlets were added to the series.

SUMMARY OF ACCESSIONS.

The accessions during the year, with the exception of the library
of the Bureau of American Ethnology, may be summarized as
follows:

To the Smithsonian depesit in the Library of Congress, including parts

LORCOMpleteysetseo = 352 ae 2 ee ee ee ee ee TA 2, 886

To the Smithsonian office, Astrophysical Observatory, and National Zoo-
logicaleP ar kee See eee a eg Se Se a SS ee 1, 025
TosthesUnitedsstatess National IMusenme222 2222222 5, 193
PRO tales eet he Mee tye eee Dey el ds es Ee Fae ia ay ae eae 9, 104

Respectfully submitted.
Paut Brockett,
Assistant Librarian.
Dr. Cuarites D. Watcort,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution,
APPENDIX. 7.

REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF
SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE.

Sir:_I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera-
tions of the United States Bureau of the International Catalogue of
Scientific Literature for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1917:

This international enterprise was, at the beginning of the present
war, being carried on through the cooperation of the 34 following-
named countries: Argentine Republic, Austria, Belgium, Canada,
Chili, Cuba, Denmark, Egypt, Finland, France, Germany, Greece,
Holland, Hungary, India and Ceylon, Italy, Japan, Mexico, New
South Wales, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Queensland,
Russia, South Africa, South Australia, Spain, Straits Settlements,
Sweden, Switzerland, United States of America, Victoria and Tas-
mania, and Western Australia. Each of these countries supported
a regional bureau whose duty it was to furnish to the central bureau
in London classified index citations to all the scientific literature
published within their several regions.

As the greater part of these countries are now actually engaged
in hostilities it is natural that scientific research and publication
would be much affected, and that such an international cooperative
enterprise as the International Catalogue would find itself in many
difficulties. Not only have the number of scientific papers being
published greatly decreased but the difficulty of preparing and pub-
lishing a regular index has increased owing to the impossibility of
obtaining necessary scientific and clerical assistance to aid in the
preparation and publication of the Catalogue. The London central
bureau was, however, able to publish four volumes of the Catalogue
during the fiscal year; these volumes were the twelfth annual issue
of geology and the thirteenth annual issue of chemistry, anatomy,
and botany. All of the eleventh annual issue has now been pub-
lished, together with 15 volumes of the twelfth annual issue, 18 vol-
umes of the thirteenth annual issue, and 1 volume of the fourteenth
annual issue, making a total of 216 regular volumes published since
the beginning of the enterprise in 1901. In addition to these regular
volumes several special volumes of schedules, lists of journals, etc.,
have been published.

103
104 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

Almost 3,000,000 references to current scientific publications are
contained in these 216 volumes, about 12 per cent of which have been
supplied by this bureau.

Owing to the dangers and difficulties of transportation much of the
material prepared by this bureau for incorporation in the Catalogue
during the present year has been held until such time as it can be
safely forwarded to London.

Tt is not to be expected that the publication of the Catalogue
can be regularly carried on until after the return of peace, but it
appears that the organization is holding together better than might
be expected under existing conditions and that when peace is declared
it will only be necessary to resume, rather than reorganize, the work.

When it is possible for all the regional bureaus to fully resume
the preparation of the Catalogue it is to be hoped that every effort
will then be made to carry out one of the most important resolutions
adopted at the last convention of the International Catalogue, held
in London in 1910. This resolution was:

(1) To take all possible steps to prevent reduplication by the publication
of several annual and similar Catalogues and indexes on the same subject, by
making arrangements such as those now in force with the Zoological Society
of London.

(2) To obtain further assistance and cooperation in the preparation of the

material of the Catalogue from the principal scientific societies and academies
and the organizations which collect material for indexing scientific literature.

Scientific bibliographic work is seldom if ever self-supporting,
and after the war it will undoubtedly be more than ever necessary
to exercise every possible economy in the preparation and publica-
tion of scientific indexes and yearbooks, so that the editors and
publishers of all such publications will find it greatly to their ad-
vantage to cooperate with the International Catalogue to the fullest
possible extent and thus prevent the reduplication referred to in
the resolution quoted above. This will benefit not only the Inter-
national Catalogue and the publishers of the other bibliographies,
but will greatly lessen the labors of librarians and scientific investi-
gators who have occasion to use such works of reference.

More than ever before the line of demarcation between the re-
searches of pure science and the practical application of such re-
searches is being eliminated, and laboratory experiments of to-day
may to-morrow be in actual use in ways vitally affecting the welfare
of man. It is becoming more than ever difficult to define what is
pure science and what is applied science and the heretofore arbitrary,
though at the time necessary, limitation of the scope of the Inter-
national Catalogue to include papers on pure science only should
now be so broadened as to include at least some of the applied
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 105

sciences, which have in the last few years advanced with such un-
precedented strides. The inclusion of papers dealing with the ap-
plication of scientific discoveries would undoubtedly greatly increase
the size and cost of the Catalogue, but on the other hand its value
and use would be so increased that the demand and consequent sales
of the Catalogue would more than offset any additional cost.

Very respectfully, yours,

Lronarp C. GUNNELL,
Assistant in Charge.
Mr. Cuartes D. Watcort, :
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 8.

REPORT ON THE PUBLICATIONS.

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the pub-
lications of the Smithsonian Institution and its branches during
the year ending June 30, 1917:

The Institution proper published during the year 1 memoir in
the series of Contributions to Knowledge, 19 papers in the series of
Miscellaneous Collections, and 6 special publications. The Bureau
of American Ethnology published 1 annual report, 2 bulletins, and
a list of publications of the bureau. The United States National
Museum issued 1 volume of the Proceedings, 73 papers forming parts
of this and other volumes, and 6 Bulletins.

The total number of copies of publications distributed by the
institution and its branches was 158,797, which includes 2,673 vol-
umes and separates of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge,
58,615 volumes and separate pamphlets of Smithsonian Miscellaneous
Collections, 21,865 volumes and separate pamphlets of Smithsonian
Annual Reports, 64,365 volumes and separates of National Museum
publications, 11,984 publications of the Bureau of American Eth-
nology, 4,182 special publications, 23 volumes of the Annals of the
Astrophysical Observatory, 29 reports of the Harriman Alaska Ex-
pedition, and 58 reports of the American Historical Association.

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO KNOWLEDGE,
QUARTO.
VOLUME 35.

No. 8. A contribution to the comparative histology of the femur. By J. S. Foote.
February 6, 1917. ix+242 pp., 38 pls. (Publ. 2382.)

Title-page and table of contents. April 4, 1917. (Publ. 1740.)
SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS.

OCTAVO.

Of the Miscellaneous Collections, volume 63, 1 paper was pub-
lished; of volume 64, 1 paper; of volume 66, 11 papers; of volume 67,
2 papers; of volume 68, 4 papers; in all, 19 papers, as follows:

106
No.

No.

No.

No.

No.

6.

. 5.

nG:

eos

al:

hale

Spelis

. 13.

» A 4:

alia.

b alley

baltee

faiks3

ue

2:

ike

aT

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 107

VOLUME 63.

Smithsonian Physical Tables. Second reprint of sixth revised edition.
By F. HE. Fowle. January 12, 1917. xxxvi+355 pp. (Publ. 2269.)

VOLUME 64.

Cambrian Geology and Paleontology. III, No. 5. Cambrian trilobites.
By Charles D. Waleott. September 29, 1916. Pp. 303-456, pls. 45-67.
(Publ. 2420.)

VOLUME 66,

Phoenetie transcription of Indian languages. Report of Committee of
American Anthropological Association. 15 pp. (Publ. 2415.)

Maxonia, a new genus of tropical American ferns. By Carl Christensen.
September 30, 1916. 4 pp. (Publ. 2424.) |

Three new murine rodents from Africa. By N. Hollister. October 26,
1916. 3 pp. (Publ. 2426.)

On the use of the pyranometer. By C. G. Abbot and L. B. Aldrich.
November 6, 1916. 9 pp. (Publ. 2427.)

Bones of mammals from Indian sites in Cuba and Santo Domingo.
By Gerrit S. Miller, jr. December 7, 1916. 10 pp., 1 pl. (Publ.
2429.)

The teeth of a monkey found in Cuba. By Gerrit S. Miller, jr. Decem-
ber 8, 1916. 3 pp.,1 pl. (Publ. 2430.)

Preliminary survey of the remains of the Chippewa settlements on La
Pointe Island, Wisconsin. By Philip Ainsworth Means. January 4,
1917. 15 pp., 2 maps. (Publ. 2433.)

Three remarkable new species of birds from Santo Domingo. By J. H.
Riley. December 1, 1916. 2 pp. (Publ. 2435.)

The determination of meteor orbits in the solar system. G. von Niessl.
April 23, 1917. 35 pp. (Publ. 24386.)

Explorations and field work of the Smithsonian Institution in 1916.
April 26, 1917. 184 pp. (illustrated.) (Publ. 2488.)

On the occurrence of Benthodesmus atlanticus Goode and Bean on the
eoast of British Columbia. By C. H. Gilbert. February 21, 1917.
2 pp. (Publ. 2489.)

VOLUME 67.

Cambrian Geology and Paleontology. IV, No. 1. Nomenclature of some
Cambrian Cordilleran formations. By Charles D. Walcott. May 9,
1917. pp. 1-8. (Publ. 2444.)

Cambrian Geology and Paleontology. IV, No. 2. The Albertella fauna
in British Columbia and Montana. By Charles D. Walcott. May 9, —
1917. pp. 9-59, pls. 1-7. (Publ. 2445.)

VOLUME 68.

Archeological investigations in New Mexico, Colorado, and Utah. By
J. Walter Fewkes. May 15, 1917. 38 pp., 14 pls. (Publ. 2442.)

Recognition among insects. By N. E. MeIndoo. April 30, 1917. 78 pp.
(Publ, 2443.)
108 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

No. 5. Effect of short period variations of solar radiation on the earth’s atmos-
phere. By H. Helm Clayton. May 21, 1917. 18 pp., 8 charts.
(Publ. 2446.)

No. 4. Preliminary diagnosis of new mammals obtained by the Yale-National
Geographic Society Peruvian Expedition. By Oldfield Thomas.
April 10; 191%. 3 pp. (Publ. 2447.)

SMITHSONIAN ANNUAL REPORTS.

Owing to the congestion of work at the Government Printing
Office on account of the war, the Smithsonian Report for 1916, which
was ready for printing in April, was not yet off the press at the
«lose of the fiscal year.

SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS.

The following special publications were issued during the year:

Publications of the Smithsonian Institution issued between January 1 and
June 80, 1916. 3 pp. (Publ. 2422.)

Publications of the Smithsonian Institution issued between January 1 and
September 380, 1916. 3 pp. (Publ. 2425.)

Publications of the Smithsonian Institution issued between January 1 and
December 31, 1916. 3 pp. (Publ. 2487.)

Publications of the Smithsonian Institution issued between January 1 and
March 31, 1917. 1p. (Publ. 2448.)

Classified list of Smithsonian publications available for distribution December
15, 1916. vi-+82 pp. (Publ. 2434.)

The Smithsonian Institution (descriptive folder). 17 pp. (Publ. AQ.)

PUBLICATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM.

The publications of the National Museum are: (a) The annual
report to Congress; (0) the Proceedings of the United States Na-
tional Museum; and (c) the Bulletin of the United States National
Museum, which includes the Contributions from the United States
National Herbarium. The editorship of these publications is vested
in Dr Marcus Benjamin.

During the year the Museum published 1 volume oe the Proceed-
ings and 73 separate papers forming parts of this and other volumes,
and 6 Bulletins.

The issues of the Proceedings were as follows: Volume 50; volume
51, papers 2139-2172; volume 52, papers 2173-2193; volume 53,
papers 2194-2206, 2208, and 2210-2212.

The Bulletins were as follows:

Bulletin 71, A monograph of the foraminifera of the North Pacific Cnet Part
VI, Miliolidae, by Joseph A, Cushman.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 109

~

Bulletin 98, The sessile barnacles (Cirripedia) contained in the collections of
the U. S. National Museum; including a monograph of the American species,
by Henry A. Pilsbry.

Bulletin 96, A synopsis of American early Tertiary Cheilostome Bryozoa, by
Ferdinand Canu and Ray S. Bassler.

Bulletin 98, The birds of the Anamba Islands, by Harry C. Oberholser.

Volume 16, Contributions from the U. S. National Herbarium, entitled ‘‘Sys-
tematic investigations in Phanerogams; ferns, and mosses,’ by various
authors.

Volume 17, Contributions from the U. S. National Herbarium entitled “Sys-
tematie investigations in lichens and ferns, grasses, and other Phanerogams,”
by various authcrs.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

The publications of the bureau are discussed in Appendix 2 of the
Secretary’s report. The editorial work of the bureau has continued
in charge of Mr. J. G. Gurley, editor.

During the year, 1 annual report, 2 bulletins, and a lst of publica-
tions were issued, as follows:

Thirty-first Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology (containing
an accompanying paper “Tsimshian Mythology” (Boas) ).
Bulletin 40, part 2 (edited by Boas), “Coos, an illustrative sketch,’ by Leo

J. Frachtenberg.

Bulletin 55, Ethnobotany of the Tewa Indians, by Robbins, Harrington, and

Freire-Marreco.

List of publications of the Bureau of American Ethnology.

At the close of the fiscal year there were in press or in preparation

4 annual reports and 7 bulletins.

REPORT OF THE AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION.

The annual reports of the American Historical Association are
transmitted by the association to the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution and are communicated to Congress under the provisions -
of the act of incorporation of the association.

Volume 1 of the annual report for 1914 was issued during the
year, and volume 2 of this report and the report for 1915 were in
press at the close of the year.

REPORT OF THE NATIONAL SOCIETY OF THE DAUGHTERS OF THE
AMERICAN REVOLUTION.

The manuscript of the Nineteenth Annual Report of the National
Society of the Daughters of the American Revolution for the year
pans October 11, 1916, was communicated to Congress on Feb-
ruary. 5, 1917.
110 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

THE SMITHSONIAN ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PRINTING AND
PUBLICATION.

The editor has continued to serve as secretary of the Smithsonian
advisory committee on printing and publication. This committee
passes on all manuscripts offered for publication by the Institution
or its branches, and considers forms of routine, blanks, and various
other matters pertaining to printing and publication. Sixteen meet-
ings were held during the year and 101 manuscripts were acted upon.

Respectfully submitted.

A. Howarp Crarx, Editor.
Dr. Cuartes D, Watcort,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF
REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE
YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1917.

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

Your executive committee respectfully submits the following re-
port in relation to the funds, receipts, and disbursements of the
Institution, and a statement of the appropriations by Congress for
the National Museum, the International Exchanges, the Bureau of
American Ethnology, the National Zoological Park, the Astrophysi-
cal Observatory, and the International Catalogue of Scientific Liter-
ature for the year ending June 30, 1917, together with balances of
previous appropriations:

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.
Condition of the fund July 1, 1917.

Section 5591, Revised Statutes, reads as follows:

The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized and directed to receive into the
Treasury, on the same terms as the original bequest of James Smithson, such
sums as the Regents may, from time to time, see fit to deposit, not exceeding,
with the original bequest, the sum of one million dollars.

On July 18, 1916, and on January 11, 1917, two amounts of $2,000
each, consisting of savings from income, were deposited in the Treas-
ury of the United States and completed the total deposit of $1,000,000
allowed by law. The amount of each fund so deposited and drawing
interest at the rate of 6 per cent per annum is given below:

SAE CUDRSE TED EY 0 dS eee a NE RP na END $727, 640. 00
a Oa) aha eB SS Sr Ee ee oe ee ae eS 500. 00
amtltonetunds 222. es ET eRe I TS 2, 500. 00
PETC KAIN GS et] 10 leet pete me aia oe Rah ire wie de ee Sea 216, 000. 00
LRU RYERSS). TUG 8 Deke era te are Se aE ia OSS ge MR epee 590. 00
LNNWCIAY SEO G |e Sets Ale eS mia ca TE Es OO RE OS RE 14, 000. 00
NO GISOnMEM CTE aati ie ome Se eee Ne oe MO fa ete a es 11, 000. 00
tcyer eran daG COnCewWia EP OOLC HEIN G am emcee to Ne ee ee 26, 670. 00
CCOnCer Ker SAT rORG sail eee a ee seen eens nN eer rers ne et at 1, 100. 00

Rotalstundaininited: States Mreasury55 224 see5eee 1, 000, 000. 00
112 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

OTHER RESOURCES.

Registered and guaranteed 4 per cent bonds of the West Shore
Railroad Co., part of legacy of Thomas G. Hodgkins (par

VEG) ee ae tee one DONT I elec SE a a eee eee LE $42, 000. 00°
Coupon 5 per cent bonds of the Brooklyn Rapid Transit Co., due

July 1, 1918 (cost) 2 peerage MSS pb pe apa Sat le or oe, Ata le 5, 040. 63
Joupon 6 per cent bonds of the Argentine Nation, due Dec. 15,

MT, AC CQSE) eee a ae he Bn Ass oT ck ane bent ee ts 5, 093. 75

1, 052, 134. 38

Also three small pieces of real estate, two of which are improved,
located in the District of Columbia and bequeathed by the late Robert
Stanton Avery, of Washington, District of Columbia.

Statement of receipts and disbursements from July 1, 1916, to June 30, 1917.

RECEIPTS.
Gashon: deposit-and inisate sully AsOiGe ed Ae ee $44, 711. 02
Interest on fund deposited in United States Treasury

quer Julye dA OllGs and kame sl! LOM (nla etek hg & $59, 810. 59
Interest on West Shore Railroad bonds due Jaly 1,

Oat Gear Glee aaa eel Osh (fee eee ene eee ans ee 1, 680. 00
Repayments, rentals, publications, ete_______ = ee ONO Z8595
Contributions for Speciicspurposes== =e ee 16, 630. 00

88, 649. 52
133, 360. 54
DISBURSEMENTS.
Buildings, care and repairs__---__- Ls 2h Bay as == $6"892223
Kurniture and fixbires 413 wen bri We Yi AS Os CD. RIND) § 1, 594. 45
General expenses:
Salar esrese. tae a Le a Bye ee $19, 257. 45
MICE DIN Se AEN ey, ae oes ee 2 ene 68. 00
SGotlOme nye =a a eee See Sa ee 5 se 8 7
Postage, telegraph, and telephone__—--- = 559. 33
MGC Te Fe Eee Ly eye ETRE E ey Say SENT eae £ 56. 64
Incidentals, fuel, and lights-._--__--_____ ae ey OA Gyo:
GATE OO areeteaine = fe Seal OP aed ac ae cca DS ER age 2, 487. 44
————— 24,891.14
HibLaryy = aero z te re a ee eer ate ee 2, 446. 64
Publications and their distribution:
MAScellaAneo Us © OULECi OI Se eee eens Seren eee eae 5, 100. 95
(COMA oT EMONN) {Woy Jeanie s = we 551. 00
RECS TOOTH tes a ne Hes ae aes Se ee Sh ee Te 188. 57
SJOCCIGH TONNE ON OSs 3 ee eae ee ee 420. 03
EUDLICACLONESUP PCS! ae a eee ee ee 132. 47
AS IETI LY 2S PRE amen ee alae cee NRE ay ACerS Met Pe = ale ) Walsh ss

13, 981. 35
REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. a fe}

Hxploratons: researches, and <cCOLeCwWOnS © = 2 ee ee $5, O94. 19
Hodgkins specific fund, researches, and publications______________ ; 6, 498. 24
Mie RMA OM al XC anes Osean bees eee eee = See ee ee = AD, Ootmoe
Gallery “ofv Arts!) OU aaa PEE a EPP AEN SOTTO 190. 05
Langley Aerodynamical Jiaboratory pole es eg Se EULA Ale wee VS ae ees 2, 032. 60
Deposit to credit.of- permanent funds—.__~_ =. be ee 4, 000. 00
INGiveln CeSmror Piel dvexpenses, xetGiee Less sei ets sey A ee ee 25, G1 AT
Bills receivable, certificates of deposit-______.____________-__-__ 25, 000. 00

124, 127. 98
Deposited with the Treasurer of the United States and
TT Py yep eye re pe 8 es ae a oe ee et fee Se rd 4b $9, 032. 56
CCHISI Ouida) aay ag aca os SI Se eee 200. 00
$9, 232. 56

133, 360. 54

The itemized report of the auditor confirms the foregoing state-
ment of the balances, receipts, and expenditures, and is approved. A
summary of the report follows:

CapiTaL Avupit Co., bana oe BANK panera!
Washington, D. O., August 24, 1917.
EHerecutive Committee, Board of Regents, Smithsonian Tastifadkan:

Str: We have examined the accounts and vouchers of the Smithsonian In-
stitution for the fiscal year ended June 380, 1917, and certify the following to be
a correct statement:

MotaledishursementsS=- === 22s) s5 ss Kv bawe woe yee a Ce $124, 127. 98
OL RCGepis= ese ae ee Ee es jal ch ananassae 88, 649. 52
Excess of disbursements over receipts___________ a Fe AO AG
AMOUNT HOM Ubys 1, LOGE 2 22 2 cept ee on to AA OD
lshilenaves Gyn lok bayol ahwnaes B{0), ale ny ee 9, 232. 56
Balance as shown by Treasury statement as of June 30, 1917______ PORTE tL:
MESSTOUtSiANnGInes CheEUUESE= n= = st ers nts net eee = 4,110. 67
TES 2 SAN eC See a ce ree OC ee ee Nee ee 7, 947. 04
Balance vamencanmNa tonal sank 2. 00 ee 1, O85. 52
(COGIn Oper LAR nG| 4 ee Seo ee eee 2 ee ee ee ee a 200, 00
Balance unersOs VOU 22. oa ne ne eee ee ee 9, 232. 56

The vouchers representing payments from the Smithsonian income during
the year, each of which bears the approval of the Secretary, or in his absence,
of the Acting Secretary, and a certificate that the materials and services
charged were applied to the purposes of the Institution, have been examined
in connection with the books of the Institution and agree with them.

Capirat AvupiT Co.
By Wrr1iaAmM L. YaArcer, President.

All payments are made by check signed by the Secretary on the
Treasurer of the United States and all revenues are deposited to the
credit of the same account, except in some instances small deposits

are now made in bank for convenience of collection,
114 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

Your committee has approved of the deposit on time in strong
Washington banks and trust companies of a part of its cash re-
sources not immediately required, and has been able to obtain inter-
est thereon at the rate of 3 per cent per annum. It is believed
that approximately $1,000 can be added each year to the revenues.

of the Institution by this procedure.

Your committee also presents the following summary of appro-
priations for the fiscal year 1917, intrusted by Congress to the care
of the Smithsonian Institution, balances of previous appropriations
at the beginning of the fiscal year, and amounts unexpended on

June 30, 1917.

Available | Balance
after June 30,
July 1,1916.| 1917.
internationale xchanges, 19 bese aces en eser ees so-e eee eee seeere dese ee esosee $0. 20 1 $0. 20
international Mxchanges 1916 -\7.- anc aces sisciecisie isi seeteene ce Sse cess scebess B tit. bal fl eee
International) xchangesyl 917 22 sae. =e eeree-me = Sas pees ct eee eee 32, 000. 00 4,957.76
American Mthnology, 191594. os csceeae-aecatke =< oe sete soesscccecaciecsisece<=s 1,119.04 1 819. 84
American thology. OlOsneaeesce eae seee eee eee eeee eee eeee eae sadsusieeese ges 2, 897.78 334. 97
American Mthnology, 197s). 22.00 te tess secs ae ces cities sae deine sslscjeisiewinsisinjas sic 42, 000. 00 1, 523. 28
internationali Catalogue i191 55. ajo cso -iaere iat aciel)-lnleseicie as) elstelniotteiie ce sini eae sisi= LOSS Mevctes stolesiene
international Catalogues] 1G tosm iets cele s flee se cicisiaiciainicweinls/siojaiw lsiciei=)=-feicleieisis see 549, 81 282. 96
internationali@atalogue pl OU ese se maee seats =a areal cicicisiaino nie ci-ioldno se ieeincios “eee 7, 500. 00 466. 00
Astrophysical: Observatory, TOUS ens snce cee cias sec elete a elem sieieleelsicte/csiciel= <a -ista ernie 46.35 1 46.35
‘Astrophysical’ Observatory, 1 916. 1. .5ccncceiseneee cleninto cntsoe ols elocieaeic=</ee- sie eats 1, 522. 31 38.06
Astrophysical Observatory, 1917.........- cle siuist a iviatemie selste suisse eaeeeece cease 13, 000. 00 1, 051.32
Bookstacks for Government bureau libraries, 1915...........-...---------------- 1.09 11.09
Bookstacks for Government bureau libraries, 1915-16. .........-.--.-.----------- 64.16 62.12
‘ower telescope on *Mountawilson, sl O15 m2 aa seacoast ee ee tee ZOP33 | be occosdcoes
FVEpaIs LOS MmiLusonian bULIGINg lO eee. sees eee eee eee sees 176.88 1176.88
National Museum:
Hurmitureand fixtures 1915s sc cence oscceee ane secinc case scelceeemececense 13.34 113.34
BRurniture.and fixturesy 1916s 225 <a cede cease ae esaysiscw niet me ceteeeis sees ee eer 1, 941.95 11.36
Murnitureand fixtures, 1917-5. 5-ceceieisss tieceisnice ene ince en ce eee saceaeees 25, 000. 00 2, 246. 79
Heatinpandiehtin eel Ol sem aeeicesae eos teseeeeeiaeea er sbascsconoassar 109, 63 1109.63
ieatingandlichting Ol Gee ee meacemacsesacclemenceeseseciae see oeee eee 5, 852. 65 202. 67
Heating andilightingy 197s. Sascqcescwcce<niiosicceminiccc ce cise sive slersnictsia = cleeiale 46, 000. 00 5,374. 93
Preservation oncollections 915s eeeas ese eeee see eee eee ee eee eee eee 1,278.34] 11,214.70
iPresenvadon Of collections, s1916 ease sae a seia-eise see = dee se eels sie seein 7,695. 91 1, 777.93
‘Preservation of collections; Ol imea =a ascne steels te asec eee sineenere 300, 000. 00 6,371.60
IBOOKS. OSS teks. ca R ects cra S8 ochre = asta s aS deb oe Se EE see Se eee 115. 60 1 86. 88
BOOKS, 19162 . cidsecses csvceccossin it aneihas Sess dsodaecasree sect isceemsteste tele 1,157.49 235.31
BOOKS 1917: << cjscic nisin nce moosmioseesmoaasics sahascbsseace ose ese see==ssee-ose 2,000. 00 911.43
LESS ENGR Y Greco cacobc casas boa tabe suse senneebborpaddoassneddesseedsandased 500. 00 |-....-------
Building repairs, 1915. see esse acre ele ms epee = siasinie sleeosin sie epsiais lease isiemioeeiel 1.32 11.33
BULGING, Tepairs, VLG Ha- osec eects cee cine =e sels eile cinco ereeeeeee cece 2, 298. 58 3.62
Bulging repairs, Gliesaee icles coe saws <ialaisele/Neisieiee ~ es adeiesieleloeisemeisecine eects 10, 000. 00 2, 120. 83
NationallZoologicaltBark, 19155 |= 353-0) ante eisai - See eee eects 83 1 83
‘NationaltZoologicalPark (101629: arsc. .passscs ss sees re eee eee ane 5, 653. 99 9.38
Natronal) Zoological Park, VOUT ooo oma c ese teele sSeae =a <i yee seeseeeecaee « 100, 000. 00 2, 402, 35

1 Carried to credit of surplus fund,
REPORT OF BXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

115

Statement of estimated income from the Smithsonian fund and from other
sources, accrued and prospective, to be available during the fiscal year ending

June 80, 1918.

TAM COR DUNES Oy gel Oi fee eee ne eee en SD oe

DSSS pS REX VEIN SST] 0 SS eae a ee Ee lee
Interest on fund deposited in United States Treasury
due July. t,.19ia. and. Jan, I91S 3)
Interest on West Shore Railroad bonds due July 1, 1917,
AN Ged Anselm OU Se a Se eS eee oe ee te a
Exchange repayments, sale of publications, refund of
AC VANCES ee CCReStty CLCa. ee eee ee ee
DEPOSITS OEM SpeCING PULDOSCS=— =e ee

Total available for year ending June 30, 1918_____

Respectfully submitted.
GEORGE GRAY,

60, 000. 00
1, 680. 00

11, 624. 46
12, 000. 00

$9, 232. 56

110, 304. 46

119, 537. 02

ALEXANDER GRAHAM BELL,
Ernest W. Roperts,
Executive Committee.
onneoaee OR ri
abel gaia ey one ie Fe id
“hedhely my Levitan atte Ma jeoean ie
SAN P emai eet F186 i efek: ty ie |
rer f ok a aaa Wari ert san A ne ‘Weradar.
cob Gacaeeres ih aie oe
ain oe re ean, ae. ee oa
A cos Brlep ens tae Fenty aunt naire g Hy tall, ROMA TINS a)
ht AOE St” ar AR tH eet plioog, ‘70 pai aa

we fips th cage
OF ie ois

ee or ee ‘ie
" aha i ee pa phe sas
52

?

Te vanes seas ewes ; ‘ os
eS sr be hy pase a - : j ; ¥ : a :
Peer Mannie hep pr ome bom, it Leis a ee oe ee »

4 r

Mi sn i ie wr’ : Cena 4 TOE 06 va ‘ auiibas HO, TT “akdatbseagh tno sly

¥ caeigai (idiot

eas) aosunei - ;
ee aps ern). aa ARAB yes
Le

ie ne b = \

ph ae fi waar Racian he

* Oe

Mae oF 3 ia hig -

L P.. mee ery RM p: y rate . i bon all - mink al hae % es at a 4 i727
ipay Ga taiks the als Sree Vibro y fl Jee Sah: aa cneealiecalienls 2 nk aa! Sryoye gene, 7
iis i Ppa a Dp tis > a . |
pte i ji epet ret, Wei, 7 (ame DO gen Seng veaenblnibges FORM ee Be le il
Pilla sesibiminy Cates Ae aS retin eae AOL hae St We: a ie
everett al So Ras 2 - . ee ny tibiae ae eh : ae
ae Cha Maher tate 63) ; < : ¥ iar iat . soln r 7 ae ee

AAR MT cers Hae ow Pe! " } io ‘ an Te ny) - Say -¢ne eo

+ Wide oe, OR § NG ais
‘ uti ee ahi Seth. diy a Py De Ue Sp rY bara

mn it's Aid the iy a
; ar ae arial Aste as de ,
ip sa n +. j

Sde\ Hp Gaiaaens one?’ oa ereone

Mahi ha

emu, ny
ees ddy

Va, yatta bw, Pas pen ep (ual
ees sb aSe ay ili «ll ime
ere ei malas ne “a Pi : va ey
at oh eR Hon ela

PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITH-
~  SONTAN INSTITUTION FOR THE FISCAL YEAR
ENDING JUNE 30, 1917.

ANNUAL MEETING, DECEMBER 14, 1916.

The Board of Regents met at the Institution at 10 o’clock a. m.

Present: The Hon. Edward D. White, Chief Justice of the United
States, Chancellor, in the chair; the Hon. Thomas R. Marshall, Vice
President of the United States; Senator Henry Cabot Lodge; Sen-
ator Henry F. Hollis; Representative Ernest W. Roberts; Represen-
tative James T. Lloyd; Dr. Alexander Graham Bell; Mr. Charles F.
Choate, jr.; Mr. John B. Henderson; and the Secretary, Mr. Charles
D. Walcott.

APPOINTMENT OF REGENTS.

The Secretary announced that on December 14, 1915, the Speaker
of the House of Representatives had reappointed Mr. Ferris and
Mr. Roberts, Members of the House, as Regents, and appointed Mr.
James T. Lloyd, of Missouri, a Regent to succeed Mr. Maurice Con-
nolly, whose term as Representative had expired.

The Secretary also announced that Dr. A. Graham Bell had been
reappointed a Regent by joint resolution of Congress approved by
the President on February 21, 1916.

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE APPOINTMENT.

On motion, Doctor Bell was reelected a member of the executive
committee.

RESIGNATION OF REGENT.

The Secretary read the following letter from Dr. Andrew D. White
tendering his resignation as a Regent of the Institution:

[Andrew D. White, Cornell University. ]

IrHaca, N. Y., December 7, 1916.
Prof. CHARLES D. WALCOTT,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C.
My Dear Mr. Secretary: Permit me to present, most respectfully, through
you to the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, my resignation

65133°—sm 1917——9 117
118 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

from membership in their honorable body. My reason for so doing is the fact
that the infirmities of age have made it of late very difficult, if not impossible,
for me to render the services which are justly expected from everyone honored
by such membership.

May I ask you also, in so doing, to accept for yourself and to tender to the
board, with assurances of my sincere respect, my most hearty thanks for their
unvarying kindness and courtesy in all the relations between us.

I remain, dear and honored sir, most respectfully yours,

ANDREW D. WHITE.

Senator Lodge offered the following resolutions, which were
unanimously adopted:

Whereas the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution having learned
that Dr. Andrew. Dickson White has tendered his resignation as a Regent:
Therefore be it
Resolved, That the board records its deep regret at the severance of official

relations with their distinguished colleague, and their appreciation of his

valued services to the Institution extending over a period of nearly 29 years.

Resolved, That the Regents desire to convey to Doctor White an expression
of their sincere hope that the future may bring to him the full measure of
happiness that comes froma long life devoted to his country and to the welfare
of mankind.

RESOLUTION RELATIVE TO INCOME AND EXPENDITURE,

Tn the absence of Judge Gray, chairman of the executive committee,
Doctor Bell offered the following resolution, which was adopted:

Resolved, That the income of the Institution for the fiscal year ending June
30, 1918, be appropriated for the service of the Institution, to be expended by
the Secretary with the advice of the Executive Committee, with full discretion
on the part of the Secretary as to items.

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE,

The Secretary submitted the annual report of the executive com-
mittee, showing the financial condition of the Institution for the
fiscal year ending June 30, 1916, stating that it had been supplied to
the Regents in printed form. On motion, the report was adopted.

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE PERMANENT COMMITTEE.

The permanent committee submitted the following statement:

Hodgkins fund—No further allotments from this fund have been
made on account of the Langley Aerodynamical Laboratory.

An allotment of $5,000 per annum for three years has been made
to Dr. Charles G. Abbot, director of the Astrophysical Observatory
of the Smithsonian Institution, for the maintenance of an astrophysi-
cal station in the Argentine Republic for the purpose of determining
the transmission of the sun’s rays through the atmosphere. The
details of this proposed work have been given by the Secretary in
his annual report.
PROCEEDINGS OF REGENTS. 119

As previously reported, the sum of $2,000 was allotted from the
Hodgkins fund to Dr. F. G. Cottrell for the conduct of experiments
in the electrical precipitation of fog. These experiments have been
concluded and Doctor Cottrell has submitted a report.

Chamberlain bequests— Your committee reported at the last meet-
ing that Dr. Leander T. Chamberlain had made two bequests to the
Institution, one of $25,000 and one of $10,000, each of which was to
be known as “The Frances Lea Chamberlain fund.” The bequest
of $10,000, the income of which is to be used for promoting the sci-
entific value and usefulness of the collection of mollusks now in the
National Museum and known as “The Isaac Lea collection,” has
been received and invested in two short-term bonds of $5,000 par
value each.

Fiscal advisers—Your committee met at the Smithsonian Insti-
tution on December 28, 1915, and Secretary Walcott explained the
necessity for action by the committee in the matter of the investment
of the funds of the institution over and above the $1,000,000 in the
United States Treasury authorized by law, and on his recommenda-
tions resolutions were adopted appointing the American Security &
Trust Co., of Washington, District of Columbia, and the firm of
Spencer Trask & Co., of New York City, as the fiscal advisers of the
committee. Both of these concerns have accepted and will serve
without charge.

Consolidated fund—The Secretary spoke in relation to the ad-
vantages in forming a consolidated fund for the purpose of pooling
all of the funds that might belong to the Institution, with the ex-
ception of the $1,000,000 in the United States Treasury, and after
discussion the committee adopted resolutions approving the policy
of such a consolidated fund.

Freer Art Gallery—rThe Secretary reported the receipt of the
$1,000,000 provided by Mr. Charles L. Freer for the construction
and equipment of the building to contain his art collections pre-
sented to the Institution. This sum had been deposited in various
banks and trust companies, as follows: $900,000 at 3 per cent and
$100,000 at 4 per cent.

On motion the report of the permanent committee was accepted
and approved.

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

In presenting his annual report of the operations of the Institu-
tion for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1916, which had been printed
and sent to the Regents, the Secretary said:

The publications of the Institution and its branches issued since the last

meeting of the Regents number 113, aggregating about 7,600 pages and 775
plates of illustrations. The Institution proper issued 62 volumes and pamph-
120 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

lets (2,336 pages and 274 plates), the National Museum 48 volumes and pamph-
lets (4,322 pages and 450 plates), and the Bureau of American Ethnology 3 pub-
lications (890 pages and 59 plates). The total number of copies of all these
series of publications distributed during the year was about 201,500—an in-
crease of more than 50,000 over the preceding year. The annual report of
the American Historical Association and of the National Society of the Daugh-
ters of the American Revolution were also transmitted through the Institution
to Congress, as required by law. i

As usual these publications cover nearly every branch of natural and ap-
plied science. Among those of the Institution proper I may mention two
papers on aeronautics, one on wind tunnel experiments at the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, the other on the dynamical stability of aeroplanes,
both by Assistant Naval Constructor J. C. Hunsaker and associates; four
papers from the Astrophysical Observatory of the Institution dealing with the
instruments used and observations made by the observatory staff in the study
of solar radiation; three papers by your Secretary describing his researches
in Cambrian geology and paleontology ; two reprints of the Smithsonian Physi-
cal Tables, made necessary by the demand for this useful work; a paper by
Chester G. Gilbert, of the National Museum, on sources of nitrogen com
pounds in the United States, which attracted considerable attention; and the
usual semipopular account of the exploration and field work of the Institution
during the year, which was more extensive and more profusely illustrated than
ever before.

Of special interest among the numerous Museum publications may be men-
tioned a complete descriptive catalogue, by Dr. G. P. Merrill, of the valuable
and extensive meteorite collection in the National Museum.

The Smithsonian report again appeared earlier than ever before, the com-
plete volume for 1915 being received from the printer in June, 1916. The
change in the size of the edition from 7,000 to 10,000 copies has proved very
advantageous.

National Museum (including National Gallery of Art)—In many
departments of the Museum extensive and valuable collections have
been acquired, though none of the additions calls for special men-
tion in this connection.

It is, however, considered very important that attention be drawn
to the inadequacy of the present appropriations for carrying on the
technical and exhibition work of the Museum, and while this de-
ficiency applies in varying degree to all branches of the Museum, it
is now more especially felt in connection with the art-industrial col-
lections. The richest as a whole and the most varied of their kind
in the country, planned by the Board of Regents in 1846, though not
organized until 1881, and now filling the older Museum building as
well as the main and western halls of the Smithsonian building,
these collections are at present administered by so small a technical
staff that it is impossible to make creditable progress with their
classification and public installation, though it is through the devel-
opment of these branches that the Museum offers the greatest prac-
tical benefits to the public at large. The immediate increase in
funds required to attain this purpose is relatively inconsiderable,
PROCEEDINGS OF REGENTS. ThA

but until even this small sum is secured the usefulness of the Mu-
seum must be greatly impaired.

National Gallery of Art—Prominent among the artists represented
in the extensive gift by Mr. William T. Evans of contemporary
American paintings is Henry W. Ranger, of whose work the gallery
possesses four examples. Mr. Ranger died on November 7, and by
the terms of his will the National Gallery of Art is made a perpetual
optional participant in the income of his estate, the value of which
has been estimated at $250,000. The paragraph relating to the gal-
lery, with reference to which it may be said that Mr. Ranger survived
his wife, is as follows:

* * * * * * *

(2) Upon the death of my said wife, Helen Eudora Ranger, if she be living
at the time of my death, or, if my said wife be not living at the time of my
death, then as soon after my decease as may be practicable, I direct that my
entire residuary estate be paid over to the National Academy of Design, the
principal to be kept invested and the income thereof to be spent by the council
of said academy in purchasing paintings produced by American artists, at
least two-thirds (2/3) of such income to be spent in the purchase of works by
artists who are forty-five years of age and over, it remaining optional with the
council to spend the remaining one-third (1/3), or any part thereof, in the pur-
chase of works by younger artists. All pictures so purchased are to be given
by the council to art institutions in America, or to any library or other institu-
tions in America maintaining a gallery open to the public, all such gifts to be
upon the express condition that the National Gallery at Washington, adminis-
tered by the Smithsonian Institute shall have the eption and right, without
cost, to take, reclaim, and own any picture for their collection, provided they
exercise such option and right at any time during the five-year period beginning
ten years after the artist’s death and ending fifteen years after his death, and,
if such option and right is not exercised during such period, the picture shall
remain and be the property of the institution to which it was first given. The
words “ America” and “ American ” as used above shall be construed as equiva-
lent to “ North America” and “ North American” respectively.

F 3 Es * * * * *

Briefly analyzed, the purport of this bequest is that the National
Gallery is given the opportunity of selecting, after a lapse of a
period following his death sufficiently long to establish an artist’s
standing, such of his paintings purchased from the Ranger fund as
may be regarded as desirable, without being placed in the position
of refusing any. In the long run the gallery should derive very
great benefits from this generous remembrance.

Freer Gallery of Art—The board will recall that at the annual
meeting of December 9, 1915, it approved the recommendation of the
special committee on a site for the Freer Gallery of Art that the
building be erected on the corner of the Smithsonian grounds at
Twelfth and B Streets SW. This site was subsequently approved by

the Federal Commission of Fine Arts, and also by Mr. Freer, who
122 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

transferred to the Institution the $1,000,000 he had set aside for the
construction of the building.

On September 23, 1916, work was formally inaugurated by Mr.
Rathbun, as Acting Secretary, who after a brief address reciting the
history of this great gift, turned over the first spadeful of earth on
the site selected. At this time the work of excavation for the founda-
tions is proceeding as rapidly as possible, and it is expected to com-
plete the building in two years, as estimated.

At the time of the original offer, the collection consisted of about
2,300 paintings and other objects of art, but it has since been in-
creased to 5,346 items, including American paintings and sculptures,
the Whistler collection and oriental paintings, pottery, bronzes, and
jades from China, Japan, and other Asiatic countries.

It is also gratifying to call attention to recent announcements
from Mr. Freer, that important additions are still being procured for
his collections in the Far East; that several distinguished experts
are preparing descriptive catalogues of parts of the collections; and
that two Japanese artists are at work mounting and making ready
for exhibition in the building the remarkable series of Chinese
paintings, constituting one of the most valuable features of this im-
portant donation.

National Portrait Gallery—tThe secretary called attention to the
desirability of adding to the National Portrait Gallery, and stated
that one of the best paintings extant of Joseph Henry, the first Secre-
tary of the Smithsonian Institution, was now in the rooms of the
Sergeant at Arms of the Senate; and that a painting of Benjamin
West, made by that great artist himself, was in the Senate lbrary
committee room. He thought these should be turned over to the In-
stitution and suggested that a committee be appointed to take care of
the matter. |

After discussion, on motion, Senators Lodge and Stone were ap-
pointed a committee to consider the means by which these portraits
might be transferred to the care of the Institution.

Bureau of American Ethnology.—The researches of the Bureau of
American Ethnology have been successfully prosecuted since the
beginning of the present fiscal year and a large body of manuscripts
is in hand or in process of printing. Excavation of a large pueblo
ruin in the Mesa Verde National Park of Colorado has been con-
ducted with the cooperation of the Department of the Interior;
field investigations have been continued among the remnant tribes
of southern California, the Fox Indians of Iowa, the Quileute of
Washington, the Iroquois of Ontario, and the Cherokee of North
Carolina; and the preparation of memoirs on other specific tribes,
as well as handbooks on general subjects of ethnology and anthro-
pology, are in varying stages of completeness,
PROCEEDINGS OF REGENTS. p83

National Zoological Park.—The latest action in the proceedings
for acquiring land between the park and Connecticut Avenue was
the decision of the court on January 28, 1916, setting aside all re-
maining benefits assessed against neighboring property. The valua-
tion of the land to be taken and the cost of the proceedings together
made a total of $196,641.48, the sum required for the purchase of
the land. The appropriation of $107,200 originally made having
lapsed, and efforts to have the necessary appropriation made at the
last session of Congress having failed, an item for the sum required
has been submitted in the estimates for 1918, with a clause to make
it a continuing appropriation.

Cooperating with the New York Zoological Park and the Phila-
delphia Zoological Garden, the park agreed early in the summer to
share in the expense of sending an experienced man to South Africa
for animals, the supply through the usual animal dealers having been
almost entirely cut off. Advices just received from him indicate
that he is having much success in securing animals, especially from
the zoological gardens there, which also are anxious to arrange for
exchange with similar institutions in this country. The relations
established by this means with the zoological gardens and naturalists
of South Africa are likely to be very valuable in the future.

On November 1, 1916, Mr. Ned Hollister, for several years assist-
ant curator of mammals in the United States National Museum, was
appointed superintendent of the National Zoological Park to succeed
Dr. Frank Baker, resigned.

Astrophysical Observatory work on Mount Wilson, 1916.—Messrs.
Abbot and Aldrich occupied the Smithsonian observing station on
Mount Wilson, California, from June to October, 1916, inclusive, con-
tinuing the series of observations of the solar radiation in order to
follow the variations of the sun.

Despite much unfavorable weather, very satisfactory results were
obtained along several lines. From numerous experiments it is indi-
cated that the solar radiation, as in 1915, was decidedly higher dur-
ing 1916 than during the sun-spot minimum period which culminated
in 1913.

The new vacuum bolometer and stellite mirrors were introduced in
the spectroscope, and a long series of careful determinations was
made to determine the transmission of the spectroscope in this forin.
This new vacuum bolometer is about 20 times as sensitive as its
predecessor.

Many experiments were made with the new instrument, the pyra-
nometer, on the light of the sky. A new method of determining the
solar variation by aid of the pyranometer is being tried, which, if
successful, may enable many observers, not able to undertake the ex-
124 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

pensive and complicated investigation with the spectrobolometer, to
take a part in observing the variability of the sun.

The Langley Aerodynamical Laboratory.—At the annual meeting
of the Board of Regents held December 9, 1915, the Secretary re-
ported that authority for the appointment by the President of an
Advisory Committee for Aeronautics had been granted March 3,
1915, and that the advisory committee has been appointed, and
further that—

In view of the scope and organization of the National Advisory Committee
for Aeronautics, it is not deemed probably that the Smithsonian Institution will
find it necessary to establish an areodynamical laboratory for experimental
purposes.

In the act approved August 29, 1916, making appropriations for
the naval service for the fiscal year 1917, there is appropriated for
the Advisory Committee for Aeronautics $85,000 in addition to the
sum of $5,000 previously provided. This appropriation is for the
necessary expenses of the committee and for experimental work, in-
vestigations, and publications.

In the same act there is also appropriated $3,500,000 for aviation;
and in the Army appropriation act, also approved August 29, 1916,
there is made available for the same purpose the sum of $13,281,666.

Your Secretary, as chairman of the executive committee of the
National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics, has given consid-
erable time and thought to the development of aviation in connection
with the needs of the Government. Many meetings of the commit-
tee have been held and visits made to the principal plants where
there was a prospect of the development and manufacture of aircraft
and motors.

The present prospect is exceedingly favorable for the manufacture
in quantity of an efficient aircraft motor at plants in New Jersey,
Boston, Detroit, and Buffalo.

It may be of interest to state that the biplane is the standard air-
plane at present, and there is an immediate prospect that high-
powered biplanes and possibly triplanes will be largely used where
great speed and climbing power are essential.

An allotment of $2,500 for the study of problems of the atmos-
phere in relation to aeronautics has been made in connection with the
United States Weather Bureau to provide for the beginning of an
investigation which will ultimately result in the mapping of the
atmosphere over the United States and adjoining areas up to a height
of 20,000 feet.

It is anticipated that the Advisory Committee for Aeronautics, in
cooperation with the War and Navy Departments, will at an early
date have facilities for directing experimentation and investigations at
suitably equipped aviation grounds, or laboratories, as a plat of land
PROCEEDINGS OF REGENTS. 125

1,600 acres in extent near Hampton, Virginia, has been purchased for
use in this connection. This first great aviation field will be known
as Langley Field.

Research Corporation—That the Research Corporation has con-
tinued its growth during the year is shown by the fact that whereas
in my last report, I stated that its salary roll for the ensuing year
would be in the neighborhood of $38,000, at the present itme it is at
the rate of $120,000 a year.

The development of the Cottrell precipitation process has gone on
to such an extent that it is now being employed for the precipitation
of the dust in the air supplied to factories and to many other places
where it is essential in protecting the health and lives of employees
to rid the air of dust.

Fog precipitation.—As stated at the last meeting, an allotment of
$2,000 from the Hodgkins fund was made to Dr. F. G. Cottrell to
further his studies and experiments in the electric precipitation of
fog. He has rendered an account of expenditures under this allot-
ment and submitted a full report of his work, which indicates that
the dispersion of fog by electricity is well within the bounds of pos-
sibility. The question of printing this report is now being considered.

Harriman trust fund.—W ork under this fund by Dr. C. Hart Mer-
riam has been continued along the lines mentioned in previous re-
ports. Field work in northern California in advancing studies pre-
viously under way in ethnology and in the geographic distribution
of animals and plants was carried on during the latter part of the
summer, mainly in the Clear Lake region and the mountains to the
northward; but work on the big bears has occupied the greater part
of the year.

A revision of the species of grizzly. and big brown bears has been
prepared for the press, but owing to the absence of adult specimens
from certain localities, several problems still remain unsolved. The
effort to secure the needed material has been pressed with renewed
vigor. Asa result it is gratifying to report that about 150 skulls,
including adult males of species the males of which were previously
unknown, have been added to the collection, chiefly from localities
in Alaska, Yukon Territory, and British Columbia.

Alberta and British Columbia expedition. The Secretary contin-
ued his geological work along the Continental Divide of western Al-
berta and eastern British Columbia, with the object of determining
the geological horizon of the subfauna of the Cambrian series of
rocks and the determination of the age of a geological. formation the
position of which has been called in question by Canadian geologists.
The two problems were worked out successfully and some collections
of fossils were secured. Much larger results would have been ob-
tained if it had not been for the unusual cold and the heavy snow-
126 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

falls in May and June, and for the very wet and cold weather during
the summer months.

Borneo and Celebes expedition.—Mention has been made on sey-
eral occasions of the generosity of Dr. W. L. Abbott, a collaborator
of the National Museum, whose gifts of ethnoiogical and zoological
specimens to the museum have been both extensive and valuable. In
1912 Doctor Abbott contributed a sum of money to defray the ex-
penses of an expedition to Borneo, and annually since then he has
added materially to his contributions. Since the last meeting he has
given $4,000 for the continuation of these explorations, which are
being conducted by Mr. H. C. Raven. The last expedition, which
started October 19, 1915, includes the Dutch East Indies, and particu-
larly Celebes, from which one shipment has already been received,
while a second is on the way. Doctor Abbott’s contributions to these
expeditions now totals around $17,000. Formal acknowledgment of
these generous gifts has been made.

Doctor Abbott's Santo Domingo expedition—Doctor Abbott has
but recently returned from a collecting trip through the island of
Santo Domingo, West Indies, and has given further evidence of his
interest in the National Museum by presenting to it the results of his
labors there, viz, 230 anthropological specimens, 70 birds, 60 mam-
mals, 20 reptiles, 100 insects, and a collection of mollusks. Doctor
Abbott is now preparing for a trip to Haiti.

North China expedition—Mr. A. de C. Sowerby is still conducting
biological exploration work in Manchuria and northeastern China.
This expedition has been financed by a generous friend of the In-
stitution who will not permit his name to be known. No detailed
report of the work is possible, though it is progressing in a satis-
factory manner.

The Collins-Garner Congo expedition—An expedition to the
French Congo and neighboring parts of Africa has been arranged
for the purpose of collecting natural history specimens for the Na-
tional Museum. The members of the expedition will be Mr. Alfred
M. Collins, of Philadelphia; Mr. Robert L. Garner, Mr. C. W. Fur-
long, and Mr. Charles R. W. Aschemeier. Mr. Collins agrees to
meet the expenses of the first three gentlemen named, while the Insti-
tution will take care of Mr. Aschemeier, who goes as its special rep-
resentative. The expedition will leave New York in a few days and
is expected to return in about one year.

Kitchen midden material—Mr. George Heye, of New York, has
presented the Institution with a collection of material from kitchen
middens in the West Indies, which contains matter of great interest,
including bones of new species of mammals, and additional material
is expected.
PROCEEDINGS OF REGENTS. 1A

Carnegie Corporation gift of $6,000 to International Catalogue of
Scientific Literature.—The International Catalogue of Scientific Lit-
erature has been confronted with serious financial embarrassment in
the issuing of its annual catalogue by the difficulty in collecting sub-
scriptions owing to the war in Europe. The Royal Society of Lon-
don has been kindly making up deficits until this year, when an
appeal for aid was made to the United States. The interest of the
Carnegie Corporation of New York was enlisted in the matter and
that establishment very generously contributed the sum of $6,000,
making possible the publication of the fourteenth annual issue of the
catalogue.

Cinchona Botanical Station—The British Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science, which has maintained the Botanical Labora-
tory at Cinchona, Jamaica, for many years, announced some time
since that owing to financial difficulties the station would probably
have to be closed.

This decision was considered by a committee representing 14
American institutions engaged in botanical research, and after dis-
cussing the statement of the Jamaica Government that the station
would be leased at an annual rental of $250, secured the necessary
amount. The committee then concluded that the matter of the lease
of the station should be placed in the hands of a widely recognized
American scientific establishment, and invited the Smithsonian In-
stitution to act as agent in this connection. After consideration, it
was decided in the interest of botanical science, to accept the invita-
tion, and accordingly the Institution has received the subscriptions
of the 14 botanical institutions referred to, totaling $280, and has
taken steps to secure the lease. It is understood that all questions re-
lating to the admission of investigators will be determined, during
the continuance of the European war, by the Colonial Government.

ADJOURN MENT.

There being no further business to transact, the board adjourned,
after which the Regents viewed a small exhibit of anthropological
and technological material, illustrating some of the lines along
which the Institution works,
ae x ety Sere ose aot pier

Digits bee ee R nate aks SUARIIEAY SOG manent Pings Nis
Thevanisense 0 ‘anol sth) taaoien teint of T—ienk ony sind
ts ey kis hae boniniep iors 1Gi i Letaditons aed adidl-ayn tia

—_ iiosilos ai i tirateh’ edhe deb yolalas laumiwet! Jo Beek ods
= estas yioisid Miiodad Sh! eqerckd. af waewiadpod yuived aaoliginns
Dh aap Tote Aee'e vid) isan Miistioly opis quihten yibaid nsallseeih, hh
af yer oD! pee fietialiodd of obextgaw ice) Lng
= Restart ode yh) Ding egw sho Vows Ante wibbimed: 0 Resriearial),
SHANE NS Hid odd eaePnteg oclemuraeirg open Deiedsifdeten add
sity. = Seteae inosioF adits Lourotinaildng’ adie comet eitilara
ae ee one a eth. Raven,’ sfien Jast exp alic engotieas .

it Sali nantes Zriaiotoh thatamiale pital yu “yiea
i On iteiuaaruitd: caltiinitih, (aisruntt ob witiere bed goame
o b ie nays yrs Ae bey wate: beaols od ot sved
$i Bhiihoeytgar’ aahindnes oa ydo leew hiiior: ea® tabdionks aaelien
A, aorer hak esol lsinntoduat booegan Baoilmiadh dial
i id Bal) Hisramevet) noiaaal, edlttddimduniate olhedeay,
bi bile Perrnoe Oe to lot or iam da de hoemalewd Lage
e egaPalihw naxtont’ ols dust bottboies aro eothisitioniedd Ytanqus
Patinwdasy ivi it Theuded abl: ai hédnle-ad dlaad® ndidelardteao,
mek “chia iraeewlsibatien: lag dadmaiideics olitaiies centomh 24
Ses Hpitimishiesos vith» colssudoo eid’ mi-dovan’ ae sit ot gohtulie e
Asainae pile sqsicntowonaite | ‘Leodtendonh the deanetog alt, af daltoal aig y
: ja als ovtions: Yel nolifititenl odd) wlgnifingsw: beter oe
ish Bain 0083 nAilnae) jotibertsien enoittaert Iavigniad: +h edt a0
| Sep ado Mest liacaidy Doutersbnur cinthe | vansh sd omeembrod anode ivelas |
Beiseli qbsndias tsb od Ulin slolirgizovai Yo molesiobs oil} of said” |
istupio®) oft et. pacman panties stuciniteage eid |
Bani Cais, neat 4 oe eee kd by ‘- Ags vig ys wr pi ahead 4 |
Tae Mes pike it a bily cris Br re ae “YP tga tyr ie Nae ee
Lieue Bag i eee ot tip ei iii vi ik: bee ATy 4 iyo" =
ees Tetod wh itimemnitoltneniutl vidi opvantsd rote, Og
sf ia to Sictithes {nits 2a! haweady: piioue dD ailt: doidvecgotye 4
oil 45 ane ogetidwerda lt brings. tesla |
eae Perr Cla «Pa AR Avtar Dhar os _ ahsoe aoiial =
"enters Tie, “Pad ragsitiow 4g FH ne yg Seow York.) ih » fier oe atic
Sqagrjweartes’ tei retina Uvulwit one year *
Pi eee nindden matorian<My, Liver gy have, ea si Tock dia
eared the tnslititidn with’ o cctectica af yeatertel too Rites
peeition: te thy Wret Tadicd, which indie Wier (i ete Jteriak,
pa Rerietis, pre sreede of eee witihonad ae

eS

<a '
tS os n Ce
> ae ok! Bah >
ge Ss Sa =
‘ “5 id a
) 2 Cee 5
GENERAL APPENDIX

TO THE

SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1917.

ADVERTISEMENT.

The object of the Genrrat ApreNpIx to the Annual Report of the
Smithsonian Institution is to furnish brief accounts of scientific dis-
covery in particular directions; reports of investigations made by
collaborators of the Institution; and memoirs of a general character
or on special topics that are of interest or value to the numerous
correspondents of the Institution.

It has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution, from a very early date, to enrich the annual
report required of them by law with memoirs illustrating the more
remarkable and important developments in physical and biological
discovery, as well as showing the general character of the operations
of the Institution; and this purpose has, during the greater part of
its history, been carried out largely by the publication of such papers
as would possess an interest to all attracted by scientific progress.

In 1880 the Secretary, induced in part by the discontinuance of an
annual summary of progress which for 30 years previous had been
issued by well-known private publishing firms, had prepared by com-
petent collaborators a series of abstracts, showing concisely the
prominent features of recent scientific progress in astronomy, geol-
ogy, meteorology, physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zoology,
and anthropology. This latter plan was continued, though not alto-
gether satisfactorily, down to and including the year 1888,

In the report for 1889 a return was made to the earlier method of
presenting a miscellaneous selection of papers (some of them origi-
nal) embracing a considerable range of scientific investigation and
discussion. This method has been continued in the present report
for 1917.

130
PROJECTILES CONTAINING EXPLOSIVES.*

By CoMMANDANT A. R.

Translated from Revue générale des Sciences pures et appliquées, volume 27,
pages 213-221, April 15, 1916, by Charles E. Munroe,

The idea of employing powerful explosives as interior charges for
projectiles dates from the discovery of guncotton by Schénbein. On
the appearance of this substance its explosive power and its insolu-
bility in water immediately attracted the attention of the military
services of the different countries to it. Up to then black powder only
furnished the interior charges for shells and bombs.

In France the pyroxylin commission, presided over by the Duke de
Montpensier, carried out numerous tests for the purpose of determin-
ing the practicability of this material, but repeated explosions, in the
bore, of projectiles charged with guncotton caused the abandonment
of the researches.

It was not until 1886, following the work of Turpin on the priming
of picric acid, that the question of charging projectiles with high ex-
plosives was taken up again in France, and this led to definite results.

I. STATE OF THE QUESTION.

The number of explosive substances which have been prepared up
to the present time is very considerable. However, in spite of the fact
that many of them are employed in the industries, only a very small
number of them can be utilized in charging projectiles. Such use is
subject to imperative conditions which markedly limit the domain
from which one may select an explosive for artillery.

A projectile exerts destructive effects on an obstacle either because
of the kinetic energy which it possesses at the moment it strikes upon
it or because of the energy liberated by the detonation of the interior
charge of explosive which it carries. Finally, and if the obstacle is
very resistant (such for example as plates of armor protecting the sides
of ships), experience shows that the effect produced by the detonation
of a charge exploded in contact is, in general, insufficient to cause the

1 Reprinted by permission from the United States Naval Institute Proceedings, Vol. 43,
No. 4, Whole No. 170, April, 1917.

131
132 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

rupture of the obstacle. This can not be accomplished except by the
passage of the projectile itself through the armor plate. If it is
sought to sweep.away obstructions, the potential energy of the ex-
plosive charge carried by the projectile should be exercised at this
point. ;

Inasmuch as a charge of explosive can not be projected to a great
distance without its being inclosed in a highly resistant metallic en-
velope, it follows that in practice they will always produce simultane-
ously the destructive effects of the characters considered above.
Finally, one may consider the destruction of the personnel as a prin-
cipal purpose in the employment of shells charged with an explosive.
In this case one will seek to effect the rupture of the body of the shell
into a large number of fragments animated with the highest possible
initial velocity. In addition are the notable destructive effects pro-
duced by the shock of the explosion wave on the persons who are in
close proximity to the center of explosion. It is evident that endeavors
will be made to produce the one or the other of these effects.

1. CHARACTERISTICS OF EXPLOSIVES.

In order to secure the results of the study we propose it is expedient
to study these in detail. We recall at the outset certain elementary
views concerning the characteristics essential to explosives.

In this regard an explosive is theoretically defined by certain data
the chief of which are its force, /’, its potential, Q@, and its rate of
detonation. The force is represented by the following expression.

— Po Vow:

i Dee

in which p, represents the atmospheric pressure (which is 1.033 kilos
per sq. cm.), V the volume, in liters at 0° C. and 760 millimeters of
pressure, of the gaseous products resulting from the explosion of 1
kilogram of the explosive, and 7’ the absolute temperature of the
explosion.

The potential, @, represents the work corresponding to the in-
definite expansion of the above mass of gas. If / designates the
mechanical equivalent of heat and g, the heat liberated by the ex-
plosion then

Q=EqQ.

The rate of detonation is that of the propagation of the phenome-
non of explosion in traveling through a lead or tin tube filled with
the explosive under consideration.

+It will be otherwise if it be attempted to project the explosive charge by means of
rockets analogous to the old-fashioned war rocket.
PROJECTILES CONTAINING EXPLOSIVES—A. R. 133

Finally, the definition of an explosive from the point of view under
consideration is completed by a knowledge of its aptitude for deto-
nation which is evidenced by its sensitiveness to the blow of a ham-
mer of given mass (20 to 30 kilos) falling from a determined height,
or by its sensitiveness to detonation by a detonator containing a
given weight of mercury fulminate.

The following table gives the values for the force and potential
pertaining to commonly occurring explosives:

F. Q.

Ton meters.

(i) NGunpow der. samerersee= she S2sse cones ot Boao: | esesgeo ba? | 3, 250 270
@)eMercury iulminate: sx. 22 see ee ee ee el ae 5, 020 173
(SN PRAtaairay OT UTEP aL Oss ne soe ere erctseies oaia rae Cietna ae ole Sens ST Sine salon ie wis see 5,100 267
G@rAmmoniumypicratet ee Seo Ue ee AE IG ES ee IR ee | 7, 940 323
Gy PBicnigacid sane ot acs: ta ee eee eth tee ac eel Bn ate ches bel ee | 9,010 250
(G)yCelluloseendecanitrate (eumecotton) 2s... see ooo ne = ok ee ace oe ot oe | 10, 230 457
@ECelialoseroctonitrate (collodion cotton)... s2---- =a --eaaaceesiasenaceen 8, 360 313

(SE Nitroglycerinssie-- 2222 fh 223: Bissooe ene Pee REE ee er See eee eRe Ben tsa | 10, 560 669

It may be said concerning the velocity of detonation that it attains
its Maximum value with crystalline bodies such as picric acid and
nitromannite where it is of the order of 7,000 meters per second and
falls to about 2,500 meters in liquid and plastic substances such as
nitroglycerin and dynamite.

If we designate by A the value of the ratio 6/C where 6 represents
the weight of explosive contained in volume C and « the covolume?
of the mass of gas produced in the explosion (that is to say, the
volume limit occupied by this gas under an infinite pressure), Noble
and Abel have shown that the pressure, P (in kilos per sq. em.),
developed under these conditions on the walls of a receptacle G was
defined by the formula

fA y
Lori San Thos

When the density of loading A becomes equal or superior to 1/z, the
denominator of P becomes zero, and the pressure is infinite. Re-
sistant as the envelope containing the explosive may be, it is then
ruptured and the débris projected.

The interior of a projectile being supposedly filled with the ex-
plosive constituting the charge if its density is greater than 1/ the
preceding conditions are evidently fulfilled.

1 Sarrau has shown that the value of a@ is for all gases very nearly V/1000.

65133°—sm 1917. 10

134 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

Noble and Abel’s formula supposes implicity that the composition
of the gaseous products, and as a consequence the covolume of the
entire mass, remain invariable whatever the pressure is. As a fact
it is not so in most cases because of the operation of the principle of
the displacement of the equilibrium. In virtue of this principle the
increase of the pressure of the mass of gas causes, when the change
is possible, the formation of more and more condensed compounds
and, in consequence, the diminution of the covolume.

Tt follows that the limit value of 1/A can be such that it will always
remain less than « Hence the pressure can not become infinite. This
is the case for guncotton.

The increase in the proportion of the condensed products is, on the
other hand, generally explained by the correlative augmentation of
the quantity of heat disengaged, ¢,, and of the temperature, 7, of
the explosion. The force will then increase with the density of the
charge. This is that which takes place in the case of picric acid.

From the standpoint of variations in the phenomena of detonation
it may be said generally that the ability of an explosive to effect the
rupture of its envelope is above all determined by an elevated value
for its force and for its rate of detonation. Its destructive effect is
chiefly a function of the magnitude of its heat, g, or contra, of its
potential.

2. EFFECTS OF THE DETONATION OF EXPLOSIVES.

This summary of the theoretical views being disposed of we take
up the description of the effects of detonation. We will suppose at
the outset that the explosive is subjected to detonation in free air or
when contained in a feebly resistant envelope. On explosion the
gaseous mass which is produced expands in the direction of least
resistance; that is to say, from below upward. This projection of the
gas is accompanied with a violent aspiration of the layers of air in
the vicinity of the ground, which aspiration is indicated by a brusque
depression of the barometer whose intensity diminishes rapidly as
the distance from the explosion center increases. Under the influence
of this depression the air confined in near-by inclosures tends to es-
cape outward and projects in that direction weakly resistant sides
such as doors, windows, roofs and the like. The effect appears much
as if a charge had been exploded within the inclosure.

Under the action of this movement of masses of air animated with
a high horizontal velocity the layers near the periphery of the gase-
ous mass produced by the explosion, and which are animated with a
vertical movement, acquire at times a most complete vortex motion.
At the same time that this gaseous flow, which is often in a vertical
direction, is set up, the detonation engenders a shock wave whose ve-
PROJECTILES CONTAINING EXPLOSIVES—A. R. 135

locity of propagation is at first much greater than that of sound, but
which rapidly diminishes until it becomes the same as sound. There
is thus produced an interruption of continuity and we know that in
this case the difference in pressure existing at the front of the wave
and the medium in which the latter is propagated may attain to a
very notable value.

Numerous researches have been made on this subject in France and
elsewhere. The more recent have been carried out by the commission
on explosivest which has recognized that the limiting radius, 7, of
dangerous effects by the wave could be represented by the formula

7=KV/C

in which 7 represents a length expressed in meters, (’ the weight of
the charge in kilograms, and A’ a constant dependent on the nature
of the explosive and the degree of security sought. It follows from
this that for different charges the distances at which corresponding
mechanical effects are produced are proportional to the square roots
of the weights of the charges.

The detonation of 100 kilograms of melinite, for example, gave
rise to a shock wave at whose surface there existed a pressure greater
than 10 kilograms per square centimeter for a distance of 7 meters
about the center of explosion. At 10 meters the pressure was between
2 and 3 kilograms, and at 15 meters it had fallen to less than one-half
kilogram. Regarding the velocity of propagation of this wave we
find it to have been 800 meters per second in the vicinity of the center
of explosion, 635 meters at 5 meters farther away, 360 meters at a
distance of 50 meters, and then down to 250 meters per second, which
is the velocity of sound.

It follows from the preceding that a person located at some meters
from the explosive charge will first be struck by the pressure from the
shock wave, which will be followed by a sharp and sudden depression
and movement of the air at high velocity toward the center of the
explosion.

A fortuitous circumstance, recorded by M. Arnoux, has enabled us
quite recently to elucidate the order of magnitude of this depression
and to explain by the same the probable mechanism in numerous cases"
of dead bearing no apparent wounds which have been observed on the
battlefield.

Last January M. Arnoux received from a superior officer at the
front a pocket aneroid barometer which had been put out of service
by the explosion of a German shell at a distance of about three meters
from the instrument. On examination its parts were found intact
but it could not register because the two transmission levers con-

1Memorial des Poudres et Salpétres, 1905-6. Etude des effets 4 distance des explo-
sions. M. Lheure, rapporteur.
136 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

nected with the indicating needle no longer rested on the other lever
but had passed below. It was immediately apparent that this con-
dition could have been caused only by an abnormal dilation of the
aneroid system due to a considerable barometric depression. Under
these circumstances the instrument had registered a pressure much
below the minimum pressure inscribed on its graduated are.

After having put the two levers in place the instrument was placed
under the bell of an air pump and exposed to the vacuum. It was
found that the two levers changed positions when the pressure on the
interior had fallen to 410 millimeters of mercury. It was concluded
that the explosion of the shell produced in its vicinity a static de-
pression of 760—410=350 millimeters of mercury.

From the aerodynamic formulas it appears that the immediate
production of this depression will give birth to a wind having a ve-
locity of 276 meters per second and which will produce a dynamic
pressure of 10,360 kilograms per square meter on a plane surface
normal to the direction of its propagation.

Such a rush of air would overturn and crush to earth persons ex-
posed to it. Those escaping would nevertheless suffer from the
brusque depression, reckoned above, which would follow. Owing to
this the air and carbon dioxide dissolved in the blood will be imme-
diately set free in small bubbles, and, if their diameters are larger
than those of the small arteries, they will form gaseous plugs which
will instantly arrest the circulation of the blood in these arteries
and death will occur before the re-solution in the blood on the res-
toration of the pressure to normal.

The passage of the sound wave at the outset of its formation can
also rupture the eardrum, but its duration is extremely brief as
compared with that of the following depression.

Tn all of the foregoing there has been only the single question of
the mechanical effects due to the passage of the explosive from the
solid to the gaseous state. The occurrences of the war have thrown
light on the pathological rdle which the gases produced or liberated
in detonation have come to play. Without wishing to enter on the
study of projectiles designed for asphyxiation of the enemy we may
remark that most of the nitro explosives employed in charging shell
disengage notable proportions of carbon monoxid. Although the
toxic power of this gas is relatively great, it may be observed here
that it is not freed except when the explosion occurs out of contact
with the air. This will, for example, be the case where a projectile
is buried and exploded in the earth or a shell is exploded in a habi-
tation of small size. In all other cases the carbon monoxid is imme-
diately burned by the oxygen of the air in such manner that in
reality only carbon dioxid is observed. It is known that man can
a

PROJECTILES CONTAINING EXPLOSIVES—A. R. bisi/

continue to live in an atmosphere containing a very large proportion
of this latter gas.

Let us now examine the nature of the phenomena produced by
the rupture of the metallic envelop constituting the body of the shell.

Different cases are distinguished according as to whether the,body
consists of cast iron or of steel. In the first case the metal is, as
it were, pulverized by the explosive. The metallic powder produced
by the explosion is projected with a great velocity; but, as the mass
of the pieces is extremely small, they rapidly lose their velocity;
in fact they have no efficiency after a course of a few meters.

By reducing the ratio of the weight of the charge to that of the
projectile one can, it is true, somewhat improve the fragmentation.
They can not, however, obtain a satisfactory result except by reduc-
ing the weight of the charge to such an extent that the effects of
the blast and the momentum of the fragments become in themselves
insufficient.

In addition to secure the necessary conditions of safety the walls
of the cast-iron shell must be thicker than those of the steel shell,
from which it results that the former is inferior to the latter from
all points of view.

The rupture of the steel envelop is effected from the beginning
in a totally different manner from cast iron. If the body of the
shell is thin, it is torn into strips of relatively light weight.

The destructive effect from the action of the gas on loose soil
manifests itself in the production of a cavity having the form of
an elongated ellipsoid whose longer axis will be perpendicular to
the horizontal projection of the trajectory. The difference in length
of the two axes diminishes, other things being equal, the greater
the depth to which the projectile has penetrated the ground before
its explosion.

When the walls of the projectile are thicker the fragmentation
changes in character and they note the production in place of the
preceding chamfer strips, of fragments of irregular form, the aver-
age weight of which increases with the ratio of the weight of the
projectile to that of its charge. For a given projectile the size of
the pieces furnished by any part of it varies with the thickness of
the walls at that point. The velocity of these pieces naturally varies
inversely as their weight. This may be measured with the wire
screens and the chronographs. The results obtained will be but
average indications and often will be very inexact on account of the
fact that the wires of the screen targets are sometimes broken by the
shock wave before they. can be cut by the fragments. Accepting this
necessary condition it has been observed that the velocity of the
fragments reaches and may surpass 1,200 meters per second when
using a shell with thin walls.
138 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

The fragments of the ogival and base will be thrown with less
velocity but nevertheless they will have a velocity greater than the
residual velocity of the projectile.

el ARRANGEMENTS OF THE EXPLOSIVE PROJECTILE.

The arrangement and proportioning of the parts of the explosive-
containing projectile determine the functions it is to play. It may
be required for the demolition and dispersion of weak defenses
situated close at hand, and then thin-walled projectiles carrying
large charges of explosives would be made use of, and as their re-
sistance to the effects in firing is not great they would be discharged
under low pressures.

In order to augment their range and penetration hey would be
fired at high angles near to or greater than 45°. It is advantageous
to use for this short caliber pieces such as obuses or mortars.

If it is desired to produce destructive effects at great distances,
the weight of the projectile and consequently the caliber will be
increased. In case of unusually great distances, such as 20 kilometers
or more, quite long cannon and high initial velocities must be em-
ployed. These guns are fired under high pressures and it is necessary
to reinforce the walls of the projectiles to an equal caliber and reduce
the interior explosive charge.

The considerations of a general nature relative to shell having been
treated of, it remains to discuss those relative to the choosing of the
explosive and the fixing of the charge.

1. CONDITIONS OF LOADING.

Industrial explosives are generally used in cartridges or sticks
which are placed in bore holes in the interior of the material that is
to be blown up. They are not, therefore, exposed to any violence.

The explosive charge of a shell must, on the contrary, endure the
forces of inertia, translation, and rotation due to accelerations origi-
nating in the chamber of the piece.

For the purpose of showing the magnitude of these forces we will
take as an example the shell of a cannon of 75. This projectile is
subjected during firing to a minimum acceleration of the order of
200,000 meters per second, -Its ratio to g (acceleration due to its
weight) being about 20,000, it results that the particular material
contained in the shell develops at the moment of firing under inertia
an effect directed toward the base of the shell equal to about 20,000
times its weight.

The height of the shell cavity occupied by the charge being on the
average about 20 centimeters, it follows, if we designate the specific
FROJECTILES CONTAINING EXPLOSIVES—A. R. 139

gravity of the explosive by 8, that the pressure in kilograms per
square centimeter exerted by the charge on the base of the projectile
203 20,000
- is equal to ——————— which is 4008. Taking 6 as equal to 1.5, it
1,000
results that the effort tending to crush the column of explosive as the
projectile starts from rest proceeds in increasing progression from
the point toward the base-where in contact with the latter it amounts
to 600 kilograms per square centimeter.

On the other hand, under the influence of the rifling the projectile
acquires a motion of rotation whose maximum velocity at the instant
of leaving the bore is about 300 revolutions per second, and this angu-
lar velocity corresponds to a circumferential velocity of the inside
walls of about 50 meters per second.

These figures show the magnitude of the forces to which the ex-
plosive material of the charge is subjected depending on the duration
of the blow from the cannon. It by this becomes obvious that a
powerful explosive which has been used on a large scale in the mining
industry and in rock work is nevertheless unfit for use in charging
projectiles. However, we now know the precise conditions that an
artillery explosive must satisfy.

Regarding these characteristics, the most important is that the
force and rate of detonation shall be as large as possible. It has
been observed that this last requirement implies the use of crystalline
substances, but it should be stated that the realization of this de-
sideratum is, notwithstanding, secondary, since experience has shown
that a satisfactory detonation can be obtained with plastic substances
if a detonator capable of imparting a sufficiently high velocity is
used.

In order to insure safety in firing, the explosive should be capable
of resisting the effects of inertia which are developed in the chamber
of the piece. If it be a solid—and this is generally the case—it should
be absolutely compact in structure and should adhere strongly to the
walls of the shell.

The meeting of this last condition is necessary in order to prevent
the friction of the charge resulting from a difference in speed of
rotation between the shell and its explosive due to the inertia of the
latter. The compactness of loading tends to prevent compression
and shock on the interior of the explosive mass following the travel
of the projectile through the bore. The adhesion of the explosive to
the walls of the shell can be determined at the outset by following the
method used in loading cartridges in which the explosive, instead of
being placed directly in the cavity in the shell, is first enveloped in
thin sheet -metal or cardboard and, thus surrounded, is introduced
into the chamber of the shell after the walls have been coated with
140 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

a layer of vaseline or paraffin. If the interior of the cartridge is
firmly partitioned off by resistant diaphragms, these will also tend
to protect the charge from the friction due to its inertia to rotation.
The use of a simple cartridge in metal or cardboard appears to be
advisable in all cases, but particularly for base-loading shells of large
capacity.

It is possible to build up the charge by the aid of several separate
cartridges and by this means avoid the difficulties encountered in
seeking to obtain, through fusion, a long column of perfectly homo-
geneous explosive. In all cases this rids ene of the serious incon-
venience which results from the fused explosive running into the
space between the projectile and its base plug. It also prevents dust
from the explosive getting into the threads of the plug or into the
fuse device.

If the explosive be formed by mixing a solid and a liquid, these
will be found evidently the best conditions from the point of view of
safety, since under these circumstances abnormal heating of an
isolated point will be much less likely to occur and all friction of
solid on solid will be avoided. But, on the other hand, another in-
convenience presents itself, viz, J, the acceleration of translation to
which the charge is subjected at the instant the projectile starts on
its travel of the bore. It follows as a result of this acceleration that
the difference between the apparent specific gravities of the solid and
liquid components of the explosive is multiplied by J. There is then
shown a tendency of the explosive to separate into its two compo-
nents, following the axis of the projectile, at the moment of departure
from the gun. In order for such an explosive to be acceptable it is
necessary that the difference in the specific gravities of its compo-
nents shall be as small as possible.

One may theoretically consider the uses of liquid explosives such
as Sprengel’s (dinitrobenzene and nitric acid, F=9949) or one of
the panclastites of Turpin (nitrobenzene and hyponitrous acid;
F=10,860; naphthalene and hyponitrous acid; *=11,700). In this
case the question of safety on departure appears completely assured ;
but the intimate mixing of the components of the mixture will not
be effected unless they are miscible.

2. PRINCIPAL EXPLOSIVES UTILIZED.

As a rule, up to the present, only those solid explosives composed
of nitrated derivatives of the aromatic series have been used as charges
for artillery projectiles.t It is expedient now to study the properties

17The Austrian artillery appears to have tentatively used the mixture of ammonium
nitrate and aluminum known as ammonal, but the sensitiveness to percussion and fric-
tion of explosives having an Al base appears to have led to its discontinuance.
PROJECTILES CONTAINING EXPLOSIVES—A. R. 141

of those bodies that are utilized to-day, which are picric acid, tri-
nitrocresol, trinitrotoluene, trinitronaphthalene, and the mixture of
ammonium nitrate and dinitronaphthalene known as Favier’s explo-
ive. There will be added also some bodies of the same series which
appear susceptible of use, but of which we have no example.

1.. Picrie acid—Picrie acid or trinitrophenol (melinite, lyddite,
schimose) occurs in small yellow crystals which possess a strong
coloring power. It is but shghtly soluble in water at ordinary tem-
perature, but this solubility increases as the temperature is raised.
It is readily soluble in acetone. Melinite is fused at about 122° C.
Tts reactions are acid and it forms with metals (save tin) crystalline
salts of marked color. Speaking generally the picrates are markedly
explosive and they are the more unstable the heavier the metal which
enters into their constitution. Lead picrate is especially dangerous.
Tron picrate is much less so and its explosion in use can not occur
if the explosive is moist. In order to prevent its formation the walls
of the projectiles are so varnished or coated with plating as to pre-
vent their direct contact with the explosive.

It follows that because of the dangerous character of the lead
picrate the tin used with which to coat the walls of the shell should
be extremely pure. The care to be taken in avoiding, in the course
of charging, the production of picrates is of the first importance and
it is not to be overlooked as a factor in deciding against picric acid
in comparison with those which follow it.

Picric acid may be detonated in several ways. That detonation of
it which is called “ complete” is characterized by the production of
dense black fumes holding free carbon in suspension in them. In
the detonation styled “incomplete” the explesion gases have a
greenish-yellow color and at the same time they deposit a layer of
undecomposed explosive on the surrounding objects. The energy
set free in the complete is greater than in the incomplete detonation.

The reactions attending these two methods of detonation are
approximately as follows:

Complete detonation 2C,H,(NO,);0H—-8CO+3C0O,+3H,+3N,+C.
Incomplete detonation 2C,H,(NO,);0H—11C0+CO,+H,0+2H,+3N,.

Tt is evident that in the case of a reaction effected by detonation
in an extremely resistant envelope the consideration of the products
will, in virtue of the displacement of the equilibrium, give prin-
cipally those shown in the first equation.

Admitting there is obtained under an infinite pressure the maxi-
mum condensation represented by the equation

4C,H,(NO,),0H->14C0,+3CH,+7C
142 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

the corresponding potential equals 573™ which is much in excess of
that characterizing the first reaction given above. These reactions
correspond in effect to the following:

Complete detonation. Incomplete detonation.
7, =328 liters. 877 liters.
t=2,832° C. 2,634° C.
F=9,780. 9,682.
d—0.837. 0.877.

Potential=371 ton meters. 323 ton meters.

The velocity of detonation of cores of melinite inclosed in lead or
tin envelopes is about 7,000 meters per second. Dautriche, with very
powerful primers, has obtained a velocity of 7,645 meters per second.

Although the properties of fused picric acid were known before
the time of Turpin, yet it is to this inventor we owe its utilization
as a military explosive. Turpin has devised that form and dis-
position of detonator which has insured its complete detonation.
His process consists essentially in causing the mercury fulminate de-
tonator to act on pulverulent picric acid. The detonation of this
last brings about the detonation of the fused explosive.

We have seen that the strong adhesion of the charge of explosive
to the walls of the projectile is an essential condition to security in
firmg. From this standpoint melinite is above all most satisfactory.
Tt is estimated that more than 20 kilograms per square centimeter of
effort is necessary to effect the separation of a mass of melinite from
the metallic walls to which it has been fused. This adhesion appears
to increase markedly for some days after fusion. It is always
greater than the cohesion of the explosive.

The fusing of the explosive in order to run it into the projectile
is generally effected in a water bath which is a thermosiphon.
Since melinite increases in volume at the moment of solidification,
experience shows that, as a consequence, cavities may be formed in
the interior of the charge of the projectiles. Practice has supplied
suggestions by which this serious defect may be overcome. An
essential precaution consists in preventing the presence of the melin-
ite in the thread of the nose fuse. Its presence on the outside of
the fuse or in its threads may cause a premature explosion. *

Picric acid is obtained by nitrating phenol. To obtain a uniform
product, the crystalline phenol should fuse at 39° C. This sub-
stance is obtained in the distillation, between 150° and 200° C.,
of gas tar. It can be obtained synthetically through the oxidation
of benzene, the series of operations being as follows: The benzene
is treated at first with concentrated sulphuric acid. Milk of lime
is added in excess to neutralize the acid. The solution is then
treated with sodium carbonate to form the sodium-benzene-sulpho-
nate (NaSO,C,H,). This is evaporated to a sirup with addition of
PROJECTILES CONTAINING EXPLOSIVES—A. R. 143

soda and fused, when sodium phenolate is formed which is decom-
posed with sulphuric acid to set the phenol (carbolic acid) free,
which is separated by ether and purified by distillation.

This purified phenol is treated with 66° B. sulphuric acid and
then with 37° B. nitric acid. The picric acid formed is purified
by repeatedly washing it with water and draining.

2. Trinitrotoluene (tolite, trotyl).—This body appears. in the form
of small yellow crystals which fuse about 81°. Though insoluble
in water, it is very soluble in benzene and toluene.

While melinite reacts markedly, acid trinitrotoluene is completely
neutral. It does not therefore act upon the-metals in which it is
put. It is more agreeable than melinite to handle since its dust is
not irritating. It is less sensitive to shock but is also a little less
powerful than picric acid (7=8,680). When fused it adheres
strongly to the walls of thé vessel in which it is contained. But
tolite presents the disadvantage of “piping” markedly at the
moment of solidification. Its rate of detonation is about 10 per
cent less than that of picric acid.

Tolite is usually prepared by trinitrating toluene directly with
a concentrated sulphuric-nitric acid mixture. The reaction begins
at 40° and ends at 105°; it being heated from five to six hours.

Tolite is primed in the same manner as melinite, but it detonates
violently in the open air under the influence of a mercury fulminate
detonator only. It is employed in the manufacture of cordeaux
detonants by inclosing in lead tubes. It is the explosive most com-
monly employed by the Germans in charging their projectiles.

3. Nitrocresols (eresylites or cresylol commercial).—Cresol is a
product of tar distillation which is obtained between 185° and
210°. It is a mixture of three isomers, the proportions of which
are very variable. Cresol is nitrated just as phenol is but the
trinitrocresol only is used, and this is really the trinitrometacresol
which possesses properties analogous to those of picric acid. It
is a yellow substance which in all regards is more disagreeable to
handle than picric acid, for its dust is more irritating and its vapors
more suffocating. Its process of manufacture is similar to that of
picric acid.

As an explosive it is a little less powerful than melinite. This
is easily understood when we recall that it contains a large excess
of carbon and hydrogen and that its combustion is consequently
less complete. Mixed with pure melinite in the proportions of 60
per cent trinitrocresol to 40 per cent picric acid, there is obtained
the explosive known in France as cresylite 60/40. This mixture,
which is obtained by fusion under water, melts at about 85°, but at
65° it is sufficiently plastic to permit of its being compressed into
charges which, on cooling, are compact, amorphous, and very homo-
Ad. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

bet

geneous. Charges are thus obtained which are free from piping. It
is this valuable property which justifies the use of the nitrocresols in
charging projectiles.

In spite of the fact that cresylite 60/40 has less force (8,380)
than picric acid, its rate of detonation (7,485 meters per second) is
practically the same as the latter.

Like the trinitrophenol the trinitrocresol has an acid function.
It forms salts analogous to the picrates and these are explosive.
The ammonium cresylate only is sufficiently insensitive to shock to
permit of its military use. In Austria it has been used in charging
shell under the name of ecrasite and its power, though inferior
to that of melinite or cresylite, is superior to that of dynamite No. 1.

4, Trinitronaphthalene or naphtite (C,,H,(NO,),).—Trinitro-
naphthalene is a clear yellow substance which is only slightly soluble
in water, but is soluble in acetic acid and chloroform. Its sensitive-
ness to shock is very much less than that of melinite but it re-
quires a very powerful detonator with which to effect its detonation.
When ignited it burns, without explosions, with a smoky flame, and
it resists the shock of impact of small-arm projectiles.

It is prepared by nitrating the mononitro or dinitronaphthalenes
as a mixture of three isomeric trinitronaphthalenes which fuse
about 110°.

At present naphtite is but little used as shell charges because of
the difficulty of detonating it as mentioned above. It, however, is
a powerful explosive, which, exploded in a bomb under the density
of loading of A=0.8, gives a pressure of 3,275 kilograms per square
centimeter.

5. Favier explosives and schneiderite—The Favier explosives have
an ammonium nitrate base to which a slightly nitrated hydrocarbon
(which is therefore but slightly explosive) is added. The ammonium
nitrate itself being an explosive which is quite insensitive, the mix-
ture obtained is remarkably insensitive, but its ignition temperature is
relatively quite low. This union of properties explains its employ-
nent in coal mines as a safety explosive. The mixture of ammonium
nitrate 90 per cent with mononitronaphthalene 10 per cent, con-
stitutes schneiderite employed at Creusot for filling shell. It is a
powerful explosive which is characterized by a force of 8,400 units
and a potential of 415 ton meters. Its normal rate of detonation, as
determined by M. Dautriche, was 3,585 meters per second for the
pulverulent explosive.

It has been said above that Favier explosives are but very slightly
sensitive to shock and thus schneiderite has been found to resist the
impact of a projectile or the blow from a very heavy weight and,
when placed on the rail, a cartridge of this substance was not ex-
PROJECTILES CONTAINING EXPLOSIVES—A. R. 145

ploded by the passage of a train. These properties imply the neces-
sity of using a very powerful detonator with which to provoke its
detonation.

6. Benzite (C,H,(NO,),)—Benzite or trinitrobenzene is a white
crystalline body which, when pure, fuses at 121°-122°. Although as
powerful as melinite1 it is very much less sensitive to shock than
the latter. Moreover, it does not attack metais and, when compressed,
it acquires a density of 1.67. Finally its rate of detonation, of the
order of 7,000 meters per second, is equal to that of picric acid.

Trinitrobenzene is an extremely interesting body because of its
various properties. Unfortunately its price is so high as to Hmit
its use. Thus far it has not been employed except to lower the melt-
ing point and increase the plasticity of tolite.

It is prepared by oxidizing trinitroteluene with potassium di-
chromate in sulphuric acid solution by which trinitrobenzoic acid
is formed, and this on treatment with boiling water splits off the
CO, group yielding the trinitrobenzene. The chrome alum formed,
and which remains in the sulphuric acid liquor, is recovered by con-
centration and crystallization and is again converted into the di-
chromate.

7. Nitro derivatives of aniline—Aniline (C,H,NH,) is capable
of furnishing a series of explosives that may be employed in charg-
ing projectiles. We will examine some of the more interesting of
them.

The tetranitraniline appears as a crystalline body very similar
to picric acid. It is prepared by heating the metanitraniline at 80°
with concentrated mixed acids. It is an extremely powerful explo-
sive, very stable and contains 25.6 per cent of nitrogen. Its abso-
lute density, 1.867, is relatively very high. It is partially decom-
posed on heating at a temperature which depends on the manner
in which the increase in temperature in a given time has been effected.
Thus, if the rate of increase is 5° per minute the decomposition be-
gins at 216°-217°. This does not give rise to explosion. While in-
soluble in water at ordinary temperatures, it is very soluble in ace-
tone. It does not attack metals. By reason of this assemblage of
properties tetranitraniline appears to be most advantageous for use.

Another nitro derivative of aniline which is equally interesting
from our standpoint is tetryl. This body which is tetranitromethyl-
aniline (C,H,(NO,),NNO,CH,) contains 24.2 per cent of nitrogen.
More powerful than guncotton or melinite it is less so than tetra-
nitraniline. According to Lieutenant Colonel Koehler its heat of

~

1 According to M. Dautriche, the power of benzite is 5 per cent greater than that of
picric acid,
146 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

formation is—40.8 cals. Hence tetryl is an endothermic compound
and this explains in part the power of this explosive. It is easily
prepared by acting on methylaniline sulphate with mixed acids. It
appears at present to be used only in the manufacture of cordeaux
detonants. Many of the properties it exhibits tend to show it to be
well fitted for use in shell charges. We may note, however, that its
price, as well as that of the preceding explosive, is greater than that
of picric acid.
GOLD AND SILVER DEPOSITS IN NORTH AND SOUTH
AMERICA.1

By WALDEMAR LINDGREN, Boston, Massachusetts.

I. INTRODUCTION.

Ar the time of the discovery of America the Old World had a
scant supply of the precious metals. Both the northern and the
southern parts of the new continent proved wonderfully rich in gold

Arctlo Circle

Equator

Tropic of Capricorn

DISTRIBUTION
OF

GOLD AND SILVER
DEPOSITS
N

1
NORTH AND SOUTH AMERICA SX,

Antarctic Clrole aes 8s Oe Re ee

Longitude 120° West from 60° Greenwich

5 Fig 1.

and silver, and its treasures were eagerly looted; though the looting

has lasted four centuries, the mines of its mountain chains are far

from being exhausted. Even the later discoveries in Australasia and
=)

1 Read at the Second Pan-American Scientific Congress, Washington, District of Colum-
bia, Jan. 8, 1916, and at the Arizona meeting, September, 1916, of the American Insti-
tute of Mining Engineers. Reprinted by permission from transactions of the Institute,

Vol. 55, pp. 883-909 (1917).
147
148 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

eastern Siberia could not rob the Western Hemisphere of its posi-
tion as the greatest gold and silver producing region of the world,
though finally the developments in a narrow and circumscribed area
in South Africa wrested from the Americas their supremacy in the
production of gold.

Nevertheless, the history of the two parts of the great western
continent has been strikingly different. At first the Spaniards ex-
tracted vast treasures of silver from Mexico, Peru, and Bolivia, while
Colombia and some placer deposits in Peru yielded a smaller quan-
tity of gold. A couple of centuries later a stream of gold began to
flow from Brazil, the silver production from the countries mentioned
above continuing strong in the meanwhile. Later on, the yield of
South America diminished, but to offset this there began a wonder-
ful series of discoveries in North America. The gold fields of Cali-
fornia astonished the world; and when the cream of these had been
skimmed off there began a no less amazing development of the cen-
tral cordilleran gold and silver districts, which soon made the United
States the greatest producer of the precious metals. Aided by ever
improving technique, extensive exploration, and a system of rail-
roads, the yield was maintained and increased. Still later followed
the discoveries of the gold fields of the arctic region and silenced
those who had maintained that the zenith in gold production had
passed. Recently the Province of Ontario in eastern Canada rose
unexpectedly with offerings of the richest silver ores the world has
known, and with new and at first doubtfully accepted gold fields.

Chile and Bolivia in the middle of the last century added some
rich silver mines to their long list of mining districts, and later placer
gold began to be extracted in large quantities from the Guianas,
but on the whole no such sensational finds were made in the southern
continent as had marked the recent history of the northern part, and
in many regions the mining of the precious metals fell into a rut,
the production being barely maintained or diminished slowly. The
latest events indicate an awakening, and a stimulus under the influ-
ence of which the production of South America is gradually increas-
ing. Large amounts of silver are extracted from copper ores by
operations on a large scale, and dredges dig up the gold of Colombia
and Tierra del Fuego.

Tt can not be doubted that the total yield of the northern continent
of gold and silver is larger than that of the southern part. <A glance
at the table in the Appendix will show that this difference is strongly
emphasized at the present time. During the last decade the gold
production of North America had a value of $1,338,268,000, while
South America yielded only $125,000,000. For silver, South Amer-
ica statistics are in less satisfactory shape, but the compilation
shows that while in 1913 North America produced this metal to the
GOLD AND SILVER DEPOSITS—LINDGREN. 149

value of $99,476,400, South America’s mines yielded less than one-
tenth of this huge sum. Figure 1 shows the approximate distribution
of the gold and silver deposits of the two continents.

There are no better prospectors in the world than those of some
South American countries, and we may rest assured that a great
percentage of possible discoveries has already been made. Yet no
one who has studied South American mining districts can fail to
see the possibility of a more extended production than at present,
even while realizing the difficulties of climate, aktitude, transporta-
tion, and lack of adequate available capital.

The purpose of this paper is to call attention to the geological
features that govern the distribution and richness of the precious
metal deposits of South America, to compare them with those of
North America, and to classify them according to geological
affiliation.

II. GEOLOGICAL FEATURES.

A slight acquaintance with the geographic features of the two
parts of the American Continent suflices for the realization of their
essential similarity. The two land masses, elongated from north to
south, have a wide eastern part occupied by fertile plains, hilly
country or low mountain ranges, and a narrower western part, with
the rough topography of an almost continuous high mountain chain
closely following the Pacific coast, narrow in South America, broad-
ening in North America. This is one of the great earth features,
and is known as the American Cordillera. In South America it is
also known as the Andes. Considered on a large scale, its build is
simple, though in detail it is diversified by two or more parallel
ranges, by intermontane high plateaus or valleys, and by volcanoes,
many of which are active.

To the geologist this difference of east and west is sharply accen-
tuated, for he knows that the Atlantic side represents the area of
quiet where strong mountain-building forces have rested for millions
of years—since the close of the Paleozoic era—while the leveling
agencies of erosion and sedimentation have been at work. He knows
that the western margin marks the long strip of weakened earth
crust along which tangential stresses have played since early Meso-
zoic times. These stresses culminated in the early Tertiary times,
causing folding and violent thrust faulting, as if an irresistible force
had forced a wrinkle in the earth’s crust eastward. These cordil-
leran disturbances reach their maximum along the inner eastern edge
of the chain. To some degree they still continue, accompanied by
uplifts and depressions. Lava flows have been poured out in great
volume from volcanoes along the Cordilleras, especially on the west-
ern side, and this has continued at least from the early Mesozoic to

65133°—sm 1917—— 11
150 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

the present time. At the same time masses of molten rock have been
forced up from great. depths into the rocks nearer the surface, and
cooled there to granites and diorite porphyries without ever reaching
the surface, though through gradual wearing away of the covering
rocks many such masses are now exposed at the surface.

Almost all primary gold and silver deposits have been formed
during or shortly after epochs of volcanic or intrusive activity.
Secondary deposits are derived by the disintegration and concentra-
tion by water of such primary deposits. They are called placers or
alluvial deposits and are usually cheaply and easily worked.

On the American Continent the primary gold and silver deposits
date from two widely separated ages. The first period is geologi-
cally very ancient and belongs to the pre-Cambrian or early Paleo-
zoic; its deposits are thinly scattered over the entire continental area,
but are at many places covered by later rocks. The second period is
much more recent, and belongs to the late Mesozoic and the Tertiary.
Its numberless deposits were formed during the great igneous activity
which accompanied the building of the Cordilleras and are thus
confined to the western or cordilleran part of the continents in which
area the deposits of the older period are rare because capped by later
sediments or flows.

Placers may be formed from deposits of either period.

1. DEPOSITS OF THE EARLY PERIOD.

Naturally, the deposits of the early period are best observed in the
great eastern expanse of the continents where the early rocks are
often splendidly exposed. Gold is the principal metal and is always
accompanied by quartz gangue. The deposits bear evidence of hav-
ing been formed at considerable depth and high temperatures. While
the majority of these occurrences are poor, yet great richness may be
found in small areas, and the purity and coarseness of the gold is
favorable to the formation of placers, especially in temperate or
warm climates. Wherever continental ice sheets have covered a re-
gion, as in Canada, they have almost invariably ground up and
scattered the placers.

NORTH AMERICA,

In North America deposits of this kind are formed in the southern
Appalachian States, in South Dakota, in Quebec, in Nova Scotia, and
in Ontario. In the latter Province the recently discovered Porcupine
district presents a case of extraordinary richness, the annual pro-
duction being now over $4,000,000. The celebrated Homestake mine
in South Dakota is working on a pre-Cambrian replacement deposit
in form of thick lenses of altered schist with free gold. While con-
taining only about $4 per ton, the ores yield annually over $5,000,000.
GOLD AND SILVER DEPOSITS—-LINDGREN. 151

A number of scattered deposits of this kind are found in the cor-
dilleran region of the United States, but they contribute only small
amounts to the total production. The most important occurrence is
the copper deposit of the United Verde mine in Arizona. Its copper
bullion yields a considerable amount of gold and silver.

Compared to the deposits of the cordilleran or younger period in
North America the yield—both total and annual—is small. Out of
an annual gold production of about $130,000,000, the sum to be
credited tothe old group of deposits is at present (1913) not more
than $10,000,000.

Very little silver is obtained from the gold deposits, but a small
amount comes from the copper deposits of the Lake Superior dis-
tricts. Until the discovery of the Cobalt district in Ontario the pro-
portion of silver in the eastern region to the total output was even
smaller than that of gold; but the native silver yielded by the deposits
of this district (of a type almost unique in America) has changed
this so that the old deposits of the East are now credited with about
800,000 kilograms out of an annual production for North America of
over 5,000,000 kilograms. The great output of the Cobalt district
emphasizes again how highly the precious metals may be concentrated
Pampas formation or by lavas of the same age.

SOUTH AMERICA,

In South America we find extremely similar geological conditions,
but here the older group of deposits yields decidedly more gold than
that furnished by the belt of the Andes. On the other hand, the
silver production of the older deposits is insignificant. A somewhat
more detailed review will perhaps be acceptable. Figure 2 shows the
distribution of the deposits in South America.

Gold deposits of the older type are known from Venezuela, the
three Guianas, Brazil, Uruguay, and Argentina. Except in the
Guianas they do not form continuous belts, but rather a series of
scattered occurrences separated by barren ground or by younger
transgressing fluviatile or marine deposits. South of the latitude of
Buenos Aires the deposits, if existing, are covered by the Tertiary
Pampas formation or by lavas of the same age.

The northeastern region extends 650 miles from the Yuruari Basin
in eastern Venezuela to the Franco-Brazilian border of the Guianas.
The occurrences worked are mostly placers, to the formation of
which the conditions are very favorable; but quartz veins or min-
eralized dikes have also been exploited. The best example of the
veins is furnished by the great Callao mine in Venezuela, which,
during its life of 30 years (1865-1895), is said to have yielded $28,-
000,000 in coarse gold. Active exploitation of the placers and some
veins is going on in the three Guianas at present, the French colony
had ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

yielding the greatest amount. In 1912 the production of this belt
was about $5,000,000 and for the last decade it has not been less than
$4,000,000 in any one year.

The primary veins from which the placers have been derived are
contained in pre-Cambrian schists, diorites, diabases, granites, and
granite porphyries.

The gold belt seems to continue to the southeast beyond the bounda-
ries indicated, for it is reported that gold occurs in the Provinces of

j20°

Trople of Capricorn

DISTRIBUTION
OF
GOLD AND SILVER
DEPOSITS

IN
SOUTH AMERICA

SCALE OF MILES
Q 100 800 500 1000

Para, Maranhao, and Ceara, in Brazil, beyond the delta of the Ama-
zon River. To the south follows a broad, barren interval until we
come to the gold deposits of southern Brazil, in the States of Bahia,
Minas Geraes, Sao Paulo, Parana, and Rio Grande do Sul. Of these
the State of Minas Geraes is by far the most important. Even in the
far western part of Brazil, at Cuyaba in Matto Grosso, occur placers
said to be derived from older deposits similar to those of Minas
Geraes,
GOLD AND SILVER DEPOSITS—LINDGREN. 158

It is almost forgotten at the present time that the placers of south-
ern Brazil yielded heavily in the eighteenth century, particularly
from 1700 to 1775, and this production was particularly welcome at
a time when the gold from the Americas seemed exhausted and the
treasures of the northern Cordilleras were as yet undreamed of.
During the period named, these placers yielded from $1,000,000 to
$2,000,000 annually. The total yield during the eighteenth century
is variously given from $200,000,000 to much higher figures. After
this period the production languished, but a few quartz mines con-
tinued to be operated and a little placer gold was washed. At the
present time Brazil maintains its output of gold at from $2,000,000
to $38,800,000, but this is practically derived from three deep mines
in Minas Geraes, of which the Morro Velho is the most important,
besides having the distinction of being the deepest mine in the world
(vertical depth 6,200 feet).

The deposits are quartz veins of a deep-seated type, allied in
places to pegmatite dikes. They occur in part in Archean schists,
gneisses, and granites, but most of them are found in a thick sedi-
mentary series of schists and quartzite, which is older than the Cam-
brian but overlies the Archean. ‘This series contains no intrusives,
except some pegmatite dikes, and the Brazilian veins are in this re-
spect markedly different from most other pre-Cambrian occurrences.

It is believed that igneous intrusions took place in the rocks under-
lying the pre-Cambrian sediments and that only pegmatitic dikes
and quartz veins reached up into the covering series.?

Similar geological conditions prevail in Rio Grande do Sul, be-
yond which the gold-bearing region continues into Uruguay, where
the most southerly mines are found near Cunapiru. Uruguay yields
annually up to $100,000 in gold.

The most southerly representatives of this older class of gold de-
posits appear in the Sierras of the pampas, for instance, in that ex-
tending from San Luis to Cordova in Argentina. The old crystal-
line schists, granites, and pegmatites here emerge from under the
pampas formation and the Permo-Triassic beds, and contain de-
posits of tungsten, gold, and silver, but the latter two metals are not
present in quantities sufficient for economic mining.

While it is possible that some deposits of this kind occur in the
pre-Cambrian of the Andean region, which is exposed in Colombia
and in the northernmost provinces of Argentina, it is improbable
that they contribute perceptibly to the total production.

To sum up: The old gold deposits yield the total production of
Venezuela, the Guianas, Brazil, and Uruguay and at the present

1E. C. Harder and C. K. Leith: The Geology of Central Minas Geraes, Brazil (Journal
of Geology, vol. xxiii, pp. 841 to 878, 385 to 424 (1915)).
154. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

time contribute to the gold production of South America about
$8,500,000, or not far from the amount extracted from the same class
of deposits in North America.

2. DEPOSITS OF THE LATER PERIODS.

GENERAL FEATURES.

From Cape Horn to Alaska the gold and silver deposits of the
cordilleran belt are formed under similar geological conditions, and
are of the same general geological age. It has already been empha-
sized that they are products of the igneous activity which has ac-
companied the rise of this gigantic mountain chain.

They were formed within several epochs, but all of them lie be-
tween the earliest Cretaceous and the present; that is, they are late
Mesozoic, Cenozoic, or Quaternary in age. They were formed, on
the whole, nearer to the surface than the old deposits of the pre-
Cambrian, or at least under conditions of more moderate tempera-
ture. Many of them, indeed, were formed very close to the present
surface. Following intrusions or lava flows, hot waters loaded with
gases and metals of igneous origin rose toward the surface, and, in
cooler regions of the crust, deposited their load of metals. In part
the gold and silver occur in minute quantities associated with cop-
per and lead minerals, and are recovered from the base bullion.
Much silver is obtained in this manner, but most of the gold is de-
rived from gold quartz deposits, properly speaking, or from placers
caused by the wearing down by erosion of these deposits.

NORTH AMERICA,

Tt is difficult indeed to give in a few paragraphs even an approxi-
mate idea of the gold and silver deposits of the North American
cordillera. The annual yield of the region is enormous, attaining
now $130,000,000 in gold and nearly $100,000,000 in silver.

A great gold-producing belt lies along the Pacific and reaches
from California to Alaska, with local interruptions. These are the
oldest deposits of early Cretaceous age and they have yielded vast °
placer or secondary deposits. The annual production, including
the placers, is not less than $40,000,000. Geologically they are con-
nected with the intrusion of dioritic rocks, an intrusion extending
like a gigantic dike along the Pacific coast mountains.

Throughout the interior part of the cordilleran region are num-
berless smaller intrusions of granitic or dioritic rocks, or of the
porphyries of these rocks, most of them of earliest Tertiary age,
some a little earlier, others a little later, Aureoles of gold and sil-
GOLD AND SILVER DEPOSITS—LINDGREN. 155

ver veins surround these intrusions, and contribute from numerous
centers in the interior cordilleran region to the total production.

Contact-metamorphic deposits, formed where limestone beds have
adjoined the igneous contacts and absorbed the emanations from the
intrusive magma, add their smaller share to the precious metal pro-
duction, but are usually richer in the base metals.

Lastly we have a remarkable type of veins, which occur in lava
flows near volcanic vents, and which were formed near the surface
by hot springs charged with emanations from the molten rocks.
These deposits are often wonderfully rich, both in gold and silver.
They are the “bonanza” deposits proper; the Comstock, Tonopah,
Goldfield, and Cripple Creek are among the more celebrated locali-
ties of such veins; few of them are found north of the Canadian
boundary and none of them along the main Canadian or American
coast, but they are best represented in Nevada, Arizona, Utah, and
Colorado. In the United States they yield not less than $30,000,000
a year.

Going farther south we enter the great mining region of the Mexi-
can plateau. For nearly 400 years an unceasing stream of silver has
been poured out of the mines of Mexico, and at the present time the
country produces annually about 2,000,000 kilograms, or 64,000,000
ounces of that metal.t| Igneous rocks, both flows and intrusions,
abound in Mexico, and practically all of the deposits are of latest
Cretaceous or of Tertiary age, thus on the whole more recent than
any of those of Canada and the United States,

The most celebrated silver mines are of the type formed in or near
volcanic flows near the surface. We need cite only Pachuca, Guana-
juato, and Zacatecas; but there are hundreds of other similar dis-
tricts. Of late the annual gold production has risen sharply to
$20,000,000 or $25,000,000; part of this comes from silver or base
bullion, but the greater part is derived from veins in volcanic rocks
similar to those just described and situated at El Oro, in the State
of Mexico. It should not be overlooked, however, that there are
also in the Cretaceous limestone countless though small intrusive
masses of diorite or porphyries around which auriferous or argentif-
erous veins or contact-metamorphic deposits have formed, and which
contribute their share to the production.

THE ANTILLES.

Evidences of a feeble mineralization are found in Cuba, Haiti,
Porto Rico, and Jamaica and more or less placer gold was obtained,
particularly during the sixteenth century from the first three islands

1 The total production of silver in Mexico is estimated as 122,500 metric tons, a quan-
tity far greater than that yielded by any other country in the world. (See Beyschlag,
Krusch and Vogt (Die Lagerstiitten, vol. ii, p. 69 (Stuttgart, 1912)).
156 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

named. Even now 100 ounces or so are washed annually from the
rivers of Porto Rico and perhaps the same amount from those of
Haiti. The gold seems to be derived from the vicinity of intrusives
such as diorite and serpentine, in part, if not altogether, of post-
Cretaceous age. The gold placers of Cuba were situated in the mid-
dle part of the island, in the Santa Clara and Puerto Principe Prov-
inces. Those of Haiti are said to have been highly productive in
the early days of the Spanish régime.

CENTRAL AMERICA,

The Cordillera does not continue as an unbroken chain from Mex-
ico into Colombia. The structure of Central America is complex,
with short easterly trending ranges of older rocks in Guatemala and
Honduras. Farther south these older rocks are submerged beneath
Tertiary and Recent lavas, in part andesitic. The Isthmus connect-
ing the two Americas is in fact marked by a chain of volcanic cones,
many of which are active.

Though some mineralization is found in the older rocks of pre-
Tertiary age, the valuable deposits are mainly in andesitic or rhyo-
litic rocks, and belong clearly to the class of veins which were formed
near the surface. Some of these yield mainly gold, but in many cases
they are of the well-known type in which geld and silver occur to-
gether without notable amounts of the baser metals. The annual
production of Central America ranges from $1,500,000 to $4,500,000
in gold and from 50,000 to 75,000 kilograms of silver.

Guatemala contributes but little, though there are many prospects
and placers on Motagua River on the Atlantic side.

Honduras has the reputation of great richness. Its placers of
Olancho and Choluteca were worked by the early conquerors. At
present the greatest part of its production comes from the gold-
silver mine of Rosario near Tegucigalpa. The Republic is the largest
silver producer in Central America. Gold to the value of about
$600,000 is produced annually in each of the three States, San Sal-
vador, Nicaragua, and Costa Rica. In Nicaragua rich placers have
been worked in the Prinzapolea and other Caribbean rivers, and the
gold mining district of Pis-pis in the northeastern part of the Re-
public has lately attracted much attention. Costa Rica has had a
considerable production from the placers of Monte Aguacate. The
Abengarez and Montezuma lode mines, on the Pacific side, are now
the chief producers. In San Salvador the production comes largely
from the Butters mines. All of these veins appear to be contained
in andesite or rhyolite.

We find the same condition in Panama, though at present there is
little production from this State. The Espiritu Santo mine at Cana
GOLD AND SILVER DEPOSITS—LINDGREN. 157
near the Colombian boundary has been worked from the seventeenth
to the twentieth century and the deposit is contained in Tertiary
andesite.?

THE SOUTH AMERICAN CORDILLERA.

General features —From Cape Horn to Colombia the South Ameri-
can Cordillera or Andes forms a continuous chain closely following
the coast. Its width ranges from 100 miles near Magellan Strait to
500 miles in the latitude of Bolivia. North of Bolivia it again con-
tracts to a width of about 300 miles. It is thus, considering its
length, a narrow mountain chain, but nevertheless generally made up
of three longitudinal units. In the north they are known as the
eastern, central, and western cordillera or by other local names. In
Peru they are spoken of as the Coast, Sierra, and Montana regions,
the last being the eastern slope of the Andes. In the south there are
locally four subdivisions—the coast range, the western and the east-
ern cordillera, and the pre-Cordilleras or front ranges. Between the
eastern and western range les, in Bolivia, the high plateau or “Alti-
planicie.” In places, as in northern Chile and Bolivia, the western
range itself partakes of the character of a plateau.?

Two ranges stand out by reason of great altitudes, both being rich
in mineral deposits. One is the Sierra Blanca of northern Peru, in
the western cordillera; the other is the Cordillera Real of eastern
Bolivia which includes the high summits of Sorata and Illimani.

Ill. GHOLOGY OF SOUTH AMERICA.
INTRODUCTION,

Tt will be admitted that it is no easy task to condense in a few
pages what is known of the geology of a continent; and for the im-
perfections and omissions in this account I must therefore ask the
indulgence of the reader.

Broadly speaking, the most prominent formations of the Andes are
the Cretaceous sediments, which extend almost without interruption
from northern Colombia to Tierra del Fuego. Of scarcely less im-
portance though smaller in area, are the Tertiary and Recent lava
flows and the intrusive masses of early Tertiary age. No great in-
trusions of Cretaceous age appear to exist in South America, al-
though the volcanic activity in the Jurassic and Cretaceous was in-
tense and yielded heavy masses of lava flows intercalated in these
formations.

1 Malcolm Maclaren (Gold, London, 1908).
?Tsaiah Bowman: Physiography of the Central Andes (American Journal of Science,
4th ser., vol. xxviii, pp. 197 and 373 (1899)).
158 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

As far as known, the pre-Cambrian is only exposed in the north
and on the Argentine side of the Bolivian high plateau.

COLOMBIA AND ECUADOR.

The work of W. Sievers, A. Hettner, A. Stuebel, and Theodore and
W. A. Wolf permits a general view of the geology of these countries.
As already emphasized, the Andes of Colombia, divided into three
chains, do not continue toward the Isthmus, but bend eastward
toward Venezuela. The coast, both in Colombia and Ecuador, is oc-
cupied by Tertiary strata. The Cordilleras consist in general of a
core of crystalline schistose rocks which are generally referred to the
pre-Cambrian. Above these there is a great break in both countries:
The Paleozoic and the early Mesozoic apparently are missing. In-
stead, the Cretaceous overlies the schists and the extensive beds are
divided into the Lower and Upper, the latter being overlain by the
Guaderas beds, probably also Cretaceous. There was no marked
folding during the Cretaceous. Quartz monzonites and allied rocks
are reported from many places; they are older than the Tertiary and
younger than the Upper Cretaceous. Flows of “labradorite porphy-
rite” and tuffs are embedded in the Cretaceous.t

The Cretaceous is unconformably overlain by the Tertiary. Ta-
tites and tuffs represent the volcanic activity of the early Tertiary,
continued by the ejectamenta of a series of recent volcanoes, most
strongly represented in Ecuador.

A sketch map of the general geology of Ecuador, by W. A. Wolf,
shows similar conditions. There is a broad belt of Tertiary beds
along the coast adjoined by a narrow belt of Cretaceous with as-
sociated eruptives. Then follows the volcanic belt, Quito being
placed at its eastern margin, and the main cordillera east of that
city is built of granite and crystalline schists, all probably pre-
Cambrian.

PERU.

Much information on the geology of Peru is contained in the pub-
lication of the Cuerpo de Ingenieros de Minas at Lima, which include
also some of the important writings of Prof. G. Steinmann. The
results refer mainly to the western and central cordillera, and the
geological features of the Montafa slope, clad in tropical vegetation,
are as yet little elucidated.

1). Lehmann: Beitriige zur Petrographie des Gebietes am oberen Rio Magdalena
(Tschermak’s Mineralogische u. Petrographische Mitteilungen, vol. xxx, pp. 283 to 280
(1911) ).

2 Sketch of the Geology of Ecuador (condensed in Mining and Scientific Press, vol. ev,
No. 4 (July 27, 1912)).
GOLD AND SILVER DEPOSITS—LINDGREN. 159

Steinmann’s profiles’ from the Pacific to Rio Marafion show 180
kilometers of Upper and Lower Cretaceous beds with interbedded
volcanics, strongly folded and in part overturned toward the east,
There are in these Cretaceous rocks numerous early Tertiary in-
trusions of granodiorite and porphyries (“Andesitische Tiefenges-
teme”), but few of them are more than 10 kilometers in width. In
the valley of the Marafion, old (“ pre-Devonian”) schists and gran-
ites appear for the first time and probably form the continuation
of the pre-Cambrian of Colombia and Ecuador. The porphyritic
intrusions are extremely numerous, and Steinmann refers to them
as “laccoliths,” though usually they have a vertical attitude, con-
formable to the surrounding sediments. Farther south the gran-
odioritic batholiths become even more abundant, one exposed in the
Rimac River being 50 kilometers in width. They always meta-
morphose the surrounding Cretaceous limestone.

BOLIVIA AND SOUTHERN PERU.

A section across this region, recently described by J. A. Douglas,? is
330 kilometers long, but does not include the whole of the montafia
slope. Here the Andes are divided into the western cordillera, the
Bolivian high plateau or the “Altiplanicie ” and the eastern cordillera
or the Cordillera Real. The latter includes the highest summits, Ili-
mani and Sorata, but contains no volcanoes or large masses of vol-
canic rocks, It is largely built of older Paleozic sediments (Cam-
brian, Ordovician, Silurian, and Devonian), mostly slates and sand-
stones, and these are intruded by masses of granite, diorite, and por-
phyries. The Upper Devonian and the lower Carboniferous are both
absent.

In the Altiplanicie we find the same folded Paleozoics, with trans-
greding Cretaceous in part terrigenous sediments, such as those of
Coro-Coro. The Cretaceous is covered by post-Miocene andesites.

The western Cordillera along this section is essentially a volcanic
range with numerous dormant or extinct volcanoes, and vast accumu-
lations of lavas, including rhyolite, trachyte, and andesite.

Underlying these rocks and beautifully exposed along the Chilean
coast as far north as Arica are Jurassic and Cretaceous strata inter-
bedded with contemporary lavas and intruded by early Tertiary
granular rock. The latter range from quartz monzonite to quartz
diorites, and are accompanied by pegmatite dikes, many of which
carry tourmaline. These intrusives are best exposed in the canyons.

1Gebirgsbildung und Massengesteine in der Kordillere Siidamerikas (Geologische
Rundschau, yol. i, Fas. 1-3, 1910). Ueber gebundene Erzgiinge in der Kordillere
Siidamerikas (International Mining Congress, Diisseldorf, 1910).

2 Section across the Andes in Peru and Bolivia (Quarterly Journal of Science, vol. lxx,
Pt. I, pp. 1 to 53 (1914)).
160 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917,

Douglas regards the intrusive rocks of the eastern cordillera as
post-Devonian and pre-Jurassic in age; but this is apparently not
proved, some authors calling them early Tertiary.

CHILE.

Conditions similar to those just described prevail in Chile. We
find here, however, a coast range of lower elevations, largely made up
of Mesozoic sediments with interbedded volcanics and a main western
range, plateaulike in the north, which is surmounted by a long line
of active volcanoes and often really constitutes the western margin of
the Altiplanicie. The basement. on which the volcanic cones rest is
largely of Mesozoic sediments, more or less abundantly intruded by
granodioritic rocks. South of Concepcion the intrusive granitic
rocks increase in volume and are bordered on the west by metamor-
phosed sediments of doubtful age in Chiloe Island and the Taytao
Peninsula. Quensel’s? researches have shown that a vast body of
quartz dioritic intrusive, similar to the batholith of British Colum-
bia, but of greater length, follows the coast from Puerto Montt down
to the extreme tip of the continent.

On the east side this batholith is almost continuously adjoined by
Mesozoic sediments? in which great flows of “quartz porphyry,”
“porphyrites,” and their tuffs are embedded. These continue for
1,000 miles or more northward along the eastern slopes. The nomen-
clature is open to objection; the rocks are rather rhyolites, andesites,
ete.

Tn this Patagonian region the distinction between the coast, central,
and east Cordillera is less clearly marked. Pre-Cordilleras or front
ranges appear on the east side and are made up of granitic lacco-
lithic intrusions. East of these, again, are found vast table-lands of
basalt and other Tertiary effusives, which slope eastward and in
places reach almost across Patagonia.

Tn southern Patagonia there is only one period of folding, involv-
ing Cretaceous and Tertiary beds, while farther north and indeed
through the whole chain of the Andes there are two periods of fold:
ing, one Jurassic or older, the other late Mesozoic or early Tertiary.

ARGENTINA.

The recent work of Argentine geologists, such as R. Stappenbeck,
H. Keidel, and others, has given us a clear idea of conditions along
the eastern slope of the Andes. This is rarely a simple slope but
usually a succession of ridges, the more easterly of which are called

1 Geologisch-petrographische Studien in der Patagonischen Cordillera (Upsala, 1911).

2 Practically all of the sediments of the region of Magellan Straits and Tierra del
Fuego are considered as belonging to the Mesozoic series. On the west coast the batho-
lithic rocks face the sea.
GOLD AND SILVER DEPOSITS—-LINDGREN. ineal

the pre-Cordilleras. In the extreme north, in Salta and Jujuy
Provinces, really the continuation of the Bolivian Altiplanicie, the
Paleozoic rests, according to Keidel,t with marked discordance on
phyllites and quartzites of probably pre-Cambrian age.

In the eastern main Cordillera the marine Mesozoic (Jurassic and
Cretaceous) rests unconformably on the basement of Paleozoic slates
and includes great masses of flows of “quartz porphyries” and
“ melaphyres,” i. e., rhyolites and basalts.

In the pre-Cordillera of San Juan and Mendoza? there are heavy
continental deposits of upper Carboniferous to Upper Triassic age,
resting on a Paleozoic folded basement. According to I. Bowman
and other geologists these pre-Cordilleras continue northward into
Bolivia and here also consist, in large part, of continental sandstone
deposits. Small areas of porphyries and granite are intruded in
these rocks. The series is gently folded toward the east.

On the eastern slopes of the Andes, sedimentary rocks generally
predominate. Two periods of folding are recognized—an older
Paleozoic and a younger Tertiary movement, the latter being desig-
nated as the properly Andene disturbances. Along the eastern bor-
der the latter is marked by overthrusts and overturned folds.

IV. DISTRIBUTION OF SOUTH AMERICAN DEPOSITS OF GOLD
AND SILVER.

In the following paragraphs a brief summary is given of the dis-
tribution of the precious metal deposits in each of the cordilleran
States of South America.

COLOMBIA,

In Colombia we find the principal gold belt of the Andes, which
under adverse circumstances yields annually a notable production of
$3,000,000 to $4,000,000. ‘This production is probably capable of con-
siderable expansion.* The total yield of that country, as calculated
by Vincente Restrepo, amounts to about $700,000,000; therefore
Colombia takes its place among the great gold-producing regions
of the world.

The deposits are mainly in the western and central ranges, which
do not continue northward into Panama, but bend eastward toward

+Ueber den Bau der Argentinischen Anden (Sitzungsberichte der Kaiserlichen-
K6niglichen Akademie der Wissenschaften (Wien, 1907). Pp. 649-674, Bd. CXVI. AGT. I.).
Die neueren Ergebnisse der Staatlichen geologischen Untersuchungen in Argentinien
(Compte Rendu, 11th session Congrés Géologique International, Stockholm, pp. 1127 to
1141 (1910).).

2R. Stappenbeck: La Pre-Cordillera de San Juan y Mendoza (Anales, Ministerio de
Agricultura, Seccion géologica, Tomo ivy, No. 8 (Buenos Aires). ).

*The latest statistics for 1914 show a very marked increase in the production of
Colombia, the figure being $4,678,600.
162 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

Venezuela. The eastern range, in which the city of Bogota is situ-
ated, appears to be lacking in precious metal deposits.

Heavy gravel deposits containing gold and platinum are - found
along the coast on the Atrato and San Juan Rivers, but the richest
placers, some of which are now being dredged successfully, le along
the drainage trending northward, in the Magdalena, Porce, Cauca,
and Nechi Rivers. These are deposits of great value though difficul-
ties of transportation and climate have interfered with their suc-
cessful exploitation.

The majority of the lode mines are in the departments of Antio-
quia, Cauca, Bolivar, Tolima, and Santander, of which the first two
are the most important.

The deposits are mostly typical quartz veins, often with crystal-
lized native gold, and more or less pyrite, pyrrhotite, arsenopyrite,
chalcopyrite, galena, and blende, occasionally also telurides. They
are closely related to the California type and undoubtedly allied in
their genesis to intrusive rocks. Though the deposits usually occur
in granite and schists of probable pre-Cambrian age, porphyries or
monzonites of much later date (probably early Tertiary) are usually
found close to them. ‘These intrusive rocks have sometimes been de-
scribed as andesites or rhyolites.

Among the deposits there is also another class, the representatives
of which yield gold and silver or silver alone, and which occur in
undoubted flow rocks, such as andesite and rhyolite. Many of them
contain stibnite, tetrahedrite, pyrargyrite, jamesonite, and stephanite
and were formed under materially different conditions and near the
surface. Such mines are those at Marmato and Echandia in Cauca,
and those near Manizales on the boundary of Tolima and Antioquia.

Altogether Colombia must be considered as the most promising
gold-bearing region of South America.

ECUADOR.

Apparently Ecuador is not rich in deposits of precious metals.
The coast is occupied by Cretaceous and Tertiary sediments, the
former including some intrusive rocks. These are adjoined by a zone
of igneous flow rocks of Tertiary or Recent age, surmounted by
volcanic cones, while, according to W. A. Wolf, the best authority
on the subject, the main or eastern cordillera is built of ancient
schists and crystalline rocks.

Almost the whole of the moderate production of a few hundred
thousand dollars comes from the ancient mines at Zaruma near the
Peruvian boundary and 50 miles from the coast. According to J. R.
Finlay, these veins are contained in a fine-grained diorite. In the

1H. W. Nicholas and O. C. Farrington: The Ores of Colombia (Bulletin No. 38, Field
Columbian Museum, 1896).
GOLD AND SILVER DEPOSITS—LINDGREN. 163

Ksmeraldas near the coast and the Colombian boundary there are
placer deposits which have not so far been successfully worked; the
eastern ranges are also said to contain placers which may be derived
from deposits of pre-Cambrian age.

PERU.

The conditions in Peru are very different from those in Colombia.
There are relatively few gold deposits—some veins are being worked,
and a certain amount of placer gold is obtained from the montafa
region of southern Peru. The annual production of gold is rarely
over $500,000; thanks to the careful work of the Cuerpo de Ingenieros
de Minas it is possible to gain an exact idea as to its derivation.
Half of the production comes from the copper of Cerro de Pasco.
One-sixth is derived from placers and one-fourth from gold-quartz
mines proper.

On the other hand, Peru is the leading silver-producing country
in South America, the present annual output being about 9,600,000
ounces or 300,000 kilograms. Of this again more than one-half is
derived from the copper mines of Cerro de Pasco, a small amount
from lead.bullion, and the remainder from silver or gold-silver
deposits.

It is well known that Peru has yielded an enormous amount of
silver. Professor Vogt has estimated 35,000,000 kilograms as the
production from 1533 to 1910. Whether this is accurate or not, it is
certain that Cerro de Pasco has contributed the greater part of the
silver of Peru.

The silver districts are very numerous and generally situated in
the western cordillera in the Departments of Cajamarca, Libertad,
Ancachs, Huanuco, Juin (Cerro de Pasco), Lima, Huancavelica, and
Arequipa. It would seem that the silver production could be con-
siderably increased.

Geologically there is also a great difference from conditions in
Colombia. In Peru and Chile we find along the coast and central
Cordilleras a strong development of Jurassic and particularly Cre-
taceous sediments, folded and in part overturned toward the east.
These Mesozoic sediments contain embedded lava flows of the same
age, which, however, do not appear to be of importance as regards
mineralization.

According to Prof. G. Steinmann, the great majority of Peruvian
deposits are undoubtedly in close genetic connection with numberless
small intrusive masses of “ andesite,” “ dacite,” or “liparite.” These
names are confusing for the rocks are really deep-seated dioritic or

1 Gebirgsbildung und Massengesteine in der Kordillere Siidamerikas (Geologische
Rundschau, Bd, 1, Heft 1-3 (1910)).
164 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

* effusives” or

monzonitic porphyries not at all connected with the
flow rocks.

It is thus clear that practically all of the Peruvian deposits are of
the intermediate type, formed far below the surface. It is doubtful
whether there are in Peru any deposits of the type of the Tonopah,
Comstock, or Pachuca veins.

The great Cerro de Pasco deposits, for instance, occur in or close
to a stock of “dacite” or “biotite andesite,’ which has metamor-
phosed the surrounding Cretaceous sediments. The proper name
would seem to be biotite-diorite porphyry. In their upper levels the
veins carried probably secondary silver ores of wonderful richness,
while in depth they have been found to contain low-grade copper
ores, which now form the basis of a great industrial enterprise.

Besides the smaller bodies of intrusive porphyries, there are also
numerous large intrusive masses or.“ batholiths” of granodioritic
rocks. Some of these form the central parts of the great ranges, and
they may continue for a long distance with a width sometimes reach-
ing 50 miles. Around these also there has been more or less minerali-
zation, but of a more feeble character than attended the intrusion of
the porphyries. The time of intrusion is taken to be early Tertiary.

In the gold-bearing region of southeastern Peru (northeast and
north of Lake Titicaca) we find different conditions. Here the
folded sedimentary rocks are of early Paleozoic age and more or less
intruded by porphyries and granodiorites. This is in the regions of
Carabaya and Sandia, and the Inambari Basin on the montafia
slope. A very widespread, though not intense, mineralization has
taken place; the primary gold deposits are apparently poor but the
placers are widely distributed and numerous; partly successful at-
tempts have been made to mine them. This belt is, in fact, the
northern continuation of the great tin-silver-gold belt of the eastern
range of Bolivia.

BOLIVIA.

Bolivia produces little gold at the present time, but its placers on
the montana side have at times yielded heavily. They le on the
eastern slope of the great range, east of Lake Titicaca, which counts
among its peaks Sorata and Illimani, each over 21,000 feet in eleva-
tion. Celebrated among these were the placers of Tipuani on the
east slopes of Sorata, which have yielded great amounts of gold since
the time of the conquerors. There are many other localities south
of this. Other placers have been worked recently on the San Juan
River near the Argentine boundary. At the present time only two
gold veins are worked, both in the eastern range and said to be of the
GOLD AND SILVER DEPOSITS—LINDGREN. 165

“saddle reef” type inclosed in slates and sandstones.t -The quartz
and free gold are accompanied by pyrrhotite, arsenopyrite, and
pyrite. They thus belong to the intermediate type accompanying
intrusive rocks. The ore is of low grade.

Bolivia points with pride to its production of silver. The yield
from 1553 to 1910 is stated to have been 48,800,000 kilograms, to
which the mines of Potosi are said to have contributed no less than
30,000,000 kilograms, making this district the greatest silver mine the
world has known. Nor is this large production entirely a matter of
the distant past, for it is said that the Compagnie de Huanchaca de
Bolivia sent to the markets of the world from its mines, which lie
to the south of Potosi, silver and lead to the value of $50,000,000
between the years 1873 and 1888. At present Bolivia yields 80,000
_to 150,000 kilograms (2,500,000 to 4,800,000 fine ounces) per annum.
A large part of this comes as a by-product from the tin mines;
another part is derived from the mines near Huanchaca.

The great mineral belt of Bolivia les in the extremely rough chain
which forms the eastern border of the Altiplanicie or high plateaus
of that country, a region of Paleozoic folded slates with intrusive
cores of diorite, granite, and porphyritic intrusions. Voleanoes and
lava flows are generally absent. In this range there has been pro-
duced a widespread mineralization, in part of gold but more char-
acteristically of the peculiar type of Bolivian tin veins first described
by Stelzner, and carrying both silver and tin. All these deposits
extending from the Peruvian boundary almost to the Argentina
border are certainly of the deep-seated type connected with intrusive
rocks. In general, these are porphyritic, and may be designated as
quartz porphyry or granitic porphyry. In the literature they are
frequently referred to as andesite and rhyolite, which usage tends to
produce an erroneous impression. There are probably no deposits
in Bolivia of the type formed near the surface in flow rocks.

Interesting changes are observed in depth. Just as the Cerro de
Pasco silver veins turned into low-grade copper veins in depth, so the
wonderfully rich silver veins of Potosi are shown, as the great moun-
tain is penetrated by deep adits, to have been transformed into
pyritic tin-bearing veins. The silver production from this district
is now of smaller moment than formerly.

CHILE.

Lack of data makes it difficult to review at a distance the
deposits of Chile. The Republic of Chile, so progressive in other

1F. C. Lincoln: Incaoro Mine (Mining and Scientific Press, vol. eviii, No. 14, p. 561
(Apr. 4, 1914)).

65133°—sm 1917

12
166 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

respects, has made little effort to study or keep account of its mineral
deposits.

The narrow strip of coast occupied by the Republic is in few
places more than 150 miles wide, but extends from the eighteenth to
the fifty-sixth degrees of south latitude. From latitude 20° to 36°,
a distance of 1,200 miles, this part of the Pacific slope is mineralized
in a complex and manifold way, while the remaining distance to
Cape Horn contains extremely few gold and silver deposits. This
is surely a remarkable feature.

It is not my purpose to describe the great resources in copper
which have lately been developed in Chile; these deposits as a rule
contain lttle or nothing of the precious metals. Chile has never
yielded very large amounts of gold. At the present time the pro-
duction appears to be diminishing, as may be seen from the following —
table, and does not exceed a few hundred thousand dollars per
annum. ‘The silver production is a little more valuable, but scarcely
reaches 30,000 kilograms (960,000 ounces) per annum. At no time
has the silver reached the figures of Bolivia and Peru, although
the rich deposits of the northern coast during a short period in the
nineteenth century made Chile prominent among silver-producing
countries.

The present moribund condition of the industry certainly appears
strange when we consider the almost continuous chain of mining
districts extending over a distance of 1,200 miles.

The total gold production of Chile from the sixteenth century up
to 1906 is estimated by Herrman? at $212,000,000. or less than a
third of that of Colombia.

The total production of silver is estimated at 6,600,000 kilograms,
only a small part, it will be observed, of the yield of Peru and
Bolivia.

The northern half of Chile shows in general a geological structure
similar to that of the western cordillera of Peru. The Jurassic and
Cretaceous formations are strongly developed with contemporaneous
lava flows of great volume. Into these are intruded granite por-
phyries and diorite porphyries in smaller stocks, as well as many
batholithic masses of granodioritic rocks. Both of these kinds of
intrusions have brought mineral deposits. There are finally heavy
masses of late Tertiary lava flows, and in these we find a few repre-
sentatives of the type of precious metal veins which were formed
near the surface. The great majority of deposits are associated with
intrusive rocks and many of these carry tourmaline with copper
and gold, indicating that they were formed under conditions of high
temperature. It is necessary to read the descriptions critically, for

1a Produccion en Chile de los Metales y Minerales Santiago de Chile (1903). See .
also Malcolm Maclaren (Gold, p. 662 (London, 1890)).
GOLD AND SILVER DEPOSITS—LINDGREN. 167

here, as elsewhere in South American literature, andesite, dacite,
and rhyolite are names often used for intrusive Tertiary rocks, a
survival of the old view that any Tertiary voleanic rock must belong
to one of these rock types.

Some gold-bearing veins are found in rhyolite and allied flow
rocks, for instance, at Guanaco, southeast of Antofagasta, probably
also at Sierra Overa, southeast of Taltal, and at Andacollo, south-
west of Coquimbo. Other veins carrying both silver and gold occur,
according to Moericke,’ in andesite flows, in part tuffaceous, for
instance, at Batuco and Cerro Blanco. According to Moericke all
veins of this type seem to have a tendency to play out at a depth of
a few hundred feet.

Much more numerous are the gold quartz veins connected with
intrusives, such as granites and quartz diorites. We find them at
Canutillo,” north of Taltal, in diorite intrusive in Cretaceous lime-
stone. Others are found associated with tourmaline and copper ores
at Remolinos in Atacama, at Tamaya and La Higuera in Coquimbo,
and at Las Condes in Santiago. Another gold belt extends from
Coquimbo down to Santiago, and to Rancagua and Talca, south of
this city. These quartz veins occur mostly in granite near the con-
tact of schist.

While silver is sometimes associated with gold, the richest silver
mines of Chile, which yielded great amounts of the metal in the
nineteenth century, occur as a rule separate in Mesozoic limestone,
intruded by or interbedded with greenstones of various kinds. They
are characterized by extremely rich ore and antimonial and arsenical
silver minerals; some of them also contain silver amalgam. Their
genesis is doubtful. The gangue is mainly calcite. In depth these
veins also are disappointing and the silver production of Chile is
now only a fraction of what it was when these mines were in
bonanza.

Among these celebrated districts, mainly situated along the coast,
are Huantajaya and Challacollo near Tquique, Chanarcillo (50 miles
south of Copiapo), and finally a group of districts including Ar-
queros and Condoriaco (100 miles south of Copiapo).

The great low-grade copper deposits, such as Braden and Chuqui-
camata, appear to contain very little of the precious metals.

In remarkable contrast to the northern half, so rich in precious
metal deposits, the southern part of the Republic appears to be
amazingly poor in mineral deposits. Scarcely any mines are re-

1W. Moericke: Einige Beobachtungen ueber Chilenische Erzlagerstiitten (Tschermaks
Min. u. Pet. Mitteilungen, vol. xii, pp. 186 to 198 (1891)).

2S. H. Loram: Notes on the Gold District of Canutillo, Chile (Trans., vol. xxxy,
p. 696 (1906)).

3E. D. Pope: Gold Mining in Chile (The Mining Magazine (London), vol. xiii, No. 1,
pp. 33 to 36 (July, 1915)).
168 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

ported from this region except an auriferous vein worked by the
Spaniards near Valdivia, and some auriferous beach sands along the
coast, for instance, on Chiloe Island. Not until we reach the Straits
of Magellan are there any producing deposits. At Punta Arenas
on these straits and on the eastern side of the Andes there are gold-
bearing gravels rich enough to justify dredging. Similar placers
are found on the south side of the straits in Tierra del Fuego. About
1902 a dozen dredges were erected here and for a number of years
these gravels have contributed largely to the gold production of
Chile, yielding annually up to $100,000. The production has de-
creased materially: during the last few years, owing, it is said, to
difficulties in dredging the bowldery deposits.

The difference in mineralization is intimately connected with a
great change in topographical and geological conditions.t. From
latitude 42° down to Cape Horn the cordillera is invaded by the
ocean and by ice. Its westerly margin is cut up into an intricate
system of fjords, and its summits are clad in the armor of immense
ice fields. A huge batholith of granitic and dioritic rocks occupies the
whole western range, probably from Puerto Montt to the tip of the
continent. This constitutes a striking analogue to the batholith of
British Columbia; it is of greatér length and its width in many
places reaches 100 kilometers. On the east side the ice fields often
cover its margins. On the west side the adjoining sedimentary rocks
are largely submerged, but on Wellington and Chiloe Islands these
western sedimentaries begin to appear as metamorphosed schists of
uncertain age. All along the eastern side the batholith is intruded in
Mesozoic (Cretaceous and Jurassic) rocks. Along the eastern edge
of the latter we find again front ranges of granitic laccoliths, such
as Cerro Payne, Cerro Balmaceda, etc., most of them consisting of
granitic rocks. There is little doubt that the gold placers of Punta
Arenas have derived their metal from the mineralization along the
eastern side of the great Chilean batholith. It would be strange if
this batholith would not be accompanied by mineral deposits. That.
no such have been found may in part be accounted for by the ex-
fensive present and former glaciation which would destroy most
placer deposits and to the fact that the region is extremely inhos-
pitable. It would not be surprising if scientific prospecting along
the borders of this batholith should lead to the discovery of gold-
bearing deposits.

ARGENTINA,

The present Argentine production of gold and silver is very small
indeed, and the country has never yielded large amounts of these
metals.

1P,. D. Quensel: Geologisch-petrographische Studien in der Patagonischen Cordillera
(Upsala, 1911).
GOLD AND SILVER DEPOSITS—LINDGREN. 169

The sierras of the pampas, like that extending from San Luis to
Cordova, contain a feeble pre-Cambrian or early Cambrian miner-
alization, referred to above, but these quartz veins appear to be poor
in gold and silver. In the sante vicinity there is also evidence of a
much later development of gold deposits, perhaps connected with
the effusion of Tertiary andesitic lavas, but these veins which have
the character of crushed or sheeted zones are also poor in gold."

The whole eastern slope of the Andes from the Bolivian plateau
to the latitude of Santiago de Chile shows a relatively feeble mineral-
ization. The slopes of the central cordillera and the pre-Cordilleras
are largely composed of sedimentary rocks folded, overturned, and
overthrusted toward the east, with relatively small and inconspicu-
ous areas of igneous rocks,’ which are designated as andesites and
dacites, but which in reality seem to be holocrystalline intrusives.
There are also smaller areas of granular rocks of Tertiary age, which
were designated as “Anden diorite” by Stelzner.

Gold, silver, and copper prospects are rather abundant, but at very
few places has serious work been undertaken. The most important
deposit, located at Famatina, is a copper-bearing vein with sulphar-
senides and antimonides of copper and very little gold and silver.

The eastern slope of the Andes in the northern half of the Argen-
tine Republic is comparable in a way to the eastern Rocky Mountain
chain of Canada. Both show overturned folds and overthrusts
toward the east, with comparatively little of intrusive rocks and

attendant mineralization. The gold-silver-tin belt of the
Bolivian eastern cordillera apparently does not enter the Argentine
territory.

No lode deposits are reported south of Mendoza, except on the
headwaters of Neuquen River, at about the latitude of Concepcion
in Chile, where there is a mining district of gold-bearing quartz veins
in granite of uncertain age. Considerable work has been done on
these, but the expected production does not seem to have been real-
ized. The ore is apparently of low grade. The only other precious
metal deposits reported from the eastern slope of the Andes in
Patagonia are placers of doubtful value on the headwaters of Chu-
but, Rio Gallegos, and other streams. Placers and some lode mines
have been taken up at various places on the Argentine Tierra del
Fuego, but little information is available as to their values.

As observed above, the Mesozoic beds of the Patagonian cordillera
and eastern cordillera are intruded by laccolithic and batholithic
masses of granitic rocks, and careful prospecting might well yield

1H. Gerth: Constitucion géologica de la Provincia de San Luis (Anales Ministerio de
Agricultura, Seccion Geologico, Tomo x, No. 2, 1914).
2R. Stappenbeck: La Pre-Cordillera de San Juan y Mendoza (Ibid., Tomo iv, No. 3).
170 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

favorable results. The glaciation probably would have destroyed
any placers which may have existed in this region, and this guide
for the prospector is, therefore, generally lacking.

V. COMPARISON OF THE TWO CONTINENTS.

Tt has been shown that the pre-Cambrian and early Paleozoic gold
deposits predominate in the eastern part of North and South Amer-
ica; that they are scattered irregularly over a wide territory and do
not form well-defined belts except locally; and that the heavy pro-
duction is very much localized. There is reason to believe that such
deposits occur here and there in the pre-Cambrian rocks of the
cordilleran regions, though they are not easily differentiated from
the later cordilleran period of mineralization. We note the marked
localization of rich deposits in the Black Hills and in the Porcupine,
which may be compared to the strongly auriferous districts of the
Guianas and Minas Geraes. We observe, also, that as far as this
earliest mineralization is concerned, both continents are about equally
rich. No silver deposits of this period, such as are concentrated to
such a remarkable degree at Cobalt, Ontario, are known from South
America.

In the cordilleran region of South America the principal and
almost the only period of mineralization seems to be that of the early
Tertiary, while in North America an important series of deposits
dates from the early Cretaceous. The batholithic and smaller in-
trusions in South America all appear to date from early Tertiary,
and the evidence of close connection between intrusion and minerali-
zation is cumulatively strong and convincing. The same general prin-
ciples of association of the two agencies apply in the two continents.

So far, no definite evidence has been adduced that the great lava
flows of the Jurassic and Cretaceous contain mineral deposits of that
general age. In North America many intrusions—in fact the greatest
batholiths—date from the earliest Cretaceous. No such occurrences
are found in South America.

From northern Mexico to Chile the Cretaceous is by far the most
prominent of the sedimentary formations, while the Carboniferous
limestone, so important for the mineralization of the Cordilleras in
the United States, is entirely lacking.

Another interesting feature is the great scarcity in South America
of Tertiary deposits of gold and silver occurring in late Tertiary
lavas and formed close to the surface. Popularly the majority of
deposits in South America are ascribed to this group, and even the
latest textbooks fall into this error. There are some of these inter-
esting and rich deposits in the southern Provinces of Colombia, but
none have been recorded in Peru and Bolivia. In Chile they re-

GOLD AND SILVER DEPOSITS—LINDGREN. Lil

appear at some places such as Guanaco, Batuco, and Cerro Blanco,
but compared to the deposits of other classes they are rare. This
is remarkable, when we consider the widespread occurrence in Cen-
tral America, Mexico, and the western United States of deposits of
the type of Pachuca, Guanajuato, the Comstock, and Tonopah, all
marked by certain well-defined characteristics.

A large number of deposits in Colombia, Bolivia, and Chile ap-
proach the high-temperature veins by their content of pyrrhotite
and tourmaline.

A curious fact is that, so far, no contact-metamorphic deposits are
described from Peru and Chile, although metamorphism of the
Cretaceous limestone by the granodioritic intrusions is often men-
tioned. In the Cordillera Real of Bolivia they would hardly be
expected, for there the intruded rock is generally a slate or sandstone.

The poverty of the eastern front ranges of the Andes is paralleled
by the lack of precious metal deposits in the eastern or Rocky Moun-
tain Range of Canada.

North America stands out in its richness of placer deposits derived
from veins of the Cretaceous intrusive period. In South America
there is no real counterpart to the great placers of California, Idaho,
Montana, Alaska, and Yukon Territory. |

The placer deposits of the Andes, which were locally rich, were
mostly found on the eastern slopes of the eastern ranges, and were
derived from gold-bearing veins in Paleozoic slates, with intruded
granite porphyries and allied rocks.

Colombia stands out prominently as the most valuable gold-bearing
region of the Andes, from which, in spite of many difficulties, we may
expect a considerably increased production.

The next region is formed by Peru and northern Chile—a region of
very numerous mining districts in which the mineralization is chiefly
in the direction of silver and copper with a few gold-bearing locali-
ties, which, however, do not seem to be able to achieve great pro-
duction. No doubt the silver output could be materially increased,
partciularly where silver occurs with copper. In looking over the
numerous gold-bearing districts of central Chile the student would
like to ascertain the conditions which in so favored a country have
held back the production to such a marked degree.

The third region is formed by the Cordillera Real of Bolivia, with
its rich mineralization of tin, silver, and (subordinately) gold. Un-
doubtedly this region is one of the most promising in South America.

Lastly, a striking contrast is presented between the two tips of the
cordilleran chain. At the north is Alaska, rich in gold, at the south
is the Patagonian cordillera, with its gigantic batholith, so promising
theoretically, so barren in reality, It is barely possible that theory
2 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

may be vindicated and that valuable deposits may be found hereafter
in this vicinity.

It is difficult to avoid the conclusion that the South American Andes
are somewhat less intensely mineralized in precious thetals than the
corresponding chain in the northern continent, and that even progress
and enterprise will be unable to raise its production of gold and silver
to approach the figures attained by North America.

APPENDIX.
Production of gold and silver in the American Continent for 1918.

(From the reports of the Director of the Mint and from tables in Mineral Industry).

[Value of 1 kilogram: Gold, $664.60; silver, $19.]

Gold. Silver.
ilograms. Value. Kilograms.| Value.
South America:
Wienlezuelaeees settee ae ee ca ee ania seine tenis s(ats| sare nectrete sts $444, SOOM Esco came cee emarciteres
BritishiGuianayesey: £2 fo. e- 2a see ieee se se 2,036 15353! 500! | athe as ces ete
Dich Gian ae eee eee eee es ree eee 708 470400 ees ence eels teteaseaene
Mrenchi Giana sesses sescseee ese esaee eee ass 4, 590 30001600) | Saar eect eee [sieevstelotelsiatstews
IB Yea zilere eesceceeecmnes sateen ie siete mistsio se istetareteicts 3, 392 2254, COON oases eae ee sce cee
(Opi bYabEN 7. SRO eo sb be etoodabe dongs ene s Seon Ub seaeesube 120 293900) Satna me tae alee seretclaa tee
Colombia 2) so2 35 ac asinceoet merits cies p Bee een’ 4,471 2, 971, 700 42, 100 $800, 000
i CUad Of secericcaee rae eace Gace Gapaiais patos cies as 612 4065500; | 755 wlcleinte oiaiste'| atelaacre ie ate
PEcue ee ter. See Le Ome Res ae NeL OE I REL EE Ee! 741 492, 300 299,132 | 5, 683, 500
IB olivia sere Sea eee ec in se see eee eee oe 140 26, 600 81, 300 1, 544, 700
(lille Spanoosoans se dere pres see core sepene sapeeres = 11,000 664, 600 230, 178 573, 400
UNSERE a bate aes oh a RS EA emer acne 34 2, 600 1, 097 20, 800
UNO) Ce Sore Sa nso DSTORE BROS enS SE SHSEE= 17,714 | 12,168, 200 453, 807 8, 662, 400
GCentraleAmericat neh Ao1o3. 52 54552 Sees. Fs ge BE 4, 095 2,721, 700 4 66, 427 1, 262, 100
North America:
Canad ake erp esen aaa eee = seis seer eee ae 24,976 | 16, 598, 900 990,500 | 18, 984, 000
United States ssa tee receaa: oor e eer enete cesar 133,741 | 88,884,400 | 2,074,700 | 40,348, 100
iN RSC RASS. che csoneu no snenaropSpee apap coseeecbode 28,969 | 19,308,800 | 52,112,400 | 40, 144, 300
Totaly nore eases BS Re ARCO aS SSO SERA e Boas 187,686 | 124,792,100 | 5,177,600 | 99,476, 400
Grandi totaly pe. vso5 5. ees se Peed See ce 209,495 | 139,682,000 | 5,697,834 | 109, 360, 900

1 Estimated; no exact figures available.

2 Figures of 1912.

3 Probably too low.

4 For 1912: See Report of Director of the Mint for calendar year 1913, p. 247.
6 Fiscal year 1912-13.
GOLD AND SILVER DEPOSITS—LINDGREN. Lae}

Average production of gold in the American Continent for the years 1903-1912.
From the Reports of the Director of the Mint and from the tables in Mineral Industry.)

South America:

WGA ese ee ait ul ol 2 eh ee ee see ee $245, 300
BritisheG Ulan Ay sae eee = ee 1, 338, 820
SO iUtChyGui anny: eee Pe aade ee See ee Ee 578, 650
ren chiGanian ai 26s eee ae a Oe eee te 2, 177, 540
DE EEA T Ls ek ied rat er eis — 2,460, 150
RUC TSU UN Ny ge a oes 66, 650
WOOT eee Ce ee ae ee et Pe 2, 884, 590
TELE (0) ee ri Vs a NS ae ae 271, 480
T2YSv eb ins ha Surat Nak papel Talk ES, el eg AO Sal hs EE sem a 625, O80
Boliviagand’ Chiles ass =s ag he a 612, 770
APS entingy 22226 oe 2, ae Neth ec oes ee A 107, 380
$11, 368, 360
Central “America 2). eure Lees Rei gS Pe Me we eles 2, 535, 680
North America:
CES 5 LT a Ne ae a ee ene eee 12, 179, 510
UMTS CES CAC CS Be ee see se tae ee ete ee ee 90, 789, 060
NGS IK) eee 8 RSS a ee PY ails Sendai! 19, 711, 050
——_——_— 122, 679, 620

GPaH OU COLH ie x22 se ina et Boot Se ah et 136, 583, 660
i 06 Hall
r ee i el Al stot = stint a nes
. ve, icy 4 ices ,
if tae!
i ~

? aps
soe

fon pe aang ae
rp ve) ages

: ¥s
i ae

¥

(eps ee

‘

oe

a -
>a oe

: ay Wrens d Ty ovale inp» Bitte ar fem ao

oat he ss Bl wo
re

Meet - 4,

Pee iit nea» rae iad)

- - ; i Aches sees pels a

beats. meat ees hee” — we al (et)

ive. ; MT) ' }
She. Shs . Hl eee . err - .

) Golishy, yeearvis ne Ne Pann beers vo : vy

ced Sa

(onetee Sah AVE) S OES Pear ‘ir oe

oe eet vr Pi'yeeeall ie eee d ast j t ii,
Myatt: oon di frees porineres rahe) t

1 ee oy A A os fe

rar : ih
inn ™~ ‘ oh = -

ey - on
ee) a series aN

Asha op

we te

X alin,

icieh

on .

at) } pian ‘ uy

}

Bey ya

i yaronrenys
THE COMPOSITION AND STRUCTURE OF METEORITES
COMPARED WITH THAT OF TERRESTRIAL ROCKS:.!

By GerorcE P. MERRILL,
Head Curator of Geology, U. S. National Museum.

(With 9 plates.)

The name “meteorite” is applied to masses of stone and iron
which occasionally find their way to the earth from space. They are
the tangible evidences of the identity of matter in the meteor or
shooting star with that of our sphere. Their fall, if such it can
properly be called, is accompanied by a rush and roar like that
attendant upon the swift flight of any solid body through the atmos-
phere. Almost invariably, also, there is an explosion or series of
explosions giving rise to sounds comparable to the firing of musketry
or heavy cannonading. Falls occurring after sundown are usually
accompanied by a trail of light )
which is due to combustion caused
by the pressure of the atmosphere.
Few accurate illustrations of falls
are available, since the brief time
occupied by the phenomenon gives
little opportunity for photograph
or sketch and too much is left to
the imagination to make them of Fic. 1.—Sronr METEORITE, BATH FuR-
value. Those here given (pl. 1) uae ae
are of falls which took place near Quenggouk in India in 1857
and in Knyahinya in 1866. The meteorite as found, if a stone, pre-
sents almost invariably a thin, glassy, dark colored crust, which is due
to the fusion of the meteorite on its outer surface and the rapid cool-
ing which ensues on its reaching the ground. In many instances, it is
beautifully fluted by this stripping off of the fused material in its
flight through the atmosphere, as shown in the stone which fell near
Bath Furnace, Kentucky, 1903 (fig. 1).

» Although it is estimated that thousands and even millions of these
bodies come into our. atmosphere every day, but few of them reach

1 Adapted from a lecture delivered before the Geological Society of Washington.
175
176 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

the earth in recognizable form, being entirely consumed, while of
those that do survive but a comparatively small number are ever
found. Ward, in his summary of 1904, gave the number of distinct
falls and finds recorded, and of which specimens have actually been
held in human hands, as 815. The total weight of meteoric matter
annually added to our earth, a considerable part of it probably as
mere meteoric dust, has been estimated at 100,000 tons.

Meteorites, as they come to us, are unquestionably fragments. In
many instances, perhaps in most instances, their final breaking up
took place after entering our atmosphere, and to this is due the
explosion which is an almost invariable accompaniment of a meteoric
fall. The smallest recorded meteorite constituting an entire fall is
that of Miihlau in Austria, which weighed 5 grams; the largest is
the monster iron brought by Commander Peary from Cape York,
Greenland, in 1897 and which weighed some 37} tons. Second only
to this is the so-called Bacubirito iron, a large, scalelike mass lying in
Sinaloa, western Mexico, which may perhaps weigh 15 to 20 tons.
Both of these, it will be noted, are irons. The largest known indi-
vidual meteoric stone is that of Knyahinya, Hungary, which weighed
293.5 kilos or 645 pounds.

All meteorites thus far found are unquestionably of igneous origin.
Tt is customary to divide them upon lithological grounds into three
classes which merge into one another, however, by all gradations.
These are: (1) Those of an almost purely metallic nature, composed
mainly of nickel-iron with nickel and iron phosphides and sulphides
which are known as siderites. The Casas Grandes iron, weighing
some 3,407 pounds (pl. 2) is a good example of this type. (2) Those
consisting of a spongy mass of iron inclosing silicate minerals and’
known as stony irons, siderolites, or pallasites, like that of Mount
Vernon, Kentucky (pl. 3). (8) Those which are essentially stony
throughout and known as meteoric stones or aerolites of which that
of Modoc, Kansas (fig. 1, pl. 4), is a good illustration. These classes
T will consider in the order given, but will first refer briefly to the
kinds of elementary matter the meteorites contain and their form
of chemical combination.

Out of the more than 40 elements that have been reported as found
in meteorites, the presence of the following, named in alphabetical
order, may be considered as fairly well established: Aluminum,
argon, calcium, carbon, chlorine, chromium, cobalt, copper, helium,
hydrogen, iridium, iron, magnesium, manganese, nickel, nitrogen,
oxygen, palladium, phosphorus, platinum, potassium, radium, ruth-
enium, silicon, sodium, sulphur, titanium, and vanadium. These
are all constitutents of our own sphere also, though their mode
of combination is in some eases radically different. In the list given
below, the minerals of meteorites are divided into essential and acces-
Smithsonian Report, 1917.—Merrill. PLATE lI.

|. SKETCH OF FALLING METEORITE AT QUENGGOUK, INDIA, IN I[857.
Sitzungsbericht der Kk. Akad. der Wiss. 1862.

2. SKETCH OF FALLING METEORITE AT KNYAHINYA, HUNGARY, IN I866.

Sitzungsbericht der kK. Akad. der Wiss. 1866.
"SATINGON 3LITIONL GNV S3ayuNDI4
N3LLVISNVWGIAA OSNIMOHS AWVS 4O 39IN1G GAHOLA—'G “SI4 ‘OOIXAIN “SHGNVYS5 SvSVO ‘NOY| DIYOSLAIA] JO SSVINI—'| "DIF

G ALWId "H4®W—'ZL6L ‘Hodey uvjuosyzWS
"NOY] OIMIVLSIW JO HHOMLAN VY NI
(4YVQ) SANIAIIO DNIMOHS AWS JO 3911S GaHSsII0d—"Z "SI "AM ‘NONYSA LNNOW ‘aLIsvIqWd—| “DI

‘€ SLW1d "44AWW— ZL6L ‘Hodey uBjuosYyzIWS
Smithsonian Report, 1917.—Merrill. PLATE 4.

Fic. 1.—STONY METEORITE, Mopoc, KANS.

Fic. 2.—POLISHED SLICE OF BASALT SHOWING METALLIC GRANULES IN SILICATE
BASE.
STRUCTURE OF METEORITES—MERRILL. iva!

sory, including under the first term those constituting any essential
part and the presence or absence of which affects them fundamentally ;
while the accessory minerals include those occurring in smaller and
usually inconsequential quantities. The essential minerals then are:
Nickel-iron, olivine, orthorhombic and monoclinic pyroxenes, plagio-
clase feldspar, maskelynite, and iron sulphides.. The accessories are:
Carbon, either amorphous or as graphite and the diamond; chrom-
ite, cohenite, daubreelite; the gases carbon monoxide and dioxide,
hydrogen and nitrogen; lawrencite, magnetite, oldhamite, osbornite,
schreibersite; a calcium phosphate to which the name of merrillite
has been given, and tridymite. In addition there is occasionally a
small amount of undifferentiated glass. Concerning these minerals
a few explanatory remarks seem necessary, since several of the com-
pounds are little or quite unknown among terrestrial rocks.

The metallic iron of meteorites invariably carries nickel and cobalt
in amounts varying from 4 to 20 per cent of the former and 0.5 to 2
per cent of the latter. The nearest approach to this composition in
terrestrial irons is found in the awaruite of New Zealand, which con-
tains 67.63 per cent of nickel and 31.02 per cent of iron, and joseph-
inite of Oregon which carries theoretically 72.42 per cent of nickel
and 27.58 per cent of iron. The Ovifak, Greenland, iron, a constituent
of basalt, carries at the maximum only between 6 and 7 per cent
nickel. Perhaps the most interesting feature on the part of most
meteoric irons is an apparent tendency to separate on crystallizing
into alloys of more or less definite composition which owing to their
varying solubility give rise to well-defined and characteristic mark-
ings known as Widmanstiitten figures when a polished surface is
treated with dilute acid. These alloys were studied by Reichenbach
in 1861, who gave to them the name balkenseisen or kamacite, band-
eisen or taenite and filleisen or plessite, the last named being prob-
ably a mixture of the other two. The following analyses of kamacite
and taenite from the iron of Welland, Canada, were made by Prof.
Davison, of Rochester:

Constituents. | Ramee, Taenite.
Ww |
Per cent. Per cent.
HART = Lite iSeries SA ge ene i ea MCE? Lane yay. 93. 09 74.78
ING Kel een ree enna Rete Set CR RS oo URN mani bnasieisiniete sic Qa <K,ss remaict tle a 6.69 24, 32
COGS O25 Ay) 38 eee cies eee eo ahd a a Or ee 27 TE Sh eae Ere ALE S55. sree -25 33
(CEGINED nace tS EOES,. SSE IES Se ee Cee See eee eae crap Aa miata tase -02 50
100. 05 99. 93

Jt should be stated, however, that analyses made by various
workers are found not to agree at all closely, a fact doubtless due in
large part to the difficulty of separating them perfectly one from
another. The etched slice of the Casas Grandes iron on plate 2, fig. 2
178 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

well shows the characteristic Widmanstitten figures on an octahedral
iron of medium texture. The smaller, more highly magnified section
here reproduced (fig. 2) shows
more-plainly the portions to which
the various names are given.

It has been shown by Berwerth,
of Vienna, and some corroborative
tests made in the laboratory of the
National Museum, that the octa-
hedral structure can be changed by
heating for a more or less pro-
longed period at temperatures far
below that of fusion, and it seems
not improbable that the granular
TOMS) Manta fl GeoMe Gn lvapsd esucuctune characteristic ofjimonslof:

MANSTATTEN FicguRuS oN Casas the ataxite group may, in some

GRANDES IRON. .

cases at least, be of a secondary
nature. It is evident that the full significance of the crystallization
of meteoric irons is to be learned only by synthetic studies such as it
is to be hoped may be undertaken in the laboratories of some of our
more modern institutions.

Associated with the nickel-iron is almost invariably an iron-nickel
phosphide of a somewhat variable formula named “ schreibersite ”
by Haidinger in 1847. A dendritic form of this occurring
in the Arispe, Mexico, iron is
shown in figure 8. Sulphide
of iron, often in the form of
rounded nodules, is also a com-
mon constituent as shown in
the etched section of the Casas
Grandes iron (fig. 2, pl. 2).
This appears to be a monosul-
phide and was named “troilite”
by Haidinger. Meunier, how-
ever, thinks to have shown it
to be pyrrhotite. As the min-
eral is without crystalline
form and rarely pure, there is [=xa@emeeaees
room for doubt in the matter. Fic. 3.—Anisrr, Mexico, 1noN, SHOWING

Carbon is a common con- ae ae
stituent. The appearance of a cubic form of graphite in the
Magura iron was noted by WHaidinger in 1846. Such forms
were suggested by Rose to be pseudomorphs after the diamond,
but no satisfactory evidence was offered in proof. In 1888
Messrs. Jerofeieff and Latschinoff, in studying the carbonaceous
meteorite of Novo-Urei, Russia, found a graphitic mineral having

STRUCTURE OF METEORITES—MERRILL. 179

the hardness and shape of the diamond. In 1889 KE. Weinschenk
separated from the Magura iron a minute quantity of transparent
crystals which were hard enough to scratch ruby, and burned in
oxygen, forming carbonic acid. In 1891 A. E. Foote, in cutting the
Canyon Diablo meteoric iron, found a black, vitreous mineral having
a hardness above that of sapphire, and which he announced to be
diamond. Later, O. W. Huntington, by dissolving a considerable
quantity of this iron, was able to isolate a considerable number of
minute, colorless particles which had not merely the hardness of
diamonds, but the crystal outlines as well. The crystals found by
Huntington were, it should be stated, minute—but about a hundredth
of an inch in diameter. Since Huntington’s work, diamonds have
been separated from the Canyon Diablo and other irons by several
workers.

Under the name of Cliftonite, Fletcher in 1887 described a form of
earbon occurring in minute cubical crystals with dodecahedral and
tetra-kis-hexahedral modifications which he found in the iron
meteorite of Youndegin, West Australia. The crystals were of pure
carbon, easily frangible, with a hardness of 2.5 and specific gravity
of 2.12. After a full consideration of their crystalline form and
physical condition with especial reference to their possible pseudo-
morphous nature, Fletcher concluded that they represented “an allo-
tropic condition of crystallized carbon distinct from both diamond
and graphite,” and gave the name, as above.

Carbon in the form of graphite, both crystalline and amorphous,
is a common constituent of meteorites, particularly the iron-rich
varieties, where it occurs in disseminated scales and nodular masses
often of considerable size. The percentage amount by weight is al-
ways small owing to the relative lightness of the carbon, but in the
Novo-Urei, Orvinio, and some other stones, it is sufficiently abundant
to impart to them a decided dark gray to nearly black color. The
Novo-Urei stone was estimated to contain some 1.26 per cent of
amorphous carbon, and 1 per cent in the form:of diamond.

Cohenite is the name given to a carbide containing some 90 per
cent of iron, 3.5 per cent of nickel and cobalt, and 6.5 per cent of
carbon. Daubreelite is a sulphide of iron and chromite of the
formula, FeS, CrS,, which was isolated, analyzed, and named by
J. Lawrence Smith in 1876. Lawrencite is a green, semisolid ferrous
chloride almost invariably present in meteorites, but which undergoes
such ready oxidation as to shortly disappear on the immediate sur-
face. The mineral is a sore trial to all keepers of meteorite collec-
tions. Oldhamite is the name given by Maskelyne in 1862 to a cal-
cium sulphide found in the meteorite of Busti, India. It occurs
in microscopic proportions in rounded granular forms of a chestnut
brown color. Under atmospheric influences it passes by oxidation
into gypsum. The same investigator gave the name “osbornite” to
180 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

a mineral occurring in small, golden yellow octahedra in this same
meteorite, and judged from partial analysis to be an oxysulphide of
calcium and titanium. Free silica in meteorites is extremely rare.
Maskelyne described what he considered a rhombic form of quartz
as constituting nearly one-third of the siliceous portion of the Brei-
tenbach pallasite. The association of free silica in such proportions
with olivine and native iron is quite unusual.

From what is known regarding terrestrial basic igneous rocks, the
feldspars of meteorites would naturally be assumed to belong to the
more basic varieties, as labradorite and anorthite. Few actual and
complete analyses are available owing to the difficulty of securing a
sufficient quantity of material in a fair degree of purity. Those
given below from the meteorites of Hvittis, Hessle, and Shergotty
show that in at least two instances the feldspar 1s approximately oligo-
clase, a form characteristic of rocks of intermediate acidity, as the
diorites. The third analysis represents a completely isotropic, color-
less mineral forming, together with augite, the essential constituents
of the meteorite of Shergotty, and which is regarded by 'Tschermak,
who described it in 1872, as a re-fused feldspar, near labradorite in
composition. To this he gave the name “maskelynite.” It should be
stated that Groth was inclined to regard it as an independent species
and allied to leucite.

Sources.
Constituents. : ex =
Hvittis. Hessle. | Shergotty.
Silica ssse chs PEO a ee, SO eee eS | 63.5 64. 97 56.3
Alumina: 20s eciee seme! ck be sae ae eee eh ep eyes ma 22.2 22. 06 25.7
gE bY: Pa I rs II IE Ce ee a eh Soh SES pe Rei 4.0 3. OL 11.6
SOD ge eae seen Sone rine aise Sone oko eee ee cle = OR DEE Ear Cre 9.2 9. 96 5.1
Botashy asthe ie eke ee SE es ee ot op Cee ee ep ae eee ae leet lg Leen Sa eae ib 8}
|
100. 00 100. 00 100. 00

The feldspars, 1t may be said as a general statement, are not promi-
nent constituents of meteorites and are limited mainly to those of a
basaltic type. In these they occur in the characteristic, lath-shaped
forms, polysynthetically twinned. In the chondritic types they oc-
cur in the form of sporadic granules, sometimes showing twin strie,
and in the nearly isotropic maskelynite forms occupying the inter- |
spaces of other silicates. Concerning the other silicates present, it
may be said that the olivines, excepting in the barred chrondritic
forms, apparently differ in no essential particulars from those of ter-
restrial rocks. The pyroxenes, however, show interesting pecu-
liarities. We find, as among terrestrial rocks, both orthorhombic
and monoclinic forms, but the first named are the more common.
These occur in colorless to grayish—rarely greenish—forms, and in
STRUCTURE OF METEORITES—MERRILL. 181

several of the known instances prevail to the almost entire exclusion
of other constituents. The more common varieties, as will be noted
from the accompanying table, are enstatite and bronzite, though
hypersthene has been reported in the stone from Shalka. The min-
eral, however, is not as pleochroic as is its terrestrial counterpart.
Many of these have been identified crystallographically, and agree in
form and faces with those of terrestrial rock, although the crystal
outlines and cleavages are, as a rule, very poorly developed.

Analyses of meteoric orthorhombic pyrozxenes.

Locality. SiO». Mgo. FeO. NaeO. K,0O. Cao. Al;O3.
Bishopyvillete ses. e- ease cee - a 59. 97 39. 34 OF40 eee acco s| 2 = vetoe wee | ea acicieane see os ase
IBUsti sa Jco-8.- 0 ee ses caee Lk 58. 44 38. 94 1.18 0. 36 0.33 Ls 68hRis.2e
Bodhrani<- 2/555 fo23se.2555 55. 35 32. 85 Oa 6 Ye A ee ee eer -58 0. 60
Brevienbach) se 25. 3s 4.<5- Sess 56. 05 30. 85 IBLE BT GA Scadcad |bcemoas sod an souecad bocosacens
eh bal ie) Vase ate et eee aes 53. 05 25. 40 a Ga a cere mete ain creiaieioate alae 2.73 3.19
Hivittise§ Ste . 529222 33362: 352 59. 05 37.10 90 68 47 98 1.09
Goslpara: 25:22, .5scecs5 seb 252 59. 92 2228) ea Seenced pOndjccensc Basoccdane Dall ea ceeeee
MOlina ese eee aaenccenet sea et 57.8 39. 22 Pub Bomccnoaad Beeceerase Hesccoace. 2. 07
Shalknteies senees csr aee Sms 55. 55 27.73 16. 53 2M ese ccctce Bile) Beaeaceeac
Ritterserne 4s 7... See ee es 57. 49 25. 78 10. 59 1 Gy) ee 2512 2.08

In addition to these terrestrial forms there are others radically
different. Especially characteristic are eccentric and radiated forms
some of which are shown in the photomicrographs (pls. 8 and 9).

The monoclinic pyroxenes are less abundant than the ortho-
rhombic, and but for inclined extinctions of clinopinacoidal sections
are often difficult to distinguish. The most striking peculiarity of this
form is a decided tendency to polysynthetic twinning. This mani-
fests itself in fine, parallel striations traversing the section and has
caused the mineral on casual inspection to be mistaken for a plagio-
clase feldspar. Most of the analyses given in the literature are of
materials separated from other constituents by the use of acids, but
I have here limited myself to two analyses of such as have been
separated mechanically.

Source.
Constituents.
Te EE

Busti. Shergotty.

SUES (CSO) Hoc - BeSeS Seeds pense cer ods ne cd sceBsesceL Sebeoe ar seecosnesces 55.49 52.34

AMAT CAUGO) See Seca Kae mc one sheets oe Can ane dees clnte acct «nto tea neln.s salcsleinaia=|scsceeneeinaie 525
errieiexid tC NOs) na re Sects face tise ot 2 = aia oh mo elo Pa = ahaa eae m sein miecce = RODE tastes cli aie

NEIEOUSIOXIGD) (HG) eases 3 cee ses Se eee een clinc nase nico a neinc ainiee einielve\iece rial eae se secpne 23.19

MBE TGST a CME O))) Reena ee eae aes oe crepe mainl erate oiele dials Parle wisialale winlelwielmeitielcieleinio = 23.33 14. 29

ime (Ca) oe ease eee peat ek Ee eR be th hE edo See 19.98 10.49
Soday(Na:@ )asimee.: d-erteesoek. «cased. oesiees -- lige hv ordaeeece.- eeseee dass - J55 else dackincsees

99.90 100. 56
Specific pravitye so 4 24 oes: zene. eecdtte clic, fese ed reste «dd gese- wac|-bozessesnbe 3.466

65133°—sm 1917——13
182 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1917.

As will be noted, these show very small amounts of alumina as
compared with pyroxenes found in terrestrial rocks. The mineral
from Busti compares closely with diopside in composition, while that
of Shergotty is more nearly that of hedenbergite.

The form and internal structures of meteoric masses are no less
interesting than their composition. The crystalline structure of the
iron-rich forms I have already referred to. The external form as
they come to earth varies almost indefinitely, as shown in plates 2, 4,
6, and 7. From the almost wholly metallic types there is a some-
what abrupt gradation through the stony irons shown in the sec-
tion of the pallasite from Mount Vernon, Kentucky (pl. 3), to
the stony forms in which iron may be almost wholly lacking. In
the Mount Vernon pallasite the only essential mineral aside from the
metallic compounds is olivine, which appears as rounded blebs rarely,
if ever, with crystal faces, held in a mesh or sponge of iron. Between
the iron and the olivine there is commonly a thin plate of schreiber-
site. This iron contains a considerable quantity of lawrencite, which
exudes from a freshly cut surface as ferruginous drops of moisture,
resulting in some instances in serious disintegrations. Occasional
examples of these stony irons have been found in which the olivines
are so thoroughly shattered as to constitute a breccia with a metallic
cement. Such a one is that from Admire, Kansas, a slab of which is
shown in plate 5. It is clearly shown here that the metallic portions
are of secondary origin and have been introduced subsequent to the
shattering of the olivine. In figure 3 of plate 5 is given a more highly
magnified view of one of the interstitial metallic areas of the same
meteorite. The area is but some three-quarters of an inch in actual
length. The dark, outer portion is mainly olivine, the bright border
the nickel-iron, and the dark interior a spongy mass of iron with
troilite and lawrencite. The acicular forms extending across the dark
area are also of iron. Between the bright border and dark interior
is a thin belt of schreibersite, which, however, does not show in the
figure.

The nearest approximation in structure among terrestrial rocks to
the pallasites is that of the iron-bearing basalts, an example of which
from the Nugsauk Peninsula, Greenland, is shown in figure 2, plate 4,
in which the white portions are of metal and the darker ground of
silicates. The resemblances, on the whole, are quite remote, however.

Passing to the stony meteorites, as those of the Allegan, Michigan,
type (fig. 8, pl. 7), we meet with a class of phenomena which are of
greater interest to the average petrographer. According to their in-
ternal structure and the presence or absence of feldspar as essential
constituents, the stones mostly fall into two general groups—the
basaltic and chondritic. The first mentioned are made up of lath-
shaped plagioclase with augite and olivine or enstatite, as the case
"SNVM “SYIWGY Woes VIN9aYq
"AWYS 3O NOILYOd GADYVINA—'g “Silo SLIMOALSIWW JO S30INS GAHSI1Od—% GNV | ‘SDI

*G ALW1d *[448WI—"ZL6L ‘Hodey uB!UOSYyWS
"NOY| DINOSLAW
"NOH| DINOSLAI ONIY HO NOSONL SAHL—S “S!4 O1gvIG NONVO 4O WHO OILSINSLOVYVHO—'| “SIA

*g AlVid [UAW ZI6L Yodey ueluosyzIWws
Smithsonian Report, 1917.—Merrill. PrATe oie

3.

METEORIC STONES FROM (I) FELIX, ALABAMA; (2) NEW CONCORD, OHIO; (3)
ALLEGAN, MICHIGAN,
Smithsonian Report, 1917.—Merrill.

4. 5.
PHOTOMICROGRAPHS OF STONY METEORITES.

1. Structure simulating that of gabbro or diabase; 2. Structure simulating that of a pyroxenite. 3, 4, 5. Chon-
dritic structures quite unlike those of any terrestrial rocks,
STRUCTURE OF METEORITES—MERRILL, 183

may be. The meteorite of Shergotty, India, is a good illustration of
this type (fig. 1, pl. 8). It is, however, not an abundant form. <A
nearly feldspar-free type closely allied to our terrestrial pyroxenites
is Shown in figure 2, plate 8, which is from a photomicrograph of a
stone which fell at E] Nakhla, Egypt, in 1911.

At least 90 per cent of the stony meteorites belong to the class
called by Rose “chondritic,” from yovéeos, a grain, in allusion to
the rounded and oval bodies or chondrules which are so eminently
characteristic (plates 7 and 8). These chondrules consist at times of
minerals of a single species, though sometimes of a number of species,
which are embedded in a more or less coherent ground of a clastic or
crystalline nature. The chondritic material is usually of olivine or
enstatite, more rarely a monoclinic pyroxene, and more rarely yet
feldspathic, ferruginous or graphitic. Figure 4, plate 8, is from
a photomicrograph of a meteoric stone found near Hendersonville,
North Carolina. The single chondrule, as shown, is of olivine with
a gratelike or barred structure, some of the bars of which, it will be
observed, are curved. It is embedded in a fine, granular ground of
olivine, enstatite, and monoclinic pyroxene.

Other examples of chondritic structure are shown in plate 9. Fig-
ure 1 is a not unusual type of chondrule in which the pyroxenes are
idiomorphic. These porphyritic forms often present the only ap-
preciable amount of pure, glassy base I have thus far observed in
meteorites. Often, however, in place of glass, the interstices of the
phenocrysts are occupied by a fibrous material evidently of the same
mineralogical nature, but not sufficiently individualized to render an
optical determination possible. Figure 2 of the same plate shows an
enstatite chondrule from the meteorite of Coon Butte, Arizona. This
shows a marginal row of independent crystals, but it is to be noted that
between crossed nickels the entire chondrule is resolved optically into
two portions, the angle of distinction between which is some 30°.
Figure 3 from the Elm Creek stone shows a chondrule of enstatite
almost perfectly spherical, a not uncommon feature; others show an
indistinctly radiating, featherlike cluster of enstatite which is al-
most comparable with the frost crystals formed during cold morn-
ings on window panes. In figure 4 from the Parnallee, India, stone,
the secondary nature of the metallic iron is shown in the manner in
which it encompasses and penetrates the mass of the fragmental
chondrule.

To those at all well informed it must have already been made evi-
dent that we have in meteorites some interesting and wide variations
in both composition and structure from those found in terrestrial
rocks. So far as yet discovered, the meteorites contain no elements
unknown to our earth, although the form of combination may
be radically different. Schreibersite, lawrencite, oldhamite, daubree-

VOL auivally ULLIUTLUOILE. DULLLOLVOLDLILG, LAWLUOILULUG) VILLI, MM
