i i A eS, ee ee ey ee |

LoS Ee ee eee eee

“TSR RAURRARA RRS
statetatatetaty

- Soe ee 2. ves 4 Py oe <
: -r ‘ ; os ; a a eee a
if 4 oe . . @ ig
; b ; ; = ; Y ; ‘
See ae a = : . bs iy Ba oo
8 ee: ta ee ee Oe Ps Fn. : =i = : é
4 ~ o + ‘23 k - 5 4 B &
3 7 is ia a i =] - ‘ "A iY >
%, “tae ee hig. Di a eae? = 7¥ Eek ioe ~ i oo bacco ‘3
i. $ ts fs ‘ re ; r a f a ee br
Fe ; . -% ~ z ‘
s r > > 2 Sf .* ~
_, - f° : Ke vee Sage 2
; , F Ses.

. aa aS mo # : * & Da —
. : Ee z “2 ; - vs
‘ 4 rt by
ree te te0t Sak, En i b o 2 aesi bal ae “3 de :
, esse ws 5 <h, pie as > 4 : ¢ \ ’ A r
: : - SAS it ig woe : en ;

hee VS "Ns Z = E ad ‘ - :

; " ss ES ee bana; PK ae eee ge Soir afty ness: 7 aie = a5

x4 ea y i) 5 : ¥ ’ 3 is 5 =

oH oe fae = “are ra = CES ea EP, a y ae. I

t fy os pe ae pos 2 % = Pie Sepak Pe ee
: = i Aw ey, 5 ae =. . } So

y > -
we c
ee oe te

oe, aS

an, |
ANNUAL REPORT
OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF

THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION

SHOWING THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES
AND CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION
FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30

1907

WASHINGTON
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

1908
LiT? ER

FROM THE

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

ACCOMPANYING

The Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Institution for the
year ending June 30, 1907.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, April 24, 1908.
To the Congress of the United States:

In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, I have the honor, in behalf of the Board of Regents,
to submit to Congress the Annual Report of the operations, expendi-
tures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the vear
ending June 30, 1907.

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant.
Cuas. D. Watcort,
Secretary.

Tit
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1907.

SUBJECTS.

1. Proceedings of the Board of Regents for the sessions of Decem-
ber 4, 1906, and January 23 and March 6, 1907.

2. Report of the executive committee, exhibiting the financial
affairs of the Institution, including a statement of the Smithson
fund, and receipts and expenditures for the year ending June 30,
1907.

3. Annual report of the Secretary, giving an account of the opera-
tions and condition of the Institution for the year ending June 30,
1907, with statistics of exchanges, ete.

4. General appendix, comprising a selection of miscellaneous mem-
oirs of interest to collaborators and correspondents of the Institution,
teachers, and others engaged in the promotion of knowledge. These
memoirs relate chiefly to the calendar year 1907.

IV
CONTENTS.

Letter from the Secretary submitting the Annual Report of the Regents to i
WONGTCES en ae Renee Saco iee ee acini a a bane ajc'n son weclecaniajcins = III

General subjecw on the Annual Report: =- 2222 .2-52-22252-42255--5--6--22- IV

Contents OMmuemweporisess sass ce sens cesses shoes see es aes ae eee eke a Vv

IDES COTE ARTES) 5p SSeS ea ea Sa a a vu

Members exrojicio ot the Establishment... 2. .=.<.-2-6--.2:-25---2-2 =.-- Ix

Recentsiof thesmithsonian Institution... <2... .--.5-52--- eens soe 2 == <2 Ix

PROCEEDINGS OF THE BoaRD OF REGENTS:

Meetings of December 4, 1906, January 23, and March 6, 1907....-.-..--- XI

REPORT OF THE EXEcuTIVE CommiIrree for the year ending June 30, 1907:
Condifionsa. the funds July tl. 190%2.o 2. s22 = es 52 eee aes de csases- ss = 5 XXIX
Receipisiand expenditures for the year’ .--+-.=---2. <2. -.2-2-------2-4 58.
Appropmawon for International Hixchanges®...2.2.-42-.-+----.-+---- XXXII

Detatslorexpenditures of, same: <2 -22--52-5-5-24.-4-2225---5 seem | 2H
Appropmanon tor American Hthnology 2. --==--2--..--ss—5<.-+---<-5-< XXXIII
Dealsiemexpenditures Of same. -- see se sees as ease ee sco cones XXXUI
Appropriation for Astrophysical Observatory ..-.-....--..-..--.------ XXXV
Detnitehexpenditures Of Same =i eeseesoects soos s kh wag acess XXXV
Appropriation for International Catalogue of Scientific iia iane Epate gas XXXVI
Deter expenditures Of Sameres-wnees. +s os. eee XXXVI
Appropriation for excavation of Casa Grande... ___..----.-2.----22---- XXXVII
Detaisiot expenditures'of sameness sees. = oooh Lots o le cee eee RXR VI
Appropriations for the National Museum). ~:.-..-2-2222-2-22252-5-s-25 XXXVII
Detais ol ex penaiureston samenasees- soo 5-= <2 Sa5 cece esses XXXVII
Appropriation for the National Zoological Park.....-.--.------------- XLVII
Detais abexpenditures of same a2... . 02" 222.2 2 Sess ef sk XLVI
Gra pice anOly sean ems eli: 2 eee ce i Oe) SE ae eerste Ti
(Ccueraigcumiumany eer es ot eee. Fok See ek Rte tS ee estes Li
Acts AND RESOLUTIONS OF CoNGRESs relative to Smithsonian Institution, ete--- LUI

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

PGR MIGMseMIgme AST MONE Soe nes coe eae amen aoe ee eee ee eeeia fe 1
Phe vista plasm enitees seers Aare Me ae ee als EE ee Ae 1
(Phe zB GardeomnRecemidase ee ee pelo yer ese NTS Se Sa RA 2
Genordlnconsidera tons eres e ee Pyaey cpsctan She Sek AD NA ea ee 3
PCG Haeith aU SFT P21 AYOU A ese aed ee Sek BOR A le ee ee 6
SET Ey EG CCS em men) nts Cla Ge neg, Begs NR) RU OMe SEO ue 8
Pexaploraiions sand mescarches 7 tc win eee ene ee a Dee ee eee 10
imyestigationsander the Hodekins fund! 2 5.422.254.4222 225252228. 13
Smithsonian table at Naples Zoological Station...-.......-------------- 16
V2al] ou YETH SUC HOS). ae a Aa eis a pee ae EE ALN 4g ee eae ee ee Bere a eer 17
AMOS OT DRY Be aoa tet ey nee ee een Mo ean ay ee Re NT eae ge re ee 22
Preservation of archeological BIRER Eee See etn ee Ace Ue ee LT hee ots 23
Wace) Grand earminoin) Anaemia ~Ho0 eq! <1 Aen eine Ske) oh a ee eels 26
Worron WeelenCer) Ameer ge tenn ein Sees | Lt a Sey a Reels die id SUES 27
Expositions, congresses, and celebrations. -.2..-----+---.:---+-++-.6..-.- 27
BITE SG TAL Ease ey NES pe ee a ee ee ly DE OANA See ul eS hat aly 29

Te |Si Ero vee bau LSE ct ess Mam mi a ge bt Sa EL REO Oe 30
New buidm tor National Musenm: 4222.2. 22¢ 2.2 2 222i ooh cheeses 30
Nationa Aen yrOmIAnL ses oes aeons See Ss SSL eee hs Seale 31
vI CONTENTS.

Page.
Parca omamoncal pLano lovee oe ease = ae acinar oa eens o = ee 33
atornational eb Changes eee = ee ames a aie wie alae eles aianina nm ine 34
Ise imei ord loyertenl a ride aOR oe ee sao Bacto be SoCo mee cr eeaec Soe 36
Asirophysicall Observatory... ----=2---2<s-e-- + ose= -2~ se maaan = oe ea 37
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature. ......-.---.-----.---- eee 38
N@GMORSy aoe sbese Cao SSS Seae aso Bbosabe sosecdasas osucceeacesaamasa + <e5 39
iainelevememOonial HACetINe ass eee ee reas ieee lala oie oemine la te ai = See 40
Appendix:
I. Report on the United States National Museum.-.-.......----------- 41
II. Report on the Bureau of American Ethnology.-.-.-..---.-.--------- 48
III. Report on the International Exchanges. .....-......---.---------- 56
DY. Reportion the National’ ZoolopicalsPark:- 32 - <- = 5-2sssn0=22=-55=— 70
V. Report on the Astrophysical Observatory ......-----...-.------=-- 76
Wier Reponton the sidbrany 2222 een eens eee eons ore ees hanine ae eee 81
VII. Report on the International Catalogue of Scientific Literature:
Regional Bureau for the’ United States_-.--.22.---2:----<----5-- 84
Wi Repoction the bublicaiions!. - =. a= aem eee ae ais) - ncn ee 87
GENERAL APPENDIX.
The Steam Turbine on Land and at Sea, by Charles A. Parsons..-...-.------ 99
The Development of Mechanical Composition in Printing, by A. Turpain.... 113
Some Facts and Problems Bearing on Electric Trunk Line-Operation, by
Iie ees) O10 a SS occ Ses Seen es ae Se ee Rts Cr ae eee naa eee soe 131
Recent Contributions to Electric Wave Telegraphy, by J. A. Fleming...---- 163
On the Properties and Natures of Various Electric Radiations, by W. H.
STAG Oe erate erate ee ate estes is ct Sie hs eee ey oja a  e 195
Progress in Electro-Metallurgy, by J. B. C. Kershaw-.......-.-.- an ree 215
Recent Progress in Color Photography, by T. W. Smillie.................-- 23
The Structure of Lippmann Heliochromes, by S. R. Cajal.-........-.-....-- 239

Bronze in South America before the Arrival of Europeans, by A. de Mortillet. 261
Some Opportunities for Astronomical Work with Inexpensive Apparatus, by

(Gecontembnnibl ale eras as ot ey ete eats So om See ees Sau eae 267
The Progress of Science as Illustrated by the Development of Meteorology,

yale ve ANCA DDOse anaes 2 hehe oa, tao ee ee ieee ee As 287
Geology of the Inner Earth; Igneous Ores, by J. W. Gregory........------ 311
Mae Saltonwca, Dyeb eke NeWellos (52 Sota ciae ae chk FOE ae a eee ee eee 331
inland Waterways, byaGeorge G. Chisholm )-- 2) 25.2 sc22sc2cc6. se. =e 347
The Present Position of Paleozoic Botany, by D. H. Scott.........-.....-.-- 371
The Zoological Gardens and Establishments of Great Britain, Belgium, and

the Netherlands; by Gustave iboisels. 0-222. se eee ccesint coke cee oe 407
Systematic Zoology; its Progress and Purpose, by Theodore Gill........---- 449
The Genealogical History of the Marine Mammals, by O. Abel.......--.---- 473
The Mediterranean Peoples, by Theobald Fischer .................-..------ 497
Pe istinicnrapan,) DV Ob, BaelZ. snc cena came ae sue semis eo ctee e hs e 523
The Origin of Egyptian Civilization, by Edouard Naville..................- 549
ire einer Islon spy udenryballOur. ¢ . os). sane ance fees aos orcs cee 565
The Origin of the Canaanite Alphabet, by Franz Preetorius..............__.- 595
Three Aramaic Papyri from Elephantine, by Eduard Sachau.._..-......__.. 605
ie eromem or Color Vision by J. IM. Dane. 22.22. #2325. - oe. ee 613
Immunity in Tuberculosis, by Simon Flexner...............-..--......-.-- 627
The Air of the New York Subway, by George A. Soper .............-.------ 647
Marcelin Berthelot, by Camille Matignon................---...:--.-----c-- 669

Linnzan Memorial Address, by Edward L. Greene............--.--.------- 685
Tuer STEAM
Plate I.

II.

III.

TV.
V.

Vie
Vi£

VILE

Bist OM PATHS:

TURBINE (Parsons):
Section through compound steam turbine.........-------------
Steel file, showing destructive action of steam......------------
Three-phase turbo-alternator
Shaft of large marine turbine
Diagram: Increase in size of marine turbines
Diagram: Earning power of a turbine and three other steamers. -
Diagram: Steps in marine turbine development ---.---.---.----
Turbo-blowing engine. Section

MEcHANICAL ComposITION IN Printine (Turpain):

Plate I.
ie
Ill.

Machines for composing’ aicast line. -. 522.5225 -2-2--55--5-2:
ihe rototypeand the monotype: . 2. .-+ sss2252s5s0> 5025-555.
The electrotypograph, 1907 model

Evecrric TRUNK-LINE OPERATION (Sprague):

Plate I.
Il.

Ill.
IV.

We

Vike

VII.

Early Sprague, Duncan, and Hutchinson locomotive. New York

Central direct-current locomotive
Ganz polyphase locomotive. New Haven alternating-current

NOEOMIGULVE =o ee ee ae tea en enes Oe cL esd Bowen
New Haven double overhead catenary trolley........----------
Oerlikon trolley. New York Central third-rail system
Protected third rail in sleet. Same in snow
Armature of bipolar direct-current motor. Motor and axle unit

of alternating-current locomotive
New York Central multiple-unit train

see w ewe ee wee eee ee ee ee eee ee ee

ProGress IN Evectro-Merauuurey (Kershaw):

Plate I.
IDE

10 E;
Le
Ne
VI.
VII.
VILE:

1B.
Df

Power plant, La Praz Works, Société Metallurgique Francaise. - -
Vat room, American Metals Refining Company. A carborun-

dum furnace
Furnace room, the Carborundum Company
Furnace room, International Acheson Graphite Company. ------
Kjellin electric furnace
Near view of Kjellin furnace.
Pouring a Stassano revolving furnace
Tank house and melting room, Consolidated Mining and Smelt-

ing Company. Electrolytic lead refinery, same company
Double electric furnace, Keller, Leleux et Cie---.---.----------
Héroult electric tipping furnace

Progress IN Coton PHotroGRapHy (Smillie):

Plate I. Specimen of a peacock, from a photochrome

INEXPENSIVE ASTRONOMICAL APPARATUS (Hale):
Plate I. Star cluster Messier 11 and part of Milky Way
III. Coelostat and mirror of Snow telescope
IV. Concave mirror of Snow telescope
VY. Simple wooden spectrograph and part of modern spectrograph on
Mois WalsOnee sense eee sae eas oe ee at aa ee a amet a =

graph
THE Satron Sra (Newell):
Plate devia of Imperial Walley.252 52-2555 .ce~ cesses se aoes-ndens's
II. Headworks of irrigating sytem of Imperial Valley
III. Agricultural land destroyed by flood water......---------------
Vill LIST OF PLATES.
Tue Sautron SeaA—Continued. Page.
Plate IV. Colorado River waters cutting channel and falls. Looking over
dikesumiCalexicorandyWexicalaees sas esses ae cies eee a= 337
WW. Clrararaell Ghia Wondered WierateEey ooo secsoags cee eco nooo oon eEoSE 338
WE Channel cut*by theiNew Rivers. 5---cs-—e25-5-6-ce<- > -- c= 339
VII. Break in west bank of Colorado River, August 26, 1906 ....----- 342
VIII. Break in west bank of Colorado River, November 13, 1906 ..-.-.-- 343
IX. The Salton Sea, from Salton Railroad Station. ....-------------- 344
Present Position oF PatEozorc Borany (Scott):
Plate I. Transverse section of stem of Lyginodendron Oldhamium. Longi-
tudinal sectiomotiseedvorsames-~ sences 5-22 cscs secs ees 394
Il. Vegetative frond of Neuropteris heterophylla. Stem of Medullosa
ONQUCONS hoes sae nee ees eee wee erie am = Selenite ian ae sare eat 398
ZooLoGicAL GARDENS OF GREAT Briratn, Beteium, AND THE NETHERLANDS
(Loisel):
Plate I. London Zoological Garden. Monkey House. Interior, house
for anthropoid apes. Open-air lion cage..-.-.-.------------- 410
Ii. Exterior cages, lion house, Bristol Zoological Garden. Aquatic
pondiat Woburn Abbey. 2.c2s2 soseee- case es settee - Jaco oe 416
Il. Reptile cages, Manchester Zoological Garden........----------- 418
TV. Emus and kangaroos in Tring Castle park. Interior, lion house,
Arbonne ee eS are lege oe eed ee SS 2 428
Wi, IBS Ort Ikon Ivo, IDM 9655 ooo oocseosconecosboDSSces 430
Vis Exterior of monkey house, Rotterdam’ s2--2--4s-22s4552-----o-- 436
VII. Interior of new monkey house, Rotterdam. .-...--....-------.- 438
VIII. Central hall in Reptile house, Rotterdam ..........-.---..-.-.- 440
Systematic Zooitoey (Gill) :
Plato Hema OMNUR AV ae ae.eetae cos Sn oeee nace Soe See} MORE ements o cc aiee 449
ies C@aroltistiinmn seu ener os. soe ee ee eee a ck amas 450
ies GeorgesiCuvier sae so ste ok eee es emi AS Ss ES 458
IVeekvonmidesD lam ville meme ons soe Seok Seem eeen. s oeeee 460
We bsorrepbabrelller ete scree as ts < paccm mace core aera cy aot ee 461
WiteRichardiOwentsse ee ase, 2. ceheasien Wate ok heir Sine ae 462
Welles Solem sh Viti ert eerctsr aeacce tn raya eee n/a ayass em See x Son ag 463
AVERT LOUIS AD ASEIZ jst eee eo ahs Se i eh i es 464
TOXONSEITICUyIACCK EY oS ont occ ts ne WN ey Moai ae eke eo Aes 465
Reman livOn DAOrher se cmie seas nee ace ees ase Sen eee 466
XI. Jean Lamarck..--.. BES NINA ESTOS ROC EE EOE IOO Be See. oF 467
RCE C hanleseMamewililes esos oe ace cc ecte e Reeth oe cee Wey 468
ee Nhecdor Scm wan serch ect ae ace Suna tien et teat Cee g 469
Pelee homas Henry Humleyser seo senior ace Soe wate maces 470
Prenistoric JAPAN (Baelz):
Plate IT. Neolithic Japanese clay figures. .......-.<----2---<-cace-oceue- 530
II. Karly Japanese swords. Iron age objects...............--.---- 540
THE Fire Piston (Balfour):
Plate I. Distribution of oriental fire piston ...............-.....-.-.---- 565
Il. Fire pistons from Europe and India.....................---.... 568
LTP Sire pistons irom! farther Wndia ..- sae. od eee. ee 572
IV. Fire pistons from India, Sumatra, and Sarawak ..._...........- 576
V. Fire pistons from Borneo, Java, Flores, and the Philippines. ---- 582
Aramaic Papyrit From ELePHAntrine (Sachau):
Plates I and II. Aramaic papyri, Document I .......................... 606
Makrcerin Brerruecor (Matignon):
Histon: Marcelin: Berthelotasess.8 20222 kee 2 | 669
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

MEMBERS EX OFFICIO OF THE “ESTABLISHMENT.”

June 30, 1907.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT, President of the United States.
CHARLES W. FatrBanks, Vice-President of the United States.
MELVILLE W. Futter, Chief Justice of the United States.
ELinvu Root, Secretary of State.

GEORGE 5B. Cortetyou, Secretary of the Treasury.
WILLIAM H. Tart, Secretary of War.

CHARLES J. BoNAPARTE, Attorney-General.

GEORGE voN L. Mryer, Postmaster-General.

Victor. H. Mrercarr, Secretary of the Navy.

JAMES R. GARFIELD, Secretary of the Interior.

JAMES WILSON, Secretary of Agriculture.

Oscar S. Straus, Secretary of Commerce and Labor.

REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

By the organizing act approved August 10, 1846 (Revised Stat-
utes, Title LX XTII, section 5580), “ The business of the Institution
shall be conducted at the city of Washington by a Board of Regents,
named the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, to be composed of
the Vice-President, the Chief Justice of the United States, three mem-
bers of the Senate, and three members of the House of Representa-
tives, together with six other persons other than Members of Congress,
two of whom shall be resident in the city of Washington, and the other
four shall be inhabitants of some State, but no two of the same State.”

REGENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1907.
Term expires.
The Chief Justice of the United States:
MELVILLE W. FULLER, elected Chancellor and President
of the Board January 9, 1889.
The Vice-President of the United States:
CHARLES W. FAIRBANKS, ex officio March 4, 1905____---- Mar. 3, 1909

Ix
x REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

United States Senators:
SHELBY M. CULLOM (appointed March 24, T885; March 28,
1889; December 18, 1895; March 7, 1901, and March 4,
TICSY ON) Mar.
HENRY CABOT LODGE (appointed December 7, 1905) _-~--- Mar.
AUGUSTUS O. BACON (appointed December 7, 1905, and

Where 2b IRS) a Mar.

Members of the House of Representatives :

JOHN DALZELL (appointed June 12, 1906) —--------___—___ Dee. 25, 1907
JAMES R. MANN (appointed December 3, 1906) -----------~ Dec. 25, 1907
WILLIAM M. HOWARD (appointed December 13, 1905) —-_-~ Dee. 25, 1907

Citizens of a State:
JAMES B. ANGELL, of Michigan (appointed January 19,
1887; January 9, 18938; January 24, 1899, and January
Pc} meme (Ey) ee ee I, a Re re he ae ee ee Jan.
ANDREW D. WHITE, of New York (appointed February 15,

1888; March 19, 1894; June 2, 1900, and April 23, 1906)___ Apr.

RICHARD OLNEY, of Massachusetts (appointed January 24,

LOOOS am dee bru aisye snl OG) ee ae eee Feb.
GEORGE GRAY, of Delaware (appointed January 14, 1901,
LING NTNU ATs yar OO Gp) es i ee es Ae Jan.

Citizens of Washington City:
JOHN B. HENDERSON (appointed January 26, 1892; Jan-

Ua, 225 Ise}, avavel dine yay 27, ahs) Jan.
ALEXANDER GRAHAM BELL (appointed January 24, 1898,
ANG IANUALY SS (atl O 04) pee ae eee eee Jan.

Executive Committee of the Board of Regents.

JoHN B. HENDERSON, Chairman.

23,1911
23, 1912
23, 1912

21, 1918

27, 1910

27, 1910

ALEXANDER GRAHAM BELL. JOHN DALZELL.

OFFICERS, OF THE INSTITUTION.

CHARLES ID. WaALcort, Secretary.

RIcHARD RaTHBUN, Assistant Secretary, in Charge of U. S. National Museum.

Cyrus ADLER, Assistant Secretary, in Charge of Library and Exchanges.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS FOR THE YEAR
ENDING JUNE 30, 1907.

At a meeting held March 12, 1903, the Board of Regents adopted
the following resolution :

Resolved, That, in addition to the prescribed meeting held on the fourth
Wednesday in January, regular meetings of the Board shall be held on the
Tuesday after the first Monday in December and on the 6th day of March, un-
less that date falls on Sunday, when the following Monday shall be substi-
tuted.

In accordance with this resolution, the Board met at 10 o’clock a. m.
on December 4, 1906, and on January 23 and March 6, 1907.

REGULAR MEETING OF DECEMBER 4, 1906.

Present: Mr. Chief Justice Fuller (Chancellor) in the chair; the
Vice-President, the Hon. Charles W. Fairbanks, Senator S. M. Cul-
lom, Senator Henry Cabot Lodge, Senator A. O. Bacon, Representa-
tive John Dalzell, Representative James R. Mann, Representative
W. M. Howard, Dr. Andrew D. White, the Hon. John B. Henderson,
Dr. A. Graham Bell, the Hon. Richard Olney, the Hon. George Gray,
and the Acting Secretary, Mr. Richard Rathbun.

DEATH OF REPRESENTATIVE ROBERT ADAMS, JR.

The Chancellor announced the death on June 1, 1906, at Wash-
ington, D. C., of Representative Robert Adams, jr., a Regent of the
Institution, and the following resolution, offered by Doctor Bell, was
adopted by a rising vote:

The Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution have learned with pro-
found regret of the death on June 1, 1906, of the Hon. Robert Adams, jr., for
ten years a member of the Board, and here place upon record an expression of
their deep sorrow at his loss, and of appreciation of his earnest interest in the
welfare of the Institution and of his labors on its behalf both at the meetings
of the Board and in the House of Representatives.

Resolved, That a copy of this minute be spead upon the records of the Board
and communicated to the family of Mr. Adams.

xI
XII PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS.
DEATH OF REPRESENTATIVE R. R. HITT.

The Chancellor announced the death at Narragansett Pier, R. I.,
on September 20, 1906, of Representative Robert R. Hitt, a Regent of
the Institution, and the following resolution, submitted by Senator
Cullom, was adopted by a rising vote:

The Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution have learned with pro-
found sorrow of the passing away on September 20, 1906, of the Hon. Robert
Roberts Hitt, for thirteen years a Regent of this Institution, and since 1901 a
member of the executive committee; and they here place upon record an expres-
sion of their sense of loss in the demise of their distinguished colleague.

Mr. Hitt for a period of more than forty years served his country in various
diplomatic offices, in the Department of State and in the halls of the National
Legislature, where, besides furthering all good measures, he was particularly
distinguished because of his wise action as chairman of the Committee on
Foreign Affairs, using all his efforts to promote the welfare of his country and
the peace of the world. His broadly cultivated mind was especially adapted to
labors on behalf of this Institution, and at all times as a Representative, a mem-
ber of the Board, and a member of the executive committee, he served its in-
terests with ability, fidelity, and conscientiousness.

To the members of the Board he was a dear friend and a wise counsellor,
and his absence from our midst is a source of grief and a serious loss.

The Board tender to Mrs. Hitt and to the family an expression of their sin-
cere condolence, with the assurance that the memory of her distinguished
husband will ever be cherished by his colleagues.

Resolved, That a copy of this minute be spread upon the records of the Board
and communicated to Mrs. Hitt.

APPOINTMENT OF REGENTS.

The Chancellor announced the reappointment of Dr. Andrew D.
White as a Regent by joint resolution of Congress approved April 23,
1906, and of the following appointments by the Speaker on the part
of the House of Representatives: On June 12, 1906, the Hon. John
Dalzell in place of Representative Robert Adams, jr., deceased; and
on December 3, 1906, the Hon. James R. Mann in place of Represen-
tative Robert R. Hitt, deceased.

ELECTION OF SECRETARY.

The Board went into executive session, at which Prof. Henry
Fairfield Osborn, of New York, was elected Secretary of the Institu-
tion. The Chancellor was requested to notify Professor Osborn of
this action.

ANNUAL MEETING OF JANUARY 23, 1907.

Present: Mr. Chief Justice Fuller (Chancellor), in the chair; the
Vice-President, the Hon. Charles W. Fairbanks, Senator S. M. Cul-
lom, Senator Henry Cabot Lodge, Senator A. O. Bacon, Representa-
tive John Dalzell, Representative James R. Mann, Representative
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. XIII

William M. Howard, Dr. James B. Angell, the Hon. John B. Hen-
derson, Dr. Alexander Graham Bell, the Hon. George Gray, and the
Acting Secretary, Mr Richard Rathbun.

The Chancellor stated that he had informed Prof. Henry F.
Osborn of his unanimous election at the December meeting as Sec-
retary of the Institution, and had received a reply to the effect that
though fully appreciating the honor tendered, he had found himself
unable to accept for reasons set forth at large.

REAPPOINTMENT OF REGENT.

The Chancellor announced the reappointment of Judge George
Gray as a Regent for six years,’ by joint resolution of Congress ap-
proved by the President on January 21, 1907.

RESOLUTION RELATIVE TO INCOME AND EXPENDITURE.

Mr. Henderson, chairman of the executive committee, submitted
the following resolution, which was adopted :

Resolved, That the income of the Institution for the fiscal year ending June
30, 1908, be appropriated for the service of the Institution, to be expended by

the Secretary with the advice of the executive committee, with full discretion
on the part of the Secretary as to items.

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE ACTING SECRETARY.

The Acting Secretary submitted his report upon the operations
of the Institution for the year ending June 30, 1906, which was
accepted.

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

Mr. Henderson, chairman, presented the report of the executive
committee for the year ending June 30, 1906, and explained briefly
the method of auditing the accounts of the Institution and of the
Government branches under its charge. On motion the report was
adopted.

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE PERMANENT COMMITTEE.

Mr. Henderson, chairman, presented the following report of the
permanent committee:

Hodgkins estate.—In addition to the fund of $200,000 donated to
the Institution by the late Thomas George Hodgkins in 1891, the
residual estate, embracing $8,000 in cash, certain West Shore Rail-
road bonds of the value of approximately $42,000, and the sum of
$8,772.38 invested in United States 4 per cent bonds of 1907, together
with two small properties in Elizabeth, N. J., later sold by authority
XIV PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

of the Board of Regents for $600 and $1,000 respectively, was be-
queathed to the Institution under the will of Mr. Hodgkins. The
West Shore Railroad bonds and the $8,000 in cash were transmitted
into the custody of the Institution upon the death of the testator, but
the United States 4 per cent bonds were left by consent of counsel to
be held by the New York Life and Trust Company until a decision
could be obtained in the case of Smith v. O'Donoghue, in which the
liability of the estate of Mr. Hodgkins on a warranty of title by him in
the transfer of certain real property in New York City in 1872 was in
question. The case was decided by the supreme court of New York
in the Institution’s favor, which decision was recently confirmed by
the court of appeals of that State. The bonds, of a nominal value
of $7,850, were received and duly registered in the name of the Insti-
tution on May 28, 1906. The committee is prepared to recommend
that the bonds be sold and the proceeds deposited in the Treasury.

Andrews estate—An appeal has been taken from the decision sus-
taining the bequest of Mr. Andrews for the establishment of the
Andrews Institute for Girls, now organized at Willoughby, Ohio.
In case of the invalidity of this provision, the sum involved would
accrue to the Smithsonian Institution. The case was argued on
behalf of the Andrews Institute, the heirs, and the Smithsonian In-
stitution before the appellate division of the supreme court of New
York City, in May, 1906, and a decision is now being awaited.
Whatever conclusion may be reached by the court it is quite probable
(since the disposition of more than a million and a half dollars is
involved) that the case will be taken to the court of appeals at Albany.

Avery estate——With the exception of the premises conveyed by the
Institution to the niece of the late Robert Stanton Avery, in recog-
nition of her services during his illness, the Institution is still in
possession of the real estate bequeathed by Mr. Avery, consisting of
four properties on Capitol Hill, having a present estimated value of
about $35,500. Owing to the erection of office buildings for the
Senate and House of Representatives and the location of the new
Union Station in the neighborhood of these properties, it is under-
stood that their market value has considerably increased. Three of
the four lots contain small buildings from which a net annual revenue
of about $300 is derived. In addition to the real estate, certain
stocks, bonds, and cash, estimated at the time of the death of Mr.
Avery at $2,915.87, are being held by the National Safe Deposit,
Savings and Trust Company of this city, the income to be paid to the
niece of the testator during her lifetime, and the principal to become
the property of the Institution upon her demise.

Sprague and Reid bequests.—Under the terms of the Sprague and
Reid bequests, the residual legacies will not accrue to the Smithsonian
Institution until the death of certain enumerated legatees, and it is

PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. XV

probable that the Institution will not derive any actual income from
these estates for some years to come.

The chairman then submitted the following resolution, which was
adopted:

Resolved, That the Secretary be, and he is hereby, authorized, in his discre-
tion, to sell before maturity, or to present for redemption and collect when
due, the United States 4 per cent bonds, of the nominal value of $7,850, derived
from the estate of the late Thomas G. Hodgkins; and he is empowered and
directed to deposit the proceeds therefrom in the Treasury of the United
States, to be held under the terms of section 5591 of the Revised Statutes, as
an addition to and a part of the permanent fund of the Institution.

THE FREER ART COLLECTION.

With reference to the action of the Board, at their annual meet-
ing of January 24, 1906, in accepting the tender of Mr. Charles L.
Freer to make present conveyance to the Institution of the title to
his art collection, and to bequeath to the Institution the sum of
$500,000, for the construction of a building in which to house it,
under the terms of his offer dated December 15, 1905, the Acting
Secretary stated that on May 5, 1906, a document embracing these
provisions was formally executed by Mr. Freer and delivered into
the custody of the Institution.

ELECTION TO THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

The vacancy on the executive committee caused by the death of
Representative Robert R. Hitt was filled by the election of Repre-
sentative John Dalzell.

MEDALS AND TOKENS OF THE LATE SECRETARY LANGLEY.

The following resolutions having reference to the donation by
the heirs of Mr. Langley, announced at the meeting of May 16, 1906,
were adopted:

Resolved, That the thanks of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian In-
stitution be tendered to Prof. John W. Langley, Mrs. Annie W. Ciocea, Mrs.
Julia H. Goodrich, and Mr. Pierpont Langley Stackpole for the gift of the
medals, scientific tokens, and early scientific apparatus of Samuel Pierpont
Langley, Secretary of the Institution from 1887 to 1906.

Resolved, That the Board expresses its deep appreciation at securing for
the Institution possession of this memorial of its late distinguished Secretary.

DONATION OF LEPIDOPTERA BY MR. WILLIAM SCHAUS.

The Acting Secretary announced the presentation to the National
Museum, during the previous year, by Mr. William Schaus, of New
York, of his exceptionally valuable collection of Lepidoptera from
tropical North and South America, numbering over 75,000 specimens
XVI PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

and containing many types and rare species; whereupon the follow-
ing resolution was adopted:

Resolved, That the thanks of the Board of Regents be tendered to Mr.
William Schaus for his generous gift to the National Museum of his extensive
and valuable collection of Lepidoptera, which is gratefully accepted.

PORTRAIT OF DR. ELLIOTT COUES.

The following letter from Ellen S. Mussey, addressed to the
Chancellor, was read:

JANUARY 8, 1907.

Mr. CHANCELLOR: I have the honor to inform you that Mrs. Mary Emily
Bates Coues, widow of Dr. Elliott Coues, died in February last, and by will
left to the Smithsonian Institution a portrait of the late Dr. Hlliott Coues,
and “also a paper received by him, inviting him to visit London as the guest
of scientific men, signed by Darwin, Huxley, etc., the letter to be framed and
hung under Doctor Coues’s portrait.”

This will has been duly admitted to probate, and the American Security
and Trust Company and myself, named as executors therein, have qualified in
such capacity.

We understand that the portrait is now in the possession of the Smithsonian
Institution; the other paper referred to is in our possession, and we should
be pleased to have it properly framed so that each side of the paper can be
seen, to be hung as stipulated in the will, provided the Regents will accept the
gift as named.

Awaiting the favor of your reply, I am,

Very respectfully,
(Signed ) ELLEN S. MUSSEY,
Co. Hx. Will M. H. B. Coues.

After an examination of the portrait, which had been deposited at
the Institution for some years, the following resolution was adopted:
Resolved, That the portrait of Elliott Coues, bequeathed by Mary Emily
Bates Coues, be accepted in accordance with the terms of the will as

expressed in the letter of Ellen S. Mussey to the Chancellor, under date of
January 8, 1907.

STATEMENT BY THE ACTING SECRETARY.

The Acting Secretary reported that the actual erection of the new
building for the National Museum, except interior finish, had reached
practically one-half the full height, although the south pavilion,
which included the entrance rotunda, was still at the basement stage
of construction. In addition, there was on the ground around the
building all of the dressed granite for the third or attic story and all
the materials, including special white face bricks and cut granite for
the entire completion of the walls of the two courts. There were
also on hand large quantities of the plainer materials, All of the
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. XVII

dressed granite required for the exterior walls of the building, con-
sisting only of the second story and the exterior walls of the main
pavilion, was under contract and its manufacture under way at the
quarries. All of the remaining steelwork required for the building
was also under contract, and all except that for the roof was ready
for erection. Should the balance of the granite be furnished in
accordance with the contracts, it was fair to expect that the entire
building would be completed and ready for occupancy by January 1,
1909.

The Acting Secretary announced the final liquidation, since the last
meeting of the Board, of the indebtedness of the Institution to the
central London bureau of the International Catalogue of Scientific
Literature, resulting from the defalcation of W. W. Karr.

He also stated that the initial steps taken toward the building up of
a National Gallery of Art had continued to attract widespread atten-
tion and to receive favorable comment. The lecture hall in the
Museum building had been temporarily adapted to this purpose, and
its walls were already fairly well covered with pictures, including,
besides those owned by the Government, a number of choice paintings
obtained by loan. Art objects other than paintings, selected from the
collections of the Museum, occupied the floor space, and it was ex-
pected, as soon as the installation was perfected, that the hall would
present a very creditable appearance.

Reference was made to the increasing demand for the Annual Re-
port of the Institution and the effort to prevent the duplication result-
ing from sending the Smithsonian edition to public depositories which
were also supplied by the Superintendent of Documents. Of the
replies received to the present time, some 90 per cent were of the
nature of earnest appeals that the Institution continue to send its
edition, accompanied by many gratifying remarks as to the esteem in
which the report is held, and the great demand for it among readers.

ELECTION OF A SECRETARY.

The Board then went into executive session, and Dr. Charles Doo-
little Walcott, of Washington, was unanimously elected Secretary of
the Institution, to fill the vacancy caused by the death of Dr. S. P.
Langley.

REGULAR MEETING OF MARCH 6, 1907.

Present: Mr. Chief Justice Fuller (Chancellor) in the chair; Sen-
ator S. M. Cullom, Senator Henry Cabot Lodge, Senator A. O. Bacon,
the Hon. John B. Henderson, Dr. A. Graham Bell, and the Secretary,
Mr. Charles D. Walcott.

41780—08——2
XVIII PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS.
REAPPOINTMENT OF REGENTS.

The Chancellor announced that the Vice-President had reappointed
Senators Cullom and Bacon as Regents, dating from March 4.

ANDREWS WILL DECISION.

Mr. Henderson, chairman of the permanent committee, read a letter
from Mr. F. W. Hackett, counsel for the Institution, giving a state-
ment of the adverse decision in regard to the Institution’s suit in the
Andrews will case by the appellate division of the supreme court of
New York.

CLAIM OF BELL & CO.

Senator Bacon, acting with the executive committee on this claim,
submitted a letter and report on this subject, and after discussion the
following resolution was adopted:

Resolved, That the Secretary be authorized to include in the estimates for the

fiscal year 1908-9 for the Bureau of American Ethnology an item to cover the
claim of Bell & Co., setting forth the facts.

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS.

The Secretary read a letter from Mrs. R. R. Hitt, acknowledging
the resolutions adopted by the Board on the death of her husband;
also a letter from Prof. John W. Langley, acknowledging the action
of the Board in connection with the gift of the medals and scientific
tokens and apparatus of his brother, the late Secretary S. P. Langley.

SALE OF BONDS.

The Secretary said that, in accordance with the resolution of the
Board at the meeting of January 23, 1907, the Government bonds to
the par value of $7,850, being the residuary Hodgkins legacy, were
sold on February 5, 1907, to Lewis Johnson & Co., bankers, for
$7,918.69, and this amount deposited to the credit of the permanent
Smithsonian fund in the United States Treasury. The bonds ma-
tured July 1, 1907; selling price, 1008.

GIFT OF PAINTING BY MR. JOHN B. HENDERSON.

The Secretary announced the gift to the Institution by Mr. Hen-
derson of a large painting of the Yellowstone Canyon.

Senator Cullom, after remarks by Regents, submitted the follow-
ing resolution, which was adopted:

Resolwed, That the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution hereby
tender their appreciative thanks to the Hon. John B. Henderson, one of their
number, for his public-spirited generosity in presenting a valuable painting of
the Yellowstone Canyon to the Institution for its National Gallery of Art,
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. XIX

AUTHORITY FOR THE SECRETARY TO INDORSE CHECKS, ETC.

The Secretary said that the Comptroller of the Treasury had infor-
mally called the attention of the accountant of the Institution to the
fact that there was no specific authority of the Board of Regents on
file in the Treasury Department empowering the Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution to receipt for moneys and to indorse war-
rants and checks in the name of the Institution for moneys due. He
would suggest, therefore, the following form of resolution, which if
adopted, would be acceptable to the Comptroller:

Resolved, That the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution be, and he is
hereby, authorized to receive and give receipt for all moneys due and payable
to this Institution from any source whatsoever, and to indorse warrants and
checks in its name and on its behalf.

The Secretary stated that for the past sixty years this had been
done, but the present Comptroller in looking over the business meth-
ods of his office noticed the lack of such specific authority, and asked
that it be furnished.

On motion, the resolution was adopted.

ACCOUNTS TO BE AUDITED SEMIANNUALLY.

The Secretary said that at the meeting of the Board of Regents
held February 22, 1867, the following resolution was adopted:

Resolved, That the Executive Committee make a quarterly examination of the
books and accounts of the Institution, and, as usual, an annual report to the
Board of Regents.

This had been followed somewhat irregularly; at times there
would be an audit four times a year, and again twice a year. At
present there was a trained auditor employed to examine the ac-
counts, and his report for the last six months of the year 1906 had
been received. It was the practice in the Carnegie Institution to have
but one audit a year, and in most of the large financial organizations
two had been found sufficient.

Mr. Henderson said that two audits a year would certainly be
enough, and submitted the following resolution, which was adopted :

Resolved, That hereafter the accounts of the Institution shall be audited
semiannually under the direction of the Executive Committee.

FEE FOR ARCHITECTS.

The Chancellor read the following letter and inclosure from
Mr. Bernard R. Green:

BUILDING FOR THE NATIONAL MUSEUM,
BERNARD R. GREEN, SUPERINTENDENT OF CONSTRUCTION,
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS,
Washington, D. C., March 5, 1907.
Sir: By the terms of the contract entered into May 18, 1903, with Hornblower
& Marshall as architects for the new National Museum building, their com-
pensation was fixed at 33 per cent on the “cost of the construction of the
xX PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

said building after excluding the architects’ fee and the contingent cost of the
services and office expenses of the party of the first part,” and that, further,
they should receive for such personal supervision of the construction as
might be called for from time to time additional compensation within a total
limit of 14 per cent on the cost of the construction as above described.

An arrangement with the architects for compensation for their personal
supervision under the second provision of the contract should no longer be
delayed. They have already rendered more or less of such service in the
progress of the work up to the present time. Hitherto payments have been
made from time to time on account of the 34 per cent portion of their com-
pensation amounting to $95,000, but they have received no compensation for
personal supervision.

The work that the architects have already done has been unusually expensive
to them, because of the numerous restudies of design and arrangement of the
building to meet the conditions of location, the limitation of its cost, and the re-
quirements of its internal arrangement, the result of which is to be a building
of far superior design and adaptation for its purposes, all within the limit of
cost fixed by law, than was provided for in the original design upon which the
law was based. The architects have spared no expense of time, labor, travel,
and scale modeling of important parts of the building in order to arrive at the
result mentioned. There yet remains much work for them to do in the details
for the completion, especially the interior of the building, not only in study and
design, but in personal supervision of the construction.

Under the present conditions, therefore, I have the honor to recommend that
authority be given me to employ the personal supervision of the architects, under
the provision of the contract therefor, until the entire completion of the build-
ing, at a rate of compensation equal to 14 per cent on the cost of the construc-
tion of the building as defined in the contract.

I inclose herewith for your convenience a copy of the contract and page xix
of the Proceedings of the Board of Regents at its meeting on January 28, 1903,
containing the original law for the construction of the building and the resolu-
tion of the Regents providing for the direction of the work by the Regents
through me. :

Yours very respectfully, (Signed ) BERNARD R. GREEN,
Superintendent of Construction.
Dr. CHAS. D. WALCOTT,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C.

Articles of agreement entered into this eighteenth day of May, nineteen hun-
dred and three (1903), between Bernard R. Green, superintendent of the
building and grounds, Library of Congress, of the first part, acting under the
direction of the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, for and in behalf of
the United States of America, and Joseph C. Hornblower and James R.
Marshall, partners doing business as architects under the firm name of Horn-
blower & Marshall, of Washington, in the District of Columbia; of the second
part:

This agreement witnesseth, that whereas by act of Congress approved Mareh
53, 1903, the said Regents were authorized to commence the erection of a suitable
building for the use of the National Museum on the north side of the Mall be-
tween Ninth and Twelfth streets northwest, said building to cost not exceeding
three million five hundred thousand dollars, the construction of said buliding to
be in charge of the said Bernard R. Green, who shall make all contracts for the
work; and
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. XXI

Whereas it is indispensable to the proper design and construction of so im-
portant a permanent public building that an architect or firm of architects of
the requisite talent, skill, and experience should be employed for that purpose;

The said Bernard R. Green (with the concurrence and consent, and under
the direction of the said Regents) and the said Hornblower & Marshall all
have mutually agreed, and by these presents do mutually covenant and agree,
to and with each other, as follows, to wit:

That, for the consideration hereinafter mentioned, the said party of the
second part shall, under the direction and to the entire satisfaction of the
said party of the first part acting as aforesaid, make the design and prepare
and furnish all the necessary plans, the working and other needful drawings,
details, specifications, and estimates required for the construction complete of
the said building for the National Museum, including all necessary modifica-
tions that may be made therein during the progress of the work.

And the said party of the second part further covenants and agrees to fur-
nish to the party of the first part, without cost to the United States, one set
of tracings of all working drawings, including details, and two copies of speci-
fications, all of which shall remain in the custody of the party of the first part
and be and remain the property of the United States.

And the party of the second part further covenants and agrees to make,
when required so to do by the party of the first part, without expense to the
United States, such revisions and alterations in the working drawings and
specifications of said building as may be necessary to insure its proper con-
struction and completion within the limit of cost fixed by the party of the
first part, and to furnish all drawings, details, specifications, estimates, etce.,
in such sequence and at such times as, in the judgment of the party of the
first part, may be necessary to insure the continuous and prompt prosecution
of the work of construction.

And the party of the first part covenants and agrees to pay to the party
of the second part, or to their heirs, executors, or administrators a fee com-
puted at the rate of three and one-half (33 %) per centum upon the cost of the
construction of the said building, after excluding the architects’ fee and the
contingent cost of the services and office expenses of the party of the first part,
all to be determined by the party of the first part, in the following manner, to
wit: The sum of thirty thousand dollars when the preliminary drawings of the
said building are completed and approved by the party of the first part less the
sum of four thousand nine hundred dollars heretofore received from the United
States for the tentative sketch plans made and submitted according to the
act of Congress approved June 28, 1902, and the remainder of said fee shall
be paid by the party of the first part in such amounts and at such times as the
progress of the general drawings, details, and specifications shall warrant in the
judgment of the said party of the first part.

And it is further covenanted and agreed by and between the parties hereto that
the party of the second part shall furnish such personal supervision of the con-
struction as may hereafter be called for by the party of the first part from time
to time and at such rate of compensation as may be agreed upon between the
parties hereto. But the entire compensation to be allowed and paid to the party
of the second part under this contract shall not exceed in the aggregate an
amount equal to five per centum on the cost of the construction of the building
to be estimated as hereinbefore provided, nor shall it exceed in the aggregate such
amount aS may be fixed by the Fifty-eighth Congress for the full services of
architects in the construction of Government buildings of similar character and
cost: Provided, That no action of the Fifty-eighth Congress or any subsequent
XXIt PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

Congress, limiting the fees of architects generally, shall of itself be construed ‘to
reduce the total compensation of the party of the second part to a sum less than
five per centum on such cost of construction, it being herein understood that the
fees of the architect as herein provided for shall be limited to three and one-half
per cent on such cost of construction, together with such additional compensation
as may be fixed and agreed to be paid from time to time by the party of the first
part acting as aforesaid, which additional compensation shall not, in any event,
exceed a sum equal to one and one-half per cent on such total cost of construction.

And it is herein further provided that no payment shall become due before
July first, nineteen hundred and three (1905).

And it is further covenanted and agreed by and between the parties hereto
that the payments herein stipulated to be made by the party of the first part shall
be in full compensation and payment of all charges for the full services of the
party of the second part and for all designs, plans, details, and specifications
made, ordered, or prepared for the National Museum by or under the direction
of the said party of the second part.

And it is further covenanted and agreed by and between the parties hereto
that should the said party of the second part through any unavoidable cause
become unable to complete the foregoing contract, or if the conduct of the said
party of the second part is such that the interests of the United States are
thereby likely to be placed in jeopardy, or if the said party of the second part
violates any of the conditions or stipulations of this contract, the said party of
the first part shall have the right to revoke this contract or any part thereof,
and to cause the same to be otherwise completed: Provided, In such case, how-
ever, that the party of the second part shall receive equitable compensation for
all services already properly performed under this contract up to the date of its
revocation, such compensation to be fixed by the said party of the first part.

No Member or Delegate to Congress, or other person whose name is not at
this time disclosed, shall be admitted to any share in this contract or to any
benefit to arise therefrom; and it is further covenanted and agreed that this
contract shall not be assigned.

In witness whereof the parties hereto have hereunto placed their hands and
seals the day and date hereinbefore written.

BERNARD R. GREEN,
Superintendent of the Building and Grounds, Library of Congress.
HORNBLOWER & MARSHALL.
Witnesses:
JOHN Q. SHEEHY.
Gro. N. FRENCH.

(Executed in triplicate. )

The Chancellor also read the following clause from the sundry
civil act approved March 3, 1903, providing for the new building for
the National Museum:

BUILDING FoR NATIONAL MusrumM: To enable the Regents of the Smithsonian
._ Institution to commence the erection of a suitable fireproof building with gran-
ite fronts, for the use of the National Museum, to be erected on the north side
of the Mall, between Ninth and Twelfth streets northwest, substantially in ae-
cordance with the Plan A, prepared and submitted to Congress by the Secre-
tary of the Smithsonian Institution under the provisions of the act approved
June twenty-eighth, nineteen hundred and two, two hundred and fifty thou-
sand dollars. Said building, complete, including heating and ventilating ap-
paratus and elevators, shall cost not to exceed three million five hundred thou-
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. XOX

sand dollars, and a contract or contracts for its completion is hereby authorized
to be entered into, subject to appropriations to be made by Congress. The con-
struction shall be in charge of Bernard R. Green, superintendent of buildings
and grounds, Library of Congress, who shall make the contracts herein au-
thorized and disburse all appropriations made for the work, and shall receive
as full compensation for his services hereunder the sum of two thousand dol-
lars annually in addition to his present salary, to be paid out of said appropri-
ations.

He also read the following resolution adopted by the Board on
January 23, 1903, providing that the Secretary be authorized to rep-
resent it in carrying out the provisions of this act:

Resolved, That the Secretary, with the advice and consent of the Chancellor
and the chairman of the executive committee, be authorized to represent the
Board of Regents so far as may be necessary in consultation with Bernard R.
Green, to whom the construction and contracts for the new Museum building
are committed by Congress in the act making an appropriation for that pur-
pose.

After considerable discussion on the question of the architect’s fee
and the contract, in which all present took part, Senator Lodge sub-
mitted the following resolution, which was adopted:

Resolved, That Mr. Bernard R. Green be authorized to pay Hornblower &
Marshall the fee of one and one-half per cent recommended by him, in addition

to the fee of three and one-half per cent, whenever in his judgment it has, from
time to time, been earned under the terms of the contract.

PROVISION FOR EMERGENCY SUPERINTENDENT OF CONSTRUCTION.

The Secretary said that the original act authorizing the new build-
ing for the National Museum provided that the construction should
be in charge of Bernard R. Green, who should make the contracts
authorized and disburse all appropriations made for the work.
Realizing the inconvenience that would arise in case of Mr. Green
becoming incapacitated, he had requested that provision be made em-
powering the Board of Regents, in case of this emergency, to take
charge of the work of construction and to disburse appropriations
made for the same; and he had to report that this provision had been
included in the sundry civil act approved March 4, 1907, as follows:

BUILDING FoR NATIONAL Museum: For completing the construction of the
building for the National Museum, and for each and every purpose connected
with the same, one million two hundred and fifty thousand dollars: Provided,
That if the superintendent of buildings and grounds, Library of Congress, now
in charge of the construction of the new Museum building and the disbursing
of all appropriations made for the work, be at any time incapacitated to con-
tinue in such charge, the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution is
hereby empowered to take charge of the construction and to disburse appropria-
tions made for the same.

Mr. Henderson suggested that if Mr. Green should become in-
capacitated between now and the next meeting in December, it would
be difficult to get suitable action by the Board, and he suggested
XXIV PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

that an arrangement should be made now to provide for such a
contingency.

The following resolution was then adopted:

Resolved, That if the superintendent of construction of the new building for
the National Museum, whose services are provided for in the sundry civil act
approved March 3, 1903, shall become incapacitated for the performance of his
duties between this date and December 3, 1907, the date of the next meeting of
the Board of Regents, the Secretary of the Institution is hereby authorized and
directed to personally take charge of the work of construction on behalf of the
Board and to disburse appropriations made for the same, or appoint some suit-
able person or persons to take charge of said construction and disburse such
appropriations.

SECRETARY’S STATEMENT.

The Secretary said: “TI wish first to thank you for the honor you
have done me in electing me Secretary of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, and desire to say that I shall do all in my power to uphold the
interests of the Institution and its branches.”

(@) GOVERNMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS FoR 1907-8.

The Secretary then submitted the following statement with regard
to increases in the appropriations for the fiscal year 1907-8:

INCREASES.
internationale mxchangess 28:800) 0) a2, 000Ssa nana aeeen ees ae eee eee $3, 200
Astrophysical Observatory, $14,000 to $15,000 ($2,000 of this appropria-

tion is limited to printing one volume of the Annals)_-_____________ 1, 000

National Museum; Preservation of Collections, $180,000 to $190,000
(for increasing pay of laborers, and increasing size of watch force)__ 10, 000

National Zoological Park; new (for reconstructing roads) _~__-_______ 15, 000

American Historical Association, $5,000 to $7,000 (printing reports)____ 2, 000

ota eins ee TRL GOAN ota ead a ute eel ae 31, 200
DECREASES.

National Museum: Printing, $34,000 to $33,000_-_._-.____._.____________ 1, 000

Motalin Crea ses seas = = ae a ee ee ee 30, 200

NEW MUSEUM BUILDING.

For continuing the construction of the new building for the Museum, there
was appropriated $1,250,000, being the balance on the total limitation of
$3,500,000.

(b) BUSINESS OF THE INSTITUTION.

The Secretary stated that he had found the business of the Insti-
tution in admirable condition, that the organization of the various
branches was satisfactory, and that no immediate changes would be
made.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. XXV

In view of the recent examination by a commission appointed by
the President into the business methods of all the Government De-
partments, exclusive of those under the charge of the Smithsonian
Institution, the Secretary thought it would be wise to appoint a com-
mittee on business methods for the purpose of examining into all the
business methods of the Institution and its several branches with a
view of suggesting, if found desirable, improvements in the business
methods of the Institution and its various branches, and in the trans-
action of business between them and the Institution.

(c) RESEARCH WORK OF THE INSTITUTION.

The Secretary stated that of the parent fund there would be avail-
able up to July 1, 1907, somewhat over $15,000 for the uses of the
Institution over and above fixed charges. For the coming fiscal year
1907-8, after providing for the regular charges, there was a prospect
of about $22,000, which would be all that was available for printing
and research. This was a very small fund, and it would be desirable
to have more money for research and publication in the future.

(dad) RESEARCH WORK OF THE SECRETARY.

Attention was called to the desirability of the Secretary of the
Institution keeping in touch with the spirit of research work by
carrying on some original investigations. Professor Henry before
coming to the Institution had developed many matters of great im-
portance in connection with electricity, and while Secretary took up
the subject of meteorology and also greatly aided the Government in
the establishment of the system of light-houses under the Light-
House Board. Secretary Baird was a student of natural history in
general, and later devoted himself to fishes. The development of the
food fishes, not only of the United States but of the world, received
a great impetus by the organization of the National Fish Commission
as the result of his studies. Secretary Langley invented the bolom-
eter, and used it with great success in connection with his inves-
tigations in the Astrophysical Observatory and his study of solar
physics.

The Secretary added that his own research work had been in the
line of geology and paleozoology, and that he desired to continue it
as opportunity and time permitted.

The Secretary continued that he was desirous of obtaining special
endowments for the purpose of exploring and studying Central and
South America. This would embrace all natural history, including
zoology and botany, the securing of a knowledge of the natural re-
sources, and also anthropological, including archeological investi-
gation.

He particularly called attention to the fact that researches bearing
upon the people of the Americas and their activities should be carried
XXVI PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

on from a scientific point of view; also that it was desirable to state
that the Smithsonian Institution was prepared to take charge of such
researches, in accordance with its fundamental purposes—the increas-
ing and diffusing of knowledge among men.

(€) PRESERVATION OF NATIONAL ANTIQUITIES.

The Secretary stated that under a recent action of the Secretaries
of Agriculture, of War, and of the Interior, to whom had been dele-
gated by law the authority to issue permits to secure antiquities from
the lands under the control of the Government, an agreement had
been reached to the effect that all applications for such permits should
be referred to the Smithsonian Institution for recommendation.

(f) MiInutTES AND NOTICE OF BUSINESS FOR MEETINGS.

The Secretary stated that it was his intention to send to each
Regent, in advance of a meeting, a program of the business to come
before such meeting, in order that the Regent might be familiar with
the subject before his arrival at the meeting.

He also intended to send to those Regents absent from the meetings
a copy of the Proceedings of such meetings, in order that all mght be
kept constantly in touch with the business transacted, and also to send
on the Ist of July, and perhaps quarterly, a statement of the financial
condition of the Institution.

(9) RESIGNATION FROM THE RECLAMATION SERVICE AND THE GEOLOGICAL SURVEY.

The Secretary stated that his resignation as Director of the Recla-
mation Service had been transmitted in December to Secretary of the
Interior Hitchcock, but that the latter had requested him to continue
in charge until after March 4. Secretary Garfield had accepted the
resignation to take effect March 8.

The Secretary further stated that his resignation as Director of the
Geological Survey was placed in the hands of the President on Janu-
ary 25, but had not been acted upon, as the President wished him to
remain in charge until after Mr. Garfield had made himself ac-
quainted with the details of the administration of the Survey. The
Secretary added that he hoped a new Director would be appointed
by the 1st of April.

The Secretary, in answer to a question as to the purposes of the pro-
posed South American expedition, stated that they were:

A general survey of the dominant geological, biological, and an-
thropological phenomena;

A study of material by specialists and the preparation of reports
thereon; and

The publication and distribution of reports embodying the re-
sults of these investigations.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. XXVII

The Secretary added that the permanent committee had authority
to accept gifts for such purposes, and he read the following para-
graph, which he suggested would be advisable to be adopted in con-
nection with all gifts to the Institution for specific purposes:

The specific objects named are considered most important, but the Board
of Regents shall have full power, by a vote of two-thirds of their number, to
modify the conditions and regulations under which the income from the fund
may be dispensed, so as to insure that it shall always be applied in the manner
best adapted to the changed conditions of the time; provided always that any
modifications shall be in general accord with the purposes of the donor as here-
inbefore expressed.
1 Ce 7 ah an mm ; ; -
Pay ee tri ‘ey Re tne We

in
‘

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF
REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

For tHe Year ENpING JUNE 30, 1907.

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

Your executive committee respectfully submits the following re-
port in relation to the funds, receipts, and disbursements of the Insti-
tution, and the disbursement of the appropriations by Congress for
the National Museum, the International Exchanges, the Bureau of
American Ethnology, the National Zoological Park, the Astrophys-
ical Observatory, the International Catalogue of Scientific Litera-
ture, and the ruin of Casa Grande for the year ending June 30, 1907,
and balances of previous appropriations.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.
Condition of the fund July 1, 1907.

The permanent fund of the Institution and the sources from which
it has been derived are as follows:

DEPOSITED IN THE TREASURY OF THE UNITED STATES.

IREUCNLLOLENTMITNSOM pI S4G 222. 2 22 Sos tee eS eee se See eS Sold, 1692.00
Residuarylesacy ol Smithson, 1SG(s 26, 210. 63
DEPOSIE LOM SAVIN Ol INCOMC rE SG ieee = ane ae 108, 620. 387

BeGUeST OL AINE S sete ME COM se Sipe ee ee $1, 000. 00

Accumulated interest on Hamiiton fund, 1895___-______ 1, 000. 00
—————. 2, 000. 00
Bequests oLasimeon abel) el S80 Sse a2 See 2 as eae 500. 00
Deposits from proceeds of sale of bonds, 1881_-_-________-______ 51, 500. 00
GittmorenhnomasnGs (log ekins iSO is ee Se ee 200, 000. 00
Part of residuary legacy of Thomas G. Hodgkins, 1894___________ 8, 000. 00
DWEdOSiEETEOMESA Vine SeOLeN COMe el O()5 = ene eae eee 25, 000. 00
iResiduaryaleracy, of hhomas G. Hodge king= === 5 = 7, 918. 69
Total amount of fund in the United States Treasury__----~ 944, 918. 69

HELD AT THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

Registered and guaranteed bonds of the West Shore Railroad
Company, part of legacy of Thomas G. Hodgkins (par value)_--- 42, 000. 00
Tota permanent ung) “= ss ee ee ee 986, 918. 69

xXXIX
XXX REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE,

That part of the fund deposited in the Treasury of the United
States bears interest at 6 per cent per annum, under the provisions of
the act of August 10, 1846, organizing the Institution, and an act of
Congress approved March 12, 1894. The rate of interest on the
West Shore Railroad bonds is 4 per cent per annum.

United States 4 per cent registered bonds of the par value of
$7,850, maturing July 1, 1907, were sold by your authority in Feb-
ruary, 1907, and the proceeds, aggregating $7,918.69, were deposited
in the Treasury of the United States to the credit of the permanent
fund of the Institution.

Statement of receipts and disbursements from July 1, 1906, to June 30, 1907.

RECEIPTS.
Cash on deposit in the United States Treasury July 1, 1906_------ $10, 184. 13
Interest on fund deposited in the United States Treas-
ury, due July 1, 1906, and January 1, 1907____-_____ $56, 220. 00
Interest on West Shore Railroad bonds to January 1,
OO (eee ee ee SE ee ee ee ee ee 1, 680. 00
Repayments, rentals, publications, ete_________-------- 5, 016. 35
ErOceeds irom Clalm sy init tl eal ON a ee 1, 292. 56
imterest on) Hodgkins residuary, tund====222222222-2—— 235. 50
————— 64, 444. 41
Proceeds from sale of $7,850 United States 4 per cent registered
ponds) 4907, sat! WOO 22 2a a ae ee ee 7, 918. 69
ARNOT A eC COLES See a ee ee er ee re 82, 547. 23
DISBURSEMENTS.
Biuildines, care-and repairs.._+—--- 2 | Sa ee ets $4, 543. 24
KULhItITrevand fixtures = ke a eee 1, 479. 78
General expenses :
SSEUIENIEL ES ies = ee eet Lae eee $13, 290. 19
MGeCtIN gS) a ee eee eee 380. ST
Stationery: = a= Se ao a ee ee ee 729, 41
Rostace andiielegrams = ee 305. 71
REL OTs ae ee ee ee 194. 40
Imncidentalsys22=- = a ee ee ee 3, 221. T4
——_—_— 18, 122. 32
Library :
Purchase of books, binding, ete__-_____- 668, 68
Salaries) 2 os 2 pe et See 1, 015. 00
—_————— 1,683.68
Publications and their distribution :
Contributions to Knowledge______-__--_- 278. 40
IRGDORESH a2 == = ns Sale ae es ee eee 961. 39
Miscellaneous Collections______________ 2,165. 36
Publications supplics2== 2228-5. 222s eaes 214. 64
Special publications______ Sok ee ee 156. 52
alaAriGs gS S=— 2a 2 ok. 2 aii eee OO
— — 8,908.31
Mxplorations and! researches) —2 == = 25 ee Sa eee 2, 482. 65

Hodgkins specific fund:
iesearches| and publications = 2—-— se) onan eee eee 3, 289. 93
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. XXXI

International xchancesi= 2s sls hee sh ie See $3, 433. 25
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature_______- 4, 602. 30
Me Cal EXEN SCS es ee ee ee ee ee 1, 786. 30
JNO GER CAI a ee ee 35. 21
Gallery: ofeAm tye ee ee BE Ee eee ee et 174. 56
o $49, 936. 53
JAG GNC = Se ee eee oe 100. 00
United States Treasury :
Denositedsconcreditmoftepermanent, hund====—— so 5—— ssa 7, 918. 69
Balance June 30, 1907, deposited with the Treasurer of the United

ia Le eee ee MN SO Ne ee ee eS 24, 592. O1

82, 547. 23

By authority, your executive committee employed Mr. J. EK. Bates,
a certified public accountant, to audit the receipts and disbursements
of the Smithsonian Institution during the period covered by this
report. His certificate of examination supports the foregoing state-
ment, and reads as follows:

WASHINGTON, D. C., October 8, 1907.

The Executive Committee, Board of Regents, Smithsonian Institution, Wash-

ington, D. C.

GENTLEMEN: I certify that I have examined the accounts of the Smithsonian
Institution for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1907, and find the following cash
statement to be correct:

Diya COG palanceroniehan das = se ene 2 ee eee $10, 184. 13
RECEIPTS.
TotHenreceipts tor yearending JUNC Usd G0 (swe es = ae ee eee 72, 363. 10
PS CG eat eee ere a a ee es 82, 547. 23
DISBURSEMENTS.
RotaledishursementS Lon year a= = 25s oe Ss 2 Se eee BiG Sway
June 30, 1907, al COO mel any Cs eee Es ee 24, 592. 01

June 30, 1907, balance as per United States Treasurer’s statement,
after deducting all outstanding checks unpaid__________________ 24, 592. 01
Respectfully, yours,
(Signed ) J. EK. BATES.

All moneys received by the Smithsonian Institution from interest,
sales, refunding of moneys temporarily advanced, or otherwise, are
deposited with the Treasurer of the United States to the credit of the
Institution, and all payments are made by checks signed by the
Secretary.

The vouchers representing payments from the Smithsonian income
during the year ending June 30, 1907, each of which bears the ap-
proval of the Secretary, or, in his absence, of the Acting Secretary,
and a certificate that the materials and services charged were applied
XXXII REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

to the purposes of the Institution, have been examined by the Auditor
in connection with the books of the Institution, and found correct.

Your committee also presents the following statements in regard
to the appropriations and expenditures for objects intrusted by Con-
egress to the care of the Smithsonian Institution, based on expendi-
tures by the disbursing agent and audited by the Auditor for the
State and other Departments:

Detailed statement of disbursements from appropriations committed by Con-
gress to the care of the Smithsonian Institution for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1907, and from balances of former years.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

RECEIPTS,

Appropriation by Congress for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1907,
“Por expenses of the system of international exchanges between
the United States and foreign countries under the direction of the
Smithsonian Institution, including salaries or compensation of all
necessary employees and the purchase of necessary books and peri-
Coline” (Suinthay eiyall ae, dilaver S0), IGG) $28, 800. 00

DISBURSEMENTS.

Salaries or compensation :
1 Assistant Secretary, at $225 per month_ $2, 700. 00

imclerkepalt! Ope remy On thane 1, 800. 00
il Gleiaks, Bie Gy [aete TiVoyoA = 304. 16
il Glew, Bue UPS) jose iON NL 1, 500. 00
1 clerk, at $116.66 per month ___________ 1, 3899. 92
NeClenkeralte SO seem On the = = 960. 00
il Glevalkes She Crk) jose secvovudM 960. 00
il Gleaic, Alte Ss) joer MoMA 137. 67
il Glieelkes aie S870) joes! ana 64. 16
il GSK, fans S370) ese iano 224. 00
ieclerk ait soD per month 780. 00
IL Gag, Ane EN) joer NON 200. 00
1 stenographer, at $125 per month______ 1, 500. 00
1 stenographer and typewriter, at $60 per

MOU ie a a ee Dees 166. 00
1 messenger, at $35 and $45 per month—_ 142. 00
1 messenger boy, at $25 and $30 per

IMO e = se SAE ee ee ee en eee ec 330. 00
1 messenger boy, at $25 per month______ 300. 00
1 workman, at $70 per month___________ 840. 00
1 skilled laborer, at $55 per month_______ 660. 00
1 skilled laborer, at $30 per month_______ 214. 00
1 agent, at $66.66% per month___________ 800. 00
ISAS eM tat pill PEL TNO Mit eee ee 180. 00
amagent, at dio) PeLeMOnt hes ee ee 900. 00

Total salaries or compensation____--------___-__ $17, 061. 91
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. XXXIII

General expenses:

[BOOKS eee ee ee ee ae Se ee $156. 75
IBOXCS eee ee aS oy Se ee a 137. 55
Hreichitygeteeesee ses a ee eee 6, 916. OT
JOM DON CONES, oN ee eee 621. 77
Postac opera eee ee aS ee ete 500. 00
Suppliesmelectricityv ets] === =e sees == 361. 95
StAlONeLy ane lCh= sas oe he ee See 233. 24
— —— $9, 527.33
MOTtHRCISMDUESEMCWi Gi aaa. he Se ee ee Bak od ES eee ee $26, 589. 24
OES eV car re Ua ype Dg aoa ee a Fa le 252105716
INTERNATIONAL: EXCHANGES, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1906.
Balancer ulveles HOOG aS per last reports. =—— a= eee se ea ee $905. 95
DISBURSEMENTS.
ROXCS 2s = Se Bie = ee ee et ee See awe See Se Pee $293. 50
Tre TT sees Se ere ae a a ee Se 2 ee a 542. 64
SLAGLONGEY MUOOKS nel pean = ea Se Ee eee ee ee 39. 67
SUpDeS 2a Se Se ee A eo a on 26. 16
NOTA AISDUPSe MENUS ees at eS SSE ee eee ee ee ee ee 901. 97
eyes dinky qh Wij ee CD el a Oe I EEN by 3.98
INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1905:
Balancer julyels 1906. asiper list report= === = = ee BAAS $0.06

No disbursements.

Balance carried, under provisions of Revised Statutes, section 3691, by the

Treasury Department to the credit of the surplus fund, June 30, 1907.
AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

RECEIPTS.

Appropriation by Congress for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1907,
“For continuing ethnological researches among the American
Indians and the natives of Hawaii, under the direction of the
Smithsonian Institution, including salaries or compensation of
all necessary employees, and the purchase of necessary books and
periodicals, forty thousand dollars, of which sum not exceeding
one thousand five hundred do!lars may be used for rent of build-

InSe eeUSUNGRYReill ACh. Mine) oO. 1 90G)) ees ae ee ee $49,
DISBURSEMENTS.
Salaries or compensation :

iL Gist, aie Ope ses) jose wold $3, 999. 96
1 ethnologist, at $250 per month________ 3, 000. 00
2 ethnologists, at $200 per month_____ 4, 800. 00
2 ethnologists, at $133.33 per month_____ 3, 199. 92
2 ethnologists, at $125 per month_______ 3, 000. 00
1 illustrator, at $166.67 per month______ 2, 000. 04
1 editor vat $100) per monthe22= 2222 22 1, 200. 00
1 editor and proof-reader, at $4.68 per

(5 Fala fee Soe ek es eS one soos Ee 402. 48

41780—08——3

000. 00
XXXIV REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE,

Salaries or compensation—Continued.

il @lsake ie Sls joeye ano $425. 00
1 head clerk, at $100 per month__-_---_ 1, 200. 00
Declorks ates! OORper month== == ====——— 2, 100. 00
1 clerk, at $100 per month and $5.55 per
OG. Sas ee ee ee 469. 88
1 librarian, at $100 per month___-__-____ 1, 200. 00
1 typewriter, at $65 per month_____---~- 448. 51
1 typewriter, at $60 per month______-_- 360. 00
1 assistant, at $60 per month—____--_-_-_ 162. 00
1 messenger, at $55 per month_—~_______ 660. 00
1 skilled laborer, at $60 per month___-_~ 720. 00
iM lAbocer mat soONper nO nthe se 600. 00
1 laborer, at $45 per month____________- 540. 00
1 book-wrapper, at 30 cents per hour___ 173. 40
al, Ibvaerere, Bie SNbsai0) forse WEN a 43. 50
1 charwoman, at $1.50 per day=——-——-__— 13. 50
Notdlasalaniesiom Compensation== == === === $30, 718. 19
General expenses:
BOOKS DINGine CtCee== === =e $547. 90
Drawings; Mays kes === === a= eae ae 326. 60
Hreightashauline melee == === ee 96. 25
HuULni tune anda xiiTes== = = 421.90
ichtin ge aS ee ee eee 279. 21
Manuscript i! ess ae fe wee eee TONGS
Miscellaneous_____ ee ee =a 157. 27
Postage, telephone, and telegraph _—___-~~ 138. 84
Ren tales =e ee ee ae eee 1, 375. 00
SDECIAINSeRVICeSs==2s = = oe eee 725. 57
Specimenss2 4242222 en a ee ee 24. 50
Stationeryes=2 22 as Pe ee a 8438. 82
Supplies... 2 Jo ee es 538. 24
Mravelsandstieldvexpensess==a= === 2, 154. 96
———— 8,348. 01
TROTANGISDUESEMeNtS) oa. ae eee ee ee ee eee $39, 066. 20
Balancey duly, i a0 vlse = See ee eee ee ee 933. 80
AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1906.
Balancerdulya det! SOG wasn petal aS tel:G 1 0 Tite ee $622. 28
DISBURSEMENTS.
ES OOK Coe ea es os Se te ee ee ee $15. 17
DEY of a nee AE I re id Pa ee ee ee 30. 38
Hunn turewand: fixtures===-2 = a ee eee 30. 15
Nene abi ee ee ee ee eC ee ae eee eee 92.98
Miscellaneous'={2 4222 tas ae ec ee ee ee 21. 83
Postage; telephones anditelésrd phe EEE 29. 41
SDeCiallaservices: sist Ae es ee eee eee 28. 00
Stationeryei ===> =e ee 8 eo ee ee 35. 48
SHDDLLCS Be aes Se eS ee ee 69. 59
eravel-and fieldexpensess 20.4 5 Se 5 ee es ee 259. 78
MotwrGdishursementsi= 2-22... ee ee 612. 77
Balancer) uly: dl il90 (2 oosee 2 eee ee ee 9. 51
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. XXXV
AMERICAN BTHNOLOGY, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1905.
Balance July 90G..as) per last report. 2222232228) se $4. 40

No disbursements.

Balance carried, under provisions of Revised Statutes, section 3691, by the
Treasury Department to the credit of the surplus fund, June 30, 1907.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

RECEIPTS.

Appropriation by Congress for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1907,
“For maintenance of Astrophysical Observatory, under the direc-
tion of the Smithsonian Institution, including salaries of assist-
ants, the purchase of necessary books and periodicals, apparatus,
making necessary observations in high altitudes, printing and pub-

lishing results of researc

hes, not exceeding 1,500 copies, repairs

and alterations of buildings, and miscellaneous expenses, $14,000 ”

(Sundry icivilnact. Jiuner sO. 190G)) 2 = ee
DISBURSEMENTS.
Salaries or compensation :

lacting director, at $225 per month_____ $2, 700. 00
1 junior assistant, at $150 per month____ 1, 800. 00
1 computer, at $83.33 per month_______ 835. 30
1computer, at $83.33 per month_______ 480. 53
1 bolometric assistant, at $50 per month_ 116. 67
1 instrument-maker, at $100 per month 1, 200. 00
Telerk at) olen. per months =e 141. 67
velerkeate pl 2onpen month ae ee oe 8. 33
1 stenographer, at $116.66 per month____ 1, 392. 14
1 messenger boy, at $40 per month _____ 480. 00
1 carpenter, at $91 per month________—_ Iays ale
A ineManenabesoO per monte eee 672. 00
1 skilled laborer, at $100 per month_____ 50. OO
icleanereat p25 per daya.— = = 163. 75
cleaner wat oi per dave == ~ 18. 00

Totaly salaries sor compensation. =. eae $10, O71. 56

General expenses:
AD DATACUSis ese oe

Books and binding______
PE aes ioe 267. 00

Building repairs ______

rails ot ey eae $405. 65

ee © Bega ede 152. 75

WaiS UIT) ¢ Shee ee ee ne ee ae 5. 65
Drawines: + tables, = etch -— 2 a 1a lie, PAS)
Hleciriciivern cass ClC= === eee 222: 38
Sri ghee ee ae ee ee ee 76. 32
DEH b OW el DIRS) ae he ee ee 42,54
WHO n) OVEN <2 Se ee ae ee oe 4,16
Postage, telephone, and telegraph_______ i133, 1335)
Statione rye aa ew ak ele Ee ee 19, 211
Supplies, chemicals, tools, ete _-__________ 160. 42

Travel and field expenses_______________ 495. 55

1, 990. 46

1907.

$14, 000. 00

12, 062. 02

1, 937. 98
XXXVI REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.
ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1906.

Balance July 1, 1906, as per last report____-------~~-______-_----- $2, 246. 08

DISBURSEMENTS.

Services of bolometric assistant, at $50 per month______~ $25. 00
ANG OY OES RE NTU a 94. 65
Bookstangdybinding, === see = 2 ge reas Ea NY es 19. 72
TBYURUG ORES, THBORNDUS, WCW 599. 00
IBICTREICHRY, ANS, QWs a peels 292. 60
TOTRONCANG a oS 158. 22
Postage, telephone, and telegraph+—~—-_-_---==—===— === Pe Be
Supplies; chemicals, tools; efe_________---__-___________ 58. 25
irae an enelaTtex Ch SCS == aan 779. 03
RotaladisbUrSCMenis == = 2 === eS 2, O88. 82

Balance, July 1, 1907____ SS ie aha ee a ea a ee
ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1905.
Balancersulyels 1906 sas qper LAS NC) OL G= = =a $22. 39

DISBURSEMENTS.

SUD DCS) ee ne ee Oe ee ee $0. 35

Rraveimand tel dvexpensS@S=-2-5- 2 == a ee ee 9. O1
MoraleaishursementS === == — =e ee eae ee a 9. 36
TES Sa aT Ce ese ae hs ee ee yee ener’ = EAB 2038

Balance carried, under provisions of Revised Statutes, section 5691, by the
Treasury Department to the credit of the surplus fund, June 30, 1907.

INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE, SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION, 1907.

RECEIPTS,

Appropriation by Congress for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1907,
“For the cooperation of the United States in the work of the Inter-
national Catalogue of Scientific Literature, including the prepara-
tion of a classified index catalogue of American scientific publica-
tions for incorporation in the International Catalogue, the expense
of clerk hire, the purchase of necessary books and periodicals, and
other necessary incidental expenses, five thousand dollars, the
same to be expended under the direction of the Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution” (sundry civil act, June 30, 1906) _—--_-__ $5, OOO. OO

DISBURSEMENTS.
Salaries or compensation :

1 chief assistant, at $125 and $150___--- 2 $1, 675. OO
IRCIASSINEGR At po0k 2. 22 se eee 1, O80. 00
Tk: CUPITSAN SVE, eI OAPs is, Sy ee 128. 75
Ae Clonkewat sil hy keer Oe ee eee 54.17
i @iaake, Buy Seay, Hato) Save Ase 52. 50
Wrakydie Gye Galo chavol CiO ee ee 250. 00
1 ecataloguer, at $60_____ bs = ae ea a 191. 00

I CATAIOSUCE AG bo) awe sa te ee ee 230, 84
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

Salaries or compensation—Continued.

1 cataloguer, at $40_______ _- Ei Miah A Seeks $40. 00
LJ typewmiter weatpoO! 2 ss se es ba = eee 5S. 338
I Gy DeWitt ate posse nee cee ee 149. 99
DMCOD YAS tara tie pea eee SR ae ~ 5. 00
i messenser boy, ali ple ee 100. 00
Totalesalaries om compensavion= === ees $4, 475. 58
General expenses:
ES 00 Kk eee ae rs ae Sa 80. 19
BUCHIGULeean O tixcunes == Cu ae 169. 69
Postage, telephone, and telegraph _ f Dae
Stationery ——-—- ees He ai Res ee ee 63. TO
SUNG een Sere ae ee 65. 65
—_———— 403. 48

LLOTAIECUSDTISECMents es = ee ae ee Lee = aps : 2

Balan cee iilvanle eel OO (jee ee ee ee

RUIN OF CASA GRANDE, ARIZONA, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

RECEIPTS.

Appropriation by Congress for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1907,
“Por protection of Casa Grande ruin, in Pinal County, near Flor-
ence, Ariz., and for excavation on the reservation, to be expended
under the supervision of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, three thousand dollars” (sundry civil act, June 30Q, 1906) ___

DISBURSEMENTS.

Building suppliessubsistence, eles ses $632. 17
baborsteamunire etG=2——==——=— So eee eee eee Se 2, 067. 80
raver aAndenielaLnexpenses= a= te Ot Ree ea ee 299. 50

MOCO UES SMM IS ee op er Se De ee es

FURNITURE AND FIXTURES, NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1907.

RECEIPTS.
Appropriation by Congress for the fiscal year ending June 50,
1907, ‘‘ For cases, furniture, fixtures, and appliances required for

the exhibition and safe-keeping of the collections of the National
Museum, including salaries or compensation of all necessary

employecss Sundry. Civlleace duNesa0) NO0G== as
DISBURSEMENTS.
Salaries or compensation :
1 superintendent, at $166.66___________ $999. 96
iT ClEn kami piel a2) eae eee 1, 320. 00
Le ShOpRLOneMan sat O0 =a = ee 1, O80. 00
AR CARPENLEES pra poo ee eee ee a 3, 145. 00
i carpenter, at $38.85 per day_—------_- UB (63
1 carpenter, at $38.25 per day——_—------ 81. 25
i pamtervvat ovOmand ios = as ao 822. 50
AUPAMMUCER, dew (ee ae 271. 25

XXXVII

$4, 879. 06

120. 94

1907.

&3, 000. 00

2, 999. 47
XXXVIII REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

Salaries or compensation—Continued.

1 painter’s helper, at $55 and $70______- $832. 50

ieskilledslaborer,, at pl002===2s==———— 800. 00

ik Seulkeol iGo, mip see 650. 00

WOT INA alters ee ee 660. 00

Gulaborers) atiol50) per daly ===" ===== 48. 00
OAS aAnieS AO «COMM eMSalt1 OMe ee $10, 847. 81

General expenses:

IDTAaAwers) nays eUOXCS === ae ae 2, 057. 60

rames:; | (CLG ses ee eee ee 28. 75

GUASS ee a tes ee Sa SP eee 562. 6

IEGhOM ORS) 2 ee 458. 81

TROO Se eS he ee 46. 03

Clothye=a== 2 eee tee Ser aot re Praia eee 6.38

TGV Crees es ae 1, 066. 79

UMTS Heol Ss Mel Ces sees oo See ese al Oealis

Officerand wall  urnitunre, etc=======s== OSsamal

ELL O Uae ee eee ee ee ee 4. SO:

Rapenie: = tae ee Solel ae epee 36. 30

Snecialie SCV COS = op eS ee 98. 50
Motaillnceneral (eXPemsSes es a == meee ee ene ee 5, 659. 85
ZNO CALC SDUESENAG IS es = = eee ee ee Se $16, 507. 66
Balances uibyan swe Oi see ee ee a ee 3, 492. 34

FURNITURE AND FIXTURES, NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906.

RECEIPTS.

sub yavesy: diwuhy il IML, ENS) joeve Jee Teo G 52, 656, 98
DISBURSEMENTS.
General expenses:
Cloth cottons 4@t@L2 Ss 2223 ae ee ee Se $3. 00
DTrAWELS; tray s;) DOMES: ;ClCso. = saa a eee ee ee 3% fp de)
GIASSig aS Aa a-Si Fe ee ee ee eee 279, 23
(EAR Wan Oe eS a ae eS ee ees U3
LUE 0] 0 Sy ees eee) enero en ee ae 281. 19
Ovi Shavel IneWi aK MARDTS Se 344. 70
IPAINTS: ONS ete ae 2a ae a a ee ee ee ee ee isieuked
Storage cases ______ ee Pao Rie RE ER De AN Stipe Se 895. 65
A Woy rave ohts| cuenta rots epee ee ee 2, 246. 05
BMance: Julyale 90 pes a en ae eto yn a eee wena eee 410. 93
FURNITURE AND FIXTURES, NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.
RECEIPTS.
letallehaverey Afbllhy ale WAKER RisMioyese IEW e Sxejo Ove $88. 68

Disbursements, none.

Balance

88. 68

Balance carried, under provisions of Revised Statutes, section 3691, by the
Treasury Department to the credit of the surplus fund, June 30, 1907.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. XXXIX
HBATING AND LIGHTING, NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1907.
RECEIPTS.

Appropriation by Congress for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1907,
“For expenses of heating, lighting, electrical, telegraphic, and
telephonic service for the National Museum” (sundry civil act,
A TURTT 50) Semel GG) ee ee = er ee Se ee ee $18, 000. 00

DISBURSEMENTS.
Salaries or compensation :
IReneineerea tpl 2s =e a a ee eee $1, 500. 00
1 telephone operator, at $70_____________ 821. 33
1 telephone operator, at $1.50 per day____ 66. 75
AeA T Ae ete NG (ee eee Be oh Se 720. 00:
1 blacksmith, at $60________- See 720. 00
1 steam fitter, at $80________ ae er 960. 00
IS DIUIMbDeEISTASSIStamiti~ at hops 777. 83
1 skilled laborer, at $100____________ pace: 300. 00
1 skilled laborer, at $80 and $4 per day__ 996. OO
i skilledMaborers at ($80 Se ee 80. 00
2 NAVNOREIAM Aitpaoe = ee ee ee — 1, 080. 00
3 electrician’s helpers, at $2.50 per day___ 156. 25
Total salaries or compensation_—__________________ $8, 178. 16

General expenses:

Coals ain dikwiOOd ss eee ss a eee ee ee 4, 676. 17
Hiecinicalesnpplies= === == pRB 574. 54
Rec tricity <= ae ee See ee il, aes as?
GF ee ey oy RE 301. 83
Heahineesupplies2 2s = a's 22 see 198. 77
Ren torial ORGS. = 7a BY ae 110. 00
SOSatwle Hawise ee eS eee 190. 00
INEST RTOS oo ee eS ee 5. 26
Pelep Mone spine a. al Se ee eee ae 389. 34

———————— 7,998. 04

SAD TeEAD TCLS FOUTS SS ne Ne ee er ee Bee et

DES UAC SRR ivgae ly el) (eee eas ve ee SE Se ee

HEATING AND LIGHTING, NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906.

RECEIPTS.
Balance) Julyel 906. aspen last reports =e) a ae eee
DISBURSEMENTS.

General expenses:
SAN CLV TUFTS IIT pare eect eo Ee $8. 10
Rectricalm sup phiGshe aes tses see ee eer eee 389. 538
LMISOnRCl Ay), = Be Se aS 2 ee es 132. 59
Gras) ae ae ee ee eget eee ee ee 37. 40
Hea tinea sup Wes meme 2 oe Ree eee ee 308. 65

en PaO LCA pOXGSiee mee cree, he SNe ee eh 10. 00

16, 176. 20

1, 823. 80

$1, 396. 75
XL REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE,

General expenses—Continued.

NESS RINS) a ee ee ee $4.18

Telephones ee ee ee ee eee eee 144. 92

Speciailissenyi Ces =e = ae ae ee ee =, 122, OD
MOtalaGiSDULSeMen tS sae a= =e eae ee ee $1,

Balance uly: OOS 2 ee eee eee ee eee

HEATING AND LIGHTING, NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

RECEIPTS.

Balanceratly el, 1906) aspen lastimepont= === == a eee ee
Disbursements, none.

FS cL eU Tt CO ae oe Ne eee ee

152. 37

244. 38

$81. 02

81. 02

Balance carried, under provisions of Revised Statutes, section 3691, by the

Treasury Department to the credit of the surplus fund, June 30, 1907.

PRESERVATION OF COLLECTIONS, NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1907.
RECEIPTS.

Appropriation by Congress for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1907,
“Por continuing the preservation, exhibition, and increase of the
collections from the surveying and exploring expeditions of the
Government, and from other sources, including salaries or com-
pensation of all necessary employees, and all other necessary
expenses, $180,000, of which sum $5,500 may be used for neces-
sary drawings and illustrations for publications of the National

WiKi” (Kuirchay Giall Aen dune Bi), ICs)\ eee $180, 000. 00

DISBURSEMENTS,

Salaries or compensation :
Scientific and administrative staff—
1 assistant secretary, at $258.83 and

SOOO GO Ree eee ee, ee ee $3, 399. 96
1 administrative assistant, at $291.66_ 3, 499. 92
3 head curators, at $291.66._________ 10, 339. 35
7) COUN KOS, AE CPAU 3, 966. 67
1 associate curator, at $200_____-____ 2, 400. 00
il Guinier, Mig GRO 840. 00
5 assistant curators, at $160_________ 7, 808. 8é
2 assistant curators, at $143. 33______ 3, 439. 92
LVASSISAM tH CURATOR welt sslics eee 1, 560. 00
2 assistant curators, at $126.66_____- 3, O59. 84
2 assistant curators, at $125_________ 1562.50
at

assistant curator, at $100 and
$116. 66 7201), 63

il, 74
Po SS a 2, 574. 00

2 assistant curators, at $110

i-assistant curator, at $93.33220-2_ 1, 119. 96
1 second assistant curator, at $110___ 1, 320. 00
iNchiet of division, at S2002-22- 2, 400. 00
ieeditor AteSi Giana so! sea ee ee 2, 004. 00
1 editorial assistant, at $133.33______ 1, 599. 96
A LCLIStLAL Pati SL Ol ce ee ee 2, 004. 00
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

Salaries or compensation—Continued.
Scientific and administrative staff—Continued.

1

Bee bbe ee pe

disbursing agent, at $125___________
assistant librarian, at $185.85_____

RIGS wate nloce = ae ee Eas Ie

IGS praia nee eee eee Re

DIG Baten sees ee Z
assistant, at $90 _____

Preparators—

il

Pea a CC CC ee roe

photographer, at $175_____
photographie assistant, at $50.
chief taxidermist, at $125
taxidermist, at $100_
taxidermist, at $60_____
taxidermist apprentice, at $25
modeler, at $100 —__
osteologist, at $90__-
preparator, at $125___.—_
preparator, at $100____
preparator, at $95_____=__
preparatory at $902 2) se

Preparator, at Sse) Seite
PLEPArAtOR. ally SOD = eee ee ee

preparator, at $SO_____ ee ee

PLepaALaLor rails piQls2 ==. eee
JOINS ON ONES HU AAO) ee ee
DLEDALATOUSs alt See ee
PLreparatOM atptoe ee
DLeCpALA TOR waited OS eee eee ee
DLE PALAtOLS wa braless see ee

preparator, at $2.50 per day______-
assistant preparator, at $45_
Custodian, sali s2oe= ee ae ts
ClassifiersaG S11 00Rsse as ee eer:
NECONGET AE Oe
PeCorvders ate SOS. 2s es ee
Catalosuerraitins oe ee

CALAOS MEE alte pOU ms ee en
cataloguer, at $60 and $66.66_______
CAE OUT elite peo) eee eee a

Clerical staff—

al

SUT gu Gal Sy a Oe

financerclerkeraiiisl cy ye
property clerkevataslOO= = aes
document scleckwiatrno pee ee
Glerkearartg pili sie a oe ae Se ee e
ClerkawalterolG:6Gne— 26 ee
Clerks Mate SJ00 222s Sen eA as Ns
ClerksgaltthSp- eae ee ee
CETERA ae SS () Meee ney ee ee
CLEP S ratty spd cyte ee ee ee ea ee

. 500

599

, O07.
200.
020.
961.
S00.
306.
605.
162.

100.
450.
. 500.
, 200.
420.
300.
, 200.
, OSO.
500.
200.
991.
OSO.
545.
020.
960.

iL
720.
259.

535.

. OO
. 96
00
00
00
03
00
00
00
00

$69,

)2

mis

681. 53

594. 99
XLII REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTER.
Salaries or compensation—Continued.
Clerical staff—Continued.

Cle G ea tel Osa ee ae ee ee $840. 00
mel eniegatn SG) 2 eee eee TSO. 00
ASClEPRS at SOO! =e 2, 013. 00
MGI ERKS Sc alte he) eee a eee 651. 67
imclenk- wate joo. 2 Aue ee Re 420. 00
PEClerksaitegl oper aye = = = as 95. 38
1 clerk and typewriter, at $75________ 900. 00
1 clerk and preparator, at $60 and $65_ TAT. 5O
1 botanical assistant, at $75-________ PIN PAS)
il SinsaoeA overs, Ge Gulp 2, 100. 00
HarStenoocraphery aie pos eee 682. 50
Ik RSMO HINER, Ae Gra 264. 99
IL RiGMOEAe OVE, Bie SANYL 2 LO00. OO
1 stenographer and typewriter, at

Sill) ees Fe We eps art USM ers Te 1, 200. 00
4 stenographers and typewriters, at

SES, en Pe a en eo Cera en fortes sn lege or [e155
5 stenographers and typewriters, at

SCO gee een ee ee fer ane S07. 50
2 stenographers and typewriters, at

SBE) (ie eieicte gota ler fads Jade Wehr ee aA I IER 179. 99
4 typewriters, at $60_________ Beers 326. 00
Tl TAVoe wees, aye So = il, BRIS) ae
i botamicalleclerianat p50 lee see 427. 33
il Tassie Se, Be Sais (9. 33
iL MOSS OrR, AiG SRNL 360. OO
ESTNESSEN Seal hols ee 7.50

—_—__—. $30, 121. 38
Buildings and labor—

I GAO CIE WKN, Bie Se 1, OSO. OO
2 lieutenants of wateh, at $70_______ 1, 680. 00
il WANKER, Gye GX oe 780. 00
Hab \ehinel aneaveyaly Ble OAR) 15, 696. 00
Ab \WyEKONINSO, NE Gye 1, OS4. 09
1 special watchman, at $3 per day__- 21. 00
1 special watchman, at $2 per day___ 14. 00
IORI Oe Bam ON 900. 00
L WyOsaRMN, Bue 6350) ee 591. 66
lslalledmlab ores alte 6() eases enn 266. 00
ibiailigel Ieiontee, aie Gam 660. 00
3 Skilled laborers, at $50_-__-_-_____ 951. 67
SUE lab Orerarai te ha eee 396. 00
3 Skilled laborers, at $40) -_-_---- === 541. 66
6 skilled laborers, at $30____________ TOMO
3 Skilled laborers, at $25.__________ 405. 00
2 skilled laborers, at $1.50 per day ___ 512. 50
i classified laborer, at $60___________ 120. 00
2 classified laborers, at $47__________ 705. OO
IS AD ORCI A Auth pee ee 564. 00
OMIA OLEES aie 4 0 a eee ee 7, 495. 32
ZIAVDOLELS: At, Sop. = se ee 710. 83
4 laborers, at $1.50 per day_______-__ 111. 00
2 laborers, at $1 per day_____________ 46. 00
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. XLIIT

Salaries or compensation—Continued.
Buildings and labor—Continued.

OCEAN ERS Meith pares aaa a ee ee $2, 637.83
Ieattendamis ites4Oe sae 50. 67
hattendamisrat so0 50 546. 50
lattendant, at $1.25 per day________ 22G25
1 seamstress, at $1.50 per day_______ 21. 00
——— $40, 591.48
Total salaries or compensation_______________ 163, 989. 38
General expenses:
Drawings and illustrations_—————-—__ 1,556. 60
Hrerchteands cartases =e ss sae oe 1, 016. 12
SDCCIANMBSERVICES= 5-822 2a ee 1, 049. 81
SDCCIMEGN Ghee: =a aoe es oe 2, 349. 87
Stahlomenyes— = ea ee fo 909. 69
SUp plese ees ae ld 4. 268. 03
Mra VelimMeseXPenSeS se = = 2 1, 170. 69
——— 12,320.81
ERO tale SbUESEM eis asa ee ee tee ee $176, 310. 19
Balance July 1, 1907 Baote ek oe Se ee ges Pe ae 3, 689. 81

PRESERVATION OF COLLECTIONS, NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906.

RECEIPTS.

Balances July. 906; as) per Jast neportes= =) ee S458. 60
Byaorsallowancesins yOuChereNOs 20 las samese eee ee ee .10

4, 158. 70) ,
DISBURSEMENTS.

Drawainesind tli Strat On Sa eee eee See $221. 78
reiemipandecantagce sca. sees Ue Aree ee 8 ee ee eee 273. 34
SWECIRIMSCLWiICCS Bu same a eee are ee 130. 41
NSO CSYGTIM OCS OS ie ee Te ee Se ee ee ee ee ee 939. 57
SSHLEESILEIICOV OVS Gy Fas A ee Se ee 327. 56
ASU OU eS Me ef ae | 1 ee OW OF
cra S NORE SC Sie ee ee ee 49. SO
AO Lev UESEIM SINS See ee eee eo Se ee a ee ee By lis fall
Balances uiyslas 9 Oe Se ee ee Tee 2 ale (Otay a)

PRESERVATION OF COLLECTIONS, NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.
RECEIPTS.

Balancer duives 190G aS per last Treponts =o. = ne ee $571. 30

DISBURSEMENTS.
General expenses :

D NVC ey ed OWES SM pe a ES I A ae a ee $0. 25

SDeClall Seiad Ce spams ees ee es Se ee ee 2 102

SCC LIC TS eee ee Slee ey er Me Al eg 8 Ni eo ee ee 30. (0
RO TaIMOISDUESeMeniiGtae a sone mele ne ae a Le ele ee eae 36. 47
a anee eee a we a see ee Bello a i od IR hs age 534. 83

Balance carried, under provisions of Revised Statutes, section 8691, by the
Treasury Department to the credit of the surplus fund, June 30, 1907.
XLIV REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE,
BOOKS, NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1907.
RECEIPTS.

Appropriation by Congress for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1907,
“For purchase of books, pamphlets, and periodicals, for reference
in the National Museum” (sundry civil act, June 30, 1906) _--_-___- $2, 000. OO

DISBURSEMENTS.
BOOKS spamphilers and aperiodic Ss2 ss a= = 658. 30
lepulkepaes diwlhy al, aye ASF ol AA Soot pa ee POO oe 1, 341. 70
BOOKS, NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906.
RECEIPTS.
Balancers ulyslealGOGsvas per la sty he |) OT; yee eee eee $737. 82

DISBURSEMENTS.

Books, pamphlets, and periodicals —__- i Pe Ee ee 679. 18
IB plancere in lvael ees! 90a eee ee ee 58. 69

BOOKS, NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.
RECEIPTS.
ledalenavess diulin, tls os Gash iareie Tes sete) oye) eee ee $60. 27
DISBURSEMENTS.

Books andsneniodicals 222 22 2 2s 22 ee ee ee ee eee Oe

TBE 2 WK Wy 0 els yen ee nee rs Roce Me Res Sh 9 ALR pl SOLO MORE Ee: 6. 74
Balance carried, under provisions of Revised Statutes, section 8691, by the
Treasury Department to the credit of the surplus fund, June 50, 1907.
BUILDING REPAIRS, NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1907.
RECEIPTS.

Appropriation by Congress for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1907,
“ Por repairs to buildings, shops, and sheds, National Museum, in-
cluding all necessary labor and material” (sundry civil act, June

BNL SOG) 2 e  3 ca 2s ere a ie Ne ee he oe eS Mee $15, 000. 00
; DISBURSEMENTS.
Salaries or compensation :
1 superintendent, at $166.66______________ $999. 9G
a POLEGMAN Anno Oa ee <a a eee re 1, OSO. OO
FAT PCIE Sip Ow ee ee en eee 680. 00
Depainterssalte pine =) ae ee eee ee oe 142. 50
Pa ah obayes Grier eA Oe ee ee ee ee S89. OO
ivelassified laborer, at S60 ee 600. 00
1 skilled laborer, at $60 and $80_________- 670. 00
1 skilled laborer, at $1.75 per day—__----— 3.50
1 skilled laborer, at $1.50 per day_-_-__--_ 192. 00
PLA OLeH At Saber se he ee ee 540. 00
LAD OLELS! ray rani eco Ope Tay Cle yj nesses re eee 289. 50
Total salaries or compensation___---_-_ 6, O86. 46

-
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. XLV

General expenses :

G10 i= ea re ee ee ee 2 $24. $1

Fireproof blocks, cement, plaster, bricks___ 465. 54

Class Speeeneee eta eres aes a Se oe ee 60. 93

Hardware and tools__________ eT a 189. 87

Liga) Oe = a a a Sn ep 189. 30

BaintS Ol Sw pRUSHES eC ss = ee 313. 43

BPlumbinesymatierialy= 2] 2-2-2222 ae es 27.97

Eeba SUG rill cee eee eee Se ee Ae 103. 60

Repairs to eoors) (by contract) ——2- 6, S02. 00

Secon almladders, ClCs =. =e eee —- 35. 00

SDeCiaIESeInyICCS= = eae a se ae ee ees a 2. 00

UCC AW Ce mete ee bee aed cee ee a 8. 55

———— §8, 283. 00

Totalydishursement{Ss==2 se eel tee ee ee ee eee $14, 369. 46
Balances Ulver mil Oieen = eee oe tee ee Cee deo eR 630. 54

BUILDING REPAIRS, NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906.
RECEIPTS.
Balancer sulyalod 90G.aS perilastmenort. = =a ee ee $4, 7935. 48

DISBURSEMENTS.
General expenses:

Ean Cy aie meh Ce a= tee eee Se ee Ey ls | $5. TO
LIM CRSA el C ees tee. 2h ape ae Se ds, Pops tata)
Paints sOlss etwas Sew eae Se Ape co ie oat eee ot eee 3. 95
RepalEstiOsrOOrS CD yaCOMtNA Ch) mee se eee 4, 665. OO
RO Tae SDUESCIMEM TS vase arse se ie snc ee ee 4, 687. 50
Balancers ulyadt sO Opie ce ae Sil a ee ee 105. 98

BUILDING REPAIRS, NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

RECEIPTS.

BAlInce rive lea GOG. aSspelalASt Le ORt== ee ee es eee $307. 59
Disbursements, none.
Eyl aC Ce een ets Oe es eat Le, SA ee oe RA ein ea 307. 59

Balance carried, under provisions of the Revised Statutes, section 3691, by the
Treasury Department to the credit of the surplus fund, June 30, 1907.

POSTAGE, NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1907.
RECEIPTS.

Appropriation by Congress for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1907,
“For postage stamps and foreign postal cards for the National
WIDE bh” (Suna Ghpll Aor, dive soy TU EE $500. 00

DISBURSEMENTS.

or posta cecsrampsvang Carga. 24s 21 toll 5 el PS 500, 00
XLVI REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.
RENT OF WORKSHOPS, NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1907.
RECEIPTS.

Appropriation by Congress for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1907,
“Wor rent of workshops and temporary storage quarters for the

National Museum” (sundry civil act, June 30, 1906) _____-_-_--___ $4, 580. 00
DISBURSEMENTS.
Rent of workshops:
431 Ninth street southwest, 12 months, at $166.66____ $1, 999. 92
217 Seventh street southwest, 12 months, at $105____ 1, 260. 00
309 and 313 Tenth street southwest, 12 months, at $80_ 960. 00
915 Virginia avenue (rear), 12 months, at $30__--__- 360. 00
MotaleciSbuLSeMments see ee es ee ee ae 4, 579. 92
Balancer, d Ulva G0 se oe oe ee ee eee .08

RENT OF WORKSHOPS, NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906.

RECEIPTS.

Jey eneves) diwmhye al, TSO, Gis) [eee WNSie EO ee $0. OS
Disbursements, none.
Balancer iuliyad: a9 Ove 2 2a Se See ee ee ee ee ee eee - 08

RENT OF WORKSHOPS, NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

RECEIPTS.

IBYNE ave) ARDUAY! al5 IUTOXGS ENS) (DSO TENS TRE) Oe $0. OS
Disbursements, none.
IE TANNA e LM L  E  S ey etge, See L aus .O8

Balance carried, under provisions of Revised Statutes, section 3691, by the
Treasury Department to the credit of the surplus fund, June 30, 1907.

NATIONAL MUSEUM, TRANSPORTATION OF EXHIBITS ACQUIRED FROM THE
LOUISIANA PURCHASE EXPOSITION.

RECEIPTS.

leviehaegey Abily al, ARTO, BYS) javeye IRIE txeyoet Gol, salsa:
Disbursements, none.
LEYEW OVC Saye ere eee Oa on et ee 1, ala, BR

Balance carried, under provisions of Revised Statutes, section 3691, by the
Treasury Department to the credit of the surplus fund, March 3, 1907.

PRINTING AND BINDING, 1907.

RECEIPTS.

Appropriation by Congress for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1907,
“For the Smithsonian Institution, for printing and binding the
annual reports of the Board of Regents, with general appendixes,
$10,000; under the Smithsonian Institution, for the annual reports
of the National Museum, with general appendixes, and for the
Annual Report of the American Historical Association, and for
printing labels and blanks, and for the Bulletins and Proceedings of
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

the National Museum, the editions of which shall not exceed 4,000
copies, and binding, in half turkey or material not more expensive,
scientific books and pamphlets presented to and acquired by the
National Museum Library, $39,000; for the annual reports and
bulletins of the Bureau of American Ethnology, $21,000; in all,
SOOO? -(Swunchay Ciyall Byer, dita BO, wes)

DISBURSEMENTS.

Reports or thes Board, of Regents =) ses 2 $8, 127. 98
Reports and Bulletins of the Bureau of American
thn Ol Og yaaa ee See ee ee 19, S51. 76
National Museum:
IKeEpOLtise OO 5yan tel SOG 222 sae ee $3, DO2. 72
AU ein See eee ee ee ee 15, 134. 63
LOCCCOMN ES i= tee ee es 6, 969. 25
Miscellaneous: blanikse === see eer 953. 58
ViScellaneouss binding === == eee 1, 694. 33
Branch erintines Of cess = a eee es $41. 68
INS Ona Ee: airs d, 122. 94

Report American Historical Association__ 4, 761. 34

RotalmaiSbhUurSemMenits ae = et ee Se ee
Balancer Ul yan perenne ee ees ee ee 8 ee

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK, 1907.

RECEIPTS.

Appropriation by Congress for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1907,
“For continuing the construction of roads, walks, bridges, water
supply, sewerage, and drainage; and for grading, planting, and
otherwise improving the grounds; erecting and repairing build-
ings and inclosures; care, subsistence, purchase, and transporta-
tion of animals; including salaries or compensation of all neces-
sary employees, the purchase of necessary books and periodicals,
the printing and publishing of operations, not exceeding 1,500
copies, and general incidental expenses not otherwise provided for,
including purchase, maintenance, and driving of horses and
vehicles required for official purposes, $95,000” (sundry civil act,
June 30, 1906)_______ ee ale tae oe: ages et ee oS eee Sn

Salaries or compensation :

1 superintendent, at $275 per month_____ $3, 300. 00
1 assistant superintendent, at $166.66 per

MON Ghee NES eel ee eS ees 2 1, 999. 92
il icine, Bie Sula javere iaoyayM Ss 1, 012. 50
ielerkeatn sl Zoo permmomtne sa 1, 500. 00
1 stenographer, at $83.33 per month_____ 999. 96
1 messenger, at $60, and as copyist, at $60

ery months =. wae See Se ae 570. OO
1 messenger boy, at $30 per month _____ 71. 00

1 messenger boy, at $30 per month______ 16. 00

XLVIT

$70, 000. 00

66, 940. 21
3, 059. 79

$95, 000. 00
XLVIII

Salaries or compensation—Continued.

ul
1

messenger boy, at $1 per day__________

head keeper, at $125 per month_-_----

11 keepers, at $65 per month____—_____-__

2
2
i
1
1

keepers, at $62.50 per month___-_--_-
keepers at 660) pen monthes= sss
storekeeper, at $65 per month________
sergeant of watch, at $60 per month ___
watchman, at $65 per month__________

8 watchmen, at $60 per month __________

1

1
1

INoyoyel ikeye yawns :

messenger, at $45 per month, and as
watchman, at $50 per month_________
attendant, at $22.50 per month_______-
attendant, at 75 cents per day____----

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE

$47.
1,500.
8, 393.
1, 500.
1, 436.
780.
720.
780.
2, 160.

00
00
67
00
00
00

Motale Salaries sors COMpPenSaitl OMe eee
Gereral expenses :
Billding se See ee eee eee
Bul dinessmateri al ene
Fencing, cage material, ete_____________

reich ae ee es See eee
ess Fee ae ne te AE a en A SUE,

MachinenyastOolS\CtGe == a eee
Miscellancous: S22 =— ee Sa eee
lethbais OUI Feb; GO 2. ee
Postage, telephone, and telegraph_______
ISbIRE MRIS) OE AiMlMR
Road material and grading_____________
StawonerysnDOOKS eC eee eee
Dravelzand held expenseseaa a= = aan
ARTES AP LEVIGS AKO teow er eee
Water supply, Sewerage, ete____________

1

= 1 P33

Ww
=
aa
1

ANOEU! Tariana

Wages of mechanics and laborers and hire
of teams in constructing buildings and in-
closures, laying water pipes, building roads,
gutters, and walks, planting trees, and
otherwise improving the grounds:

machinist, at $100 per month _________

i foreman, at $75 per month_-—_-_____-_
1 blacksmith, at $3 per day and $65 per

i

Der EH

TT OTatlaes  e  ae o

assistant blacksmith, at $60 per
Months. a Pe a ee eee eee
tinner, at $3:50 per day--_-------- -_
carpenter, at $85 per month _________
carpenter! ab $3) periddyeo see
painter, at so) perdaya- == ee
classified laborers, at $65 per month___

1 classified laborer, at $60 per month____

1, 200.
900.

00
00

686. 00

720. 00

178.

1, 020.
40.
110.
1, 560.
720.

50
00
50
25
00
00

COMMITTEE.

$27, 655. 30

27, 816. 32
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE,

Wages of mechanics and laborers, ete.—Continued.

3 classified laborers, at $2 per day_______ $2, 020. 00
1 classified laborer, at $1.75 per day___-_ 631. 75
4 skilled laborers, at $1.75 per day______ 280. 90
1 workman, at $65 per month___________ 780. 00
PHADOLERS wall Soe DTA OM bis. sees iL Or aks}
{MaboOrer atest oOMperemonthess =e. = ss 516. O1
di Waborermmatis40) perm monthes- 2 444. 00
AL DEON, Bile ESAs) [Oe 703. 13
2 laborers, at $2 per day_______ eee A 409.00
SIADOLEES ache Wei OC diye ee ee ee 2, 046. 00
16 laborers, at $1.75 per day____---_---_ 5, 442.68
BOMADOLeES sau SLO per dayes= =. ae 6, 256. 98
Ho NAVOLeI Abe: Pel Cayo ae ee 224. 38
8 helpers, at 75 cents per day__________ 374, 09
2 water boys, at 50 cents per day_______ 63. 59
2 wagons and teams, at $3.50 per day___ 1,005.39
8 horses and carts, at $1.75 per day______ 634. 40
MotalawaclesrormechaniGSset@s == awe eee $31, 274. 53

XLIX

RoOralediShUESeMentS= sweet tet ew eas ee ee $86, 746. 15

Balance July 1, 1907

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK, 1906.
Bildince Jd Why. OUG, ac Per lash TepOrge. ==. 22s) ee $4, 812. 05
DISBURSEMENTS.

PES CTL Ch 0 2S ee re ee eg Beas eS ee eae Bree See ke $310. 29
Biuildingemateniale san ee ee pe ee ee 830. 91
Fencing, cage material, ete ________ eee eee ae ie SEY 12250
Hood stor animal Sie sess =e ee OE ee ok Pron SE 1, 434. 91
Hreicht and: transportation of animals=== 2222 2 1, 024. 46
TRATES ee Ae aS a Se ee ee ee ee (3)
BU aaTn 0 a ee ae ee 5. 11
] Gib) ove) peepee koe eS se ae ee ee ee eee eee 70. 94
Machinery. clOOMmelCr te tee no ees MELE SLPS ee ee See 18. 40
Miscellaneous aise EU 8 es re Pe 52 Se es Be 195. 10
BAIT ES MOIS BO eSSe UC ee sen Ne oe ee eS ee 60. 384
Postage. telephone; and! telegraph 228 =) ts ea eee G0. 93
PNTEHASE Olean Soe ae eee ee ee ee eee 105. 28
Roadematerialean Ge ora git ce eee eee ee eee 48. 65
SEALIONEE WROD KS pRintin ge neCLC= === a= me ee eee Hae te
Nreessp lant et@esee see tee ee ee eee 3. 20
Wiiter Supply Sewerage, eles es 2228 fee eee 56. 72

NGO LACHES To WIEST OTN Sie ee a es ee ee oe 4, 300. 24

511. 81

To amount of disallowance in voucher No. 145_____--___~_--_---__- . 99

Balaneeweiulygrl eet 0 (epee an tee ee ee ea 512. 80

41780—08——-4
L REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK, 1905.

Balanceraulyad.1 906, aS spertast Ge pOl i= === === ee eee $151. 34
DISBURSEMENTS.

Sunveyinge plans ete 222322222. WPL ee een Petes et Sys, ee 150. 60

alan Cee ae ee ee ee a ee 1. 34

Balance carried, under provisions of Revised Statutes, section 3691, by the
Treasury Department to the credit of the surplus fund, June 50, 1907.

RECAPITULATION.

The total amount of funds administered by the Institution during the year
ending. June 30, 1907, appears from the foregoing statements to have been as
follows:

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

Toro Joe MGS afb by Il TA $10, 184. 13

InvRosany TeKceshores) Wo) dina BO, WOW 72, 363. 10
——_—_§— $82, 547. 23

APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTED BY CONGRESS TO THE CARE OF THE INSTITUTION.

International Hxchanges—Smithsonian Institution :

HrommbpalancegOt: AGU His 2 ele. eee eee $0. 06
Mrommebalancecof 190C= === += eee 905. 95
MoMA AYA aRoreNG MN none IGM = 28, 800. 00

$29, 706. O1
American Wthnology—Smithsonian Institution :

EromeapalanGer ot “O05 2 26 eee ee ee 4, 40
Pion [delle worerione IRs 622. 28
INiONaN) Ao RovenanoorM, oye IGN 40, 000. 00

40, 626. 68
Astrophysical Observatory—Smithsonian Institution :

Mromabalancesotwal 9Oay ss swee Se eee 22. 39
JMioyooe loves wave One: AMG NG ee ee 2, 246. 08

IMR, AOR eNO MN itoye IOV ee 14, 000. 00
—————— 16, 268. 47
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature—Smith-
sonian Institution:

LMopaay Hh ayarroyonerlinvoyal Moye ICO ee 5, 000. OO
Ruin of Casa Grande, Arizona—Smithsonian Institution :

INRoVeN Giypyye@jaeholo Opp INO 3, 000. 00
Furniture and fixtures—National Museum:

roma ain Ce nO beet (5a ee ee yee 88. 68

lM Rovoay os Wehoveaope INI He ee ee ee 2, 656. 98

HrOMPapHLODLL ato np LO reel Oia ee 20, 000. 00
————_——_ 22, 745. 66
Heating and lighting—National Museum:

OM Dalance ot 190h as ee ee i Ea eee 81. 02
Hromebalance: ot 19062 s=2= == ana git eee 1, 396. 75

IiRovenl, ghayaiwo)avekzynkoyn axoye IW Oo 18, 000. 00
——————— _ 19, 477.

=]
La |
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

Preservation of collections—National Museum:

From balance of 1905_____ DE oe ee eee, FE ee $571. 3
Prom aAlances Ol 19 OG we ee a Ne 4, 158. 70
LOMA PLOPLIatlOM) tO el QO (se ee 180, 000. 00

Books—National Museum:

Bron Mp alaHeen Oe OO ee ee Se is ee eS 60. 27
HMromep alancerotl GOGe sas a See eee ee ee (37. 82
LOMA pProprlaid On OL (jee a eee ee 2, 000. 00

Building repairs—National Museum :

Brompoalancerom 100s. eee Sie ees ST, 307. 59
HLOMebalancer Oe SOG = see-saw oe ees ey 4, 793. 48
JMRohaM Ayo) ONO LPIA Kay akoye WG OV 15, 000. 00

Postage—National Museum:
Bromma ppLOp mia lOMelO rk ia = te eee ee ee eee
Rent of workshops—National Museum:

ROMP DALAM Cente OOise c= ee ae ee .OS
Hromebalancerotel| GO0G== === aa eee =e zs .O8

EONS AP ONO Pl aekOM ast OTe 11 (ieee ee 4, 580. 00

Transportation of exhibits acquired from the Louisiana
Purchase Exposition—National Museum :
From balance of appropriation____ aa Le ee eee Sa eee
Printing and binding—Smithsonian Institution :
ERO AO OP GL GLO Oe) (fies ee ees ee
National Zoological Park:

RFOMmEp MAN Ces Otel OO ae a 151. 34

MEOmM balancer Or e100 Ge =a ee ee 4, 812. 05

Krom appropriatonetor 190% ss—2 =e a eee 95, 000. OO
SUMMARY.

STHEGN SONIA ENN SUE UG OMe eyes a en eee De ee

imiternait onallesxchanses sas see = 2 Pe
American, sWcthnolosyo= == Hse 2 eee
AS EFOpIYy sical ObservatOryeei= oem ee ee ee ee
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature______-_-_________
Ruiner CasaaG rade: tArizo nae sae es ee ee ee ee
National Museum:

SEN CTE NSU av LT Gl pe UTS CS ee ee ee 2? 4 G6
Heminesan ge ich ting eee en Ake ee eee I EET LT
IPreservenionv Or colechions2 === sess a 184, 780. 00
BOOK Sy eames Se ike = SEES as EO) ae ee Bay Se 2, 798. 09
Wil ine ware Wain Saeeawe SO bee oat Se ee 20, 101. 07
TOS Cele eee ee a es a) ee 500. 00
ReNG OLWOEKSHODS sae = es 4,580.16
Transportation of exhibits acquired from the Louisi-

ana Purchase Hi xposition=— =). = il, Wat, SS

PETG era Co OM CUI eee es lea a eee eee Ee ee
National Zoological Park

LI

20, 101. 07

500. 00

4, 580. 16

79, 000. 00

99, 963. 39

$82, 547. 23
29, 706. OL
40, 626. 68
16, 268. 47

5, 000. 00
3, 000. 00

256, 104. 08
70, 000. 00
99, 963. 59

605, 215. 86
Lil REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

Statement of regular income from the Smithsonian fund available for use
during the year ending June 80, 1908.

MESEDT ATN CMU TT aes LSU) 0 a pen a ge eee oe et a $24, 592. 01
Imterest due and receivable July 25 190722--=- === $28, 247. 01

Interest due and receivable January 1, 190S___________ 28, 347. 56

Interest, West Shore Railroad bonds, due July 1, 1907_ S40. OO

Interest, West Shore Railroad bonds, due January 1,

STIG) SS a Pe ak 2 ae Ee ES eee es S40. 00

Total available for year ending June 30, 190S_______________ 82, 866. 5S

Respectfully submitted.
J. B. HenpERSoN,
ALEXANDER GRAHAM BELL,
JoHN DawzeLt,
Executive Commitiee.
Wasurineton, D. C., January 18, 1908.
ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS RELATIVE TO THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, ETC.

{Continued from previous reports. |

[Fifty-ninth Congress, second session. ]
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the vacancy in the
Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, of the class other
than Members of Congress, shall be filled by the reappointment of
George Gray, a citizen of Delaware, whose term expired January
fourteenth, nineteen hundred and seven. (Approved January 21,
1907; Statutes, XXXIV, 1419.)

For the Smithsonian Institution, for printing and binding the
Annual Reports of the Board of Regents, with general appendixes,
ten thousand dollars; under the Smithsonian Institution, for the
Annual Reports of the National Museum, with general appendixes,
and for printing labels and blanks, and for the Bulletins and Pro-
ceedings of the National Museum, the editions of which shall not
exceed four thousand copies, and binding, in half turkey or material
not more expensive, scientific books and pamphlets presented to and
acquired by the National Museum Library, thirty-three thousand
dollars; for the Annual Reports and Bulletins of the Bureau of
American Ethnology, twenty-one thousand dollars; for miscellaneous
printing and binding for the International Exchanges, two hundred
dollars; the International Catalogue of Scientific Literature, one
hundred dollars; the National Zoological Park, two hundred dollars;
and the Astrophysical Observatory (including the publishing of re-
sults of researches, not exceeding one thousand five hundred copies),
two thousand dollars; and for the Annual Report of the American
Historical Association, seven thousand dollars; in all, seventy-three
thousand five hundred dollars. © (Approved March 4, 1907; Statutes,
XXXIV, 1367.)

- SmrrHsonian Deposrr [ Lrsrary or Coneress|: For custodian, one
thousand five hundred dollars; assistant, one thousand four hundred
Lit
LIV ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS.

dollars; messenger, seven hundred and twenty dollars; messenger boy,
three hundred and sixty dollars; in all, three thousand nine hundred
and eighty dollars. (Approved February 26, 1907; Statutes,
XXXIV, 949.)

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES.

For expenses of the system of international exchanges between the
United States and foreign countries, under the direction of the Smith-
sonian Institution, including salaries or compensation of all neces-
sary employees, and the purchase of necessary books and periodicals,
thirty-two thousand doliars. (Approved March 4, 1907; Statutes,
XXXIV, 1310.)

Nava Opservatory: For repairs to buildings, fixtures, and fences,
furniture, gas, chemicals, and stationery, freight (including trans-
mission of public documents through the Smithsonian exchange),
foreign postage, and expressage, plants, fertilizers, and all contingent
expenses, two thousand five hundred dollars. (Approved February
26, 1907; Statutes, XX XIV, 971.)

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

For continuing ethnological researches among the American In-
dians and the natives of Hawaii, under the direction of the Smith-
sonian Institution, including salaries or compensation of all neces-
sary employees and the purchase of necessary books and periodicals,
forty thousand dollars, of which sum not exceeding one thousand five
hundred dollars may be used for rent of building.

For protection of Casa Grande Ruin, in Pinal County, near Flor-
ence, Arizona, and for excavation on the reservation, to be expended
under the supervision of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, three thousand dollars.

(Approved March 4, 1907; Statutes, XX XIV, 1310.)

For American Ethnology, Smithsonian Institution, thirty-six dol-
lars and ninety-nine cents. (Approved March 4, 1907; Statutes,

XXXIV, 1403.)
ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.

lor maintenance of Astrophysical Observatory, under the direction
of the Smithsonian Institution, including salaries of assistants, the
purchase of necessary books and periodicals, apparatus, making neces-
sary observations in high altitudes, repairs and alterations of build-
ings and miscellaneous expenses, thirteen thousand dollars. (Ap-
proved March 4, 1907; Statutes, XXXIV, 1310.)
ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS. LV
INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE.

For the cooperation of the United States in the work of the Inter-
national Catalogue of Scientific Literature, including the preparation
of a classified index catalogue of American scientific publications for
incorporation in the International Catalogue, the expense of clerk
hire, the purchase of necessary books and periodicals, and other
necessary incidental expenses, five thousand dollars, the same to be
expended under the direction of the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution. (Approved March 4, 1907; Statutes, XX XIV, 1310.)

NATIONAL MUSEUM.

For completing the construction of the building for the National
Museum, and for each and every purpose connected with the same,
one million two hundred and fifty thousand dollars: Provided, That
if the superintendent of buildings and grounds, Library of Congress,
now in charge of the construction of the new Museum building and
the disbursing of all appropriations made for the work, be at any
time incapacitated to continue in such charge, the Board of Regents
of the Smithsonian Institution is hereby empowered to take charge
of the construction and to disburse appropriations made for the same.

For cases, furniture, fixtures, and appliances required for the exhi-
bition and safe-keeping of the collections of the National Museum, in-
cluding salaries or compensation of all necessary employees, twenty
thousand dollars.

For expense of heating, lighting, electrical, telegraphic, and tele-
phonic service for the National Museum, eighteen thousand dollars.

For continuing the preservation, exhibition, and increase of the col-
lections from the surveying and exploring expeditions of the Govern-
ment, and from other sources, including salaries or compensation of
all necessary employees, and all other necessary expenses, one hun-
dred and ninety thousand dollars, of which sum five thousand five
hundred dollars may be used for necessary drawings and illustrations
for publications of the National Museum.

For purchase of books, pamphlets, and periodicals for reference in
the National Museum, two thousand dollars.

For repairs to buildings, shops, and sheds, National Museum, in-
cluding all necessary labor and material, fifteen thousand dollars.

For rent of workshops and temporary storage quarters for the
National Museum, four thousand five hundred and eighty dollars.

For postage stamps and foreign postal cards for the National

Museum, five hundred dollars.
(Approved March 4, 1907; Statutes, XXXIV, 1311.)
LVI ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS.
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK,

For continuing the construction of roads, walks, bridges, water
supply, sewerage and drainage; and for grading, planting, and other-
wise improving the grounds; erecting and repairing buildings and
inclosures; care, subsistence, purchase, and transportation of animals;
including salaries or compensation of all necessary employees, and
general incidental expenses not otherwise provided for, including pur-
chase, maintenance, and driving of horses and vehicles required for
official purposes, ninety-five thousand dollars; one half of which sum
shall be paid from the revenues of the District of Columbia and the
other half from the Treasury of the United States.

For reconstructing and repairing roadways and walks, fifteen thou-
sand dollars.

(Approved March 4, 1907; Statutes, X XXIV, 1311.)

JAMESTOWN TERCENTENNIAL EXPOSITION.

* ok 33 *k * oe : BS

That April twenty-sixth, nineteen hundred and seven, is hereby
fixed as the date for the opening of said celebration inaugurated
by the Act of Congress approved March third, nineteen hundred and
five, and that November thirtieth, nineteen hundred and seven, is
hereby fixed as the date for the closing of the said celebration, and
said dates shall apply to the participation of the United States and
foreign countries in said celebration and in said exposition, as pro-
vided for by the Acts of Congress approved March third, nineteen
hundred and five, and June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and six.
(Approved February 9, 1907; Statutes, XXXIV, 887.)

AMENDMENTS TO GENERAL PRINTING ACT.

aod Any Executive Department, bureau, board, or independent
office of the Government submitting reports or documents in re-
sponse to inquiries from Congress shall submit therewith an esti-
mate of the probable cost of printing to the usual number. Nothing
in this paragraph relating to estimates shall apply to reports or
documents not exceeding fifty pages.

* * * Tf the publication so ordered be an annual report or
serial publication originating in or prepared by an Executive Depart-
ment, bureau, office, commission, or board, it shall not be numbered in
the document or report series of either House of Congress, but shall
be designated by title, as hereinafter provided. Of all Department
reports required by law to be printed, the usual number shall be
printed concurrently with the departmental edition.
ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS. LVI

x #  * Tn the binding of Congressional numbered documents
and reports, and Departmental publications furnished for distribu-
tion to State and Territorial libraries entitled by law to receive them,
every publication of sufficient size on any one subject shall hereafter
be bound separately, and receive the title suggested by the subject of
the volume; and the others, if of a general public character, shall
be arranged in convenient volumes and bound in a manner as
directed by the Joint Committee on Printing; and those not of a gen-
eral public character shall be delivered to the depositories in unbound
HORI epee

That in the printing of any document or report, or any publication
authorized by law to be printed, or hereafter authorized to be printed,
for distribution by Congress, the whole number of copies of which
shall not have been ordered within two years from the date of the
original order, the authority to print shall lapse, except as orders for
subsequent editions may be approved by the Joint Committee on
Printing, and then in no instance shall the whole number exceed the
number originally authorized by law.

(Approved March 1, 1907; Statutes, XX XIV, 1013, 1014.)
REPORT

OF THE

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
CHARLES Db. WALCOTT,
FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1907.

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

GENTLEMEN: I have the honor to submit a report showing the oper-
ations of the Institution during the year ending June 30, 1907,
including the work placed under its direction by Congress in the
United States National Museum, the Bureau of American Ethnology,
the International Exchanges, the National Zoological Park, the Astro-
physical Observatory, the Regional Bureau of the International
Catalogue of Scientific Literature, and the excavations on the Casa
Grande Reservation.

In the body of this report there is given a general account of the
affairs of the Institution, while the appendix presents a more detailed
statement by those in direct charge of the different branches of the
work. Independently of this the operations of the National Museum
and the Bureau of American Ethnology are fully treated in separate
volumes. The scientific work of the Astrophysical Observatory,
covering its researches for the past five years, will be described in
Volume IT of the Annals of the Observatory.

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

THH ESTABLISHMENT.

By act of Congress approved August 10, 1846, the Smithsonian
Institution was created an Establishment. Its statutory members
are “the President, the Vice-President, the Chief Justice, and the
heads of the Executive Departments.”

As organized on June 30, 1907, the establishment consisted of the
following ex officio members:

THeopore Roosevetr, President of the United States.

Cuaries W. Farrpanks, Vice-President of the United States.

1
2 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

Metvitts W. Furr, Chief Justice of the United States.
Enianv Root, Secretary of State.

Grorce B. Corretyou, Secretary of the he
Wiuui1am H. Tart, Secretary of War.

Cuarues J. Bonaparte, Attorney-General.

Gerorce von L. Meyer, Postmaster-General.

Vicror H. Mercatr, Secretary of the Navy.

James R. Garrietp, Secretary of the Interior.

James Wixson, Secretary of Agriculture.

Oscar S. Srraus, Secretary of Commerce and Labor.

THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

The Board of Regents consists of the Vice-President and the
Chief Justice of the United States as ex officio members, three mem-
bers of the Senate, three members of the House of Representatives,
and six citizens, “two of whom shall be residents of the city of
Washington, and the other four shall be inhabitants of some State,
but no two of them of the same State.”

The following appointments and reappointments of Regents were
made during the year: By appointment of the Speaker, December 3,
1906, Representative James R. Mann in place of Representative
R. R. Hitt, deceased; by joint resolution of Congress approved Janu-
ary 21, 1907, the Hon. George Gray to succeed himself; by appoint-
ment of the Vice-President on March 4, 1907, Senator S. M. Cullom
and Senator A. O. Bacon to succeed themselves. On January 28,
1907, the Hon. John Dalzell was elected a member of the executive
committee to fill the vacancy created by the death of Mr. Hitt.

It is with deep regret that I have to record the death of Repre-
sentative Robert R. Hitt on September 20, 1906. Mr. Hitt was a
member of the Board of Regents on the part of the House of Rep-
resentatives for more than thirteen years.

The membership of the Board at the end of the fiscal year was as
follows: The Hon. Melville W. Fuller, Chief Justice of the United
States, Chancellor; the Hon. Charles W. Fairbanks, Vice-President
of the United States; Senator 8. M. Cullom; Senator Henry Cabot
Lodge; Senator A. O. Bacon; Representative John Dalzell; Repre-
sentative James R. Mann; Representative W. M. Howard; Dr. James
B. Angell, of Michigan; Dr. Andrew D. White, of New York; the
Hon. J. B. Henderson, of Washington, D. C.; Dr. A. Graham Bell,
of Washington, D. C.; the Hon. Richard Olney, of Massachusetts;
and the Hon. George Gray, of Delaware.

At a meeting of the Board of Regents held March 12, 1903, the
following resolution was adopted :

Resolved, That in addition to the prescribed meeting held on the fourth
Wednesday in January, regular meetings of the Board shall be held on the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 3

Tuesday after the first Monday in December and on the 6th day of March,
unless that date falls on Sunday, when the following Monday shall be
substituted.

In accordance with this resolution, the Board met on December 4,
1906; January 23, 1907, and March 6, 1907. The proceedings of the
Board at these meetings will be found in its annual report to
Congress.

GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS.

It is with a deep sense of responsibility that I have assumed the
office of Secretary, and I greatly appreciate the honor conferred by
the Regents in electing me to the position. Once before, as acting
assistant secretary, I had administrative charge for nearly two years
of a most important branch of the Institution’s work, the United
States National Museum. I have been associated with the scientific
work of the Museum for almost a quarter of a century, and for many
years have been in close personal contact with other important
branches of the Institution’s activities.

I fully recognize the obligation resting upon the man who holds
the position which has been successively occupied by Joseph Henry,
Spencer F. Baird, and Samuel P. Langley. By a wise and conserva-
tive policy, maintaining at once the independence of the Smithsonian
fund and yet freely cooperating with the Government in securing aid
in the development of its branches, the Institution has reached a posi-
tion of eminence far beyond what might have been expected from the
comparatively small endowment which it possesses. It has, moreover,
on numerous occasions conducted in its initial stages scientific work
that has proven to be of great practical value, and when the experi-
mental stage was passed and their economic utility had been demon-
strated, the organizations and results obtained were turned over to the
Government. Through one or another of its agencies the name
Smithsonian Institution has been brought to the attention of scien-
tific workers in this country and in other lands and to those edu-
cated people generally who, though without special training in
science, desire to keep abreast of the progress of the world. It has
abandoned projects which other institutions had undertaken, on the
theory that there was plenty of work for all to do, and it has aided
investigators throughout the United States and indeed in foreign
lands as heartily as it has supported the work of its own staff.

In other words, I feel that I have come to an establishment unselfish
in its aims and willing to help all men in furtherance of the objects
for which it was founded—an institution devoted fully to the progress
and spread of knowledge in every field without limitation to one
branch of science or to all science, but having within its purview
the elevation of mankind through the increase and spread of know]l-
edge. The heads of the Institution thus far have been specialists
4 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

trained in different branches of knowledge. Henry was a physicist,
Baird a naturalist, Langley an astronomer and physicist. While
they were carrying on the general affairs of the Institution each of
these men pursued particular investigations. No one of them, how-
ever, allowed his judgment to be biased by the limitations of his own
specialty. I hope to follow in the footsteps of these men. In addi-
tion to guiding the affairs of the Institution, I expect to carry on
research work in geology and paleontology, and to prepare some
memoirs on these subjects which have occupied a large part of my
life. Such research work produces a greater sympathy and under-
standing of the special work of others; as in the past, it will in no
wise tend to alter the universal character of the Institution or to
limit my interest in all departments of research.

My predecessors have so wisely and so economically administered
the affairs of the Institution that I have come to a well-equipped
establishment with its traditions and its policy founded upon right
principles, and they do not appear to be susceptible of material
improvement. I shall, however, through special agencies created
from time to time, carefully study the workings of the Institution
and of all of its branches with the purpose of satisfying myself as
to existing conditions and methods, and in order to retain a practical
and high standard of administration.

Speaking for the Institution proper, it appears to me that it has
been developed to the full extent possible under its present endow-
ment. It can not have escaped the attention of observers that,
in the sixty years and more in which the Smithsonian Institution
has existed, few additions have come to its funds. While money has
been freely given for the enlargement of existing institutions of
learning and research and even more has been forthcoming for the
establishment of new ones, the fund of this Institution remains at
about $1,000,000, but a little over double what it was at its founda-
tion. The generous men and women who have supported science
and art in this country have possibly not considered the fact that
there is necessarily a waste in the founding of a new organization.
Moreover, a much greater amount of good can often be accomplished
by financially aiding an existing institution than by creating a new
one of the same type. That this Institution has popularity can not
be doubted, but it has seemed to suffer from one of its greatest advan-
tages, namely, its connection with the Government. Being a ward
of the nation, it is thought by the public to be a recipient of generous
Congressional appropriations. - While this is in a measure true for
the branches in charge of the Institution, yet no provision is made by
Congress for carrying on the activities of the Institution proper. I
think this is a very sound condition, but feel that it should be made
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 5

sufficiently clear to all who may be interested or become interested in
the Institution and its work.

There are numerous projects actually awaiting systematic develop-
ment that can not properly receive support, from the Government and
which from their nature might be advantageously conducted under
the charge of the Institution; these include, among others, the scien-
tific exploration of large areas of Central and South America; the in-
vestigation of various problems connected with the deposition of ores;
investigations in regard to the production of petroleum by artificial
means; the study upon a large scale of anthropological and ethno-
logical problems having direct bearing on the future American peo-
ple; the systematic study of seismological (earthquake) phenomena.
Although it may be held that the practical demonstration of these
problems will be provided for elsewhere, it must be borne in mind
that few scientific activities are without some ultimate relation to
practical affairs and that researches bearing directly upon the activi-
ties of the people and natural productions must be carried on from
the scientific point of view.

Tn order to further develop, if possible, that part of the Institution’s
programme which has to do with the diffusion of knowledge, I have
tentatively initiated a plan which will greatly enlarge the scope of
the Institution’s work in this respect. The carefully selected general
appendix to the Smithsonian Annual Report is the principal means,
aside from the International Exchange Service, whereby the Institu-
tion diffuses knowledge. Some 10,000 copies of these Reports are
printed, a large majority of which are placed in public libraries, where
they are accessible to many readers, while but a small proportion can
be sent to individuals. I have accordingly initiated a plan of having
prepared, in popular language, abstracts of the publications of the In-
stitution and sometimes special articles on the investigations in prog-
ress by the Institution. These have been distributed to the daily
newspapers, which, in the main, have made use of them. In this way
the material in the Reports and other publications of the Institution,
as well as the knowledge of current investigations, have been rendered
accessible to millions of readers.

Although I assumed the office of Secretary on the 31st of January,
1907, I continued, at the request of the President, the direction of
affairs of the Geological Survey, with which, however, my connection
as Director terminated on April 30.

In order that my time might be as free as possible for the affairs
of the Institution and for research work, I considered the question of
severing my relationship with the Carnegie Institution of Washing-
ton, of which I am a member of the board of trustees and of the
6 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

executive committee. After conferring, however, with my _ col-
leagues on that committee and with the members of the Board of
Regents, it was considered on all hands desirable and as productive of
harmonious and useful cooperation between two kindred institutions
that I should retain my membership of the board of trustees and of
the executive committee of the Carnegie Institution.

During the year the Smithsonian Institution cooperated with and
received the aid of most of the Government Departments, though I
may especially mention the Departments of State, Agriculture, In-
terior, and Commerce and Labor, and the valuable advice and assist-
ance received from the Department of Justice. Through its Ex-
change Service, its publications, its collections, and in many other
ways, the Institution continues in relation with most of the important
scientific establishments and universities in this country and other
lands, thus aiding the progress of science and preventing waste.
With the consent of the Regents I have tendered to the National
Academy of Sciences and the American Association for the Advance-
ment of Science office accommodations in the Smithsonian building,
which have been accepted by the officials of both of these important
national organizations. The Institution continues its cooperation
with the American Historical Association in accordance with the
provisions of the act incorporating that society. In general I deem
it one of the important functions of the Institution that it should
freely place its administrative machinery and opportunities at the
service of all the great national learned societies in the hope that the
work of all of them will be aided and duplication of labor and waste
of energy avoided.

ADMINISTRATION.

In the administration of the Institution the Secretary has the
valued aid of experienced officers and a well-trained staff. The
Museum is in the immediate charge of Mr. Richard Rathbun, an
Assistant Secretary of the Institution, and the Exchange Service, the
- Library, and the Regional Bureau for the International Catalogue of
Scientific Literature are under the supervision of Dr. Cyrus Adler,
an Assistant Secretary. Mr. W. H. Holmes is Chief of the Bureau
of American Ethnology, Dr. Frank Baker is Superintendent of
the National Zoological Park, and Mr. C. G. Abbot is Director of
the Astrophysical Observatory.

A system in vogue of conferences between the Secretary and these
officers on all subjects pertaining to the different branches has been
maintained. The Secretary, as executive officer of the Board of
Regents, deems the administration of the parent Institution his first

‘
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 7

care, but fully recognizes the importance of the branches supported
by the Government, many of which are inherent in the organic act
of the Institution, and desires, in cooperation with the Board and
the Congress, to administer and develop these important charges of
the Institution.

The duties of the Secretary from the date of the death of Mr.
Langley up to the end of January, 1907, when I was appointed to
that office, were performed with ability and fidelity by Mr. Richard
Rathbun, an Assistant Secretary of the Institution, by designation
of the Chancellor under authority of the act of May 13, 1894, pro-
viding for the appointment of an Acting Secretary.

It is gratifying to report that the current business of the Institu-
tion was conducted in a prompt and efficient manner, and that no
arrearages in the work of the Government branches under its direc-
tion had to be noted in the quarterly statements made to the Presiden<
and the annual statement made to Congress in accordance with law.

In view, however, of the recent examination by a commission
appointed by the President into the business methods of all of the
Government Departments, not including the branches under the
charge of the Smithsonian Institution, I thought it wise to appoint
a committee for the purpose of examining into the business methods
of the Institution and its several branches, with a view to suggesting,
if found desirable, improvements in the business methods of the
Institution and its various brariches, and in the transaction of busi-
ness between them and the Institution.

Mr. H. W. Dorsey, who had been for many years connected with
the Institution, was on March 29 appointed chief clerk.

Several amendments affecting the operation of the civil-service
Jaw and rules in their bearing on the personnel of the branches of the
Government service under the direction of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion were promulgated by Executive order during the year. The
only change in the rules, however, which affects the branches of the
Institution specifically is that announced in the Executive order of ,
April 15, 1907. This provides that the paragraph in the legislative
act approved June 22, 1906 (prohibiting the transfer of any employee
in the classified service from one Executive Department to another
until the employee shall have served for a term of three years in the
Department from which transfer is desired), may be waived in pro-
posed transfers to or from the Smithsonian Institution and certain
independent bureaus or offices of the Government, when in the judg-
ment of the Civil Service Commission the interests of the service so
require. :

41780—08-—_5
8 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.
FINANCES.

The permanent fund of the Institution and the sources from which
it was derived are as follows:

Deposited in the Treasury of the United States.

Bequestzotasmithson wel S46 S225 52 eae ee $515, 169. 00
ResiduaryelesacyeOr Smithson SOs ee 26, 210. 63
IDYQOORM CE ion Shiba Cie Waveney wei 108, 620. 37
Bequestof shames mElam il tomy 1 Sie eee $1, 000. 00
Accumulated interest on Hamilton fund, 1895__________ 1, 000. 00
2, 000. 00
iBequestrot simeon rrabel, ASS eee eee eee ee 500. 00
Deposit from proceeds of sale of bonds, 1881/_--_____-_____________ 51, 500. 00
Ghite wie Waves! (Ey eokes ohne, Wel a ee 200, 000. 00
Part of residuary legacy of Thomas G. Hodgkins, AOA SEE hare oT 8, 000. 00
WEPOSIEGETOM IE SAVAN SiO ty stIN COTTE yl (sy meee ee 25, 000. 00
Residuary, legacy, of Lhomas GG. Hodgkins’ 222s sss 7, 918. 69
Total amount of fund in the United States Treasury__-_-- 944, 918. 69

Held at the Smithsonian Institution.

Registered and guaranteed bonds of the West Shore Railroad Com-
pany (par value), part of legacy of Thomas G, Hodgkins_______ 42, 000. 00

Totalepermanent! find == 2. = eh ee eee ee ee 986, 918. 69

The balance of the residuary legacy of the late Thomas G. Hodg-
kins, exclusive of accumulated interest, consisted of United States
registered 4 per cent bonds of the par value of $7,850 maturing
July 1, 1907. These bonds were sold by order of the Board of Re-
gents, and the gross proceeds aggregating $7,918.69 were deposited in
the Treasury of the United States to the credit of the permanent
fund.

That part of the fund deposited in the Treasury of the United
States bears interest at 6 per cent per annum, under the provisions of
the act organizing the Institution and an act of Congress approved
March 12, 1894. The rate of interest on the West Shore Railroad
bonds is 4 per cent per annum.

The income of the Institution during the year, amounting to
$64,444.41, was derived as follows: Interest on the permanent fund,
$57,900; proceeds from claims in litigation, $1,292.56; interest of
Hodgkins residuary fund, $235.50, and miscellaneous sources,
$5,016.85; all of which was deposited in the Treasury of the United
States to the credit of the current account of the Institution.

With the balance of $10,184.13, on July 1, 1906, the total resources
for the fiscal year amounted to $74,628.54. The disbursements, which
are given in detail in the annual report of the executive committee,
amounted to $49,936.53, leaving a balance of $24,692.01. Of this
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 9

amount $100 was advanced for work yet incomplete and $24,592.01
was on deposit in the Treasury of the United States.

The Institution was charged by Congress with the disbursement
of the following appropriations for the year ending June 30, 1907:

IMtern a On Ale Chan Seger eee es eee ee $28, 800
PASTING TEL GAME ENT OL O Sag eee es een eS eS ee ee 40, 000
ASTRO DMYSICAlmO DSCLValOn yu == eee ee es re eee 14, 000
United States National Museum:
ASTIN GU get Cl SEA GUTS ae eee es pe ee es SE es ee 20, 000
Eeacin aan eet ohn tin ee ae ee eee 18, 000
ERESE Vat ONO fe COLLE CLIC See eg ee 180, 000
O10 Ks ee ne cae a ee ee Soe ee RE ee 2, 000
I OSTAG Cee eee eee ne ee ee ee Se ee ee Ee ee 500
ENERO ba WOEKS RODS == ee aa eeee a ee a te eee eee 4, 580
UE] GT SST aT Soe ee es es ee ey ee eee ne ee CL eee 15, 000
Nery lomulkelitnyes Troe Nea Cora ell Li ieseyo ene ee ee ee 500, 000
Natron dle Zoological (a aitkea e ses Se a ee ee ee 95, 000
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature______________________ 5, 000
Protection and excavation, ruin of Casa Grande, Arizona______________ 3, 000
SN © (reall eee eee eee eS ee Se ee 925, 880

The estimates forwarded to Congress in behalf of the Government
branches of the Institution, and the appropriations based thereon
for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1908, are shown in the following
table:

Estimates. | ADDrOD ES:
Mbe rma uOnalkexCh any GS mapa ae see seme nti ance ee ayslecais oitenicsisiosce abe siesa's $32, 000 | $32, 000
ATH eT CALVE LM OlOP yee mewesase cease totes seebris actec bec eo eeencemeecoose ses 50, 000 | 40, 000
AS trop hiysicalt@ODsemvatorynaa- we ce Senescence ste celeme esis ecinisioaine = ncaieeiee nec 14, 000 13, 000
National Museum:
MrAivUnetan Gites te sca ee see nee iee ne ecne orate eae Sclertarne oak erences 20, 000 20, 000
Heating and lighting .............- Eee ee eats oe Bee oes ee 18, 000 18, 000
iBreservationion COlleCthOnS =. aso-cee eae acet eee ca ee cece Bee e are 190, 000 | 190, 000
BOOKS eee geese yee ae Be oat cmieine cae Sm tcitiai ne ee eek Sous coe ccacesssteues 2,000 | 2,000
Bull Gin pare pala sss ewer ano Seen) eer Re a ee ee Nee re | 15, 000 | 15, 000
VET OL. OLKSHO Ps eae ae eae cee ee etate area ionic w ale eee Une Me cee cee oe eee 4,580 4,580
IPOStag es Joncecee tases eee NG ele ce nicole ae ea eeiate sineaee ae Sareianis sawace were coeeae 500 | 500
SUNAAay ANG wish iOPCMIN G2 = 222. jae se oaeice ccaetes cicisscijtecass -oase acme «| MNT 28 coals oe sees
New building Tom Na On we MUSeUIn) ease ee hee “eee ee ee oe oy seen | 1,250,000 | 1,250,000
National Zoological Park:
Nationale Zoolop ied liberia saves ste as ane sen eee ee esa a8 100, 000 95, 000
Repairing rondwaysrand walk ses ses eccss seers se \-a2 ae seiss coeecesersieasiace 15, 000 15, 000
Read jUusimentzot DOUNGETIESs a. = 2a5 keene aeeeeeee ee ceee so acc= = ese COF000 Ne asec
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature.....................-..------- 5, 000 5, 000
Protection and excavation, ruin of Casa Grande, Arizona................----- 3, 000 3, 000
OCHS sce meee tetera since a eele sede atisie cisions cc cietaisiedebesaceeeck | 1,790, 808 1, 703, 080

10 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.
EXPLORATIONS AND RESEARCHES.
STUDY OF OLDER SEDIMENTARY ROCKS.

During the past twenty years I have been studying the older sedi-
mentary rocks of the North American Continent from Newfoundland
to Alabama on the eastern side and from southeastern California to
northern Montana on the western. In the interior, east of the Rocky
Mountains, studies were carried on in Texas, South Dakota, Minne-
sota, and Wisconsin.

Three important sections remained to be examined—one of the
Lower Cambrian in western Nevada, one in northern Montana, and
another of the lower Paleozoic Rocks of the main range of the Rocky
Mountains in the vicinity of the Canadian Pacific Railroad.

The latter was selected for examination during the field season of
1907, and although the work did not begin until after the close of the
fiscal year I will here briefly recount some of its results. Early in
July, a camp outfit was secured at Field, British Columbia, and work
begun on Mount Stephen. Subsequently sections were studied and
measured at Castle Mountain, west of Banff, Alberta; at Lake Louise,
south of Laggan, Alberta, anal on Mount Bosworth on the Conti-
nental Divide near Hector, British Columbia.

Upwards of 20,000 feet of strata were carefully examined and
measured, and collections of fossils and rocks made from many locali-
ties. It was found that the Cambrian section included over 12,000
feet of sandstones, shales, and limestones, and that the three great
divisions of the Cambrian—the Lower, Middle, and Upper—were
represented in the section of Bow River series and the Castle Moun-
tain group. Characteristic fossils were found in each division.

ALASKAN EXPEDITION.

In continuation of work already satisfactorily begun, the Secretary
authorized, in April of the present year, an expedition for the col-
lection of the remains of large extinct vertebrates, particularly mam-
mals, in Alaska. Although fragmentary materials have been se-
cured there from time to time by various exploring parties and
mining expeditions, the country is still, to a considerable extent, a
virgin field, and the recent great development of the mining industry
makes the present time particularly favorable for the work proposed,
especially on account of the facilities for transportation thus rendered

available.
_ The expedition has been placed in charge of Mr. C. W. Gilmore; a
member of the staff of the National Museum, who will have the serv-
ices of a guide trained in the methods of the work to be accomplished
and thoroughly familiar with the regions to be explored.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. iil

The research is an important one and it is hoped by means of it to
increase our knowledge of the extinct fauna of the country, and to
add valuable and interesting specimens to the collection of the
Museum.

FOSSIL FISHES OF BRAZIL.

A moderate grant was approved for the preparation of an illus-
trated article, to be prepared in collaboration by Dr. David Starr
Jordan and Dr. J. C. Branner, on a unique collection of fossil fishes
from the Barra do Jardin, a locality near Ceara, Brazil.

About 1834 a collection of these fossil fishes was received by Louis
Agassiz, and from it he described seven new species, some of which
have never been seen since his time. Some species from the same lo-
eality are now in the British Museum, and Stanford University has
recently received nodules containing specimens of all those heretofore
described and probably several additional ones not before noted.
Doctors Jordan and Branner are thus enabled to give information
supplementary to any heretofore recorded in regard to this interest-
ing species of fossil fishes. An article describing the research will be
submitted to the Institution for publication when completed.

ARIZONA METEORITES.

In April, 1907, Dr. George P. Merrill, head curator of geology in
the National Museum, received a limited grant for the purpose of ex-
amining the remarkable craterform depression known as Coon Butte,
near Canyon Diablo, Arizona, with a view to determining whether it
was caused by explosive volcanic action, as assumed by some investi-
gators, or due to the impact of a mass of meteoric iron, as asserted by
others. In conducting the research a general survey was made of the
amount and distribution of meteoric irons and associated materials of
the locality.

Two preliminary papers, one describing a hitherto unrecognized
type of meteoric iron, and the other a peculiar form of metamorph-
ism in the siliceous sandstone of the Butte, have been submitted and
published in the Proceedings of the National Museum and the Smith-
sonian Miscellaneous Collections. The entire investigation will be
reported on in detail after the results are collated and arranged.

At the conclusion of the work at Coon Butte, Doctor Merrill visited
the fossil forest, near Adamana, Ariz., under the authorization of the
Department of the Interior, and made collections of the silicified
woods for the purpose of supplying the numerous applications re-
ceived from schools and colleges for such materials.

GEOLOGY OF THE ALPS.

The problem of the structure of the Alps, always a question of
intense interest, has been the subject of more than usual attention
12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

and discussion, especially in Europe, during the last five years. The
topic being one of vast importance in general geology aiso, it was
decided to make it the subject of special study during the summer of
1907, and Mr. Bailey Willis, a geologist prepared for the work by
previous experience and training, was detailed for the purpose, under
a grant from the Institution.

It is hoped that this investigation, the results of which will be
issued in one of the Smithsonian publications, will aid in solving
questions of great importance in general geology.

SEISMOLOGICAL INVESTIGATIONS.

The great earthquake at San Francisco brought prominently to the
attention of scientific men and establishments the importance of
seismological study, and when on August 16, 1906, the earthquake in
Chile took place, it seemed desirable that a competent investigator
should be sent to that country to make a study on the spot in order
that the disturbance in Chile might be compared with that in Cali-
fornia, and utilized for the furtherance of knowledge of this im-
portant subject.

Through the courtesy of the Department of State cable communica-
tion was had with the American minister in Chile, and it was ascer-
tained that the Government of Chile had appointed a commission
consisting of competent astronomers and geologists and that there
was no need of sending an observer from the Institution. The
American minister in Chile and Mr. Heber D. Curtis, of the Lick
Observatory Station, at Santiago, kept the Institution informed as
to the progress of the investigation. In general it seems to be de-
termined that there had been some elevation of the coast of Chile and
that on the other hand there had been found no traces of a rift such
as caused the earthquake at San Francisco. Brief abstracts from the
communications received have been published from time to time in
the Smithsonian Quarterly.

Meanwhile the importance of seismological investigation, both
national and international, has received attention, and plans have been
considered for establishing stations in this country, but the Institu-
tion is without funds to further the object, and attempts to secure
special means or endowment for the purpose have as yet not met
with satisfactory results.

In connection with this subject it should be said that the frequent
reports of observations of earthquakes at sea which reach the Hydro-
graphic Office of the Navy Department are, through the courtesy of
that Department, regularly transmitted to the Institution and are
made known to students interested in this subject with the hope that
all the data when correlated may prove of advantage in the study of
these great destructive phenomena.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 13
ABERODROMIC RESEARCHES.

Although the experimental work in aerodromics begun by Secre-
tary Langley is not now being carried on at the Institution, it can
not but be gratifying to note the fact that this subject, which was
placed upon a solid foundation by the research work of Mr. Langley,
is more and more engaging the attention of physicists and engineers,
military establishments, and students throughout the world, and that
the impetus given to it by my predecessor is everywhere recognized.
This Institution has by no means abandoned its interest in the sub-
ject, and the collection of books and pamphlets brought together
here is maintained as a separate collection and rendered accessible to
students. I have made a special grant to Mr. C. M. Manly, who was
associated with Mr. Langley in this work, for the completion of a
memoir bringing the experiments up to 1905, and another for the
preparation of a bibliography on the subject, which it is hoped may
be useful to students.

Dr. Alexander Graham Bell, a Regent of the Institution, and a
distinguished student of many natural problems, is engaged upon
aerodromic experiments which it is expected will prove useful and
important. He and others have used, it is hoped with profit, the
material in the collections gathered here. The prominence of the
Institution in this subject has made the National Museum the natural
place of deposit for the original types of different forms of flying
machines, and there is no doubt but that the most important types of
models of the early attempts to solve this great subject will be found
in the collections here.

The engine of the large aerodrome was displayed in New York at
the exhibition of the Aero Club in December, 1906.

INVESTIGATIONS UNDER THE HODGKINS FUND.

STUDY OF ATMOSPHERIC AIR IN RELATION TO MANKIND.

Investigations on subjects of general hygienic interest, such as
have been promoted since the beginning of the administration of the
Hodgkins fund, continue to receive encouragement. Publications
are issued in this connection, and communications addressed to the
Institution on subjects which the fund may properly aid, do not fail
to receive attention. The Hodgkins gold medal, which is bestowed
for important contributions to our knowledge of the nature and
properties of atmospheric ‘air, or for practical applications of our
existing knowledge of them to the welfare of mankind, is a testi-
monial not only to the wishes of the founder of the fund, but also an
expression of the interest of the Institution in this regard.
14 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

Among other topics, the question of the effective ventilation of
buildings has been given attention, and initiative steps have been
taken to learn what investigators are making a serious study of this
important subject. The vitiation of the exterior atmosphere in
closely settled localities is also recognized as a question of great im-
portance to the dwellers in cities, and an effort is making through the
publications of the Hodgkins fund to disseminate the results of late
noteworthy investigations in this connection.

The application of atmospheric air to therapeutics has received
consideration, and while no research having for its object the direct
‘use of the atmosphere as a curative agent has, as yet, been aided, the
work furthered by the fund, excepting that which deals almost ex-
clusively with the mechanics of the atmosphere, is closely related to
medicine and hygiene. Consequently the reports of investigations
and experiments prosecuted in widely separated localities, such as
London, South Africa, Paris, and the cities of our own country,
have been followed with interest, in common with all classes of
research which make broader the way for the practical utilization of
our knowledge of the nature and properties of atmospheric air for
the welfare of mankind.

ABSOLUTE MEASURE OF SOUND.

The research of Dr. A. G. Webster, of Clark University, on the
absolute measure of sound, which was aided again during the present
year by a moderate grant from the Hodgkins fund, is reported as
advancing satisfactorily toward completion. The instruments pre-
pared especially for use in this research are expected to prove of
service in solving many practical questions relating to sound, such,
for instance, as the testing of sound-proofing materials, or of audible
signals. In conducting the investigation many delicate points in the
theory of such instruments have been settled by actual experiment,
so that, in some particulars, the experimental knowledge is in advance
of the present mathematical theory.

The manuscript describing the methods and results of this research
will be submitted to the Institution for publication when completed.

PROPERTIES OF MATTER AT VERY LOW TEMPERATURES.

The investigation of the properties of matter at very low tempera-
tures, involving the use of liquid air, in aid of which a grant was
approved in 1906, from the Hodgkins fund of the Institution on
behalf of Prof. E. L. Nichols, of Cornell University, has been
steadily progressing. The research is now to enter on a careful study
of the index of the refraction of gases, and gaseous mixtures and va-
pors, over extreme ranges of pressure of temperature. The effect on the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. LS

physical properties of carbon of the remarkable absorption of gases
at low temperatures is to be investigated, and two methods of deter-
mining the specific heat of gases have been perfected. The investiga-
tion of the properties of matter at the temperature of liquid hydrogen
will also be continued and the results recorded.

STUDY OF THE UPPER ATMOSPHERE.

The meteorological experiments of Mr. A. Lawrence Rotch with
registering balloons, conducted from St. Louis as the starting point,
have been again aided by a grant from the Hodgkins fund. Before
the close of similar experiments by Mr. Rotch from the same point
in 1906, the extreme height of nearly 10 miles was attained, and a
temperature of —76° F. was once recorded somewhat below 7 miles.

This final series of ascensions aided by the Institution is intended
to supply data for the season of the year in which observations of
the upper air have heretofore been the least frequent, and it is hoped
that the endeavor to ascertain the annual variation of temperature
at great heights in the free air above the American continent will
thus be materially furthered.

A summary of the results of the meteorological research conducted
by Mr. S. P. Fergusson, mentioned in the previous Report as having
been aided by a moderate grant from the Hodgkins fund of the
Institution, has been submitted.

Stations for these experiments were established on the summit of
Mount Washington, 1,916 meters above sea level, and at Twin
Mountain, 1,500 meters lower and 15 miles distant. Louvred shelters
were built for the proper exposure and protection of the instruments
at these stations, and the anemometer was erected on the old Tip Top
House, the highest point on the summit of Mount Washington.
Records were made at the stations, as nearly as possible continuous,
of pressure, temperature, humidity, and wind velocity, while the
meteorographs recording the same elements were sustained by kites
in the free air for as long a time as possible during the research.
Observations of the formation of clouds on the mountain and in the
free air were also made.

While the apparatus used in this research was the same in principle
as that heretofore employed, it is hoped that certain devices which
were suggested by the conditions, and successfully adopted, will
prove advantagegus in later experiments. The time available for
this research was necessarily limited, but the kites on several different
occasions carried the meteorograph sufficiently high for comparison
with the records obtained on Mount Washington. On the 6th of
September the instrument was kept at approximately the same height
in the free air and on the summit of Mount Washington for eight
hours between noon and 10 o’clock p. m.
16 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

In view of the short time, practically about three weeks, during
which the climatic conditions rendered it possible to prosecute this
research, its results as reported by Mr. Fergusson may be considered
satisfactory.

MECHANICS OF THE EARTH’S ATMOSPHERE.

There was published by the Institution several years ago a volume,
entitled “Mechanics of the Earth’s Atmosphere,” which consisted
of translations of articles by various eminent meteorologists. Ar-
rangements have been made with Prof. Cleveland Abbe, editor of the
first volume, for the preparation of a second volume on the same topic.

THE ORGANS OF FLIGHT.

An additional grant has been approved this year on behalf of Dr.
R. von Lendenfeld, of the University of Prague, for an investigation
of the organs of flight of the best representative flyers of the insect
orders—Lepidoptera, Hymenoptera, and Diptera. A detailed ac-
count of this research will be submitted on its conclusion for publica-
tion by the Institution if desired.

Previous researches of Doctor von Lendenfeld have been described
in articles prepared under his supervision by Drs. Leo Walter and
Bruno Miller. Doctor Walter’s article, already published, was
referred to in the previous report. The paper by Doctor Miiller
on the air sacs of the pigeon is now in course of publication.

SMITHSONIAN TABLE AT NAPLES ZOOLOGICAL STATION.

In July, 1906, the renewal of the lease of the Smithsonian table
in the Naples Zoological Station for a term of three years from Janu-
ary 1, 1907, was decided on, and the director so informed. Doctor
Dorhn, with his usual ready courtesy, at once ‘notified the Institution
of his willingness to arrange for a double occupancy by extending
the time of an appointee then conducting an important research at
Naples, although the seat had already been assigned for the period
in question to another investigator.

It is the intention of the Institution to interfere in no way with
the regular assignment of the table, and the desire of the Director
to maintain the international character of the station by encouraging
the action of the various countries in supporting individual tables
is fully appreciated. Nations widely separated, at least geographic-
ally, meet there on the common ground of interest in science, and
thus, as an appointee of the Smithsonian seat expressed in his report
to the Institution, an international peace congress, the importance of
which can not be overestimated, is always in session at the Naples
Zoological Station.
fod

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. ng

Several appointments to the Smithsonian table at Naples were
ratified for the period between June 30, 1906, and June 30, 1907, the
entire occupation of the seat for the year beimg eleven months.
Since inquiries as to available dates are frequently received a year
or even two years in advance of the time desired, it may be well
to repeat that in the interest of all applicants it is not customary
to approve a request for the seat more than six months in advance of
the period desired.

By extension of his appointment, Dr. Stewart Paton, of Johns
Hopkins University, occupied the Smithsonian seat until the end
of June, 1906. His work at Naples dealt principally with the prob-
lems hitherto unsolved in connection with the nervous system and its
relations to the action of the heart. As before noted, the results of
this interesting research will be published on completion.

The occupation of the Smithsonian seat at Naples by Dr. Maynard
M. Metcalf, formerly of the Woman’s College in Baltimore, and now
of Oberlin College, began before the close of the final session of
Doctor Paton. Doctor Metcalf reports that on beginning his term
at the station he continued his study of the parasites of frogs prose-
cuted at Wiirzburg and designed for publication in connection with
work done there.

There being apparently some doubt as to whether or not the advan-
tages of the Smithsonian seat at Naples are available to hitherto
unknown investigators, it may be well to state again that the applica-
tion of any student, who is suitably recommended to the Institution
as prepared to undertake original work in embryological, histological,
or other fields, will not fail to receive prompt consideration.

The continued prompt and helpful action of the advisory commit-
tee in reporting on questions relating to appointments, etc., is appre-
ciated. Iam glad to say that the personnel of the committee remains
the same as mentioned in the report of last year.

PUBLICATIONS.

It is mainly through its publications that that vital principle of
the Institution, “ the diffusion of knowledge among men,” is carried
out. The Institution proper maintains three regular series of pub-
lications, the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, the Smith-
sonian Miscellaneous Collections, and the Annual Reports, while
under its auspices are issued the Annual Reports, Proceedings, and
Bulletins of the National Museum, the Reports and Bulletins of the
Bureau of American Ethnology, and the Annals of the Astrophysical
Observatory, the whole presenting a fund of information covering
a wide range of human knowledge in both a specialized and general
form.
18 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

The Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, now in their thirty-
fifth volume, are restricted to the publication of positive additions
to human knowledge resting on original research, all unverified specu-
lation being rejected. The Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections
are designed to contain reports on the present state of our knowl-
edge in particular branches of science, instructions for collecting
and digesting facts and materials for research, lists and synopses of
species of the organic and inorganic world, reports of explorations,
and aids to bibliographical investigations. This series is now in its
fiftieth volume, and in the quarterly issue provision has been made
for the early publication of short papers descriptive of new discov-
erles or oune information of current interest in all departments
of science.

In the Seon Contributions to Knowledge several important
works are in press. One of these is a memoir on “Glaciers of the
Canadian Rockies and Selkirks,” by Dr. William H. Sherzer, of the
Michigan State Normal College, which is a final report on the Smith-
sonian expedition of 1904. A preliminary report on this expedition
was published in the quarterly issue of the Smthsonian Miscel-
laneous Collections in 1905. There is also a work by Prof. E. A.
Andrews, of Johns Hopkins University, on “The young of the cray-
fishes astacus and cambarus,” giving the results of long and careful
observation of the growth of these common animals.

Prof. Hubert Lyman Clark, of the Museum of Comparative
Zoology at Cambridge, Mass., who has been at work for some time
classifying and describing the specimens of Apodous Holothurians, or
sea cucumbers, in the National Museum—a collection numbering over
a thousand specimens from the shores of North and South America—
has submitted a report embracing the result of his study on the fami-
lies Synaptidee and Molpadiide which will appear some time during
the next year. Other memoirs for the series of Contributions are in
preparation.

The quarterly issue of the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections,
which was temporarily suspended in 1905, was resumed in September,
1906. Since then parts 3 and 4 of Volume III, and part 1 of Volume
LV, have been completed. Among the recent papers published in this
series is a “ Letter of Dr. Diego Alvarez Chanea,” dated 1494, re-
lating to the second voyage of Columbus to America, which was trans-
lated and annotated by Dr. Fernandez de Ybarra. This letter is
notable as being the first “written document of the natural history,
ethnography, and ethnology of America.”

In the regular series of Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections
there has been completed a second paper on the “Attainment of very
low temperatures ” dealing with the “self-intensive process of liquefy-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. Ibs)

ing gases.” This paper is a report on researches carried on under a
Hodgkins grant by Dr. Morris W. Travers, of the University College,
Bristol, England.

Two other papers are very nearly completed. One is a “ Report
on the Crustacea of the North Pacific Exploring Expedition of
1853-1856,” by the late Dr. William Stimpson. This manuscript
has been in hand since 1872, but for various reasons could not here-
tofore be published. The whole work was carefully gone over by
Miss Mary J. Rathbun, Assistant Curator of Marine Invertebrates
in the National Museum, who says in her preface:

The . . . report has.been treated as an historical document, and is pub-
lished substantially as it was written by the author, the only additions being
the references to his preliminary descriptions, and the footnotes giving the
current or accepted name where it differs from that used by Doctor Stimpson.
It is hoped that the value of the descriptions will more than compensate for
the antiquated nomenclature . . . there are very few students who have
not felt the need of more light on those rare genera and species known only
from brief Latin diagnoses.

Another publication is a “ Catalogue of Earthquakes on the Pacific
Coast from 1897 to 1906,” compiled by Mr. Alexander G. McAdie, as
a supplement to the list of earthquakes from 1769 to 1896, compiled
by Dr. E. S. Holden, and published in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous
Collections in 1898.

A new edition of the Smithsonian Meteorological Tables to meet the
continued demand for this work is in press. The plates have been
considerably revised by Prof. Cleveland Abbe to meet present re-
quirements. :

The Annual Report of the Board of Regents to Congress, which is
printed at the Government Printing Office, has been the chief me-
dium through which the Institution has been enabled to disseminate
scientific information to the world at large. Besides the official
account of the operations of the Institution, this report has for over
half a century included a general appendix giving a record of the
progress in different branches of knowledge, compiled largely from
journals in foreign languages and the transactions of scientific and
learned societies throughout the world. The considerable number
of copies of this publication placed by Congress at the disposal of
the Institution has rendered possible a wide distribution to important
libraries and institutions of learning, but the allotment is wholly
insufficient to supply more than a small fraction of the individual
requests, and the popular demand for the volume has so constantly
increased that the entire edition of each year’s report is exhausted
within a few months of its appearance.

The Institution proper distributed during the year a total of
32,921 volumes and separates of Smithsonian Contributions to Knowl-
20 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

edge, Miscellaneous Collections, Annual Reports, publications not
included in the regular series, and publications not Smithsonian.¢

The Proceedings of the United States National Museum, the first
volume of which was issued in 1878, are intended as a medium for the
publication of original papers based on the collections of the Museum,
setting forth newly acquired facts in biology, anthropology, and
geology, or containing descriptions of new forms and revisions of
limited groups. A volume is issued annually or oftener for distri-
bution to libraries and scientific establishments, and in view of the
importance of the more prompt dissemination of new facts a limited
edition of each paper is printed in pamphlet form in advance. The
dates at which these separate papers are published are recorded in
the table of contents of the volume. The Museum Bulletin, publica-
tion of which was begun in 1875, comprises a series of more elaborate
papers issued separately, and, like the Proceedings, is based chiefly,
if not wholly, on the collections of the Museum. A quarto form of
the Bulletin, known as the “ Special Bulletin,” has been adopted in a
few instances in which a larger size of page was deemed indispen-
sable. Since 1902 the volumes of the series known as “ Contributions
from the National Herbarium,” and containing papers relating to the
botanical collections of the Museum, have been published in the
Bulletin series.

The Annual Report of the Museum is printed as a separate volume
of the report of the Board of Regents to Congress.

The publications of the Bureau of American Ethnology, consisting
of annual reports and bulletins, relate to the operations of the Bureau
in its various branches of exploration and research. Part I of the
Handbook of American Indians (A to M) was issued in March and
the main portion of Part II is in type. The Twenty-fourth Annual
Report has been published and much progress made on the Twenty-
fifth Report. Several Bulletins have been issued.

The Annual Report of the American Historical Association for the
year 1905 was transmitted to Congress in May, 1906, under the re-
quirements of the act of incorporation of the association, but only one
of the two volumes had been completed at the close of the fiscal year.
The Smithsonian Institution is by law allowed a number of copies of
reports of this association, which are distributed in exchange for the
publications of various foreign and American historical societies.

There was also forwarded to Congress on February 25, 1907, the
ninth report of the National Society of the Daughters of the Ameri-
can Revolution, in accordance with the act of incorporation of that
organization.

a Contributions to Knowledge, 775; Miscellaneous Collections, 10,059; Reports,
18,490; publications not in regular series, 2,890; publications not Smithsonian,
709.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. Peal

In accordance with the act of Congress approved March 30, 1906,
providing that the cost of printing end binding for the Executive
Departments and Government bureaus shall be charged to specific
appropriations for the Departments and bureaus, and the further
provision in the sundry civil act of June 30, 1906, that no appropria-
tions except those specifically for printing and binding shall be used
for such purpose, special allotments have been made to the Institution
and its branches for the year ending June 30, 1908, as follows:

For the Smithsonian Institution for printing and binding annual reports

of the Board of Regents, with general appendixes______-___--__-___ $10, 000
For the annual reports of the National Museum, with general appen-

dixes, and for printing labels and blanks, and for the bulletins and

proceedings of the National Museum, the editions of which shall not

exceed 4,000 copies, and binding, in half turkey or material not more

expensive, scientific books and pamphlets presented to and acquired

DyatheeNationaleMuseum Library == 22-8 2s ee ee ee 33, 000
For the annual report and bulletins of the Bureau of American HEth-
IC LC) ye eee ce es ci a es ee Sn EE en Pee a 21, 000
For miscellaneous printing and binding:
internationalwexchan resets sa 8 a ee ee 200
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature_________________ 100
Nationale Z0ologicale Parkas. 2a ie Sa eee ee 200
Astrophysical Observatory (including the publishing of results of
researches, not exceeding 15500 (coples) == == a ee 2, 000
Annual report of the American Historical Association____________ 7, 000
ET halle ee ee ree OS) ae re a res ieee Ae See Se ee 73, 500

The allotments to the Institution and its branches under the head of
public printing and binding during the past fiscal year were as far as
practicable expended prior to June 30. It was, however, difficult to
determine the actual balances available at any particular date, for the
reason that the actual cost of publications in press could not be ascer-
tained until their completion. The estimates not being accurate
enough to serve as a basis for calculation, the transmission of new
works was in some cases delayed so long that their completion was
impracticable before the appropriation had expired. In the case of
the allotment of $10,000 for the Smithsonian Reports it was thus pos-
sible to expend only $8,127.98; of $21,000 allotted to the Bureau of
American Ethnology, $19,831.76 was expended, and of the $39,000
allotted for the National Museum and the American Historical Asso-
ciation there was expended $38,980.47.

ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PRINTING AND PUBLICATION.

The advisory committee on printing and publication appointed by
the Acting Secretary on February 7, 1906, in order that the practice
of the Institution in the supervision of its publications might corre-
spond with that of the Executive Departments as prescribed in the
22 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

President’s order of January 24, 1906, held twenty-six meetings dur-
ing the year and reported on one hundred and one manuscripts sub-
mitted for publication, besides numerous blank forms for use in the
bureaus of the Institution.

Dr. Leonhard Stejneger, of the National Museum, has been added
to the committee, which consists of the following members: Dr. Cyrus
Adler, Assistant Secretary, chairman; Dr. F. W. True, of the United
States National Museum; Mr. F. W. Hodge, of the Bureau of Ameri-
ean Ethnology; Dr. Frank Baker, of the National Zoological Park;
Mr. C. G. Abbot, of the Astrophysical Observatory; Mr. W. I.
Adams, of the International Exchanges; Mr. A. Howard Clark, of
the Smithsonian Institution, and Dr. Leonhard Stejneger, of the
United States National Museum.

The printing committee has had under consideration the advan-
tage of a uniform system of abbreviation of works cited by natural-
ists in their publications. A preliminary list of abbreviations has
been prepared for the criticism of the scientific staff of the Institution
and its branches.

Dating of publications—Among the questions considered by the
printing committee was the dating of publications, particularly such
papers as contain descriptions of new genera or species in natural
history, and upon the recommendation of the committee the Institu-
tion has adopted the rule that “ whenever fifty copies of any paper
shall have been mailed or distributed by messenger, the paper shall
be regarded as having been published, it being understood that the
date of such mailing or distribution shall coincide with the date of
record in the Smithsonian document rooms and with the date printed
upon the publication.”

Durable book paper.—The introduction of a very large portion of
wood pulp and ground wood in book paper to the exclusion of cotton
- or linen rags formerly used in its manufacture has been found greatly
to decrease the durability of modern publications. The printing com-
mittee, after considering this problem, concluded that paper hereafter
used in Smithsonian publications should be composed of not less than
50 per cent of rag stock and be free from injurious chemicals. Defi-
nite specifications as to the composition of paper will later be formu-
lated, in cooperation with the Executive Departments.

THE LIBRARY.

The total accessions during the year to the Smithsonian library
aggregated in volumes and parts 34,382. The major part of these
was placed in the Smithsonian deposit in the Library of Congress,
but these accessions include the libraries of the Secretary’s office, the
National Museum, the Astrophysical Observatory, and the National
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. a3

Zoological Park. There were also numerous additions to the library
of the Bureau of American Ethnology, which is separately adminis-
tered. It is estimated that the equivalent of 11,000 volumes were
transmitted to the Library of Congress besides public documents and
other gifts to that Library transmitted through the International
Exchange service, and such public documents as were presented to
the Institution and sent direct to the Library. Two hundred and fifty
new periodicals were added to the receipts and some 600 defective
series were partially or entirely filled up. The work of the Inter-
national Catalogue has brought a considerable number of authors’
separates to the Library. Efforts have been made to increase the
series of address books in the office of the International Exchanges
service. The estate of S. P. Langley turned over to the Institution ©
his scientific library, which has been divided up among the various
divisions. The Gen. Watts de Peyster library of Napoleon and other
subjects was increased about 288 volumes. It is with regret that
I record the death of General de Peyster, who was a well-known
collector and had been for many years a generous donor to the
Institution.

The quarters of the library both in the Institution and Museum
are entirely inadequate, and no relief seems possible until the com-
pletion of the new building for the National Museum, when it is
hoped that a large part of the main floor of the Smithsonian build-
ing can be devoted to library purposes, forming a central library for
the Institution and all its branches, though of course the sectional
library system will be continued as heretofore.

PRESERVATION OF ARCHEOLOGICAL SITES.

The Institution has for many years taken a deep interest in pre-
serving archeological objects on the public domain from vandals and
relic hunters and making them accessible under proper regulations
to scientific institutions and colleges. A law covering this subject
was approved on June 8, 1906. Under the terms of this act uniform
regulations for its administration were to be prepared by the Secre-
taries of the Interior, War, and Agriculture. At the request of the
Departments, the Institution participated in several conferences of
representatives of the three Departments looking to the preparation
_ of such rules, which were promulgated on December 28, 1906. A
little later some dissatisfaction was expressed with these regulations
by archeologists, and at their request I invited the three Departments
to reconsider the regulations. Accordingly, further conferences were
held by representatives of the Departments, of the Institution, and of
the Archeological Institute of America, resulting in the understand-

41780—08——6
24 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

ing that the present regulations should have a reasonable trial before
any amendment be considered. The regulations are as follows:

UNIFORM RULES AND REGULATIONS PRESCRIBED BY THE SECRETARIES OF
THE INTERIOR, AGRICULTURE, AND WAR TO CARRY OUT THE PROVISIONS
OF THE “ ACT FOR THE PRESERVATION OF AMERICAN ANTIQUITIES,”
APPROVED JUNE 8, 1906 (84 sraT. L., 225.)

1. Jurisdiction over ruins, archeological sites, historic and_pre-
historic monuments and structures, objects of antiquity, historic
landmarks, and other objects of historic or scientific interest, shall be
exercised under the act by the respective Departments as follows:

By the Secretary of Agriculture over lands within the exterior
limits of forest reserves, by the Secretary of War over lands within
the exterior limits of military reservations, by the Secretary of the
Interior over all other lands owned or controlled by the Government
of the United States, provided the Secretaries of War and Agri-
culture may by agreement cooperate with the Secretary of the In-
terior in the supervision of such monuments and objects covered by
the act of June 8, 1906, as may be located on lands near or adjacent to
forest reserves and military reservations, respectively.

2. No permit for the removal of any ancient monument or struc-
ture which can be permanently preserved under the control of the
United States zm situ, and remain an object of interest, shall be
granted.

3. Permits for the examination of ruins, the excavation of archeo-
logical sites, and the gathering of objects of antiquity will be granted,
by the respective Secretaries having jurisdiction, to reputable muse-
ums, universities, colleges, or other recognized scientific or educa-
tional institutions, or to their duly authorized agents.

4. No exclusive permits shall be granted for a larger area than
the applicant can reasonably be expected to explore fully and system-
atically within the time limit named in the permit.

5. Each application for a permit should be filed with the Secretary
having jurisdiction, and must be accompanied by a definite outline of
the proposed work, indicating the name of the institution making
the request, the date proposed for beginning the field work, the
length of time proposed to be devoted to it, and the person who will
have immediate charge of the work. The application must also con-
tain an exact statement of the character of the work, whether ex-
amination, excavation, or gathering, and the public museum in which
the collections made under the permit are to be permanently pre-
served. The application must be accompanied by a sketch plan or
description of the particular site or area to be examined, excavated,
or searched, so definite that, it can be located on the map with reason-
able accuracy.

6. No permit will be granted for a period of more than three years,
but if the work has been diligently prosecuted under the permit, the
time may be extended for proper cause upon application.

7. Failure to begin work under a permit within six months after it
is granted, or failure to diligently prosecute such work after it has
been begun, shall make the permit void without any order or pro-
ceeding by the Secretary having jurisdiction.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 25

8. Applications for permits shall be referred to the Smithsonian
Institution for recommendation.

9. Every permit shall be in writing and copies shall be trans-
mitted to the Smithsonian Institution and the field officer in charge
of the land involved. The permittee will be furnished with a copy
of these rules and regulations.

10. At the close of each season’s field work the permittee shall re-
port in duplicate to the Smithsonian Institution, in such form as its
Secretary may prescribe, and shall prepare in duplicate a catalogue of
the collections and of the photographs made during the season,
indicating therein such material, if any, as may be available for
exchange.

11. Institutions and persons receiving permits for excavation shall,
after the completion of the work, restore the lands upon which they
have worked to their customary condition, to the satisfaction of the
field officer in charge.

12. All permits shall be terminable at the iheavstan of the Secre-
tary having jurisdiction.

13. The field officer in charge of land owned or controlled by the
Government of the United States shall, from time to time, inquire
and report as to the existence, on or near such lands, of ruins and
archeological sites, historic or prehistoric ruins or monuments,
objects of antiquity, historic landmarks, historic and _ prehistoric
structures, and other objects of historic or ‘scientific interest.

14. The field officer in charge may at all times examine the permit
of any person or institution claiming privileges granted in accord-
ance with the act and these rules and regulations, and may fully
examine all work done under such permit. ’

15. All persons duly authorized by the Secretaries of Agriculture,
War, and Interior may apprehend or cause to be arrested, as provided
in the act of February 6, 1905 (33 Stat. L., 700), any person or per-
sons who appropriate, excavate, injure, or destroy any historic or pre-
historic ruin or monument, or any object of antiquity on lands under
the supervision of the Secretaries of Agriculture, War, and Interior,
respectively.

16. Any object of antiquity taken, or collection made, on lands
owned or controlled by the United States, without a permit, as pre-
scribed by the act and these rules and regulations, or there taken or
made, contrary to the terms of the permit, or contrary to the act and
these rules and regulations, may be seized wherever found and at
any time, by the proper field officer or by any person duly authorized
by the Secretary having jurisdiction, and disposed of as the Secre-
tary shall determine, by deposit in the proper national depository or
otherwise.

17. Every collection made under the authority of the act and of
these rules and regulations shall be preserved in the public museum
designated in the permit and shall be accessible to the public. No
such collection shall be removed from such public museum without
the written authority of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution,
and then only to another public museum, where it shall be accessible
to the public; and when any public museum, which is a depository of
any collection made under the provisions of the act and these rules
and regulations, shall cease to exist, every such collection in such
26 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

public museum shall thereupon revert to the national collections and
be placed in the proper national depository.

Wasuineton, D. C., December 28, 1906.
The foregoing rules and regulations are hereby approved in tripli-
eate and, under authority conferred by law on the Secretaries of the
Interior, Agriculture, and War, are hereby made and established, to
take effect immediately.
E. A. HircHcocx,
Secretary of the Interior.
JAMES WILSON,
Secretary of Agriculture.
Won. H. Tart,
Secretary of War.

The Institution has promptly acted upon all requests for advice,
either through the Bureau of Ethnology when archeological sites
were concerned or through the National Museum when paleonto-
logical collections were desired.

The national domain possesses priceless treasures for the archeolo-
gist and for the public generally, and this regulation of excavation is
in the interest not only of science but of the whole people.

CASA GRANDE RUIN IN ARIZONA.

As was stated in the previous report, Congress appropriated $3,000,
to be expended under the supervision of the Secretary, for the pro-
tection of the Casa Grande ruin, in Pinal County, near Florence,
Ariz., and for excavation on the reservation. This work was placed
in the immediate charge of Dr. J. Walter Fewkes, of the Bureau of
American Ethnology, an experienced archeologist, and the results
reached have been beyond expectations entertained. All the mounds
on the reservation have been opened and about three-fifths of the com-
pound excavated. In the course of the work there was found a wall
which not only surrounds Casa Grande but also 43 large rooms. The
newly discovered walls have been repaired and protected, and when
completed there will be restored for posterity a representative pre-
historic settlement of the desert of southern Arizona.

A preliminary report of the first year’s work has been prepared,
and since the close of the fiscal year has appeared in the Smithsonian
Miscellaneous Collections. Congress granted a second appropriation
to complete the work, which will, as in the previous year, be carried
on under the direction of Doctor Fewkes. The very interesting
collections which have incidentally been found have been deposited
in the National Museum.

The appropriation for the protection and excavation at Casa
Grande was made two years ago at the recommendation of the
Department of the Interior, but the work was placed under the

&
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. at

direction of the Institution at the initiative of the Committee on
Appropriations, without any suggestion from the Institution itself.
The plans for the work were submitted to the authorities of the
Interior Department and approved by it, and a synoptic report of
the year’s operations was transmitted to the Secretary of the Interior.

CORRESPONDENCE.

The correspondence of the Institution shows that there is even in
the more remote parts of this country and abroad, a widespread
knowledge that one of the primary purposes of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution is the diffusion of knowledge, although the public at large
does not always possess a very definite idea of the exact scope of
the Institution’s functions. Hence there are received annually hun-
dreds of letters asking for information covering practically every
field of science, from a simple inquiry concerning the identity of
some natural-history specimen to a request for an explanation of
some problem in astronomy or physics, which may require quite
exhaustive study on the part of a member of the staff. All legiti-
mate requests for scientific information are cheerfully responded to
as far as practicable, and by this means much useful knowledge is
disseminated, although the preparation of these communications con-
sumes a considerable part of the time of both the scientific and cleri-
cal staff. It may be well to state in this connection, however, that
the Institution does not undertake to maintain a “ question bureau,”
such as is frequently conducted by newspapers and magazines, nor
does it furnish information of a commercial nature, which could as
readily be obtained from a professional advisor upon the payment
of a fee.

In addition to this general correspondence, there is carried on by
the several branches of the Institution—the National Museum, the
Bureau of American Ethnology, the National Zoological Park, the
International Exchanges, and the Astrophysical Observatory—a con-
siderable correspondence relating to the respective activities of each.
All matters affecting questions of policy, and all appointments, how-
ever, receive the personal consideration of the Secretary.

The practice of press-copying outgoing letters in books has been
abandoned during the year, and the use of carbon copies substituted
in its stead. Other changes have also been instituted in the method of
filing, by which the papers on any given subject are made more
readily accessible for reference.

EXPOSITIONS, CONGRESSES, AND CELEBRATIONS.

Jamestown EHxposition—Out of an appropriation of $200,000 for
the Government display at the Jamestown Exposition, $16,000 was
allowed for the preparation of exhibits by the Smithsonian Institu-

\
28 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

tion and the National Museum, and a separate building—Annex B—
about 60 by 100 feet, was provided for the installation and care of
the exhibit. Mr. W. de C. Ravenel, administrative assistant of the
United States National Museum, represented the Smithsonian Insti-
tution and the National Museum on the Government board, and was
assisted in the preparation of the exhibits by an advisory committee
consisting of Dr. Cyrus Adler, Assistant Secretary of the Smith-
sonian Institution; Mr. W. H. Holmes, chief of the Bureau of
American Ethnology; and Mr. A. Howard Clark, Curator of His-
tory, United States National Museum. The exhibit is entirely his-
torical in character and mainly has to do with the development of
the United States along various lines, such as in land transporta-
tion, firearms, photography, medicine, and other branches.

Bordeaux E'xposition——The United States exhibit at the Interna-
tional Maritime Exposition, opened at Bordeaux, France, May 1, 1907,
was collected and installed by the Smithsonian Institution at the re-
quest of the Department of State. Mr. Ravenel, administrative assist-
ant of the United States National Museum, was designated by the
Secretary to prepare and install this exhibit.

Congress of Americanists—The fifteenth annual Congress of
Americanists was held in Quebec September 10-15, 1906. Mr. W. H.
Holmes, chief of the Bureau of American Ethnology, was unable
to accept the designation of delegate which was tendered to him,
but his place was filled by Dr. Walter Hough, of the Division of
Anthropology in the Nationa! Museum, who represented the Smith-
sonian Institution, the National Museum, and the Bureau of Ameri-
can Ethnology.

International Geological Congress—The Tenth International: Geo-
logical Congress was held in the City of Mexico September 6-14,
1906. Prof. S. F. Emmons, of the United States Geological Survey,
acted as representative for the Smithsonian Institution.

Linneus celebrations—The two hundredth anniversary of the
birthday of Linné was celebrated at New York May 4, 1907, by the
New York Academy of Sciences. Dr. Theodore Gill represented the
Smithsonian Institution on that occasion. Professor Farlow, of Har-
vard University, represented the Institution at the Linnzeus celebra-
tion of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences at Upsala on May 25.

Dedication of engineering building—Myr. George C. Maynard, of
the National Museum, represented the Smithsonian Institution at the
dedication of the new building for the engineering department of the
University of Pennsylvania, September 26, 1906.

Memorial to Louis Agassiz-—At the unveiling of the memorial
to Louis Agassiz, in the Hall of Fame at Columbia University, New
York, on May 380, 1907, the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 29

presented a brief tribute to that great man of science which was
afterwards published in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections.

Aberdeen anniversary, etc—Prof. F. W. Clarke represented the
Institution on the occasion of the four hundredth anniversary of the
Aberdeen University, October 20, 1906. At the request of the Depart-
ment of State, the Institution recommended as delegates of the Gov-
ernment to the International Zoological Congress, to be held in Bos-
ton in August, 1907, Mr. Richard Rathbun, Dr. Theodore Gill, Dr.
W. H. Dall, Dr. F. W. True, Mr. Leonhard Stejneger, and Dr. Har-
rison G. Dyar. The Secretary attended the inauguration of the Car-
negie Institute at Pittsburg, April 11-13, 1907. Mr. Arnold Hague
was appointed to represent the Institution at the centenary of the
Geological Society of London, to take place September 19, 1907, and
Prof. Simon Newcomb has accepted the designation to represent the
Institution at the Fourth International Congress of Mathematicians,
to be held at Rome April 6-11, 1908.

Prize essay on fisheries——In response to an invitation from the
International Fishery Congress, the fourth session of which is to be
held in Washington in September, 1908, an allotment of $200 has
been made from the Smithsonian fund as a prize for the best article
on the international regulation of the fisheries of the high seas, their
history, objects and results. It is announced that any person, asso-
ciation, or company may compete for the various prizes to be awarded
in connection with this congress by complying with the published
conditions which govern the competition, as issued from the office of
the general secretary of the congress, Dr. H. M. Smith, of the United
States Bureau of Fisheries, Washington, D. C.

MISCELLANEOUS.

Improvement and maintenance of Smithsonian grounds.—The sun-
dry civil act approved March 4, 1907, contained an appropriation of
$3,000 for the improvement, care, and maintenance of the Smith-
sonian grounds, and also an appropriation of $5,000 for resurfacing
the asphalt roadways in the grounds.

California Academy of Sciences.—As stated in the previous report,
the good offices of the Institution were tendered and accepted by the
California Academy of Sciences for the purpose of aiding it in re-
placing its library and collection destroyed by the earthquake and
fire of April, 1906. In the report of the Bureau of International Ex-
changes it is noted that upward of 7,000 valuable publications were
secured abroad and forwarded to the academy, and not all of the cor-
respondents of the academy have yet responded to the circular. The
Institution also forwarded without cost to the academy very consid-
erable collections of books from individuals and institutions in the
30 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

United States, as well as collections of specimens. The academy has
expressed its grateful appreciation of the generous attitude of foreign
and American societies and of the aid offered by the International
Exchange Service of the Smithsonian Institution in rehabilitating
its library and collections.

NATIONAL MUSEUM.

The overcrowding of the present Museum building has necessarily
continued, so that in many places it presents almost the aspect of a
storehouse. Nevertheless, the collections can be viewed by visitors,
although not to the advantage which a freer installation would render
possible. Meanwhile the roof of the present building is being re-
paired and various exhibition halls have been isolated with a view to
obtaining greater fire protection. Exclusive of the subject of the fine
arts, the additions to the Museum during the year consisted of about
a quarter of a million specimens representing all the subjects em-
braced in the Museum collections. Several expeditions for collecting
and observation were made by members of the staff. Many of the
collections were reclassified and numerous papers published. Of
duplicate specimens separated from the collections about 16,000 were
distributed in 208 sets to educational establishments in different parts
of the United States. The principal labor of representing the Insti-
tution and the Museum at the Jamestown Exposition, and the Gov-
ernment, the Institution, and the Museum at the Bordeaux Exposition,
fell upon the staff of the Museum. Mr. W. de C. Ravenel, the ad-
ministrative assistant of the Museum, acted as representative of the
Institution for both these expositions with great ability and success.

NEW BUILDING FOR THE NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Although the new building for the National Museum has not pro-
gressed so rapidly as had been expected, due almost exclusively to
delays in the delivery of the granite, these conditions have now been
overcome, and it is confidently expected that the building will be
under roof by the spring of 1908 and be ready for occupancy by the
beginning of 1909, consuming a period of time not excessive in view
of the great size of the building and of the solid and monumental
character of its construction.

As the new building approaches completion certain questions con-
nected with the future administration of the Museum necessarily
press for consideration. It has been reasonably well determined that
the new building will be devoted to the scientific and historical col-
lections, and the present Museum building will be employed for the
development of the department of arts and industries; that the upper
exhibition hall of the Smithsonian building will be utilized to the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 31

fine-art collection and the lower hall to a library, but carrying with
it certain exposition series, such as are appropriate to a library. The
appropriation for the construction of the new building did not pro-
vide for its equipment, and to commence this work I have included
in the estimates to Congress a request for $200,000 to begin the con-
struction of cases and furnishings for the new building.

The purpose of the Museum is, and must continue to be, the cus-
tody of the national collections, by which is meant the preservation,
classification and exhibition, and work incident thereto. The main
purpose of the Museum must never be lost sight of. It is but natural
and proper that in the course of classification and arrangement
skilled scientific men engaged in this work should make discoveries
of importance to science and that the Museum should publish them.
In this way the Museum, in all the departments which its collections
represent, 1s a great research institution as well, but this research
work is a by-product rather than the fundamental purpose of the
Museum. Happily enough, the relationship of the Museum to the
Institution is of such a nature that there is no waste of energy, and
researches which may be initiated through the study of collections,
which for some reason or other can not be pursued without field work
and further studies, can be carried on either by the parent Institu-
tion or by some other branch of it. From this point of view the fact
that the Institution, Museum, and Bureau of Ethnology are in one
organization has produced most useful results, and it is not improb-
able that in the future other combinations which may be of great
advantage to the scientific work of the Government and the advance-
ment of science generally, can be effected without in any way inter-
fering with the fundamental purpose of the Museum.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART.

The brief history of the inception of the National Gallery of Art,
of the tender and acceptance of the Freer collection and of the
decree of the supreme court of the District of Columbia, resulting in
the securing of the Harriet Lane Johnston collection, is given in the
report for the previous year. As described more in detail in the
report on the National Museum, these collections have been tempo-
rarily installed in the lecture hall of the Museum, and, in spite of
the fact that the place was not designed for a collection of art, have
been viewed by a large number of visitors. Twenty-one paintings
of merit from the Lucius Tuckerman collection have been received
on deposit, and gifts have been received, among others, from the Hon.
J. B. Henderson, the chairman of the executive committee of the
Board of Regents, and from Miss Eleanor Blodgett, of New York.

A most considerable gift, especially gratifying in view of the fact
that it furnishes an index of real recognition of the importance of
32 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907..

the National Gallery on the part of a distinguished collector, was
the donation by Mr. William T. Evans, of Montclair, N. J., of 52
paintings in oil by American artists of established reputation. No
space was available for the installation of this really exceptional
collection in the buildings of the Institution or Museum, and, through
the courtesy of the trustees of the Corcoran Gallery of Art, the paint-
ings have been temporarily hung in that gallery.

With a view to providing space for the National Gallery for a
period of years and until a proper building is secured, I have
included in the estimates for the coming fiscal year an item for
adapting the large second story of the main part of the Smithsonian
building, a hall 200 feet long and about 50 feet wide, for this purpose.
It will require some changes to make it suitable for the hanging of
pictures, and improvements must be made in the approaches, which
are now inconvenient for the public. I trust that Congress may see
its way to grant this appropriation at its forthcoming session.

The tender of the deposit of 13 paintings by Edward Moran, illus-
trating American history, made by Mr. Theodore Sutro, of New
York, was accepted, and in September, 1907, this interesting histor-
ical collection was hung on screens especially built for the purpose.

The responsibility assumed by the Institution for the nation in
bringing together a worthy gallery of art has created widespread
interest and comment in magazines and journals on the part of artists
and art critics and with hardly an exception has been cordially re-
ceived. The Institution recognizes the deep responsibility entailed
by this new movement and fully appreciates that the art world and the
public have a right to expect that the future gallery shall be worthy
of the nation. Mr. Rathbun has taken deep interest in the promotion
of the gallery and has given a great amount of personal attention to
it, and Mr. W. H. Holmes, a member of the staff, and himself a pro-
fessional artist, has given valuable advice in the matter of selection
and installation. It will of course be a considerable time before the
Institution can command the services of a staff experienced in the fine
arts. But there seems to be no reason why the principles which have
for years guided the Institution in administering upon scientific mat-
ters should not be applied with equal success to the fine arts. The
Secretaries have never relied exclusively upon their own judgment,
nor even upon the judgment of the very able staff, to pass upon
scientific memoirs or to administer funds for scientific purposes, but
they have been aided by committees composed of the most distin-
guished specialists throughout the country. Hardly a single scien-
tific man through the course of more than half a century has ever
declined to act upon such a committee, and it would seem feasible to
carry out the suggestion informally made to the Board of Regents by
Mr. Rathbun nearly a year ago, that the acceptance of paintings and
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 33

indeed the general policy of the National Gallery of Art should have
the advice of a committee composed of the most distinguished artists,
sculptors, and students of art in the country, which body might, for
purposes of administration, be divided into subcommittees to deal
with the various aspects of the National Gallery. Steps have already
been taken to organize such a committee, and conferences have been
held looking to that end, and I hope before very long to bring a defi-
nite plan for its constitution to the attention of the Regents.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

The Bureau of American Ethnology has been engaged in investi-
gations among the Indian tribes of the country for upward of a quar-
ter of a century. The object of these investigations has-been two-
fold—to preserve a record of the native races of this country, and to
place at the disposal of the General Government information which
would enable it successfully to deal with the tribes. For this latter
work the first requisite is a working knowledge of the tribes, and
the Bureau has collected data relating to some 60 families of lin-
guistic stocks, and upward of 300 tribes. It has located and classi-
fied these, and has made progress in the study of their history, rela-
tionships to one another and to the whites, their needs as wards of
the Government, and their capacities for and adaptability to civiliza-
tion. For this purpose it was deemed necessary to give attention to
the culture of the tribes, especially their languages, social organiza-
tion and government, systems of belief, religious customs, and arts
and industries, as well as to their physical and mental characteristics.

It has not been possible to study all of the tribes in detail, but only
to investigate a sufficient number as types to stand for all. The re-
sults of the work heretofore accomplished are embodied in published
reports, and in many manuscripts preserved in the archives of the
Bureau. It has been deemed advisable to take stock, as it were, and
to issue a summary of our present knowledge of the tribes. This has
taken the form of a handbook of American Indians, the first volume
of which has appeared and received much favorable comment. No
effort will be spared to push this work to a conclusion, and as much
force and time as are necessary for this purpose will be employed
during the year. In order to keep this summary within the compass
of an easily consulted handbook, many important subjects have been
treated merely in outline.

The next special subject to which a publication will be devoted
will be the languages and their dialects, for which a handbook in at
least two volumes is in progress, the first being now ready for publi-
cation. It is the work of our first American philologist, assisted by
34 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

a score of the ablest students of this branch in the United States.
The arts and industries will also be treated in a separate handbook
now under way, and other branches are likewise in preparation for
publication. These include treaties and land sessions, sign language
and pictography, religions, social systems and government, physical
and mental characteristics, archeology, and other subjects.

This work of studying and recording the Indian tribes is not only
of national importance, but urgent. It can never be repeated. It
will constitute the only systematic record of the red race that can
ever be made. The native race, one of the four races of men, is dis-
appearing, and the processes of obliteration are irresistible and swift.
A language or culture of any race, once destroyed, can never be re-
covered. The work is worthy of a great nation, and is one that can be
carried on systematically only by the Government. The Government
has two great obligations which the Bureau is rapidly fulfilling:
(1) To know the Indian for practical purposes of government and in
the interests of humanity; (2) to preserve to the world an adeouate
record of the race which is so rapidly disappearing.

With the object of assisting the departments of the Government
having custody of the public domain in the preservation of antiqui-
ties, the work of compiling a descriptive catalogue of antiquities has
been continued, and several bulletins relating to this work have been
published.

Uniform rules and regulations have been adopted by the three de-
partments in control of the public domain in carrying out the recently
enacted law for the preservation of antiquities. Under this law three
important archeological sites were declared national monuments, as
follows: Chaco Canyon in New Mexico, including several important
ruined pueblos; El Moro, New Mexico, commonly known as Inscrip-
tion Rock, and Montezuma Castle, in Arizona, an important cliff ruin.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES.

The work of the International Exchange Service continues to
increase from year to year, until the number of packages annually
passing through the hands of the service now amounts to nearly
200,000, and the weight to over 200 tons. During the past year
nearly 2,000 packing boxes were required in transmitting exchanges
to other countries. These figures serve to convey some idea of the
magnitude of the operations of the service and make apparent the
need of increased appropriations from time to time in order to keep
the work up to the high standard of efficiency which has been
attained. A larger appropriation was therefore requested for carry-
ing on the service during the coming year, and it is gratifying to state
that Congress granted $32,200, an increase of $3,400 over the sum
allowed for the year now closed. This additional amount will per-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 35

mit further improvements in the service and renewed exertions to
procure larger returns of government publications from abroad for
the Library of Congress and the several Departments and Bureaus
of the Government.

The Smithsonian Institution, through its system of exchanges, is
in correspondence with 58,107 establishments and individuals, 46,514
of which are exterior to the borders of the United States. _As will be
seen from a perusal of the table in the full report on the exchanges
in the appendix, these correspondents are scattered throughout the
world, and it may be said that there is no place, however remote,
which does not profit by the service.

Under the Congressional resolutions of March 2, 1867, and March
2, 1901, setting apart a certain number of documents for exchange
with foreign governments, there are now sent regularly to deposi-
tories abroad 53 full sets of United States official publications and 30
partial sets, the governments of Ecuador, Panama, and Alberta,
Canada, having been added to the depositories of partial sets during
the past year.

In order to prevent loss of publications intended for Government
establishments, special attention has been given to foreign consign-
ments of books arriving at the various United States custom-houses
incorrectly or insufficiently addressed. During the past year these
efforts have resulted in the clearing of a number of consignments
which might otherwise have gone astray.

The work of increasing the office collection of directories and other
books of addresses has continued during the year, and has resulted in
the accumulation of a very creditable assemblage of such publications.

I am gratified to state that through the efforts of Dr. Eypaldo
Bassier, a member of the Greck Parliament, an arrangement has been
effected whereby all exchanges for Greece may now be forwarded to
the National Library at Athens for distribution, instead of limiting
the consignments, as formerly, to publications intended for Govern-
ment institutions or individuals connected with them. This arrange-
ment will enable the Institution to make more frequent transmissions.

Recently a communication was received from Dr. F. Bonola Bey,
secretary-general of the Khedivial Geographical Society in Cairo,
stating that on account of absence from Egypt it would be necessary
for him to discontinue the distribution of exchanges for the Institu-
tion; adding, however, that the director-general of the survey de-
partment at Cairo would take charge of the work. A letter from the
director-general has since been received placing the services of the
department at the disposal of the Institution. Consignments will
therefore be sent to the survey department in the future.

Transmissions to Bulgaria, which were temporarily suspended on
account of the death of Dr. Paul Leverkiihn, who attended to the
36 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

distribution of exchanges for that country, have been resumed. The
Prince of Bulgaria, in response to a request of the Institution, has
designated the Scientific Institutions and Library of Sofia to act as
the exchange intermediary between Bulgaria and the United States.

As Hawaii, the Philippine Islands, and Porto Rico are under the
jurisdiction of the United States, the Institution feels that exchanges
with them,can no longer be termed “ international,” and has therefore
discontinued the acceptance of packages from domestic sources for
these territories.

The International Exchange Service, in its efforts to aid the Calli-
fornia Academy of Sciences in the rehabilitation of its library and
collections, destroyed by the earthquake and fire of April, 1906, sent
circulars to all the foreign correspondents of the academy soliciting
contributions. I am gratified to state that a most liberal reponse has
been made, the number of exchanges received aggregating 6,370
packages and publications, which were forwarded to San Francisco.
It may be noted in this connection that this is the first time since its
organization that the Exchange Service has sent out a circular of this
character in behalf of any establishment.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK.

By act of Congress approved April 30, 1890, the National Zoolog-
ical Park was established “ for the advancement of science and the
instruction and recreation of the people,” and in pursuance of this
authorization the collection of living animals has increased from year
to year, it being the purpose to exhibit living species of the various
types of animal life for the instruction and entertainment of the
public.

In carrying out the first of the objects stated in the act of organ-
ization, namely, the advancement of science, the original design con-
templated the establishment of methods of scientific research, but lack
of means, and the more important necessities of the park, have pre-
vented this from being realized. Plans for a laboratory are in hand.
The varied zoological collection now assembled affords material of
great value for studying the habits of animals, and for physiological
and pathological research, subjects of practical importance and
utility.

Much care and attention has also been devoted to preserving the
natural beauty of the surroundings and to the enhancing of the
attractiveness of the park to visitors.

With a single exception, no especial appropriation has been made
for the erection of buildings for the animals in the park since its
inception. They were originally housed in wooden sheds which have
been gradually replaced by fireproof structures, as the appropriations
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. it

permitted. This plan will be continued. It has not been carried for-
ward as rapidly as the necessities demand, owing to the fact that
the appropriation granted, for a number of years, has been but little
more than sufficient for the maintenance of the park.

Attention has before been called to the desirability of securing for
the park the narrow tracts of land lying between its boundaries and
the recently established highways on the southeast and west. The
highways were located by the Engineer Commissioner of the District
as close to the park as the topography would permit, in order to
reduce these tracts to a minimum. It is estimated that the land in
question can be acquired by condemnation for $40,000, and an item
for this purpose is submitted in the estimates.

The collection of animals at the close of the fiscal year numbered
1,193. The small mammal house, which has been under construction
for several years, was opened to the public on November 15. To it
were transferred the collection of monkeys, as there had always been
a difficulty in keeping these animals in the proper condition of health
in their previous quarters. Work upon two additional bear yards
has been contracted for and considerable repairs made to some of
the older cages. The Adams Mill road was overhauled and resur-
faced during the autumn of 1906, and the planting of trees was car-
ried on at suitable times as far as the available fund permitted.
Five of the more important buildings were heated from the central
heating plant, installed during the previous year. The specialists
of the Department of Agriculture were offered opportunities for
pathological studies when animals died, and such dead animals as
might be useful to the national collections were sent to the National
Museum. ‘

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.

The work of the Astrophysical Observatory, carried on under the
supervision of Mr. C. G. Abbot, who was appointed director March
1, 1907, has consisted of observations at the Mount Wilson Observa-
tory and at Washington, and the preparing of Volume II of the
Annals of the Observatory. About seventy days on Mount Wilson
were devoted to observations of the “solar constant” of radiation,
on which the staff of the observatory had been at work for some
years. The results were generally excellent. A new continuous
recording pyrheliometer is in course of construction for this work,
of different dimensions and construction from the one at present in
use. Much attention was paid to the observation of the intensity
of light reflected from clouds, with a view to the determination of the
albedo or total reflection of the earth. The quality and amount of
the light of the sky was also measured on several days.
38 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

Measurements for the determination of the “solar constant ” were
also made at Washington whenever atmospheric conditions per-
mitted. These are of great value as supplementary data to the Mount
Wilson observations.

Volume II of the Annals is in press, and includes an account of the
work of the observatory from 1900 to 1907. Speaking broadly, the
energy of the observatory has been devoted to an investigation of
the intensity of the rays of the sun and the dependence of the earth’s
temperature upon the radiation.

The investigations have resulted in apparently definitely fixing the
approximate average value of the “solar constant” at 2.1 calories
per square centimeter per minute, and in showing decisively that
there is a marked fluctuation about this mean value, sufficient in
magnitude to influence very perceptibly the climate, at peat of in-
land regions, upon the earth.

The observatory buildings, although temporary, have been kept in
good repair by a small expenditure. Plans have been made and
contracts have been awarded for the installation of electrical light-
ing and power to replace the present inadequate facilities, and some
additions have been made to the research equipment and library.

INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC
LITERATURE.

The International Catalogue of Scientfic Literature is a classified
-author’s and subject catalogue of all original scientific papers pub-
lished throughout the world. The organization consists of bureaus,
established in each of the civilized countries, whose duty it is to
furnish references to the scientific publications issued within their
several regions, these references being assembled, edited, and pub-
lished in seventeen annual volumes by a central bureau in London.

The cost of printing and publishing is met by the subscribers to
the Catalogue; and American universities, libraries, and scientific
societies alone have shown their appreciation of the work by making
advance subscriptions amounting to over $30,000. The cost of col-
lecting and indexing the material for the Catalogue is in each case
borne by the countries taking part in the work, and is for the most
part derived from direct governmental grants.

The Regional Bureau for the United States was organized in 1901
by the Smithsonian Institution, and was maintained by funds of the
Institution until it was placed on a firm footing by an appropriation
made by Congress of $5,000, which became available for use July 1,
1906. A further grant of $5,000 became available July 1, 1907.

Each regional bureau collects, indexes, and classifies the current sci-
entific literature published within the country it represents, and fur-
nishes the material to the central bureau in London for publication.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 39

The citations are secured by regularly going through all of the
journals listed for examination, by a daily search through the publi-
cations which are received by the Smithsonian Institution, and by
examination of all available sources. Lists of all papers indexed are
also from time to time submitted for revision directly to the authors
whose names appear on the records. The authors are requested to
send separates of their work for the use of the Catalogue, a practice
which results incidentally in considerable accesisons to the library.

It has been hoped that the material collected by the Bureau could
be printed separately as a current classified index of American Scien-
tific Literature, which would make it available for American men of
science probably a year before the International Catalogue was pub-
lished, but since the printing would have to be done at the expense of
the fund of the Institution, it was decided after thorough considera-
tion that the outlay could not at present be justified.

NECROLOGY.

During the year the Institution has suffered the loss of a Regent
and of three able members of its staff. The Hon. R. R. Hitt, dis-
tinguished for his services in the diplomatic corps and as a Member
of Congress, where he ably served for many years as chairman of the
Committee on Foreign Affairs, a man of cultivation and broadly
interested in science and art, passed away on September 20, 1906.
He was appointed a Regent on August 11, 1893, and served continu-
ously until his death and acted since 1901 as a member of the execu-
tive committee. In the Proceedings of the Board of Regents, printed
in another place, there will be found an appropriate tribute to his
memory by his colleagues.

One of the oldest members of the administrative staff of the Institu-
tion, William Jones Rhees, died March 18,1907. Mr. Rhees was born
March 13, 1830. In 1852 he became chief clerk of the Institution, and
in that capacity, and later as keeper of the archives, served it with a
brief interruption until the time of his death. His knowledge of the
affairs of the Institution was wide, and with him there passed away
the principal human repository of its history, for he had been con-
nected with it almost since its inception and had served during the
greater part of the administrations of Secretaries Henry, Baird, and
Langley.. He was a methodical man, and in addition to his adminis-
trative labors issued publications valuable to the librarians of the
country and others of importance on the history of the Institution
and its founder. He was a public-spirited citizen, and his deep de-
votion to the Institution is evidenced by a bequest from his modest
estate.

Albert S. Gatschet, a distinguished linguist and for many years
connected with the Bureau of American Ethnology, died on March

41780—08——7
40 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907,

16, 1907. An appreciative account of his career will be given in the
annual report on the Bureau of American Ethnology.

Paul Edmond Beckwith, Assistant Curator of History in the Na-
tional Museum, died on June 27, 1907. A sketch of his career is given
in the report on the Museum.

LANGLEY MEMORIAL MEETING.

On December 3, 1906, a meeting in memory of the late Secretary
Samuel P. Langley, was, in accordance with a resolution of the Board
of Regents, held in the lecture hall of the National Museum. The
Chancellor of the Institution, the Hon. Melville W. Fuller, Chief
Justice of the United States, presided, and after preliminary re-
marks introduced the speakers: The Hon. Andrew D. White, who
presented the memoir on behalf of the Board of Regents; Prof. E. C.
Pickering, director of Harvard College Observatory, who described
Mr. Langley’s contributions to astronomy and astrophysics; and Oc-
tave Chanute, esq., of Chicago, who spoke on Mr. Langley’s contribu-
tions to aerodynamics.

The addresses delivered on that occasion, together with a bibliog-
raphy of the published works of Mr. Langley, have been issued by the
Institution in the series of Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections,
and also in a special edition.

Respectfully submitted.

Cuas. D. Watcort, Secretary.
APPEN prix. I,

REPORT ON THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the operations of
the United States National Museum for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1907:

The most noteworthy feature of the year was the decided advance made in
the subject of the fine arts, so marked indeed as to call for immediate action
in providing at least a temporary home for the national gallery, whose nucleus
already gathered has received much favorable comment. While the erection
of the new building for the Museum has been retarded by delays in the delivery
of granite, the work has proceeded steadily and otherwise satisfactorily. The
collections were increased by about a quarter of a million specimens, including
a large amount of material of exceptional importance. The classification and
arrangement of the additions were carried forward as rapidly as possible under
the present limitations as to means and space, and the collections as a whole
have been maintained in good condition,

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART.

The Congressional act of 1846, founding the Smithsonian Institution, provided
that all objects of art belonging to the United States should be delivered into
the custody of that establishment whenever suitable arrangements could be made
from time to time for their reception. The formation of a national gallery of
art thus intrusted to the Institution received early and favorable consideration
by the Board of Regents and was embodied in the plan of organization. It was
the sentiment of the Board that the gallery should include both paintings and
sculpture as well as engravings and architectural designs, that studios for young
artists should be provided, and, as it was expected that the collections would
accumulate slowly, that the gallery should be partly used during the winter
for loan exhibitions.

In the Smithsonian building, which was immediately put in course of erection,
two rooms were especially designed for the collections of art, the west hail and
connecting range on the main floor. These quarters were so used for a time
in conjunction with the library and reading room, but the accommodations thus
afforded proved so inadequate that it became necessary to also devote to the
same purpose a part of the large upper hall now occupied by the collection of
prehistoric archeology.

Examples of art were among the very first acquisitions by the Institution,
and from time to time thereafter additions of one kind and another were
received, but any sum that might have been spared for this purpose from the
Smithsonian income would have been wholly insufficient to make any pronounced
or systematic advance in this direction. In the National Museum, however,
certain branches of art have been fostered for over a quarter of a century and
are now fairly well represented.

The first collection purchased by the Institution was the valuable series of
prints assembled by the Hon. George P. Marsh, containing examples of the
work of nearly every etcher and engraver of celebrity from the early masters
to the middle of the last century. It was recognized as the choicest collection
of its kind then in this country. Later accessions included, besides engravings,

41
42 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

a number of paintings, reproductions of celebrated pieces of sculpture, busts of
distinguished individuals, and many important books on art.

The early exhibition in the upper Smithsonian hall consisted mainly of the
unique collections of Indian portraits and scenes by J. M. Stanley, C. B. King,
and others, but in the fire of 1865 this section of the gallery with its contents
was entirely destroyed. The objects on the lower floor escaped injury and were
subsequently deposited for safe-keeping in the Library of Congress and the
Corcoran Gallery of Art, where they remained until about ten years ago. Since
that time one of the rooms in the eastern part of the Smithsonian building has
been utilized for the prints, books, and various other works of art, but the
larger part of the collection has been provided for in the National Museum.

Such, briefly, was the history of the art exhibits up to January, 1906, when the
acceptance by the Board of Regents of the large and notable collection of Mr.
Charles L. Freer marked the beginning of a new epoch in the affairs of the
gallery of art. In the following July a further advance was made through the
‘acquisition of the valuable collection of the late Harriet Lane Johnston, based
upon a decision of the supreme court of the District of Columbia, essentially
reaffirming the intent of the fundamental act, already referred to, that the
custodianship of the national gallery of art was vested in the Smithsonian
Institution. This collection is especially noteworthy in that it contains paint-
ings by several celebrated masters, besides other pieces of merit and of his-
torical importance. It was delivered to the Institution in the early part of
August, 1906, and was at once installed in the reception room in the Smith-
sonian building, the only place then available.

The necessity of securing more extensive quarters without delay led to the
selection and temporary fitting up of the lecture hall in the Museum building
for the purposes of the gallery and especially for the paintings. On the com-
pletion of these changes in the latter part of November, 1906, the Harriet Lane
Johnston collection and other paintings were transferred there, and these, with
several loans and donations, fully occupied the existing wall space. Among the
loans should be mentioned 21 paintings from the Lucius Tuckerman collection,
and among the gifts, one by the Hon. J. B. Henderson, of Washington, and
one by Miss Eleanor Blodgett, of New York.

During the latter part of the winter the gallery received a most substantial
and gratifying recognition from Mr. William T. Evans, of Montclair, N. J.,
the well-known connoisseur and patron of art, whose contribution, made with-
out solicitation, consisted of 52 paintings in oil by American artists of estab-
lished reputation. Unfortunately no place could be found in the Museum build-
ing for this valuable collection, and it was necessary to provide elsewhere
for its temporary keeping. This has been accomplished through the courtesy
of the trustees of the Corcoran Gallery of Art, where the pictures are now hung,
filling the greater part of the large atrium.

Leaving out of consideration the Freer collection, which is to remain at the
home of its generous donor during his lifetime, the national gallery now has
in its possession valuable paintings and other art objects for whose exhibition
under suitable conditions it is important to arrange without delay. For this
purpose there is no better place in the existing buildings than the second story
of the main part of the Smithsonian building, a hall 200 feet long by 50 feet
wide. It will require some changes to adapt it to the hanging and lighting
of pictures, and some improvement in its approaches which are now incon-
venient for the public, involving an expenditure greater than is possible from
the current appropriation, but it is hoped that Congress may provide for this
work at its forthcoming session.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 43

BUILDINGS.

At the beginning of the last fiscal year, work on the new building for the
Museum had progressed to the extent of completing the basement walls and
piers and the steel framework and brick arches resting upon them, except at
the south and north pavilions. The court walls of the main story had also been
started. From that time onward the construction of the building would have
advanced more rapidly but for delays in the delivery of the granite. Instead,
therefore, of being ready for the roofs at the end of the fiscal year, as had been
expected, the outer walls have been carried only to the height of the lintels at
the top of the second story on the eastern section of the building, and not so high
on the western section. The two entrance pavilions have only reached the top
of the basement floor, but the steel work and arches of the second floor are in
place and the basement lecture hall has been inclosed and partly vaulted and
tiled. With the receipt of the final shipment of the white Bethel granite all
troubles in the matter of construction should be ended, as there have been no
delays in the fulfillment of all other contracts for supplies, and the stone for the
upper story has been on hand for several months.

The retardation in the erection of this building has rendered difficult the
administration of the Museum, since the overcrowding of the present buildings
and outside rented quarters by the immense and invaluable collections has
introduced several elements of danger which can only be obviated by the
occupancy of the new structure.

The rebuilding of the roofs of the present Museum building, without serious
derangement of the collections, was successfully continued. Contracts have been
made for the replacement of four additional roofs during the new year, leaving
only the roof of the central rotunda to be provided for thereafter.

Progress was also made in the isolation of the several exhibition halls with
the view of obtaining greater fire protection, this work consisting in the filling
in of the large arched openings between the halls with fireproof materials, a
plan which should be continued each year to the extent possible with the funds
available.

ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTION.

The number of accessions received during the year, not including the subject
of the fine arts, was 1,398, comprising a total of about 250,000 specimens, of
which nearly 4,000 were anthropological, 145,000 biological, and over 100,000
geological and paleontological.

The principal additions in ethnology came from the Congo region of Africa
and the Philippine Islands. Among the more notable smaller ones were baskets
and lace of Malacca workmanship, rare Chilcootin baskets, and examples of
rich old embroideries. The most important accessions in prehistoric archeology
comprised several hundred implements, vessels, examples of fabrics and basket
work, and skeletal remains, obtained during excavations at Casa Grande, Ari-
zona, under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution, and a large number
of earthenware and stone objects of various kinds and uses from Panama, Costa
Nica, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, and the State of Tennessee. Of Huropean
origin were stone implements and fragments of Romano-British urns from near
Norfolk, England, and flint implements from La Quina, France. Examples of
Greco-Egyptian papyri and other interesting objects were secured for the di-
vision of historic archeology. The additions in physical anthropology consisted
chiefly of a large series illustrating the principal types of normal variations in
the human skeleton, a number of skulls of the extinct Huron Indians, and many
specimens of the brains of various animals prepared for comparative purposes.
44 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

The division of technology was especially enriched in the subject of firearms,
mainly through the courtesy of the War Department. ‘This division now pos-
sesses the finest historical collection in existence of the rifles, muskets, carbines,
pistols, ete., of the colonial period and the military service of the National Govy-
ernment. The collection is supplemented by extensive data gathered as a basis
for a comprehensive study of the subject. Other noteworthy contributiens to
the division included a series of models from the Department of the Interior,
representing important historical inventions, the earliest dating from before the
Christian Era; a number of pieces of apparatus devised by Mr. Emile Berliner,
illustrating important early steps in the development of the telephone; and the
Santos Dumont airship No. 9. The division of ceramics received many fine
specimens of pottery from Japan and the United States; the division of graphic
arts, examples of binding by the St. Hubert Guild of Art Craftsmen and of color
photography; the section of musical instruments, one of the earliest church
organs brought to this country; and the section of medicine, a series of en-
jarged photographs of the more eminent of American vhysicians and surgeons.

The historical collections were increased by a number of important gifts and
loans, the most noteworthy consisting of some of the early physical apparatus
devised by the late Secretary Langley, and the many medals and diplomas
awarded him for his distinguished services in the advancement of science, all
of which have been installed in an appropriate case in the hall of history. The
principal additions to the division of historic religions consisted of two loans,
comprising a collection of lamps, amulets, and embroideries used in Jewish
religious life, and a large series of Chinese and Japanese rosaries.

The transfers from the Bureau of Fisheries constituted in the aggregate the
principal accesion to the department of biology. They comprised a large collec-
tion of marine fishes and invertebrates, with some land animals, from the
Albatross cruise of 1906 in the North Pacific Ocean and Okhotsk Sea; extensive
collections of Japanese fishes and Hawaiian corals and hydroids, including
many rare and recently described species; over 3,000 specimens of fishes from
the fresh waters of West Virginia, and other valuable material. Maj. E. A.
Mearns, surgeon, U. S. Army, who has been stationed in the Philippine Islands,
forwarded an extensive series of mammals, birds, reptiles, fishes and mollusks,
obtained mainly on certain of the smaller and less known islands, and contain-
ing some new genera and many new species.

Noteworthy contributions of mammals were received from Venezuela, Cuba,
and the Kan-su Province of China; of birds and birds’ eggs from Costa Rica
and elsewhere; of reptiles and batrachians from Hurope, Patagonia, Cuba, and
Virginia; and of fishes from Australia and the Philippines, the latter through
the Philippine Commission to the St. Louis Exposition. The total number of
specimens of fishes acquired was about 25,000. The division of mollusks
obtained some 600 species from the Philippines and Hastern Asia, many being
cotypes of species described by Mollendorf; a large collection of fresh-water
forms from the vicinity of Wilmington, N. C., including a good series of the
rare Planorbis magnificus; and many interesting land shells from Central
America. The additions in entomology comprised about 44,000 specimens,
including 20,000 of -Hemiptera from Dr. P. R. Uhler, of Baltimore; 8,000 of
Lepidoptera from Mr. William Schaus, and over 6,000, representing various
groups, from the Department of Agriculture. Besides the transfers from the
Bureau of Fisheries, the division of marine invertebrates received extensive
series of corals from Hawaii and French Somaliland, and 238 microscopic slides
of deep-sea sponges from Doctor Von Lendenfeld. The helminthological collec-
tion was increased by over 500 specimens from the Bureau of Animal Industry
and the Public Health and Marine-Hospital Service.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 45

The division of plants received about 47,000 specimens, mainly from the fol-
lowing sources: The West Indies, and especially Cuba, over 6,000 specimens;
Central America, about 1,400 specimens ; Mexico, 2,200 specimens ; the Philippine
Islands, 5,571 specimens; District of Columbia, about 5,000 specimens; from
different localities, through the Department of Agriculture, over 4,000 speci-
mens; the private herbarium of Mrs. J. N. Milligan, of Jacksonville, Ill., com-
prising about 2,200 specimens; and the collection of the late Prof. T. A.
Williams, numbering about 4,400 specimens.

One of the most noteworthy accessions in geology consisted of a large amount
of material obtained by the head curator during an investigation of Coon Butte,
Arizona. The Geological Survey transmitted a large number of rocks and ores
from Wyoming, Colorado, Washington, Arizona, and Maine, and material of
the same character as well as minerals were obtained from other sources. The
collection of meteorites was increased by seven specimens.

The additions in paleontology were exceptionally large and valuable, the
more important comprising about 45,000 specimens from the Pre-Cambrian,
Cambrian, and Ordovician horizons in the United States, transferred by the
Geological Survey; the Pate collection of about 50,000 specimens from the
Paleozoic rocks of the Mississippi Valley, and several hundred specimens from
the Devonian of Missouri, both presented by the Hon. Frank Springer; the
Nettleroth collection, containing practically all of the many types figured in
that author’s Kentucky Fossil Shells; and an especially fine representation of
the Silurian and Devonian faunas of Indiana and Kentucky.

EXPLORATIONS.

While no extensive field work was carried on directly by the Museum, sev-
eral expeditions, both for collecting and observation, were made by members of
the staff, as follows: Doctor True in Maryland, Doctor Stejneger in Virginia,
Doctor Bartsch in North Carolina, Mr. Bean in Florida, Mr. Hahn in Indiana,
Doctor Dyar and Mr. Caudell in California, Doctor Rose in Mexico, Mr. Maxon
in Cuba, and Doctor Merrill in Arizona. Mr. Charles W. Gilmore, of the depart-
ment of geology, was sent by the Smithsonian Institution to Alaska to search
for the remains of large fossil mammals, while Doctor Bassler and Doctor
Peale were detailed to field werk in conjunction with the Geological Survey.
The explorations by which the Museum was mainly benefited were, as hereto-
fore, those of the Geological Survey, the Department of Agriculture, the Bureau
of Fisheries, and the Bureau of American Ethnology. Mention should also be
made of the personal field work in the Philippines of Doctor Mearns, of the
Army, and in Malaysia of Dr. W. L. Abbott; and also of the excavations by
Doctor Fewkes at Casa Grande, Arizona, under a special act of Congress.

CARE AND CLASSIFICATION OF THE COLLECTIONS.

The reorganization of the osteological collection in physical anthropology,
which comprises parts of about 8,000 skeletons, was ccouipleted during the year.
Doctor Hrdliéka, the assistant curator in charge of this division, has carried
on investigations relating to the crania and skeletons of Indians and the
orang, and to the brain in the higher vertebrates, including man. An exten-
sion of storage space has permitted the classified arrangement of a much greater
number of objects of ethnology than heretofore. Professor Mason and Doctor
Hough were mainly occupied in working up the ethnological collections from
Malaysia, and the latter also continued the preparation of his report on the
Museum-Gates expedition of 1905 in Arizona, and on the Pueblo collections in
the Museum. Doctor Casanowicz has begun a descriptive account of the exhi-
46 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

bition of Jewish religious rites and ceremonials, which is probably the finest in
the country.

Some changes and improvements are to be noted in the storage and classifi-
eation of several groups of mammals and birds. The systematic arrangement of
the reserve series of fishes has been continued, and fair progress has been made
in the installation of the new system of steel racks and hard-wood drawers
for insects. The labeling and registering of marine invertebrates has kept
pace as nearly as possible with the receipt of maferial, and much has been done
toward completing the card catalogue of identified specimens. In April, 1907,
two assistants were detailed to the Yale University Museum to engage in
separating the large collection of marine invertebrates from the earlier Fish
Commission explorations, which have remained in the charge of Prof. A. E.
Verrill. The first set of duplicates will become the property of Professor
Verrill, the reserve series and other duplicates coming to the National Museum.

The researches by members of the zoological staff and others were extensive
and varied, the principal subjects being briefly as follows: Fossil cetaceans, by
Doctor True; the birds of North and Middle America, by Mr. Ridgway; and
those of Malaysia and the China Sea, by Mr. Oberholser; the reptiles of Japan,
the Philippines, West Indies, and Costa Rica, by Doctor Stejneger; fishes from
Argentina, the Philippines, and the west coast of North America, by Professor
HKvermann; from the Philippines, by Mr. Bean and Mr. Seale; and from the
Pacific region generally by Doctor Jordan and Doctor Gilbert; a monograph
of the mosquitoes by Doctor Dyar; the Pyramidellidx of Oregon, by Doctor
Dail and Doctor Bartsch; crabs of North America, the North Pacific Ocean, and
the Gulf of Siam, by Miss Rathbun; isopods of the North Pacific Ocean, by
Doctor Richardson; the entire Museum collection of stalked barnacles, by
Doctor Pilsbry; the crinoids from the North Pacific Ocean and elsewhere, by
Doctor Clark.

The systematic rearrangement of the herbarium, which has been in progress
for several years, was nearly completed, and experiments were carried on look-
ing to the construction of fireproof herbarium cases for the new building.
Doctor Rose continued studies on Mexican plants and the cacti, Mr. Maxon on
American ferns, and Mr. Painter on water lilies.

The principal routine work in the department of geology comprised the
systematizing of the petrographic material recently received, the separation of
duplicates from the reserve series, the renovation of the exhibition series of
minerals and gems, the arrangement of the Pate and Ulrich collections of fossil
invertebrates, and the working out of specimens, and the designation of types
and illustrated specimens of fossil vertebrates. Doctor Merrill, in collaboration
with Mr. Tassin, made studies upon meteorites and associated phenomena, and
many specimens of minerals were identified. The investigations by Doctor
Bassler related mainly to the bryozoa and ostracoda of several geological
horizons, and those of Mr. Gidley and Mr. Gilmore to both mammalian and
reptilian forms.

EXHIBITION COLLECTIONS.

The crowded condition of the public halls has rendered it impossible for
several years past to make any material additions to the exhibition collections,
and practically nothing more can be done in this direction until the new build-
ing has been completed. During the past year, however, an interesting series
of specimens has been made accessible to the intelligent visitor in the laboratory
of physical anthropology. A group of Roumanian peasants has been installed
in the west hall, and a number of recently acquired antiquities have been pro-
vided for in the hall of archeology. The entire collection of firearms has been
brought together in the east hall, in which also one of the original Lilienthal
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 47

flying machines has been suspended from the roof. The additions in zoology
have consisted mainly of mammals and insects, and in geology of fossil verte-
brates, rocks, and minerals. As explained elsewhere, the lecture hall is now
temporarily occupied by the National Gallery of Art.

MISCELLA NEOUS.

Of duplicate specimens separated from the collections in the course of
recent investigations, about 16,000 were distributed in 208 sets to educational
establishments in different parts of the United States and about 25,000 were
used in making exchanges with other establishments and with individuals.
Over 6,000 specimens were lent to specialists for study.

The publications issued during the year were the annual reports for 1905 and
1906; volumes 31 and 32 of the Proceedings; the second volume of Bulletin
53, completing the catalogue of type and figured specimens in the department
of geology; Part I of Bulletin 56, on the mammals of the Mexican boundary
of the United States; Bulletin 57, on the families and genera of bats; a supple-
ment to Bulletin 51, being a list of the publications of the Museum from 1901
to 1906; Volume XI of the Contributions from the National Herbarium, consisting
of a single paper entitled “The Flora of the State of Washington,” and three
parts of Volume X of the same series, relating mainly to the botany of
Mexico, Central America, and the Philippine Islands. The following bulletins
were in print at the close of the year, but were not issued until early in July:
Part IV of Bulletin 50, the Birds of North and Middle America; Bulletin 58,
Herpetology of Japan and Adjacent Territory, and Bulletin 59, “ Recent Madre-
pora of the Hawaiian Islands and Laysan.” A number of short papers based
on collections in the Museum were also printed in the quarterly issue of the
Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections and elsewhere.

The additions to the library of the Museum comprised 2,581 books and 3,567
pamphlets and periodicals. The total number of pieces recorded in the library
at the close of the year was 30,307 volumes, 47,642 unbound papers, and 108
manuscripts.

At the Jamestown Ter- Centennial Exposition, which opened on April 26, 1907,
the subject assigned to the Museum, namely, the aboriginal, colonial, and
national history of America, has been as fully illustrated as the means and
space permitted. The collection comprises prehistoric Indian implements;
representations of the native arts of Alaska, Porto Rico, Hawaii, Samoa, and
the Philippine Islands; pictures, relics, and models illustrating the different
historic periods of the country, land and water transportation, the invention
of the telegraph and telephone, and the firearms used by the United States
Army. The central feature is a life-sized group, depicting Capt. John Smith
and his men in a small sailboat trading for corn and skins with the Powhatan
Indians at the mouth of the James River.

The Museum has also taken part in the Internation dl Maritime Exposition at
Bordeaux which opened on May 1, although the exhibit of the United States was
not finally installed until about the 1st of July. The objects supplied by the
Museum consist pf a number of models illustrating the water craft used by the

aborigines of the Western Hemisphere and illustrations and models of the
earlier steamboats, including those of John Fitch and Robert Fulton.

Respectfully submitted.
RICHARD RATHBUN,
Assistant Secretary, in Charge of U. S. National Museum.

Dr. CHARLES D. WALCOTT,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
Apprnpix ITI.
REPORT ON THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report on the operations of
the Bureau of American Ethnology for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1907:

SYSTEMATIC RESEARCHES.

The operations of the Bureau of American Ethnology, conducted in accord-
ance with the act of Congress making provision for continuing researches
relating to the American Indians under direction of the Smithsonian Institution,
have been carried forward in conformity with the plan of operations approved
by the Secretary July 19, 1906.

Systematic ethnological researches have been prosecuted by the scientific staff
of the Bureau, assisted by a number of collaborators who have been invited to
conduct investigations for which they were especially qualified. The Bureau’s
scientific staff is restricted to a small number of investigators whose field of
labor is necessarily limited, and it has always been the policy of the Bureau
to widen its scope by enlisting the aid of specialists in various important
branches. While thus seeking to cover in the fullest possible manner the whole
field of American ethnology, it has sought with particular care to pursue only
such branches of research as are not adequately provided for by other agencies,
public or private. The result sought by the Bureau is the completion of a sys-
tematie and well-rounded record of the tribes before the ever-accelerating march
of change has robbed them of their aboriginal characteristics and culture.

During the year researches have been carried on in New Mexico, Arizona,
Oklahoma, Louisiana, Mississippi, Florida, New York, and Ontario. The field
work has, however, not been so extensive as during most previous years, for the
reason that a number of the ethnologists had to be retained in the office to
assist in the completion of the Handbook of American Indians and in the proof
reading of reports passing through the press.

The Chief of the Bureau remained on duty in the office during nearly the
entire year. Administrative duties occupied much of his time, but during the
winter and spring months he was called upon to assist in the preparation of the
exhibit of the Smithsonian Institution at the Jamestown Exposition, and in
April in installing this exhibit. The completion of numerous articles for the
Handbook of American Indians, the revision of various manuscripts submitted
for publication, and the proof reading of reports and bulletins claimed his
attention. Aside from these occupations his duties as honorary curator of the
department of prehistoric archeology in the National Museum and as curator of
the National Gallery of Art absorbed a portion of his time. The chief was also
called upon to assist in formulating the uniform rules and regulations required
by the Departments of the Interior, Agriculture, and War in carrying out the

48
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 49

provisions of the law for the preservation of antiquities, to pass upon various
applications for permits to explore among the antiquities of the public domain,
and to furnish data needful in the selection of the archeological sites to be set
aside as national monuments. In addition he was able to give some attention
to carrying forward the systematic study of aboriginal technology and art, on
which he has’ been engaged for several years, as occasion offered.

At the beginning of the year Mrs. M. C. Stevenson, ethnologist, was in the
Indian village of Taos, New Mexico, continuing her studies of the arts, . habits,
customs, and language of this tribe begun during the previous year. Although
the field was new and the traditional conservatism of the tribe made investiga-
tion in certain directions difficult or impossible, much progress was made, and,
' when the work is completed, results of exceptional value will doubtless have
been obtained.

In November Mrs. Stevenson visited Santa Clara pueblo for the purpose of
making studies of the people and their culture for comparative purposes, and
observations were made of the social customs and religious observances of the
people. Afterwards, several days were spent in Santa Fé, examining the old
Spanish records preserved in the archives of the Historical Society of New
Mexico, with the view of learning something of the early relations of the local
tribes with the Spanish invaders and with their Spanish-speaking neighbors of
later times. Late in November Mrs. Stevenson visited the pueblo of Zufi, the
site of her former extended researches, and spent some weeks in completing
her studies on certain phases of the native ritual and worship, on religious sym-
bolism as embodied in pictography and ceramic and textile decoration, and in
the revision of her list of plants employed for food, medicine, and dyes. Numer-
ous photographs and sketches of ceremonials and ceremonial objects were made.
A number of changes were noted in the dramas and other ceremonies since her
last visit, and Zuni, heretofore presenting at night the quiet somberness of an
aboriginal village, has now, when the dusk falls, the appearance of an eastern
town, with many lighted windows. Mrs. Stevenson notes that changes are
creeping steadily into all the pueblos, Taos perhaps excepted, and is led to
express the earnest hope that the work of investigating the town-building tribes
of the Southwest be carried forward with all possible energy.

On April 1 Mrs. Stevenson returned to the office, where, during the remainder
of the year, she has been engaged in the preparation of reports on her field
researches. .

Dr. Cyrus Thomas, ethnologist, has been employed the greater portion of the
year in assisting Mr. Hodge on the Handbook of American Indians, not only in
the preparation of separate articles, but also in assisting the editor on certain
lines of proof reading relating to omissions, uniformity in names, ete. Such
time as could be spared from these duties was devoted to the preparation of a
Catalogue of Books and Papers relating to the Hawaiian Islands. For this pur-
pose the Congressional and other libraries in Washington were consulted and a
short trip to Worcester and Boston, Massachusetts, was made for the purpose
of examining the libraries of those cities, which are the chief depositories in the
United States of the early publications of the missionaries in Hawaii. The
number of titles so far obtained is about 2,000. Doctor Thomas assisted
also with the official correspondence on subjects with which he is particularly
familiar, his attainments as a student of ancient Mexican writings having
proved of special value in the examination of certain manuscripts in the
Cakchikel language submitted by the Librarian of the American Philosophical
Society of Philadelphia.
50 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

During the latter part of the previous fiscal year, in pursuance of his lin-
guistic studies, Dr. John R. Swanton, ethnologist, was engaged in preparing an
English-Natchez and Natchez-English analytical dictionary, embodying all the
published and unpublished material available—that is, about two thousand words
and phrases; he also copied on cards all the words and phrases collected by the
late Doctor Gatschet from the Attacapa, Chitimacha, and Tunica Indians. At
the beginning of the fiscal year Doctor Swanton was engaged in compiling a
dictionary of the Tunica language similar to that made for the Natchez. In the
field of general ethnology he excerpted and, when necessary, translated, all the
available material bearing on the tribes of the lower Mississippi Valley, and
arranged for publication that portion dealing with the Natchez.

On April 3 he left Washington to make investigations among the tribal rem-
nants of Louisiana and Oklahoma, and visited the members of the Houma,
Chitimacha, Attacapa, Alibamu, Biloxi, Tunica, and Natchez tribes, and was
able definitely to establish the relationship of the Houma to the Choctaw and to
identify the Ouspie—a small people referred to by the early French writers—
with the Offagoula. From the Tunica and Chitimacha he collected several
stories which will be of importance in the endeavor to restore the mythology
of the tribes of this area, now almost a blank. In the Cherokee Nation (Okla-
homa), contrary to expectation, Doctor Swanton found several persons who
still speak the Natchez language. This discovery will necessarily delay the
publication of the Natchez material already referred to, but if prompt measures
are taken, will insure the preservation of that language in its completeness.
At Eufaula (Creek Nation) he made a slight investigation into the social organi-
zation of the Creeks—enough to determine that much work still remains to be
done in that tribe entirely apart from language. Doctor Swanton returned to
the office June 7, and during the remainder of the year was engaged in arrang-
ing and collating the material collected by him.

Dr. J. Walter Fewkes, ethnologist, was employed in the office during the
first month of the year reading proofs of his articles on The Aborigines of
Porto Rico and Neighboring Islands and on Antiquities of Eastern Mexico, for
the Twenty-fifth Annual Report of the Bureau. Part of August and all of
September were devoted to the preparation of a bulletin on the Antiquities of
the Little Colorado. He spent seven months in Arizona, leaving Washington on
October 15 and returning the middle of May. During four months he super-
intended the work of eXcavation, repair, and preservation of the Casa Grande
Ruin, in Pinal County, Arizona, and in March and April visited a number of
little-known and undescribed ruins along Canyon Diablo and Grapevine Can-
yon, gathering material for his bulletin on The Antiquities of the Little Colo-
rado Valley. During May and June he was employed in the office, devoting
his time to the preparation of an account of the excavations at Casa Grande.
The explorations at Casa Grande were conducted under a special appropriation
disbursed directly by the Smithsonian Institution, and Doctor Fewkes’s pre-
liminary report has been submitted to the Secretary. It is anticipated that a
final report on the work when completed will be published by the Bureau of
American Hthnology.

Mr. J. N. B. Hewitt was occupied during the earlier months of the year in
preparing and correcting matter for the Handbook of American Indians, devyot-
ing special attention to the articles on the Iroquoian family, Iroquois, Mohawk,
Montour, Mythology, Nanabozho, Neutrals, Oneida, Onondaga, and Ottawa, and
to the lists of towns formerly belonging to the Iroquois tribes.

From the 20th of January to the 23d of March, 1907, he was engaged in
field work among the Iroquois tribes in New York and in Ontario, Canada.
The entire period was devoted to collecting texts in the Onondaga and Mohawk

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. Fmt

dialects, embodying the basic principles and the civil and political structure
and organization of the League of the Iroquois and data relating thereto. The
Onondaga texts aggregate about 26,955 words and the Mohawk texts about
1,480 words, making a total of 27,4835 words. The following captions will
indicate sufficiently the subject-matter of these texts: The Constitution of the
League, the Powers of the T‘hadoda‘ho’, Amendments, Powers and Rights of
the Chiefs, Powers and Rights of the Women, Powers of the Women Chiefs,
Procedure on Failure in Succession, Powers and Restrictions of “ Pine Tree”
Chiefs, Procedure in Case of Murder, Address of Condolence for Death in a
Chief's Family, Forest-edge Chanted Address of Welcome, The Chant for the
Dead, Interpretation of the Fundamental Terms, Peace, Power, and Justice.

Mr. Hewitt also continued his duties as custodian of the collection of lin-
guistic manuscripts of the Bureau, the completion of the catalogue of which was
entrusted to Mr. J. B. Clayton, head clerk. He has also been called upon to
furnish data for the correspondence of the office, more particularly that part
relating to the Iroquoian tribes.

Mr. F. W. Hodge, ethnologist, has been engaged during the entire year on the
Handbook of American Indians, the editorial work of which has proved ex-
tremely arduous and difficult. This work is in two parts: Part I, A—M, was
issued from the press in March last, and the main body of Part II was in type
at the close of the fiscal year, though progress in proof reading was exceedingly
slow on account of the great diversity of the topics treated and the difficulty of
bringing up to date numbers of articles relating often to obscure tribes and
subjects.

During the entire fiscal year Mr. James Mooney, ethnologist, remained in the
office, occupied chiefly on the Handbook of American Indians and in the clas-
sification of the large body of material previously obtained relating to the
tribes of the Great Plains. His extended article on Indian Missions, written for
the Handbook, has been made the subject of a special reprint, a small edition
of which was issued by the Bureau. Mr. Mooney has also given valuable
assistance in the correspondence of the Bureau, more especially that portion
relating to the languages of the Algonquian stock.

SPECIAL RESEARCHES.

For a number of years Dr. Franz Boas, assisted by a large corps of linguists,
has been engaged in the preparation of a work on the American languages, to be
published as a bulletin of the Bureau, entitled “ Handbook of American Lan-
guages,” and it is expected that the manuscript of the first part of this work will
be submitted for publication at an early date. Sections relating to the languages
of the Eskimo and the Iroquois alone remain incomplete. During the summer
of 1906 Mr. Hdward Sapir was engaged in collecting data for the handbook on
the language of the Takelma tribe, located on the Siletz Agency, Oregon, and
toward the close of the year Mr. Leo J. Frachtenberg began similar studies
among the Tutelo remnant on the Tuscarora Reservation, Ontario, Canada.

Reports of the discovery of fossil remains of men of extremely primitive
type in the vicinity of Omaha, Nebraska, led to the assignment of Dr. Ales
Hrdliéka, curator of physical anthropology in the National Museum, to the duty
of visiting the University of Nebraska, at Lineoln, where the remains are pre-
served, and also the site of their exhumation. The examinations were made
with the greatest care, and the results are embodied in Bulletin 38 of the
Bureau, which was in press at the close of the fiscal year. The conclusion
reached by Doctor Hrdlitka with respect to the age and character of these
remains is that they are not geologically ancient, belonging rather to the mound-
52 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

building period in the Mississippi Valley, and that, although a number of the
crania are of low type, this was a characterist'c frequently appearing among
comparatively recent mound-building tribes.

At the beginning of the fiscal year the Bureau was fortunate enough to enter
into arrangements with Prof. Herbert H. Bolton, of the University of Texas,
for recording the history of the Texan tribes. During the early historical
period the French controlled and came into intimate relations with the northern
Caddo, hence the early history of this group is to be found chiefly in French
records; but with this exception it is mainly in Spanish records, scattered and
almost wholly unprinted. These facts make the task in every sense a pioneer
one.

The Spanish manuscript sources available to Professor Bolton and upon
which, aside from the printed French sources, he has thus far mainly drawn,
consist of (1) the Béxar archives, a rich collection of perhaps 300,000 pages
of original manuscripts that accumulated at San Antonio during the Spanish
eccupancy, and now in the University of Texas; (2) the Nacogdoches archives,
a similar but much smaller collection that accumulated at Nacogdoches and
which are now in the State Historical Library; (38) the Lamar papers, a small
collection of Spanish manuscripts, now in private hands; (4) mission records
preserved at the residence of the Bishop of San Antonio; (5) copies of docu-
ments from the Archivo General of Mexico, belonging to the University of
Texas and to Professor Bolton; and (6) the various Mexican archives. From
these have been extracted a great many notes, but much material yet remains
to be examined.

During the year Professor Bolton’s efforts have taken three principal direc-
tions: (1) He has systematically and fully indexed, on about 10,000 cards, a
large amount of the early material, including tribal, institutional, linguistic,
historical, and other data on the whole Texas field. (2) From this material as
a basis he has written many brief articles on tribes and missions for the Hand-
book of American Indians, aggregating about 20,000 words. (38) While in
the analysis of the materials and the making of the index cards he has covered
the whole field, in the final work of construction he has begun the Caddoan
tribes of eastern Texas, with the design of treating them separately. In this
work Professor Bolton has made commendable progress. He has already
written a detailed description, consisting of about 40,000 words, of the location,
social and political organization, economic life, religion, and ceremonial of the
Hasinai, commonly designated ‘‘ Texas,” as known and described by the earliest
European chronicles, accompanied with a map.

The task of writing a history of the Texas tribes is a great one, and can be
performed only by long and painstaking effort, but its successful accomplish-
ment promises an important addition to our knowledge of the native Americans.

PRESERVATION OF ANTIQUITIES.

With the object of assisting the departments of the Government haying cus-
tody of the public domain in the initiation of measures for the preservation of
the antiquities of the country, the compilation of a descriptive catalogue of
antiquities has been continued, and the preparation of bulletins having the same
end in view has also received every possible attention. Bulletin 32, Antiquities
of the Jemez Plateau, by Edgar L. Hewett, was published and distributed dur-
ing the year, and Bulletin 35, Antiquities of the Upper Gila and Salt River
Valleys in Arizona and New Mexico, by Dr. Walter Hough, was in page form at
the close of the year, while bulletins by Dr. J. Walter Fewkes, on the Antiqui-
ties of the Little Colorado Valley, and Edgar L. Hewett, on the Antiquities of the
Mesa Verde, Colorado, were in course of preparation.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. io

The sum of $3,000, appropriated by Congress for the excavation, repair, and
preservation of Casa Grande Ruin, in Arizona, was disbursed by the Smith-
sonian Institution, Dr. J. Walter Fewkes, of the Bureau of American Ethnology,
having charge of the work. A brief preliminary report on the first year’s opera-
tions will appear in the Quarterly Issue of the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Col-
lections. A second appropriation of $3,000 is provided for continuing the work
during the coming year.

During the year uniform rules and regulations intended to serve in carrying
out the recently enacted law for the preservation of national antiquities were
formulated and adopted by the three departments having control of the public
domain. Under these, on recommendation of the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution, permits were issued for conducting explorations on Indian reserva-
tions and national forests in Idaho and Wyoming, by the American Museum of
Natural History, New York, and among the ancient ruins on the public lands
in Navaho and Apache counties, Arizona, by the University of California. Ar-
rangements were also made with the Interior Department for carrying on
explorations at Casa Grande Ruin, Arizona, by the Smithsonian Institution.
Under the same law during the year three important archeological sites were
declared national monuments by the President of the United States. They are
as: follows: Chaco Canyon, in New Mexico, including several important ruined
pueblos; El Moro, New Mexico, commonly known as Inscription Rock; and
Montezuma Castle, in Arizona, an important cliff ruin.

CATALOGUE OF LINGUISTIC MANUSCRIPTS.

The archives of the Bureau contain 1,626 manuscripts, mainly linguistic, of
which only a partial catalogue had previously been made. In January Mr.
J. B. Clayton, head clerk, began the preparation of a card catalogue, which was
completed at the close of the year. The manuscripts were jacketed in manila
envelopes of uniform size, except where bulk prevented, and were numbered
from 1 to®1626.

The catalogue comprises about 14,000 cards which give, as completely as
available data permit, the names of stock, language, dialect, collector, and local-
ity, as well as the date of the manuscript. It was not possible in every instance
to supply all the information called for under these heads, but the card has
been made as complete in each case as the information permitted. The cards
have been arranged in one alphabetical series, the names of the languages not
only under these languages in their proper alphabetical place, but also alpha-
betically under their stocks. Under the name of each collector his manuscripts
are indexed under stocks, languages, and dialects. The data in regard to
“place” are very defective, and quite a number of the manuscripts are from
anonymous sources.

EDITORIAL WORK.

Mr. Joseph G. Gurley, who was appointed to the position of editor for a
probationary period during the previous year, was permanently appointed on
August 16, 1906.

The editorial work of the year may be summarized briefly as follows: The
proof reading of the Twenty-fourth Annual Report was completed and the
work advanced to publication. At the close of the year the Twenty-fifth
Annual was practically finished, with the exception of the presswork, while
the Twenty-sixth Report was in page form, so that the work was practically
ready for printing. Bulletin 32 was completed and published early in the year,
and Bulletin 36 also has been issued. FEulletins 33, 34, and 35 are in type, and
54 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

the proof reading on Bulletins 33 and 35 has progressed so far that they can
be put on the press at an early day.

For about three months the Bureau has had the efficient services of Mr.
Stanley Searles, who was courteously detailed for the purpose from the proof
reading force of the Government Printing Office. The editor has assisted to
some extent in the proof-reading of the Handbook of American Indians, Bulletin
30, which is in charge of Mr. F. W. Hodge.

PUBLICATIONS.

During the year the Twenty-sixth Annual Report and Bulletins 33, 34, 35,
and 36 were forwarded to the Public Printer. Bulletins 31 and 32 were pub-
lished in July. Part I of the Handbook of American Indians (Bulletin 30)
appeared in March and the Twenty-fourth Annual Report in May. One thou-
sand copies of the List of Publications of the Bureau (Bulletin 36) and 500
copies of a special article on Indian missions were issued in June. Fifteen
hundred copies of the Twenty-fourth Annual Report and the same number of
Bulletin 30, Part I, and Bulletin 32 were sent to regular recipients. About
1,500 copies of Bulletin 30, Part I, and 200 copies of the Twenty-fourth Annual,
as well as numerous bulletins and separates, were distributed in response to
special requests, presented for the most part by Members of Congress.

The distribution of publications was continued as in former years. The great
increase in the number of libraries in the country and the multiplication of de-
mands from the publie generally have resulted in the almost immediate exhaus-
tion of the quota of volumes (3,500) allotted to the Bureau. Few copies of any
of the reports remain six months after the date of issue.

LIBRARY.

The library remains in charge of Miss Ella Leary, who was able to bring the
accessioning and cataloguing of books, pamphlets, and periodicals ump to date.
In all, there have been received and recorded during the year 760 volumes, 1,200
pamphlets, and the current issues of upward of 500 periodicals, while about 500
volumes have been bound at the Government Printing Office. The library now
contains 13,657 volumes, 9,800 pamphlets, and several thousand copies of peri-
odicals which relate to anthropology. The purchase of books and periodicals
has been restricted to such as relate to anthropology and, more especially, to
such as have a direct bearing on the American aborigines.

COLLECTIONS.

The eollections of the year comprise large series of objects obtained by Dr.
J. Walter Fewkes, in his excavations at Casa Grande Ruins, Arizona, conducted
under the immediate auspices of the Smithsonian Institution, and by Mrs. M. C.
Stevenson in Zufi and Taos pueblos, New Mexico.

Seme of the minor collections are a cache of stone knife blades from the
vicinity of Tenleytown, District of Columbia, obtained through the kindness of
Mr. C. C. Glover; a series of relics (fragments of pottery) from the temple of
Diana at Caldecote, presented by Mr. Robert C. Nightingale; relics from the
shell heaps of Popes Creek, Maryland, presented by Mr. S. H. Morris, of Faulk-
ner, Maryland; and a number of stone implements and unfinished soapstone
utensils from the ancient quarries on Connecticut avenue extended, Washington,
District of Columbia, collected by Mr. W. H. Gill.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 55

ILLUSTRATIONS.

The division of illustrations was, as heretofore, in charge of Mr. De Lancey
Gill, who was assisted by Mr. Henry Walther. One hundred and fifty-nine illus-
trations were prepared for Bulletins 30, 38, 34, and 35, and a large number
of proofs of illustrations for the various volumes were read and revised. The
photographie work included the making of 277 negatives required in the illus-
tration work and 160 portraits of Indians of visiting delegations. Negatives
developed for ethnologists returning from the field numbered 96. During the
year a total of 11,078 photographic prints was made.

Albert Samuel Gatschet, a distinguished philologist and ethnologist, for
many years connected with the Bureau, died at his home in Washington, Dis-
trict of Columbia, March 16, 1907. A suitable notice of his career will be found
in the Annual Report of the Bureau.

Respectfuily submitted.

W. H. Hoimss, Chief.

Dr. CHARLES D. WALCOTT,

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

41780—O08——_S§
Apprnpix III.
REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES.

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the operations of
the International Exchanges during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1907:

The Exchange Service, whose existence is almost coeval with that of the
Institution, was originally designed for the purpose of exchanging Smithsonian
publications for those of learned societies and universities. Through the action
of Congress and a treaty negotiated with various foreign countries, to which
many nations have since adhered, it has become an important international
agency for the exchange of governmental, scientific, and literary publications,
and is intended to benefit institutions in this country and abroad, serving as one
of the most important means for carrying out a fundamental purpose of the
Institution, ‘‘ the diffusion of knowledge among men.”

The service conducts its operations on behalf of all branches of this Goy-
ernment, and reciprocally receives the cooperation of most of the Departments
and Bureaus at Washington. I desire, however, especially to mention the
valued cooperation of the Department of State, which unfailingly, when
requested, takes action, through our representatives abroad, on behalf of the
service; and of the Treasury Department, which, by its instructions to collectors
of customs, greatly facilitates the exchange work.

Its operations have been zealously carried on during the year by the experi-
enced staff that has been gathered together. Details of the regular work are
given below, to a considerable extent in tabular form, but before proceeding
to them certain exceptional matters are briefly discussed.

The amount appropriated by Congress for the expenses of the service during
the fiscal year 1907 was $28,800, and the sum collected on account of repay-
ments during the same period was $4,568.25, making the total available re-
sources for carrying on the system of International Exchanges $33,368.25.

The estimate submitted to Congress for conducting the service during the
year 1908 was $32,200, an increase of $3,400 over the current appropriation.
It is gratifying to state that this amount has been allowed.

The improvements and changes in the electric wires which furnish light for
the Exchange Service, referred to in the Jast report, have been completed. The
wires were placed in metal pipes, and the liability of fire from this source is
now reduced to a minimum. The appearance of the office rooms has been much
improved by the painting of the walls, woodwork, and floors, and the hanging
of new shades.

When it is considered that nearly 2,000 boxes have been shipped during the
year to every quarter of the globe, the statement that the service has not
suffered the loss of any of its consignments is noteworthy.

A close supervision has been kept over entries of foreign consignments of
books at the Georgetown custom-house and over the auction sales of all the
principal ports of the United States, in order to prevent, if possible, the going
astray of exchanges from abroad which are not properly addressed, and which,
therefore, fail to reach the Smithsonian Institution. During the past year

56
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 57

these efforts have resulted in the clearing of a number of consignments for the
Smithsonian Institution and the Library of Congress which might otherwise
have miscarried. Whenever, during the visits to the custom-house, any ex-
change consignment addressed to a scientific establishment has been found
unclaimed, steps have been taken to notify the proper persons regarding the
matter. In such cases the sender has been informed of the channels through
which exchanges should be forwarded to insure their prompt and safe
delivery.

Complaints of delays in the transmission of exchanges are becoming fewer
each year. Every endeavor has been made to improve the service so that the
eause of complaint may be entirely eliminated, and each complaint is care-
fully traced in order that the cause of delay may be ascertained. It should be
stated, however, that, with the exception of the countries in which the Institu-
tion has paid agents, the responsibility of the Institution for outgoing shipments
necessarily ceases after they have been shipped, as the distribution in foreign
countries is conducted by the government bureaus of the respective countries,
over which the Smithsonian Institution, of course, has no control. In special
eases, and usually upon the request of government establishments where the
publications are of such a nature that their value largely depends upon the
promptest possible delivery, and to addresses in countries to which shipments
are very infrequent, packages are now sent by mail.

It has been the established rule to make shipments in boxes of standard size,
bearing a weight of about 200 pounds each, and not to make a transmission
to any country until a sufficient number of publications to fill at least one such
box had accumulated. This has caused no delay in shipments to any of the
larger countries, but has rendered them less frequent to those places with
which the exchange is not very considerable. It is proposed during the coming
year to employ smaller cases for such countries, thus making more frequent
shipments possible.

Regarding the charge made by the consuls of certain South and Central
American countries for certifying bills of lading, it is a pleasure to state that
in nearly every instance the consuls have consented to waive such fees in the
future.

Within recent years Hawaii, Porto Rico, and the Philippine Islands came
under the jurisdiction of the United States. Prior to this they had been sub-
ject to foreign jurisdiction and thus came within the purview of the exchange
service, but under the existing circumstances it appeared that this construc-
tion must be abandoned, and the Institution has discontinued the acceptance of
packages from domestic sources for these territories, since exchanges with them
no longer come within the designation “international.”

Special attention continues to be given to increasing the office collection of
directories and other books of addresses.

In the last report reference was made to the steps that were being taken
through the Department of State to have the Government of the Argentine
Republic designate one office to assume charge of the distribution of exchanges
in that country, in order that the practice of sending to five different establish-
ments might be discontinued. In response to the communication of the Depart-
ment of State, the Argentine minister of foreign affairs stated that a section
of exchanges was already established under the direction of the National
Library of Buenos Aires, and requested that future consignments be sent in
eare of that library. Transmissions to Argentina have accordingly been made
in this manner since January, 1907.

As was reported last year, all transmissions to Bulgaria were temporarily
suspended owing to the death of Dr. Paul Leverkiihn, who attended to the
58 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

distribution of exchanges in that country. It is gratifying to state that ship-
ments have now been resumed, the Prince of Bulgaria having been good enough,
in response to the request of the Institution, to designate the scientific institu-
tions and library at Sofia to act as the exchange intermediary between Bulgaria
and the United States.

The final arrangement of details concerning the shipment of Government
documents to China has not been perfected, and therefore the first consignment
of official publications to that country has not yet been made.

During the latter part of the present fiscal year a communication was re-
ceived from Dr. F. Bonola Bey, secretary-general of the Khedivial Geographical
Society in Cairo, announcing that as he was about to leave Egypt for some time
he felt it would be necessary for him to give up the work which he had
been conducting for the Smithsonian Institution for a number of years, and
that, at his request, the director-general of the survey department at Cairo
had offered to take charge of the distribution of exchanges. A letter was also
received from the director-general placing the services of his department at the
disposal of the Institution. Consignments will, therefore, be sent to the survey
department in the future. The grateful acknowledgments of the Institution
are due to Dr. Bonola Bey for the valuable services which he has rendered
during the past seventeen years in the distribution of exchanges to correspond-
ents in Egypt.

Under the arrangement which has existed for a number of years with the
national library at Athens, the Smithsonian Institution has been permitted to
forward to that library packages intended for distribution only to Government
institutions and officials connected therewith, it being necessary to forward all
other exchanges for Greece in care of the American School of Classical Studies
at Athens. On account of this division of consignments it was often necessary
to hold packages here for a considerable length of time before a sufficient num-
ber accumulated to constitute a shipment. The national library, however,
through the good offices of Dr. Eypaldo Bassier, member of the Greek Parlia-
ment, has finally been prevailed upon to distribute exchanges for all addresses
in Greece, which greatly increases the efficiency of the service between that
country and the United States. In this connection it should be stated that the
services which the American School of Classical Studies rendered the Institu-
tion in the distribution of exchanges for miscellaneous addresses in Greece
have been eminently satisfactory, and the thanks of the Institution are due the
officers of that school for their promptness in forwarding packages to their
destinations.

Dr. Julius Pikler, who was temporarily appointed agent for Hungary on
July 1, 1906, to fill the vacancy caused by the death of Dr. Joseph von Ko6rosy,
was, on February 7, 1907, permanently appointed.

No response has yet been received from the Korea branch of the Royal
Asiatic Society at Seoul regarding the request of the Institution that the
society act as the exchange medium through which packages to and from Korea
may be forwarded. The Institution is, therefore, still without means of for-
warding packages to Korea, transmissions to which country were suspended
during the late Russo-Japanese war.

INTERCHANGE OF PUBLICATIONS BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES AND OTHER
COUNTRIES.

The total number of packages handled by the International HPxchange Service
during the past year was 189,830, an increase over the number for the preceding
year of 17,947. The weight of these packages was 469,536 pounds, a decrease
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

from 1906 of 2,028 pounds.

59

The statement which follows shows in detail the

number of packages exchanged between the United States and other countries:

Statement of packages received for transmission through the International
Exchange Service during the year ending June 30, 1907.

Packages. | Packages.
Country. | i Country. peeeupee
leeetons From, | For. | From.

IAD YSSIMI Ay seeeeeaeeeeeee ea ee’ cepocee Grenada aac secre eee seat | 1 ee ee EE
INEab ees ee oS cao ne Bee aeooC 122 64 || Great Britain and Ireland...) 20,123 | 7, 982
ASEHOIES cnocnesece apecCneEeeunD 8) |lssoseeeese WaG@TCCCC a= Saeed rere aisect ser 12500 [eee ee
SAMItioUA a -seeeeoeeceee: see 42) | sek astinas Greenland $1) -2sAssossce 2 | se eas
PATAIDIS esc e een cece sctasies 285 eee Guadeloupesessa=- ee =-= see: 2h! Seve see
Naeger nine Gcoeacocepaesessoe 3, 062 67a): Gueitemiall aseyoeee eee Se ee eee 218) pa aeeeee
Austria-Hungary ......------ | 6, 682 Sur hGe Earth youn Oe eee eee te See ahs
IAT ES te ems fon eceene eee SWS Seoeuseae | Hawaiian Islands........-.-- 52 3
Bah amMasreater secon cisacees er 5S |eacise ses ISI POETS. cecodoconescRscwse DAN ances ann
IBAT DAC OG Ree a Sacre sees eee 104s eee Hong kon cass sense eee: AMG) steers
Beirahere sees: eee 14 ee eae heelaadi jresusee eterna eae | Silal este nes eae
Be lei. ee ee a S338 | 3,840 Q5603 ul Welinidia pees aoe ents 2,580 783
Bermudas =sess-cs0222 ees eos= Boils eeses iWbteliyin octcitecesies eecesicce acs 6, 601 | 2, 454
Bismarck Archipelago. ...--. | Bere eta (ERNE) © Goon opocoodecedseser 248 L eee
Te@ilinahy n2ases4-sesnoeoeeeeeed SB} a cecen ki 1 JAPAN ssa eee senses ee ae 3,435 | 656
Bompayiecs. tase sees sero He celesscae JEN idssrneecoseasesccocenaade 252 517
HOSE OM ee eens es oe. By Sete ee NEKO p Ose Sea dee en comeinen ee 1 | 1
ISA Se le ae eee re 2,043 AR ODSRIEKOLCH ses recesses aicctcsesisic Ht Beste poo
British) America -<.-:-----<-- 6, 110 SOON | RAS OS Foe ere eysceee aa cee sera Gin oe ere
British’ Burma .-2:----------- 8) lasers hiberia 2.232222 secectesss2 63) easton
British Hast Africa .......--- 5) |Sekececeee Lourencgo Marquez ..-...-.--- ote teeta
British Central Africa ....-.. Be ae Bee teters EX eno On Seale ole aie 98 | 1
BritiShiG Mian aes s-o-co- sa ia | Beebe IIEKEE Oe senebeecuoussbossone 1) NS eee
British Honduras...-.....--.. | Gil Peessarece Mada @ascar joss. sec nee==5 CH alee
British West Africa.......-.- | Da Wae ea siae Madeira: o.. 22.32. sncss se aS ee Se

jeri eke be eee | 178 Eph A EAT: eee oe a ea a TOGA ieee ees.
Canary Islands'=sos-22o-2.- V/A) eee eee Martiimiquie = mac. -eo reas SRS See NE
Cape Colony eseceeaseee ena = 1,510 PSN Wihibhaliihe nas ceaso ces senasoss 6632s ees nas
Weylontsn ec heaseece edo eee! Pl Beeeeeenee MGS C ON = Stren et eenso ie sien 1,677 512
Chile, sic. ase sees ANE 1, 686 751) ENCOMNDASO} mes see cicceeeea= oer 1 eee Seen
(Cities 6 aaa eee ES Bee mE 546 25a PNONTER EPROP nee ee eros Sul Reapers
G@otompians Cc pees oe 1,161 Si Mlorocedws4u ee rere os | Ef aes
Cooklslands sic ts<23.s ceca | iy bbebecopeE INGEN coscs=cece  csemecancet | 221 | 2
Gostayhica ste ceess ese 1,149 20) |p Netherlandsesees esses ae eezesso 1,458
(Gal en ee oe SA Oe | 1,152 TBO || Ne yIss Ss e5 Sewers ane weten cM eee tate
CUTACE OL 255. Sed see cers sais AGH B5sscee ee Newioundland <2. ~ 22.20. 2- ASS |i ose see
Wy prlishss3 ve eeosenmece ete = aE ea eee ees New South Wales........--..| 2,410 | 698
Denmark: sjo2ss-nese eases 1,761 384). || New Zealand’... ....--:-..... 1552] 3
WOMINICa Hees eens ee AGAlie ne ee INICATE SUAS ease. ete ete mecee | DGT See
Mimteh Guianseeecesees sesesac SOU se er es Norfoliislands3222s2- 2-2-2. IBY EAS ecencoc
CUS. OTs econ nee 585 130 || NOLW EY seeerisstue ances aan o 1,922.) 449
POV ts cone nssmeeecnees chee es 335 58 || Orange River Colony....-.... IUD ee eeee ae
Falkland Islands ...........- 1 Beene IRAN AR eee see eee aaeeea ADT teem ate
ijl Islands: voces ssn. 50-22 Ei] Baan PATAPUSY ase cc sss ~ece ewe sens Tish Soa neers
WranCe../..22 42 Saonasseseeee ae 12, 061 AS 687) Persia =<. asec snececesnesces | G5 A ae ee
French Cochin China........ ABT |My a ICN ena ee tec a ace’ | 1, 430

German East Africa .......-- lees eee Philippine Islands.......-.--. 232 1
(GG Wehy SamensnS=sceetnsoocs 21,875 7THOSTE | ROLLOMRACOmeee =- seeee ane a DNS ee
Gibraltar «.2jcsuce-2ta2-bes 1 oer ORNS Hls aes Sears beh oe 1,481 | 104
Gold: Coasts sccarcectes ener: Dales okoe W@ueenslanGusse nse accesses! Te SB20 aaa nea ae
60 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

Statement of packages received for transmission through the International Exchange
Service during the year ending June 80, 1907—Continued.

| Packages. | | Packages.
Country. | 7 || Country. SS

| For. | From. Hon: From.
REUNION yes. aot ecco eee | 5 aR ene Spainisee seee tose as cs seeeee eee 2, 196 | 284
Rhodesia) 5. s.c=osesce snes | ATW Waseem Straits Settlements ..._..--.. 202 | ete eae
ROUMAMIA = aejsice cece ee son] 376 34 eS GLa eee eee eer ee Gripes eee
PRUISST eee eee at ie te teeta ae | 4,842 OARO4a Sumatra eee eee eee ceoeee ee Sil eee te
St-pHlelen a fee sas oc areecisine 20) ostecienies Swedemesesne- 24-5 essaeeeeees 2,679 1,018
ii, IXGUTCTR RS eee aS aRe ase saoee Pn ee eee ae Sultzerian dae =e eee | 3,477 1,072
Sits AU WOU toads Geese een ae eeeer | Sowerereee NMMARE cyan habe eS cGeaaee oboe ae oe eg 5
Ste Martina. sos sec-c scaces 52 | 1 OR ores eee PAN SVRellieler ose ce ees eels esee A 1/ Gul pas eee
St. Pierre and Miquelon...-. DU Nee eeeea aoe | nina Gaia ae ease meee eee CoPilot ee
Shi, ANNO ant aa begs aseeeeser | 13 |e | eon See eee os ete ne 36 {
Rib, WALEED oa de so eeaasadooal ona Pie Ne Hiesttirelceyrce owe weer tN ILA TD 70 | ene
BAM OS cece cot seceeccere ses | DR se ayes || TurksIslands.............--- S/F) rk oe sests
Same salvaGd One sess seen see ae Beil eects See ||), UmitedtStatessss2.----=-a--—- 43, 55D 146,719
SantouDomineossesssssseeeee 35 | pt ee | IABKSTEN soe cneaceosncsensces 1, 355 | 30
Sara walcneeen Ae sae naan cee | Sul eee aes | AVENGED acco sense conan UST 7/8| tere ee
SOnViaie ce seceescceccmcacesss 97 | Dei WACTOTIG. 2 eeeee ee ace sets ee 2,824 | 138
Seychelles Islands. .---. AR iL) eee Lee Western Australia.........-- | 1, 234 | 50.
STATINS a hk ne ares wlare ors Beet Oo eo ease esee I Zam Zibaraacssencsscece ek cere 15) HooeoSacchc
Sierraglconessses- eases senor 1) eee ee | , [igre pene na [ae
Society Islands ........--.--- Gules cee || MOG) co cecreassacee soca 189,830 | 189, 830
South Australia ..........2.. | 1,418 168 | |

|

During the year there were sent abroad 1,833 boxes, 265 of which contained
full sets of United States Government documents for authorized depositories,
and 1,568 consisted of departmental and other publications for miscellaneous
correspondents. The decrease in the number of boxes sent abroad as compared
with the previous year is due, in part, to the fact that a great many more pack-
ages were forwarded directly by mail than formerly, and, in part, to the reduc-
tion in size of Government publications. The number of boxes of miscellaneous
exchanges sent to each country is given below:

INTO CNTIN are S28 eee Ae eee 20) | RGRCCCevs 2 een Ce ee 5
AUISUDI A 2 = oe a= Sane ee eee GE} Guatemala eae 4
TEXeN aig b bath eS oe LE ee say Es ia) & Nh a) oe ere ee ee et aa ee 1
IB Oli vii gee Gee ee eRe ee 2tHonduras)-== eee 4
a7 ee ee ee ee ee 19) |S garyy aes. eee eee 28
JE PAH HISay Collab, — Lee aU Si tsp) Eva [ies Wegstetiew crete enone Bc 2) ee ee OS 33
layer, Cee oo 2 italy? ees Se ee oe ee 78
British ElOngura Ss) == ofa JAE Cees ee eg re 3
Caper Colony asses AS Ta panrieswes Lees Bes oo Pe ee 45
@in gent 2s ae Peat eae es ¢: Sa a) Bil] 023 hs eee eee enna RE LES 2
Chileha: seep sara sa 2 eae 11 | Lourenco Marquez _____________ 2
Colombia es sees eee BO) Natal Ree Bee Oe ee i
COSTAE Cae Sie ees eee 4) New South Wales______.-_____ 25
IDEnM are 2 ewe a ee ee TS Ne hers] a0 See ee 34
ECAC OR sco. soar tne ee LOM eNew. Zealand 2s uw se eee 14
SE yj ts eo 2 eS eee (| Nicaragial === 22 = 2 = sae eee 3
Hrancesand (coloniess= === === 153) INOGWalys 222 =.= 2S ee eee 15
BGermManiva o's ce hias eS ewe 278° | Ranama 2s! 2 oe ete eee -£

Great Britain and Ireland____- 308) Paraguay 2222 e ee ee eee 2
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 61

| EASY ygeeene UNO Sees ee oe A CC) ShyaueAsre Eehayol ey ee 40
Portugal, 2223 se ee TOG RSS ht SHES, ae la ea ee oe ~ a
@neensland) 2] esse ee Dil easmanign = =. Bb een 4.
VUSSTay ees ae) gtk Oe eee Goa evans va ee ee ea 4
Sa AC OT: 5 ae eg eee ee Se Plein aren a oe BL ik
SaOtOs OMe O see ee ee IS METI CCN oe ee oe Dee AN eee) 3
SVEN a ee ee ee ee SOUL May eee ee ee ae 6
Souja, Aes oe Se 10" Venezuela, 22222022 83ee* oe ae 3
Sos pt eee ee Peewee QT POV ACTORS See tes ee ae 2 See ee 18
NWCGENI = een ese es = 52 | Western Australia_______ Lene ees 14
EXCHANGE OF GOVERNMENT DOCUMENTS. y

The number of packages sent abroad through the International Exchange
Service by United States Government institutions during the year was 100,114,
an increase over those forwarded during the preceding twelve months of
33,086; the number received in exchange was 11,641, a decrease of 15,127.
The inerease in the number sent is due partly to the addition of three new
depositories of partial sets of official documents and partly to the greater
number of publications received from Government establishments for dis-
tribution abroad. The decrease does not signify an actual reduction in the
number of publications from foreign countries, and is accounted for by the
fact that all packages for the Library of Congress have, at the request of
the Librarian, been delivered intact, so that, in the case of the receipts for
the Library, one package sometimes represents a whole box of publications.

The exchange on account of the various branches of the Government is
shown in detail in the following table:

Statement of United States Government exchanges during the year ending

June 30, 1907.

Packages. H Packages.
Name of bureau. Received Pee | Name of bureau. Received a oe
American Historical Associ- | Bureau of Public Healthand
CAO MSE Seb semceenneBogaaee it 19 Marine-Hospital Service .. 25 1, 152
Astrophysical Observatory - . 17/ emp oebactoc Bureau of Statistics, Depart-
Auditor for the State and | ment of Commerce and
other Departments ....--.-. Dsesceeeeee 361 WabOUes ee yoooroacdocose 126 6, 186
Bureau of American Eth- Bureau of Steam Engineer-
MOlLOPY es saae ee ceecseee ane 275 2,107 | INOS Scie caine aeten ee seck metas 1 I ee
Bureau of the American Re- Civil Service Commission -..} SB) leas costes
publies|casssseess- eee 39 3 || Coast and Geodetic Survey - | 169 454
Bureau of the Census........ AL 2,183 || Commissioner of Internal
Bureau of Education........ 168 | 43 RGEVeNUC B25. 520s heo> coe |--------- 17
Bureau of Fisheries ......... 103 768 || Commissioners of the Dis-
Bureau of Immigration ..... betessenss 1| trictiof Columbia.--------- 9 43
Bureau of Insular Affairs....).......... -3 || Comptroller of the Currency. 9) 140
Bureau of Labor......-...--. 74 4,043 || Department of Agriculture. . 510 | 262
Bureau of Manufactures .... 38 6,925 || Department of Commerce
Bureau of the Mint.......... 8 404 Ane elue: DOM eee sec ee nea 5 1
Bureau of Navigation, Navy Department of the Interior. 28 208
Department oe. se- acne Ar iaratainoche Sis Department of Justice. -..-.-.-. 1 ep somboceS
Bureau of Navigation, De- Department of State ........ 11 1
partment of Commerce Engineer School of Applica-
andi LabOr.e ase oee eel see eeees 20 ION gers ees een en eis Base esaaa
62 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

Statement of United States Government exchanges during the year ending
June 30, 1907—Continued.

Packages. | Packages.

Name of bureau. Name of bureau.

= ae || |
for | Sent by— | Recever Sent by—

Entomological Commission - 3 cpus a a ! Navy Department.....-..-.-- | 5 4
General Land Office......-..- Bilesocosssene || Office of the Chief of Engi- |
Geological Survey..........- 723 | Bu2GT|l\) SECT Ses scere cscs es asccesene 38 5
House of Representatives ...).....---.. 1 || Office of the Chief of Staff... -. 3 21
Hydrographic Office ........ 55 | 204 ! Office of Indian Affairs.....-. Gilberts
Hygienic Laboratory........ Ue a es Ordnance Office, War De-
Interstate Commerce Com- JOEMEBBCKEING 5 oonenngsacocenece I \letacisceoas

TMEEMOM  deseeddcdbeotacece | 26 | MUA ||| TERE ORNCD sancocassaccsecee 347 | 1, 926
Library of Congress ........- 4,009 Bieta MSenaterlalbranyieesace esses cece | Bi ener eae
Life-Saving Service ........- 1 | 68 | Smithsonian Institution.....- 3, 548 | 7,466
Light-House Board.......... 2 | 144 || Steamboat Inspection Serv-
National Academy of Sci- | TCO Soe eat een ic Cae eral ee an 1

ENCES sapien apiece camaca ee 126 7 | Superintendent of  Docu- |
National Bureau of Stand- Wea eritc ieee e ae eee os Vevey. mane pee 4

DV OS eee armies eis actetass SO) erect: ] Surgeon-General’s Office -.-.. 190 327
National Herbarium ........ Shi earn Ropes || Treasury Department -....... 7 7 4
National Museum ........... 403 634 | WareDepaintimemntisec eects 52 110
Nautical Almanac Office .... 57 166 || Weather Bureau............-. 120 1, 439
Naval Observatory .......... 165 757 | POAT Ee eee ee 11,641 ~ 100,114

As will be seen from the foregoing statement, the number of documents sent
abroad by the Departments and Bureaus of this Government is, in most instances,
much greater than the quantity of similar works received in exchange. While
this may partly be due to the fact that few governments publish so extensively
as the United States, yet it seems unlikely that the fullest possible exchange
has been attained, and it is proposed during the coming year to use a part of the
increase in the exchange appropriation in the employment of an additional
elerk to assist in carrying on the work of completing and increasing the num-
ber of foreign government publications received by American governmental
establishments.

FOREIGN DEPOSITORIES OF UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT DOCUMENTS.

In accordance with treaty stipulations and under the authority of the Con-
gressional resolutions of March 2, 1867, and March 2, 1901, setting apart a
certain number of documents for exchange with foreign countries, there are
now sent regularly to depositories abroad 53 full sets of United States official
publications and 80 partial sets. During the past year the Librarian of Con-
gress, in accordance with the discretion vested in him by the act of 1901, directed
that the legislative library at Edmonton, Alberta, the national library at Quito,
Ecuador, and the Panama department of foreign affairs at Panama be added
to the list of depositories of partial sets. The recipients of full and partial
sets are as follows:

DEPOSITORIES OF FULL SETS.
Argentina: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Buenos Aires.

Argentina: Biblioteca de la Universidad Nacional de La Plata.
Australia: Library of the Commonwealth Parliament, Melbourne.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 63

Austria: K. K. Statistische Central-Commission, Vienna.

Baden: Universitits-Bibliothek, Freiburg.

Bavaria: Konigliche Hof- und Staats-Bibliothek, Munich.

Belgium: Bibliothéque Royale, Brussels.

Brazil: Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio de Janeiro.

Canada: Parliamentary Library, Ottawa.

Cape Colony: Government Stationery Department, Cape Town.

Chile: Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Santiago.

Colombia: Biblioteca Nacional, Bogota.

Costa Rica: Oficina de Depésito y Canje de Publicaciones, San José.

Cuba: Department of State, Habana.

Denmark: Kongelige Bibliotheket, Copenhagen.

England: British Museum, London.

England: London School of Economies and Political Science, London.

France: Bibliothéque Nationale, Paris.

France: Préfecture de la Seine, Paris.

Germany: Deutsche Reichstags-Bibliothek, Berlin.

Greece: National Library, Athens.

Haiti: Secrétairerie d’Etat des Relations Extérieures, Port-au-Prince.

Hungary: Hungarian House of Delegates, Budapest.

India: Home Department, Government of India, Calcutta.

Ireland: National Library of Ireland, Dublin.

Italy: Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio Emanuele, Rome.

Japan: Department of Foreign Affairs, Tokyo.

Manitoba: Provincial Library, Winnipeg.

Mexico: Instituto Bibliografico, Biblioteca Nacional, Mexico.

Netherlands: Library of the States General, The Hague.

New South Wales: Board for International Exchanges, Sydney.

New Zealand: General Assembly Library, Wellington.

Norway: Storthingets Bibliothek, Christiania.

Ontario: Legislative Library, Toronto.

Peru: Biblioteca Nacional, Lima.

Portugal: Bibliotheca Nacional, Lisbon.

Prussia: K6nigliche Bibliothek, Berlin.

Quebec: Legislative Library, Quebec.

Queensland: Parliamentary Library, Brisbane.

Russia: Imperial Public Library, St. Petersburg.

Saxony: KGnigliche Oeffentliche Bibliothek, Dresden.

South Australia: Parliamentary Library, Adelaide.

Spain: Depdsito de Libros, Cambio Internacional y Biblioteca Genera\ del
Ministerio de Instruccién Ptiblica y Bellas Artes, Madrid.

Sweden: Kongliga Biblioteket, Stockholm.

Switzerland: Bibliotheque Fédérale, Berne.

Tasmania: Parliamentary Library, Hobart.

Transvaal: Government Library, Pretoria.

Turkey: Department of Public Instruction, Constantinople.

Uruguay: Oficina de Depésito, Reparto y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones,
Montevideo.

Venezuela: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.

Victoria: Public Library, Melbourne.

Western Australia: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.

Wiirttemberg: Konigliche Landesbibliothek, Stuttgart.
64 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

DEPOSITORIES OF PARTIAL SETS.

Alberta: Legislative Library, Edmonton.

Austria-Hungary: Biirgermeister der Haupt- und Residenz-Stadt, Vienna.

Bolivia: United States Minister, La Paz.

British Columbia: Legislative Library, Victoria.

Bulgaria: Minister of Foreign Affairs, Sofia.

Ceylon: United States Consul, Colombo.

Beuador: Biblioteca Nacional, Quito.

Egypt: Bibliothéque Khédiviale, Cairo.

Germany: Grossherzogliche Hof-Bibliothek, Darmstadt.

Germany : Senatskommission fiir die Reichs- und Auswiirtigen Angelegenheiten,
Hamburg.

Germany: Kommission fiir Reichs- und Auswirtige Angelegenheiten, Tremen.

Guatemala: Secretary of the Government, Guatemala.

Honduras: Secretary of the Government, Tegucigalpa.

Jamaica: Colonial Secretary, Kingston.

Lourenco Marquez: Government Library, Lourenco Marquez.

Malta: Lieutenant-Governor, Valetta.

Newfoundland: Colonial Secretary, St. Johns.

New Brunswick: Legislative Library, St. John.

Natal: Colonial Governor, Pietermaritzburg.

Nicaragua: Superintendente de Archivos Nacionales, Managua.

Nova Scotia: Legislative Library, Halifax.

Northwest Territories: Government Library, Regina.

Orange River Colony: Government Library, Bloemfontein.

Panama: Secretaria de Relaciones Exteriores, Panama.

Prince Edward Island: Legislative Library, Charlottetown.

Paraguay: Oficina General de Informaciones y Canjes y Commisaria General
de Inmigracion, Asuncion.

Roumania: Academia Romana, Bukharest.

Salvador: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador.

Straits Settlements: Colonial Secretary, Singapore.

Siam: Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok.

CORRESPONDENTS.

The record of exchange correspondents at the close of the year contained
58,107 addresses, being an increase of 1,793 over the preceding year. The fol-
lowing table gives the number of correspondents in each country, and also
serves to illustrate the scope of the service, whose utility is becoming every
year better and more widely appreciated.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

65

Number of correspondents of the International Exchange Service in each coun-
try on June 380, 1907.

Correspondents.
ape ee etree Total.
: als.
AFRICA.
AUPE etc cee eee 27 5d 82
ATI POL Bsscccsoceesaemeens 1 2 3
INZOLCS «25 dascieceace sone 7 15 22
ah SRSA SReeneen Soaciacone PSsecene Hl 1
British Central Africa... 1 3 4
British East Africa-..-...- 1 4 5
Canary Islands......-...--. 2 8 10
CaperColony = <----------- 69 | 127 196
Cape Verde Islands ......|.-..--.. 5 By}
ISD acoarncenasouseEcone 52 109 161
Wrench Kongo -sa-os os=s|sesce = 2 2
Gambiawerso-sscescssssos|essteria: 1 il
German East Africa...-.--- Dy Spee 5
Goldi@oasti-o24-s6 =... -- 1 4 5
ISOM O) cote ongedsaceeaes loaos=ecal )
WEN SO) SoS p eo spness enone 3 6
GHD OE Bierce ant sate Sate weiss 3 12 1
Lourengo Marquez. -...--- ul 6
Madagascar. cj sse-- 6 11 17
Mad eit aen <1. cceeeenicicccese|| 3 4 7
NTS IUD LULS ers = revere areata arate 11 13 24
NMOnUCCOMee eminem see alice cnn | 15
VEG ZT LO ULE area tetera nits erro ce a | 1 1
Natal ss52) 2225 oto ecco. 24 3D 59
Orange River Colony --.-. 3 6 9
RG UM OMe ee oe eer 4 2 9
INOGeSIAa osc acesosea=sce 11 17 28
es Helen ay. cocci cmecicc 3 2 5
Senepall ses sos cme. cesecets 1 5
Sierrasleone 2422-52 - 2 6
Southern Nigeria ........ Lfesstacce 1
SUG AME Ss: a-eeereeeee 2 4 6
Transvaal Colony...-...- 38 69 107
Jipion ie maepopcancHocounce 9 12 21
WEDZADAT’. = - <= cassis’ =e 2 5 7
AMERICA (NORTH).
Canadair s.. cee. | 405 734 | 1,139
Central America:
British Honduras .... 6 18 24
Costa Riches ese | 29 56 85
Guatemala........... 44 76 120
Honduras]. -2-s-5--- 15 46 61
INICATAP WANES Seer cee | 20 56 76
Salvadorscces--seee ce 22 16 38
Greenland) s2-- soeseeceee | SMleeacaaG 3
IMexi¢O) =~ .-2-2--=-------- | 181 275 456
Newfoundland .......... | 18 40 58
St. Pierre-Miquelon...... | 2 2 4
United States of eS 3,843 | 7,750 | 11,593

TIC © Oo

\

|

= 4
Correspondents.

Country. | Libra- unt es
nee als. |
AMERICA (NorTH)—con-
tinued
West Indies:
Aes oe Seete pareete tells eee 1
JNMIRE: Soseocece odo 9 | 8 |
Bahamasesees--eese oe 4 17 |
Barbed osiesssessee- 12 | 28 |
IyowoOOly Gea oe cose 6 29
IBONAITG Saco ne eae tee 1
Cubaiee ates naaae ee 84 | 150
CuracaOseassee= en seel 3 7
WOMUnI CHA eee e sees 2 8 |
Green Turtle Gay ...2)....--.- 1 |
Grenada eee 3 6 |
Guadeloupe.-.-.--....- 2 7
ail aee seme ceee 3 23
VAINAI CE, Sacereae = eet 20 aly |
Martinique --.--..... ie 3 |
Montserrat.....-.-..-. | Sees 2
ING WAS eect elece nar | wee 1
Rortophicgmesee er | 11 36
St. Bartholomew... -.|5-.ec 2
St. Christopher. ....-.. 2 e))
SORES eases beenoded 4 |
Sip HUStaUllisiseneseeerleeeee ae 1 |
Stalouciag o--osesseea- 3 6 |
ate INET q nudes aeee seeeee oe os sca 2 |
Steethomasienseeseea- 2 5 |
Sta Vincenti a2 -ss ce. --| 1 2 |
San Domingo .......- 5 16 |
TODAPONscess scone cee alseasemes 2
Trinidad aseneseeea- 17 17
Turks Islands........ 3 6 |
Wirrineislands = 5-2-2). sese 1
AMERICA (SOUTH).
PAT SOME Gy ee eter == 2 171 297
lbs eae cocoseReschcsas 24 | 22
IRTaZAllhe oe Sasa ee Soke 165| 240
British Guiana........... 20 17
Chileiseti eae es | 104 144
Golompingsss--e see eee 40 | 66
Duteh Guisnas.-------=-- | 6 4
MICUBCOTEeeee ereee ee er 35
Halidamnadslandss2-- 2-25 |s-csce-- 8
French Guiana .......-.-. 1 2
12 ent see Saamereeonectas 5 25 |
Tete Koecoegecacuaecs 22 16
SLs aceite aatesieee area 57 113 |
Wie NEN cooceeeacaeoeess 57 48 |
| Venezuela .-..cs.--2-.0- | 43 69 |

tal.
66

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

Number of correspondents of the International Exchange Service in each coun-
try on June 80, 1907—Continued.

| Correspondents.
"4 hee i- Country.
erase Libra-| $au: | Total. |
als.
NSH EUROPE.
FAT UDI Seen eae ee ela: Aedes: 7 7 || Austria-Hungary ....-.-.-
ENO ANG eh Sooo ococloscecoes 1 yt ||| Usklkeihbbie cocsoeosncacedocs
AB OEM ee Mee re se iaerecyae | 14 8 99 || Bulgaria ....-...---------
Ceylonisxcs se scot sane| 33 30 63 || Denmark .......---------|
Ching see iose sores cece 63 164 997 || France....-.-------------
@yprus eas aeicce eee einic 4 4 a. ||| Cermmnehthy, ccogecopnasanees
rene hula jer esesescse il| 1 9 || Gibraltar --.-..----.-----
Hone Kon geese eases 14 | 4 55 || Great Britain ............
IDG YORE 5 sees eee a eases 399 385 FAA, |I| (ENeSSCS) socoenosasseaqq50s<
Indo-China 2... sono. : 10 14 od celan deerme
JAPAN seessec ames! 294 574 HOR) ||| belive tetare wletalmteleternle lel elalelere
KeOnea ane See oe seece 5 15 50 || Luxemburg...--.--------
IMACAOMReeea 6c cence mecere 1 1 ||) MUNI, —ousescocopescasmed
Malaysia: Montenegroze-- econ. eae |
IBOINCOSS= se cee eeree lowes ae 1 1 || Netherlands -.....-......|
British New Guinea..|-.....-- 2 6) |) IN@EWERY cosossbscececcons:
British North Bor- iPortuealysesccceccseecteses
NCO or areas. oe 1 ) 3 || Roumania ............--.
Gelebesieae ae steer ae seen ere 3 3) |] IRIDISSVE! ccoocogosseossep5cK|
AICO as a sce ee 24 43 a7 I SISA hogs soo sousnosecsos
WOW GWE soooscccesssonuse 4 A\|| Sophia eSeosnecetsdasooooce
Philippine Islands... STAI. eee P57] ||| SCO sosccoscsacce sosce
SEDs 5 o-cegnnaoses ital eae eesmiek 1 || Switzerland. - 7... -------
Suma traleeesee eer ee 1 13 i1gl, ||| ORIN osccocsoacsancocas
IROTSIBnce oss nee meceeee ens 4 11 15 POLYNESIA.

Portuguese India ........ Wl |ocomeseos | MMi ieislamdsieeeeseeeereee
SIAM eteeeaecoeee eens: 9 29 38 || German New Guinea....-
Straits Settlements....... 22 31 535 KGuamMe esis Heece Josenese
AUSTRALASIA. Hiawallccwecancsescout cere

Z Marshall Islands.........
Ses arias 2 eg 320 New Caledonia....-......
New Zealand --.-........ 101 185 286) | eee een ae
Queensland ------..-.__.. 59 77 186) || aaa ew eet al
eouth ay SHALE Ps sees 26 He ae Seychelles Islands .......
Tasmania ...---.........- 28 37 65ul re ae
Wictonia eee: -aee-=reces== 137 309 246 rarest
Western Australia........ 38 55 O31 Pd aan a are Na eens
Notal’s “si aseetes uses

Correspondents.

19, 031

(oe)
ST

bo oO

39, 076

Total.

112

58, 107

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 67

Following is a list of bureaus or agencies through which the distribution of
exchanges is effected. Those in the larger countries and in many of the smaller
ones forward to the Smithsonian Institution reciprocal contributions for dis-
tribution in the United States:

LIST OF BUREAUS OR AGENCIES THROUGH WHICH EXCHANGES ARE TRANSMITTED.

Algeria: Via France.

Angola: Via Portugal.

Argentina: Seccion de Depésito, Reparto y Canje de Publicaciones, Biblioteca
Nacional, Buenos Aires.

Austria: K. K. Statistische Central-Commission, Vienna.

Azores: Via Portugal.

Barbados: Imperial Department of Agriculture, Bridgetown.

Belgium: Service Belge des Echanges Internationaux. Brussels.

Bermuda: Sent by mail.

Bolivia: Oficina Nacional de Inmigracién, Estadistica y Propaganda Geografica.

Brazil: Servico de Permulacds Internacionaes, Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio de
Janeiro.

British colonies: Crown Agents for the Colonies, London.

British Guiana: Royal Agricultural and Commercial Society, Georgetown.

British Honduras: Colonial Secretary, Belize.

Bulgaria: Institutions et Bibliothéque scientifiques de 8. A. R. le Prince de Bul-
garie, Sofia.

Canada: Sent by mail.

Canary Islands: Via Spain.

Cape Colony: Government Stationery Department, Cape Town.

Chile: Universidad de Chile, Santiago.

China: Zi-ka-wei Observatory, Shanghai.

Colombia: Oficina de Canjes Internacionales y Reparto, Biblioteca Nacional,
Bogota.

Costa Rica: Oficina de Depdsito y Canje de Publicaciones, San José.

Cuba: Sent by mail.

Denmark: Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen. N

Dutch Guiana: Surinaamsche Koloniale Bibliotheek, Paramaribo.

Ecuador: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Quito.

Egypt: Director-General, Survey Department, Cairo.

France: Service des Echanges Internationaux, Paris.

Friendly Islands: Sent by mail.

Germany: Karl W. Hiersemann, Koénigsstrasse 3, Leipzig.

Great Britain and Ireland: Messrs. William Wesley & Son, 28 Essex street,
Strand, London.

Greece: Bibliothéque Nationale, Athens.

Greenland: Via Denmark.

Guadeloupe: Via France.

Guatemala: Instituto Nacional de Guatemala, Guatemala.

Guinea: Via Portugal.

Haiti: Secrétairerie d’Etat des Relations Extérieures, Port au Prince.

Honduras: Biblioteca Nacional, Tegucigalpa.

aThis method is employed for communicating with a large number of the
British colonies with which no route is available for forwarding exchanges
direct.
68 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

Hungary: Dr. Julius Pikler, Municipal Office of Statistics, City Hall, Budapest

iceland: Via Denmark.

India: India Store Department, London.

Italy: Ufficio degli Scambi Internazionali, Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio Hma-
nuele, Rome.

Jamaica: Institute of Jamaica, Kingston.

Japan: Department of Foreign Affairs, Tokyo.

Java: Via Netherlands.

Korea: Shipments temporarily suspended.

Liberia: Care of American Colonization Society, Washington, D. C.

Lourenco Marquez: Government Library, Lourenco Marquez.

Luxemburg: Via Germany.

Madagascar: Via France.

Madeira: Via Portugal.

Mexico: Sent by mail.

Mozambique: Via Portugal.

Natal: Agent-General for Natal, London.

Netherlands: Bureau Scientifique Central Néerlandais, Bibliotheque de l’Uni-
versité, Leyden.

Newfoundland: Sent by mail.

New Guinea: Via Netherlands.

New Hebrides: Sent by mail.

New South Wales: Board for International Hxchanges, Sydney.

New Zealand: Colonial Museum, Wellington.

Nicaragua: Ministerio de Relaciones Hxteriores, Managua.

Norway: Kongelige Norske Frederiks Universitet Bibliotheket, Christiania.

Paraguay: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Asuncion.

Persia: Board of Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian Church, New York City.

Peru: Oficina de Reparto, Depdsito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones,
Ministerio de Fomento, Lima.

Portugal: Bibliotheca Nacional, Lisbon.

Queensland: Board of Exchanges of International Publications, Brisbane.

Roumania: Via Germany.

Russia: Commission Russe des Hehanges Internationaux, Bibliotheque Impé-
riale Publique, St. Petersburg.

St. Christopher: Sent by mail.

Salvador: Museo Nacional, San Salvador.

Santo Domingo: Sent by mail.

Servia: Via Germany.

Siam: Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok.

South Australia: Public Library of South Australia, Adelaide.

Spain: Depdsito de Libros, Cambio Internacional y Biblioteca General del Min-
isterio de Instruccién Ptiblica y Bellas Artes, Madrid.

Sumatra: Via Netherlands.

Sweden: Kongliga Svenska Vetenskaps Akademien, Stockholm.

Switzerland: Service des Hchanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Fédérale Cen-
trale, Berne.

Syria: Board of Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian Church, New York.

Tasmania: Royal Society of Tasmania, Hobart.

Transvaal: Government Library, Pretoria.

Trinidad: Victoria Institute, Port of Spain.

Tunis: Via France.

Turkey : American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, Boston.

Uruguay: Oficina de Depésito, Reparto y Canje Internacional, Montevideo.

=-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 69

Venezuela: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.

Victoria: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

Western Australia: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.
Zanzibar: Sent by mail.

The earthquake in San Francisco in April, 1906, and the great fire which
followed destroyed the buildings of the California Academy of Sciences,
together with their entire contents. The Smithsonian Institution has in various
ways been aiding the Academy in the rehabilitation of its library and collec-
tions. As a part of this general effort the International Exchange Service sent
a circular to the foreign correspondents of the Academy soliciting contributions,
and to this a most liberal response has been received, aggregating in all 6,37
packages of publications, which have been received from abroad and forwarded
from Washington to San Francisco. All the correspondents of the Academy
have not yet responded to the circular from the Institution, and it is anticipated
that still further contributions will be received. It may be added that this is
the first time since its organization that the Exchange Service has sent out a
circular of this character in behalf of any establishment. The foregoing re-
marks refer only to the foreign part of the work, which the Smithsonian Insti-
tution has undertaken in behalf of the California Academy of Sciences, the
domestic part being attended to by the institution proper.

Mr. F. VY. Berry, who has been connected with the service nearly a quarter
of a century, and has been acting chief clerk of the International Exchanges
since the transfer of Mr. W. I. Adams to the position of disbursing agent of
the Smithsonian Institution in 1905, was in recognition of his faithful and
capable services appointed to the post of chief clerk, to take effect July 1, 1907.
Mr. Adams, whose experience in the office and knowledge of conditions abroad
are inost helpful, will continue to give his advice and cooperation.

In conclusion, mention should be made of the valuable services which are
rendered the Institution by those correspondents abroad who give their per-
sonal attention and doubtless often expend private means in furthering the
interests of the international exchange service. The thanks of the Smith-
sonian Institution are also due Mr. Charles A. King, deputy collector of customs
at the port of New York, for his constant assistance in clearing exchange con-
signments from abroad.

Respectfully submitted.

Cyrus ADLER,
Assistant Secretary, in Charge of Library and Exchanges.
Dr. CHARLES D. WALCOTT,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
Apprenpix IV.

REPORT ON THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK.

Sm: I have the honor to submit the following report on the operations of the
National Zoological Park for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1907:

The amount appropriated by Congress for the park during the year amounted
to $95,000, and at the beginning of the year there was prepared the following
scheme of operations:

Recular.amaintenanceexpensese sas 2. fo 1 See ee ee $78, 680
Collecting, purchase, and transportation of animals__.______________.__._ _ 4,600
Worksonssmallimammal shouses= 2s a eee Dems ieee oe 3, 000
Wiorkvon@heating plant]. oa lee ee) Pee ee ee ee ee 1, 000
REpPArSEtOLaniniralieiNClOS ULES ees eee eee epee ee ee 1, 500
REDAILS MtO~ ACU AT Sees a ee ee ee ee 300
Repairs toyshopybuildinglset2 ac). os i oe 8 ee eae 270
Pigntineishadertrees;andishrups sas.) ase. eee eee eee 500
Provisionally assigned to laboratory and hospital_____________________ 5, 200

HL 2) Sn a a Oe eR Nah a de 8 BE NE oh NE og EV 95, 000

The expenditures for the year practically followed this scheme, excepting in
the case of the amount reserved for a laboratory and hospital building. Condi-
tions that arose made it necessary to apply this sum as follows:

SG araey AT Sik tee eee clea ie) Se ah ee Ral a ES ed Bs 1 SA! boyd ape he ee eee $2, 400
RepairingsyAdamseMill roadie ss) 52 ales Se eee le ee 1, 100
SUV Vis Obes eiT Kea at Sees a on Lee ee Ee Beek | rey ee se ee ee ee 645
Purchasevol animal ss. Vee eee 2 ee eee ee 500
INGwaroohzon lama nOUSe! vee ee Ee ad eee 280
I AIntinesthyiN SCA CH = ek eee tS oe Ee ee ee ee 150
Repairing onecels2222222 2 ee La pelea ey aE See ee cy oe ee 125

PA ce (Ee a a i eae ee ee ea ee ee 5, 200

HOUSE FOR SMALL MAMMALS.

The small mammal house which has been under construction for several years
was finally opened to the public on November 15. It is found to be much the
most satisfactory of the buildings erected at the park, being easily warmed,
quite sanitary, and free from drafts. The method of lighting is unusual,
there being skylights formed of glass tile in the roof which admit light directly
over the cages, the central corridor in which the public are admitted being
lighted indirectly. Screens of ribbed glass protect the animals from the cold air
which descends from the roof. The cages are readily ventilated by tilting these
sereens. A plan of this building was published in the report of 1904.

The outside cages required for this house were not wholly completed at the
end of the year, owing to the difficulty of obtaining some of the necessary
material. Work upon them was, however, well advanced.

70
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. (a

As there has always been great difficulty in keeping the monkeys at the park
in a proper condition of health, it was decided to transfer all specimens of
quadrumana to this building and to add such others as would serve to represent
the order. Funds were lacking for purchasing any of the larger or anthropoid
apes, but there is a fair collection of specimens of both New World and Old
World monkeys, which attracts great attention, and is appreciated by the public.

The grounds about the building have been graded, improved, and planted, and
contracts let for a concrete walk along two sides.

ADDITIONAL BEAR YARDS.

Contracts were made for the floors and steel work of two additional yards
in the series already begun. These yards will each have a width of 40 feet at
the front and a depth of 32 to 40 feet. They will be similar in all respects to
those already built, now occupied by polar bears and Alaskan brown bears.

A concrete walk, with a width of 12 feet, will be constructed at the same time
that the pavement is put in for the yards.

IMPORTANT REPAIR WORK.

The flying cage was repainted throughout, a new roof was put on the llama
house, the aquarium roof was repaired, new supports put in for the tanks, and
other necessary repairs made; the temporary building used for blacksmith and
earpenter shop and in which also the boilers of the central heating plant are
located was repaired and the walls ceiled on the inside, so that the building
might be kept at a reasonably warm temperature during the winter.

Several of the old outdoor cages, which had become unsafe through decay,
were replaced by new ones. A considerable part of the wire fencing around
the American bison paddock had to be renewed and a large amount of other
fence repairs had to be made. The deer shed, which was so badly weakened by
decay that it was no longer safe, was removed. The site of this shed in the hill-
side near the creek was so damp that it was found to be unhealthy for the
animals.

ADAMS MILL ROAD,

Heavy, torrential rains aimost completely denuded of surface layer the steep
portion of this road, about 1,700 feet in length, and the larger stone became so
loosened that the road was hardly safe for use. As this is one of the principal
driveways of the District, much used for pleasure driving, it was considered
imperative that it should be put in a safe condition at once. It was thoroughly
overhauled and resurfaced during the autumn of 1906.

A new walk was built to connect the log bridge, by way of a picturesque
ravine, with the more important animal buildings. A rock work was built
with bowlders at the head of the ravine and the waste water from the aquarium
tanks and hydraulic pump carried there to form a cascade.

PLANTING,

Planting was carried on at suitable times throughout the year, as far as
available funds permitted. The whole park should be carefully gone over and
the forest be properly thinned so that the trees can have an opportunity to
develop. At present much of it is too thickly wooded,

41780—08S——9
72 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.
CENTRAL HEATING PLANT.

The central heating plant which had been installed during the previous year
was operated throughout the winter of 1906-7 and five of the more important
buildings were heated from it. Steam is used for the present, as there was not
a sufficient amount available for the plant to put in a hot-water system with
forced circulation. All mains, however, are of suitable size for hot water and
it is expected that it will ultimately be converted into a hot-water system. It
has worked very satisfactorily and there has been practically no loss of heat
from the outdoor conduits. The buildings formerly heated by individual boilers,
and now supplied from the central heating plant, are free from dirt and dust,
and the new arrangement is in every way a great improvement. Thanks are
due to the Supervising Architect for advice and assistance and for detailing
an expert heating engineer to plan and supervise this work.

SURVEY OF THE PARK.

The detailed topographic survey of the park, which was carried on in 1904-5
and 1905-6, was finally completed during this year, about 1074 acres being care-
fully plotted. This survey extends to the line of the new highways on the
southeastern and western sides of the park. The resulting map is on a scale
of 50 feet to the inch and shows contours at elevations of 2 feet, also all promi-
nent objects and the underground drains and water pipes.

ACCESSIONS AND LOSSES.

Gifts—The following animals were received by gift:

From EH. H. Plumacher, United States consul, Maracaibo, Venezuela, 1 capy-
bara, 1 crab-eating dog, 1 king vulture, 1 macaw.

From C. H. Jones, Campeche, Mexico, 2 ocelots, 6 Mexican curassows, 1 Chap-
man’s curassow, 3 chachalacas.

From O. J. Field, chief clerk, Department of Justice, 1 cinnamon bear.

From Victor J. Evans, Washington, District of Columbia, 2 mangabey monkeys.

From Mrs. Geo. R. Shanton, Ancon, Canal Zone, Panama, 2 Panama curassows.

Hachanges.—The more important animals secured in this manner during the
year were: One leucoryx, from the New York Zoological Park; 2 American
marten; 1 victoria crowned pigeon.

Purchases.—Among the purchases were the following: Two American bison,
2 South American jaguars, 1 Mexican jaguar, 1 tigress, 1 black leopard, 1 pair
of ocellated turkeys, 1 pair of California sea lions.

Births.——Among the births were: Two American bison, 6 American elk, 3
mule deer, 1 Barasingha deer, 2 red deer, 1 Cuban deer, 8 Barbary sheep, 1
ilama, 8 pecearies, and 11 wild turkeys, besides a number of species of heron,
ibis, cormorant, etc., nested in the flying cage.

Important deaths.—The more important deaths were as follows:

Young lion presented to the President by the King of Abyssinia, from chronie
arthritis. ,

Black bear, from an extreme case of infestation with Ascaris transfugze; the
duodenum was perforated in several places.

Bactrian camel, female, from peritonitis and secondary pneumonia.

Llama, male, from pneumonia.

Moose, from catarrhal enteritis and fatty degeneration of liver.

Great gray kangaroo, from pulmonary tuberculosis.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 13

Fifteen blue foxes, most of them from nephritis and fatty degeneration of
liver, although the pathologists have not been able to ascertain the cause of this
condition.

California condor, from gastro-enteritis.

The deaths also included 1 mule deer, 2 beavers, 1 Columbian black-tailed
deer, 1 tahr, 1 markhor, 1 young tapir, a number of monkeys (mostly those
recently received from dealers), and 1 ocellated turkey, just received.

Gastro-enteritis was still the most frequent cause of death, and pneumonia
second, except with the newly received monkeys, several of which died from
tuberculosis.

Statement of animal collection.

Accessions during the year:

ESTES CTC Clipe ees ail rs Fae a ae a 2 a ee 64
HUES ELTA Cl eer a area Ts ae Se pe Es yk he ea Se id a Ee 15
Rurchasedieand” collected. 2.2.2 2a 2 Bh a ee I ee ee 179
RECEIVE Ce pitted CNC A Cs eek ae eee 9 eee ee 6
Born in National Zoological Park__--_---_------ eb ee see heen A es 7a)
CapturedeingNational ;Zoolozicaly Parkas) === aa as ee eee 1

ONG eae oe ses ee ee ee ee ee Se ee eee LS 343

There was considerable loss of birds during the year, especially among the
smaller species. Several hundred birds which had been procured for the exhibit
of the park at the Louisiana Purchase Hxposition were brought to Washington
at its close, and they added materially to the interest and attractiveness of the
collection here. The only place available for them during winter, however,
has been the temporary bird house, where the cage accommodations have been
altogether inadequate. The loss has not been greater than must be expected
under such conditions, but has reduced the number of birds in the collection by
about 100, as it did not seem advisable to replace these birds until permanent
and suitable accommodations could be provided. The number of mammals in
the collection is slightly greater than at the close of the previous year, while
the number of reptiles remains practically unchanged.
“I
Ty

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

Animals presented during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1907.

Name. Donor. Number.
Sooty mangabey ........-.-- Victor J. Evans, Washington, District of Columbia.........-- 2
Common macaque ..--..----- Capt. J. lu. Brooks; United States;Ammiys2-- os 2-se--jscec= =e 1
White-throated capuchin ...| Lieut. R. Y. Rhea, United States Marine Corps. .......--...-- 1
‘“‘“Weeper’’ capuchin ........ Mr. Lutz, Washington, District of Columbia.............-.... 1
Ocelot eassaas scat atcecensace Charles He Jones;Campeche Mexico... 2-0-2. ace seeecen= 2
Crab-eating dog ....--------- Hon. Ee H. Plumacher, American consul, Maracaibo, Vene- 1
zuela.
ReditOx cc.e5 sn-5 seerceee see's H. 8. Knight, Takoma Park, District of Columbia...........- 1
DOeee a hesaccnseesceciese H. D. Hughes, Washington, District of Columbia.-.-...-....--- 1
Blackabear sseceewsccess = =e Robert Allen, Washington, District of Columbia ............. it
Cinnamon bear s-ce-e2-eer ee O. J. Field, Washington, District of Columbia................ 1
iBactnianicamelesce-eeeeeeee Barnum & Bailey Shows, Bridgeport, Connecticut .........-. 1
Mhirfeen-linedspermophiles| DoncrunknOwl «--seses-eeceseseee cence ce eeeeecenerseeeee! 1
IPTAITIC COL me nae ece neers Dr. L. Wilson, Washington, District of Columbia............. 5
Wioodchuck =a-cssscsseceecee Wek Calladay, Stoughton. WiASCODSINE o> -ces-ececes-cniee eee] 2
Capybaras-. accececaccseces: Hon. i H. Plumacher, American consul, Maracaibo, Vene- 1
zuela.
Wasx-bill finehl=.-s-s-- sees e- Miss Foster, Washington, District of Columbia............... O
J AVENSPALLO Wieser eee eas ela Dr. M. F. Thompson, Washington, District of Columbia...... 1
DOli saan e-csosceces nae ee F. W. Jackson, Washington, District of Columbia ..........-. 1
Canary tacse cs scceSeat=istetss Capt. W. W. Somerville, Washington, District of Columbia -. 1
MOusas sicis ist cee ccesccicie: Mrs. Price, Washington, District of Columbia.........-....-- 1
Red and blue macaw.......- | Hon. a H. Plumacher, American consul, Maracaibo, Vene- 1
zuela.
Am 3 7Z0nYparrotiee-meeeeeee eee Henry Seymour, Washington, District of Columbia.........- 1
WGOLYi= one ales sjaizcicie se ease oie Mrs. Guy Norman, Washington, District of Columbia-........ 2
BarrediOwil oc sasscceee cece. DAWrAGd ams s Heri d On mVAno IM ae meamaeecrincermericmcemccce 1
WOE ete asessecssiescoses © Dr. C. B. Robinson, Washington, District of Columbia-...--- 1
IBarmlOwillesesose=easceee = seer Sexton, Church of the Ascension, Washington, District of 1
Columbia.
Sparrow awk. -caece se cece Donor WWMM OWN. s Secce wee siete cle ce is ce wsine Saisie oeemarijesion 1
D OR see state seco eee Wm. Lawrence Tanner, Washington, District of Columbia. . 2
Swainson’s hawk...-......... Master Howard Maurin, jr., Washington, District of Co- 2
lumbia.
Purkey vultures .s--cs-ss-s os Jesse Hand, jr., Belleplain, New Jersey. .............-...-<-- 1
KAN Sava GUC eeeeeiecmiccceeee Hon. a H. Plumacher, American consul, Maracaibo, Vene- 1
zuela.
Rin o/ GOVe mee sccsiseiacieeieeer Dred Spangler MOlk eLennsyilValigeereceeerscecseeceicsee 3
@hachalacaeer-nq-es eee sees Charles H. Jones, Campeche, Mexico .......................- 3
Mexican curassow..---------|---.- COM Se saecises selise ae sce es css soccaee cen cecinasiscineiecience ccs 6
Chapman’s curassow .....--..|-.--- LO peal jane rose a aioe e cale ta nisieleinincinicieleinisisieeictaisisicisraletelelelenieierere 1
Panama curassow ..-.-.-..---- Mrs. G. R. Shanton, Ancon, Canal Zone, Panama..........--. 2
Ocellated turkey ............ Charles H. Jones, Campeche, Mexico.........-..--..----.-<.-. 1
American bittern............ Miss Brewster, Washington, District of Columbia ............ 1
PANN SatOLe ree oeee cee ees Miss Stephenson, Washington, District of Columbia........-. 1
Diamond rattlesnake (with | Dr. E. H. Sellards, Gainesville, Florida............-.......... 1
13 young).
Copperhead ees lesecesecees D. B. Wheeler, Washington, District of Columbia...........- 1
HMperorPOdiesseasese ee eeeee W. B. Honey, Culebra, Canal Zone, Panama.................. 1
Hog-nosed snake ..........-. Donor UNKNOWN! ds ac oetnsis comenic oe lelisinin o Societe Weclsiewlee ee mecemeae 1

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 75

SUMMARY
PATALIID SHOW eT eshtl yar en O0 Ome ee ene ee ee ee ee 1, 272
NGCESSIONSOUDIN Se ENO Wy Cala as = oe ee ee Se 343
CG Pe Oe ae 1, 615
Deduct loss (by exchange, death, and returning of animals)____________ 4292
Onehane Rune Ose OO ee eee ae te ees Pe ee eee ee 1, 193

Respectfully submitted.
FRANK BAKER,

Superiniendent.
Dr. CHARLES D. WALCOTT,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
. APPENDIX V.
REPORT ON THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.

Sr: I have the honor to present the following report on the operations of
the Astreyhysical Observatory during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1907:

During the past year the cost of the necessary repairs and repainting of the
Observatory ineclosure and buildings has been $300. Plans have been prepared
and contracts awarded, incurring a total liability of $2,000, for the installation
of electric lighting, power, and laboratory service currents, to replace the pres-
ent inadequate facilities. These improvements are not as yet completed.

Apparatus for research has been procured at a cost of $600.

The usual scientific periodicals have been continued, and books of reference
purchased at a total cost to the Observatory of $600.

No losses of property have occurred.

Personnel.—C. G. Abbot was promoted to be acting director July 1, 1906, and
Director March 1, 1907.

FEF. E. Fowle was promoted to be aid March 1, 1907.

J. C. Dwyer was promoted to be messenger March 1, 1907.

DR: Ingersell served as temporary bolometric assistant from July 1 to Sep-
tember 10, 1906.

Miss CG. V. Barber served as temporary computer January 2 to June 25, 1907.

P. k. Tavenner, fireman, was transferred to the Department of Agriculture
June 15, 1907.

WorkK OF THE OBSERVATORY.

The work of the Observatory has consisted as follows:
1. Observations at Mount Wilson and Washington.
2. Preparation of Volume II of the Observatory Annals.

OBSERVATIONS AT MOUNT WILSON.

The staff of the Mount Wilson expedition, mentioned in last year’s report,
continued observations for determining the “solar constant” of radiation until
October 22, 1906, when the apparatus was packed and in part returned to Wash-
ington. During the stay of the expedition in 1906 about seventy days were
devoted to “solar constant” observations, and with generally excellent results.

Much attention was paid to the observation of the intensity of light reflected
from clouds, with a view to the determination of the albedo, or total reflection
of the earth. The quality and amount of light of the sky was also measured
on several days. Very successful trials were made with the continuously record-
ing standard pyrheliometer mentioned in former reports, and the other instru-
ments used on Mount Wilson were compared carefully with each other and with
it. Krom these comparisons, made on different days and with widely differing
conditions, it appears that the scale of values heretofore employed in the reduc-
tion of Mount Wilson observations is probably 1.5 per cent too high. But it
has been decided not to make a correction for this until the completion and trial
of a new continuously recording pyrheliometer, now partly done, of different
dimensions and improved construction.

76
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. rey

OBSERVATIONS AT WASHINGTON.

Measurements for the determination of the “solar constant” of radiation
were made whenever the atmospheric conditions permitted. These occasions
are too infrequent to permit us to make at Washington a full record of the condi-
tion of the sun, but in connection with and supplementary to the Mount Wilson
work, the Washington results are of very great value.

Measurements have been made frequently of the distribution of brightness
over the solar disk, and the results of these measurements indicate, though
perhaps not conclusively, that when the contrast in brightness between the
center and edge of the solar disk is greater than usual, the intensity of solar
radiation available to warm the earth is less than usual, and vice versa. This
relation was suspected in former years.

PREPARATION OF VOLUME II OF THE OBSERVATORY ANNALS.

The reduction and preparation for publication of the results of the thousands
of bolographic records made in the research on solar radiation has involved
measurements and computations requiring the recording of upward of 2,000,000
separate figures. The reductions have been chiefly in the care of Mr. Fowle,
and he has been ably seconded by Miss Graves. Very useful and painstaking
assistance has been rendered by Mr. Dwyer and by the temporary computers
employed. The text and illustrations have been prepared under the care of the
writer, in consultation with Mr. Fowle. The whole work was nearly completed
at the conclusion of the fiscal year, and at this writing (September 15) is now
ready for the press. As the story of the year’s work is chiefly the story of this
volume, it will not be out of place to give here a summary of its principal
contents.

SUMMARY OF THE FORTHCOMING VOLUME OF ANNALS.

The present volume is an account of the work of the Astrophysical Observa-
tory from 1900 to 1907, with details of the investigations made, the apparatus
and methods used, and the results obtained.

Speaking broadly, the investigation relates to the intensity of the rays of the
sun, and the dependence of the earth’s temperature thereon. The subject is here
treated in three parts: First, the amount of the solar radiation as it would be
found if measured outside the earth’s atmosphere, at mean solar distance, or, as
it is often termed, “ The solar constant of radiation.” Second, the dependence
of the earth’s temperature on the amount of solar radiation. Third, the differ-
ence in brightness between the center and edge of the sun’s disk and its relation
to the quantity of solar radiation received by the earth.

The work is not limited to a determination of constants of nature, for the
possibility was early recognized that the radiation of the sun might be far
from uniform, so that the “solar constant of radiation” might prove to be
a mean value about which the intensity of the solar beam would be found to
fluctuate very perceptibly from time to time. A principal aim of the work has
therefore been to prove whether such fluctuations of the quantity of solar
rays do exist, and, if so, what may be the magnitude of the changes, their
effects on climate, and their causes. For these purposes the measurement of
the intensity of solar radiation and of the distribution of brightness over the
disk of the sun have been made as often as possible for several years, and a
study of the variation of temperature for the last thirty years at about fifty
stations scattered as widely as possible over the inland areas of the world has
also been made.
78 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

A part of the measurements have been made in Washington, and therefore
practically at sea level, and a part at Mount Wilson, in California, at about
1,800 meters, or nearly 6,000 feet elevation. The radiation of the sun has been
studied, not only in the total, but also as dispersed into its spectrum, and not
only in the part visible to the eye, but also in those portions whose wave lengths
are too long or too short to affect the eye. For all these different rays the
earth’s atmosphere produces different degrees of absorption, or of diffuse reflec-
tion, and in the course of the work the transparency of the earth’s atmosphere for
many different rays has been extensively investigated. The reflecting powers
of the clouds and the air have been measured, and also the quality of the
sky light as regards the relative intensity of its rays of different colors.

We use as our unit of measurement that intensity of radiation which, when
fully absorbed for one minute over a square centimeter of area, placed at right
angles to the ray, would produce heat enough to raise the temperature of a gram
of water 1° centigrade. This unit is termed 1 calorie per square centimeter per
minute.¢

The mean result of 180 measurements conducted on Mount Wilson in the
summer and autumn months of 1905 and 1906 fixes the intensity of solar radia-
tion outside the atmosphere at mean solar distance as 2.023 calories per square
centimeter per minute.

The mean result of 41 measurements at Washington from 1902 to 1907 is
2.061 calories.

It is probable that the mean result of such measurements, if conducted for a
long term of years, would be higher, and the probable mean yalue of the solar
constant may be estimated in round numbers at 2.1 calories per square centi-
meter per minute.

Expressed in another way, the solar radiation is capable of melting an ice-
shell, 35 meters (114 feet) thick, annually over the whole surface of the earth.

The results of Langley, while seemingly in contradiction of these, in reality
support them. For, as he states on page 211 of the Report of the Mount
Whitney expedition, his value (38 calories) for the “solar constant” depends
upon an allowance which he made for an apparent “systematic error in high
and low sun observations at one station,” of such a nature as becomes manifest
“by calculating at the lower station, from our high and low sun observations
there, the heat which should be found at a certain height in the atmosphere,
then actually ascending to this height, and finding the observed heat there con-
spicuously and systematically greater than the calculated one.” As shown in
Chapter VII, Part I, of the present volume, this seeming discrepancy arose from
a misapprehension of the requirements of the calculations. In fact, there is
no such systematic error, no correction for it should have been applied by
Langley, and the best mean value of his experimental determination of the
“solar constant”? at Mount Whitney and Lone Pine is 2.14 calories per square
centimeter per minute.

Substantial agreement as to the magnitude of the “solar constant” is there-
fore reached by observations at sea level, at 1,800 meters, and at 3,500 meters
elevation. ‘

The solar radiation is far from being constant in its intensity. The values
determined on Mount Wilson range from 1.98 calories to 2.14 calories, and
those in Washington from 1.89 calories to 2.22 calories. A change of the in-
tensity of solar radiation of 84 per cent, due to the decrease in solar distance,
occurs from August to October, and this is readily discernible in the work done

aAs above stated, it is possible that the numerical results to be given in Vol.
II of the Annals may be 1.5 per cent higher than they should be in these units.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 79

on Mount Wilson, both in 1905 and 1906, so that there can be little question that
the large changes noted there are really solar changes and not of atmospheric
or accidental origin.

The reality of the supposed solar origin of the changes of radiation observed
is attested by many other evidences stated in Chapter VI, Part I, and Chapter
hie Partin :

The temperature of the earth is shown to be in good agreement with the as-
sumed value of the ‘“‘ solar constant,” 2.1 calories. Indeed, it is shown that un-
less the albedo, or reflection, of the earth exceeds 37 per cent (a value here
determined for it and based on observations at Washington and Mount Wilson),
then the mean value of the solar constant can not exceed 2.33 calories, else the
earth must be a better radiator than the “absolutely black body” or perfect
radiator,

It is shown that the surface of the earth can radiate only very slightly to
space, on account of the interference of clouds and water vapor to terrestrial
radiation; and that the substance which maintains the earth at nearly con-
stant temperature, by emitting to space radiation equal to that received by the
sun, is principally the water vapor layer at 4,000 to 5,000 meters in elevation,
whose mean temperature is 10° or more below 0° C.

There is introduced the conception of an ‘‘ hypothetical earth,” similar in di-
mensions and motions to the real earth, but hollow and like a soap bubble in
thickness of wall; perfectly absorbing for solar radiation, and a perfect radiator
for long waves; perfectly conducting for heat along parallels of latitude, but
perfectly non-conducting along meridians of longitude. The temperature of this
“hypothetical earth” is calculated for all times of the year, and for all lati-
tudes, by the aid of the known value of the “solar constant” and the laws of
radiation of perfect radiators.

A comparison is made between the annual march of temperature of the
“hypothetical earth” and the observed annual march of temperature for 64
stations on the real earth. It is thereby shown that a given fractional change
of solar radiation running its cycle in a year produces one-fourth the given
fractional change in the absolute temperature of the ‘“ hypothetical earth,”
one-fourteenth of the given fractional change in the temperature of most inland
stations, one twenty-fifth for coast stations; and one-fiftieth for small islands
in great oceans. For a fluctuation of 5 per cent in solar radiation having a
period of about a year there would be produced a change of only about 1° C.
in the mean temperature of inland stations and only about 0.3° C. for island
stations. The effects of more rapid changes of solar radiation would be less
readily discernible in their effects on mean temperatures, but may nevertheless
be of meteorological importance as promoters of atmospheric circulation.

From a comparison extending over thirty years of the temperatures of 47°
well-distributed inland stations it appears probable that changes of solar
radiation do produce, not infrequently, well-marked and recognizable changes
of temperature over the continental areas of the world. Such changes of tem-
perature would be predictable if accurate measurements of the solar radiation
were systematically continued at a few favorable stations.

Numerous measurements of the comparative brightness of the center and
edge of the solar disk indicate that the observed changes in solar radiation are
attended by a variation of the transparency of the solar envelope, and perhaps
are caused by it. .

Many results of observation not here enumerated, such as the mean trans-
parency of the upper and lower strata of air, the reflecting power of the clouds,
the probable temperature of the sun, and the quality of the radiation of sun-
spots, will be found set forth both in words and by charts; and also a full
80 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

description of the apparatus and methods employed for the various kinds of
research, and the sources and magnitude of the errors attending their use.

The work thus summarized seems definitely to fix the approximate average
value of the intensity of solar radiation at about 2.1 calories per square
centimeter per minute, and to show decisively that there is a marked fluctuation
about this mean value, sufficient in magnitude to influence very perceptibly the
climate, at least of inland stations, upon the earth. This being so, there is
good reason for making the series of measurements of solar radiation as com-
plete and continuous as possible for some years to come, in order to determine
more thoroughly the causes and limits of the solar changes, and their precise
effects upon climate. The former part of the study will involve further solar
measurements, and the latter part a more complete study of meteorologica}
records in connection with the solar measurements. Thus far no other observa-
tory has been so well equipped as this one for the special kinds of measurement
involved, and it will naturally be our task for some time to come to continue
the work along the lines stated.

Respectfully submitted.

C. G. ABBOT,
Director of the Astrophysical Observatory
Dr. CHARLES D. WALCOTT,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
Appenpix VI.

REPORT ON THE LIBRARY.

Sm: I have the honor to present the following report on the operations of
the library of the Smithsonian Institution for the fiscal year ending June 30,
1907 :

In the accession book of the Smithsonian deposit, Library of Congress, there
have been recorded 1,741 volumes, 16,567 parts of volumes, 6,565 pamphlets, and
613 charts, making a total of 25,486 publications. The accession numbers run
from 475,179 to 482,316. As in the past these publications have been sent to
the Library of Congress, with the exception of a few needed for the scientific
work of the Institution, which have been held. In transmitting the publications
to the Library of Congress 275 boxes were used which, it is estimated, contained
the equivalent of 11,000 volumes, a number which does not include the public
documents presented to the Smithsonian Institution and sent direct to the
Library of Congress as soon as received, without stamping or recording; or the
public documents and other gifts to the Library of Congress received through
the International Exchange Service.

The libraries of the Office, Astrophysical Observatory, and National Zoological
Park have received 480 volumes and pamphlets, 1,849 parts of volumes, and 70
charts, making a total of 2,349, and a grand total, including the publications
for the Smithsonian deposit and the Watts de Peyster Collection, of 28,123.

The parts of serial publications that were entered on the card catalogue
numbered 26,499. Three hundred slips for completed volumes were made and
491 cards for new periodicals and annuals were added to the permanent record
from the periodical recording desk.

Inaugural dissertations and academic publications were received from uni-
versities at the following places: ,

Baltimore (Johns Hopkins). Lund.

Berlin. Madison (Wisconsin).
Bern. Marburg.

Bonn. New York (Columbia).
Breslau. Paris.

Erlangen. Philadelphia (University of
Freiburg. Pennsylvania).
Giessen. Rostock.

Greifswald. Strassburg.
Heidelberg. Toulouse.

Helsingfors. Tiibingen.

Kiel. Upsala.

Konigsberg. Utrecht.

Leipzig. Wiirtzburg.

Louvain.

The following technical high schools have also sent publications of the same
character :
Berlin. Darmstadt. Karlsruhe.
Braunschweig. Delft. Munich.
In carrying out the plan to effect new exchanges and to secure missing parts
to complete sets, 1,785 letters were written, resulting in 250 new periodicals
81
82 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

being added to the receipts, while about 600 defective series were partly or
entirely completed. In addition to the letters referred to, 85 postal cards were
sent and about 60 missing parts received in response.

The plan adopted by the International Catalogue of Scientific Literature of
sending to authors lists of their scientific writings that have been indexed in
the Catalogue, and requesting any that have not been cited, has been continued,
with the result that nearly 500 authors’ separates have been received, which
will ultimately come to the library.

In the reading room there were withdrawn 40 bound volumes of periodicals
and 3,485 parts of scientific periodicals and popular magazines, making a total
of 3,525. The use.of these publications, and those in the sectional libraries of
the Institution, by persons from various bureaus of the Government has con-
tinued, but in the main the consultation has been by members of the staff.

The mail receipts numbered 34,500 packages, the publications contained
therein being stamped and distributed for entry from the mail desk. About
5,000 acknowledgments were made on the regular form in addition to those
for publications received in response to the requests of the Institution for
exchange.

As the books formerly in the Secretary’s library will no longer be kept
separate from the general library, one change may be noted in the number of
sectional libraries maintained in the Institution, there now being the office
library and the employees’ library, together with those of the Astrophysical
Observatory, aerodromics, international exchanges, and law reference.

The employees’ library.—The books added to the library numbered 40, 27 of
which were presented by Mr. ©. L. Pollard, and 80 volumes of magazines were
bound. The number of books borrowed was 2,620, and the sending of a selected
number of the books from this library to the National Zoological Park and the
Bureau of American Ethnology each month has been continued.

The estate of S. P. Langley.—The estate of S. P. Langley turned over to the
Institution his scientific library. 'These books have been stamped, entered, and
placed in the divisions to which they relate.

The Watts de Peyster collection—Gen. John Watts de Peyster continued, up
to the time of his death, May 4, 1907, to present books relating to Napoleon
Buonaparte and his time, together with volumes on other subjects for the Watts
de Peyster collection in the Institution. There were received from this source
during the year 288 volumes.

The art room.—The work of cataloguing the Marsh collection is progressing,
and during the year 115 prints have been identified and cards made for them
giving full information as to the engraver, the subject, the manner of execution,
and the size of the print and plate.

Another important addition to the library was the receipt of three important
series of publications from the Light-House Board; Annales des Ponts et
Chaussées, 1831-1833, 152 volumes; Annales de Chimie, 1789-1815, 97 volumes,
and Annales de Chimie et de Physique, 1816-1872, 189 volumes, which are a
permanent transfer to the Institution.

In addition to the regular work in the library a partial bibliography of
aeronautical literature, which included the papers by Langley, Chanute, Lilien-
thal, Herring, and Hargrave, and a bibliography of the writings of Dr. S. P.
Langley were prepared for publication by the assistant librarian, Mr. Paul
Brockett.

THE MUSEUM LIBRARY,

The Museum library has been fortunate in continuing to receive from Prof.
O. T. Mason, Dr. W. L. Ralph, and Dr. C. A. White many scientific publications
of importance in completing the sets and series in the Museum. Dr. C. W. Rich-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 83

mond has continued to contribute to the library, and a number of rare scientific
works not to be found elsewhere in the city have been received from him.

The library of the Museum has also benefited by the plan adopted by the
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature of sending to authors lists of
their scientific writings that have been entered in the catalogue and requesting
any that have not been cited, as the larger number of the responses received
are in the form of separates from periodicals, journals, etc., which are no
longer desired for the Smithsonian deposit.

In the Museum library there are now 30,307 volumes, 47,642 unbound papers,
and 108 manuscripts. The additions during the year consisted of 2,581 books,
3,567 pamphlets, and 111 parts of volumes. There were catalogued 1,301 books,
of which 87 belonged to the Smithsonian library, and 3,567 pamphlets, of which
54 belonged to the Smithsonian library, and 138,215 parts of periodicals, of
which 658 belonged to the Smithsonian library.

In connection with the entering of separates and periodicals, 721 memoranda
were made reporting volumes and parts missing in the sets, together with a
few titles of publications that were not represented in the library. The result
of this work was the completing or partial filling up of 550 sets of publications.

Attention has been given to the preparation of volumes for binding, with the
result that 1,020 books were sent to the Government bindery.

The number of books, periodicals, and pamphlets borrowed from the general
library amounted to 34,859, including 9,397, which were assigned to the sec-
tional libraries. This does not include, however, the large number of books
consulted in the library but not withdrawn.

The sectional libraries established in the Museum have remained the same,
the complete list now standing as follows:

Administration. History. Photography.
Administrative assistant. Insects. Physical anthropology.
Anthropology. Mammals. Prehistoric archeology.
Biology. Marine invertebrates. Reptiles.

Birds. Materia medica. Stratigraphie paleontol-
Botany. Mesozoic fossils. ogy.

Comparative anatomy. Mineralogy. Superintendent.

Editor. Mollusks. Taxidermy.

Ethnology. Oriental archeology. Technology.

Fishes. Paleobotany.

Geology. ; Parasites.

In the following table are summarized all the accessions during the year for
the Smithsonian deposit, for the libraries of the office, Astrophysical Obsery-
atory, United States National Museum, and National Zoological Park. That of
the Bureau of American Ethnology is not included, as it is separately ad-
ministered :

Smithsonian deposit in the Library of Congress______________________ 25, 486
Office, Astrophysical Observatory, International Exchanges_____________ 2, 349
Wiitisnd cebeystereco lect Ones eens oe ee a ee 288
United eStatese National Museum libraryss- 222) = ee 6, 259

MN eS Se ee ee Fh ON eae a ee ee re eee ee 34, 382

Respectfully submitted.
Cyrus ADLER,
Assistant Secretary, in Charge of Library and Hxchanges.
Dr. CHARLES D. WALtcorTT,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
Apprnpix VII.

REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC LIT-
HRATURE: REGIONAL BUREAU FOR THE UNITED STATHS.

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the operations of the
regional bureau for the United States of the International Catalogue of Scienr-
tific Literature for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1907:

This work is carried on under the authority of Congress, im accordance with
the following item in the sundry civil appropriation bill:

INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE: For the cooperation of
the United States in the work of the International Catalogue of Scientific Liter-
ature, including the preparation of a classified index catalogue of American
scientific publications for incorporation in the International Catalogue, the ex-
pense of clerk hire, the purchase of necessary books and periodicals, and other
necessary incidental expenses, five thousand dollars, the same to be expended
under the direction of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

The International Catalogue of Scientific Literature is a classified subject
index of current scientific literature published in London in 17 annua! volumes,
the result of the combined cooperative work of regional bureaus established in
all of the civilized countries of the world. All of the principal governments
of the world are lending their aid to this important international undertaking.
Each country collects, indexes, and classifies the current scientific literature pub-
lished within its borders and furnishes to the central bureau in London the
material thus prepared for publication in the annual volumes. The cost of
preparation is borne by the countries taking part in the enterprise. The cost
of printing and publishing is paid by the subscribers to the Catalogue. The
enterprise was begun in 1901, and for the first five years of its existence the
work in the United States was done through the Smithsonian Institution at
the expense of its fund. For the present fiscal year Congress appropriated the
sum of $5,000 to continue the work thus begun, and it was carried on as hereto-
fore. The persons in charge of the work up to that date had been employees
of the parent Institution, and being entirely familiar with the work, and having
shown intelligence and devotion in carrying it out, they were, upon request,
included in the classified civil service by an Executive order dated July 14, 1906.

One volume a year is devoted to each of the following-named subjects: Math-
ematics, mechanics, physics, chemistry, astronomy, meteorology (including ter-
restrial magnetism), mineralogy (including petrology and crystallography),
geology, geography (mathematical and physical), paleontology, general biology,
botany, zoology, human anatomy, physical anthropology, physiology (including
experimental psycology, pharmacology, and experimental pathology), and
bacteriology.

The citations are secured by regularly going through all of the journals
listed to be examined, by a daily search through the large number of publica-
tions received by the Smithsonian Institution, and by the examination of all
available lists. Nevertheless, so diverse are the places of publication in the
United States that even this careful scrutiny was not considered sufficient, and
there was compiled from the authors records in this office a list of papers,

84
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 85

by authors, which list was submitted to them for verification, criticisms, and
additions. At the same time each author was requested to supply his separates
to the Institution especially for the purposes of the Catalogue.

This method of keeping in direct communication with the authors of scientific
papers is very desirable for many reasons, as it not only renders it possible to
publish a complete Catalogue, but also aids materially in the proper and satis-
factory classification of the work done, which from the point of view of the
users of the Catalogue is of as great importance as it is to have the Catalogue
complete.

During the year there were 28,629 references to American scientific literature
completed for the central bureau, as follows:

Literature of—

iC) pee eee ee 2 ee ee ee ean ana ene eee See 384
AG (eee re ee ee eee ee ee ee a ee ae ee eee 511
11) ee ee 862
Te a a ee eee 5, 272
OO yereeeiete Been Sah eke he ee oe ete See 9, 022
ELS) Ge a ee ee ee ee ee eee ee 12, 578

(CO G5] ere ee oe eed Seka nee ee ee ee ee eee 28, 629

Thirteen volumes of the Catalogue were received and delivered to ube sub-
seribers in this country, as follows:

Fourth annual issue: Chemistry, meteorology, general biology, botany, zoology,
human anatomy, physical anthropology, and physiology, completing the issue.

Fifth annual issue: Mathematics, astronomy, geology, geography, and paleon-
tology.

The practice has gradually been gaining ground in some of the regional
bureaus of including references to technical and industrial matters, which
while of great general interest do not come strictly within the definition of the
scope of the work, which was to refer only to original published contributions
to the physical and natural sciences. This matter has had careful consideration
here, and it was deemed not only necessary but wise to adhere strictly to the plan
agreed upon, since it was felt that a rigid following of the plan was essential
where so many different nations were concerned, and for the further reason
that an index can readily become too cumbersome for easy reference. Ulti-
mately it may be possible to embrace in this Catalogue all records of progres-
sive human interest, but it would seem at present the wisest policy to limit the
work strictly to the original purpose.

The regional bureau in the United States was so organized in the beginning
that it could at any time be expanded to embrace any subject found advisable
to include in the work, but the bureau is at the present time worked to the
limit of its capacity with the funds now at its disposal.

Several of the regional bureaus, including those of Germany, France, and
Poland, are printing in periodical form the matter indexed by them. It was for
a time hoped that this could be done in this country, and for several months,
beginning with January 1, 1907, all scientific matter was currently collectea,
indexed, classified, and prepared as printer’s proof ready for publication by the
Institution, either monthly or quarterly, as a much-needed current classified
index to American scientific literature. This method of publication would
promptly furnish references to all of the scientific literature of the country
practically as soon as published and probably a year in advance of the perma-
nent assembled volumes published by the central bureau. The two methods of
86 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

publication would in no way conflict; the first would be a check list of current
national work, while the second is a permanent classified international record.

The actual cost of printing a sufficient number of such a periodical would,
however, have to be met by the private fund of the Institution. After thorough
consideration it was decided that the outlay would not be justified. It is sin-
cerely to be hoped that the publication of this material in the form mentioned,
or its equivalent, can be soon begun.

Congress in the sundry civil bill approved March 4, 1907, appropriated $5,000
to carry on the work for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1908, it being the same
amount as that appropriated for the past year.

I desire to acknowledge the zeal and fidelity of the staff who are under the
immediate direction of Mr. Leonard C. Gunnell.

Very respectfully, yours, Cygus ADLER,
Assistant Secretary, in Charge of Library and Hachanges.

Dr. CHARLES D. WALCOTT,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
Apprenpix VIII.
REPORT ON THE PUBLICATIONS.

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the publications of
the Smithsonian Institution and its branches during the year ending June 30,
1907:

I. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge.

In the series of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge three memoirs
were in press at the close of the fiscal year and several manuscripts were in
preparation.

1692. Glaciers of the Canadian Rockies and Selkirks. Report of the Smith-
sonian Expedition of 1904. By William Hittell Sherzer, Ph. D. Quarto. Pages
xii, 135, with 42 plates. Part of Volume XXXIV. In press.

The advertisement of this publication describes it as follows:

Dr. William H. Sherzer, professor of natural science at Michigan State Nor-
mal College, has brought together in the present memoir the results of an ex-
pedition undertaken by the Smithsonian Institution among the glaciers of the
Canadian Rockies and Selkirks in the year 1904. The general objects of the
research were to render available a description of some of the most accessible
glaciers upon the American continent, to investigate to what extent the known
glacial features of other portions of the world are reproduced in these American
representatives, and to ascertain what additional light a study of similar
features might shed upon glacier formation and upon some of the unsettled
problems of Pleistocene geology.

A systematic survey was made of the Victoria and Wenkchemna glaciers in
Alberta, and of the Yoho and Illecillewaet glaciers in British Columbia, located
about 200 miles north of the boundary of the United States. The largest of
these is the Yoho glacier, extending more than 3 miles below the névé field
and 1 mile in width for two-thirds of its length. Doctor Sherzer investigated
various surface features of each of these glaciers, the nature and cause of ice
flow, the temperature of the ice at various depths and its relation to air tem-
perature, the amount of surface melting, and the possible transference of ma-
terial from the surface to the lower portion; their forward movement and the
recession and advance of their extremities, and the general structure of
glacial ice.

In summarizing the most important results Doctor Sherzer discusses the
indicated physiographic changes in the region during the Mesozoic and Pleisto-
cene periods; the question of precipitation of snow and rain, and the effect of
climatic cycles on glacial movements, the structure of the ice as to stratifica-
tion, shearing, blue bands, ice dykes, glacial granules, and the possible methods
of their development. In discussing the theories of glacial motion the author
expresses his conviction that the nature of the ice movement can be satisfac-
torily explained only upon the theory that under certain circumstances and
within certain limits ice is capable of behaving as a plastic body—that is,
capable of yielding continuously to stress without rupture—but the plasticity
of ice, a crystalline substance, must be thought of as essentially different from
that manifested by such amorphous substances as wax or asphaltum.

Doctor Sherzer also discusses the cause of the richness and variety of color-
ing of glaciers and glacial lakes.

1718. The Young of the Crayfishes Astacus and Cambarus. By E. A. Andrews.
Quarto. Pages 79, with 10 plates. Part of Vol. XXXY. In press.

41780—08——10 87
88 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

In this memoir there is described and illustrated the young of two kinds of
crayfishes, one from Oregon and one from Maryland, representing the two most
diverse forms in North America. The first, second, and third larval stages are
determined, and there is described the hitherto unknown nature of successive
mechanical attachments of the offspring to the parent.

1723. The Apodous Holothurians. A Monograph of the Synaptidz and Molop-
adiidxe. Including a report on the representatives of these families in the
collections of the United States National Museum. By Hubert Lyman Clark.
Quarto. Pages 218+, with 13 plates. Part of Vol. XXXV. In press.

This memoir gives a summary of present knowledge of the two families of

sea cucumbers, which lack tube feet.

The most important feature of the work is the recognition of the changes
taking place in the maturing and senescence of individual holothurians, par-
ticularly in the family Molopadiide. As a result of this, radical changes in
nomenclature have been necessary, but every effort has been made to have the
system adopted accord with the most widely accepted codes, and thus be as
stable as possible. Special attention bas been given to geographical distribution,
but the work in this line is chiefly of value as a summary of our present very
inadequate knowledge. Artificial keys to genera and species have been freely
used with the intention of making the work as useful as possible to all subse-
quent investigators, and the numerous figures, most of which are copied from
other writers, are given with the same end in view.

11. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections.

In the series of Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections there were published
24 papers in the Quarterly Issue, Vol. III, Parts 3 and 4, and Vol. IV, Part 1, as
follows:

1656. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Quarterly Issue. Vol. III,
Part 3 (containing Nos, 1657-1664). Octavo. Pages 241-879, with plates
LIX—LXIII.

1657. The Species of Mosquitoes in the Genus Megarhinus. By Harrison G.
Dyar and Frederick Knab. Published September 27, 1906. Octavo. Pages 241-
258.

1658. A Contribution to the Knowledge of some South American Hymenop-
tera, chiefly from Paraguay. By C. Schrottky. Published February 4, 1907.
Octavo. Pages 259-274.

1659. Description of a New Squirrel of the Sciurus prevostii Group from Pulo
Temaju, West Coast of Borneo. By Marcus Ward Lyon, jr. Published Febru-
ary 4, 1907. Octavo. Pages 275-276.

1660. The Squirrels of the Sciurus vittatus Group in Sumatra. By Marcus
Ward Lyon, jr. Published February 4, 1907. Octavo. Pages 277-283.

1661. A study of the Butterfly Wing-Venation, with special regard to the
radial vein of the front wing. By Thomas J. Headlee. Published February 4,
1907. Octavo. Pages 284-296, with plates LIx—Lxi1.

1662. Some Noteworthy HExtra-Huropean Cyprinids. By Theodore Gill. Pub-
lished February 4, 1907. Octavo. Pages 297-340.

1663. A review of the American Volutidze. By William Healey Dall. Pub-
lished February 4, 1907. Pages 341-378.

1664. Notes to Quarterly Issue. Vol. III. Part 3. Octayo. Pages 374-379.

1695. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Quarterly Issue. Vol. III,
Part 4 (containing Nos. 1696-1701). Octavo. Pages 381-567, plates Lx1v-Lxx,
and table of contents and index to Volume III of the Quarterly Issue.

1696. The breeding habits of the Florida alligator. By Albert M. Reese.
Published May 4, 1907. Octavo. Pages 381-387, with plates LxIy—Lxv.

1697. Life histories of Toadfishes (Batrachoidids), compared with those of
Weavers (Trachinids) and Stargazers (Uranoscopids). By Theodore Gill.
Published May 4, 1907. Octavo. Pages 388-427.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 89

1698. The letter of Dr. Diego Alvarez Chanca, dated 1494, relating to the
second voyage of Columbus to America (being the first written document on
the natural history, ethnography, and ethnology of America). Translated, with
rotes, by A. M. Fernandez de Ybarra. Published May 4, 1907. Octavo. Pages
428-457, with plate LXvI. ‘

1699. The origin of the so-called Atlantic animals and plants of western
Norway. By Leonhard Stejneger. Published May 4, 1907. Octavo. Pages
458-513, with plates LXVII-Lxx.

1700. Manners and customs of the Tagbanuas and other tribes of the Island
of Paiawan, Philippines. By Manuel Hugo Venturello. Published May 4,
1907. Octavo. Pages 514-558.

1701. Notes to Quarterly Issue, Vol. III, Part 4. Octavo. Pages 559-562.

1702. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. (Quarterly Issue. Vol. III),
Vol. XLVIII. Octavo. Pages vii, 1-567, with plates I-1Lxx.

1703. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. (Quarterly Issue), Vol. IV,
Part 1 (containing Nos. 1704-1716). Octavo. Pages 1-131, with plates I-xIv.

1704. Notes on some Upper Cretaceous Volutidse, with descriptions of a new
species and a revision of the groups to which they belong. By W. H. Dail.
Published March 17, 1907. Octavo. Pages 1-23.

1705. Notes on some squirrels of the Sciurus hippurus group, with descrip-
tions of two new species. By Marcus W. Lyon, jr. Published April 8, 1907.
Octavo. Pages 24-29. °

1706. A new Calamarine snake from the Philippine Islands. By Leonhard
Stejneger. Published April 8, 1907. Octavo. Pages 30-31.

1707. Additional notes on Mexican plants of the genus Ribes. By J. N.
Rose. Published May 1, 1907. Octavo. Page 82.

1708. Morkillia, a new name for the genus Chitonia; with description of a
new species. By J. N. Rose and Joseph H. Painter. Published May 1, 1907.
Octavo. Pages 33-34.

1709. The “ Webster” ruin in Southern Rhodesia, Africa. By Edward M.
Andrews. Published May i, 1907. Octavo. Pages 35-47, with plates I-11.

1710. The Bororo Indians of Matto Grosso, Brazil. By W. A. Cook. Pub-
lished May 1, 1907. Octavo. Pages 48-62, with plates Iv, v.

1711. Cactus Maxonii, 2 new cactus from Guatemala. By J. N. Rose. Pub-
jished June 15, 1907. Octavo. Pages 63-64, with plate vr.

1712. On the clasping organs attaching the hind to the fore wings in Hyme-
noptera. By Leo Walter. Published June 24, 1907. Octavo. Pages 65-87,
with plates viI—x. ;

1713. Notes on Mammais collected at Mount Rainier, Washington. By M. W.
Lyon, jr. Published June 27, 1907. Octavo. Pages 89-92.

1714. The Archaic monetary terms of the United States. By C. A. White.
Published June 27, 1907. Octavo. Pages 93-104.

1715. Description of a collection of Kootanie plants from the Great Falls coal
field of Montana. By F. H. Knowlton. Published June 27, 1907. Octavo.
Pages 105-128, with plates xI—xiv.

1716. Notes to Quarterly Issue, Vol. IV, Part 1. Octavo. Pages 129-131.

Among the papers in press for the Quarterly Issue at the close of the fiscal
year may be mentioned; The Air-Sacs of the Pigeon, by Bruno Miiller; and
Excavations at Casa Grande, Arizona, in 1906 and 1907, by J. Walter Fewkes.

There was also published in the regular series of the Smithsonian Miscel-
laneous Collections the following report of researches under a grant from the
Hodgkins fund:

1654. Researches on the Attainment of Very Low Temperatures. Part II.—
Further notes on the Self Intensive Process for Liquefying Gases. By Morris
90 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

W. Travers (with A. G. C. Gwyer and F. L. Usher). Part of Vol. XLIX.
Octavo. Pages 1-14.

There was in press at the close of the year additional copies of the Smith-
sonian Meteorological Tables in the form of a third edition of that work.

The following work was issued in continuation of the Catalogue prepared by
Prof. Edward S. Holden, issued by the Smithsonian Institution in 1898, No. 1087.

1721. Catalogue of Earthquakes on the Pacific Coast, 1897 to 1906. By Alex-
ander G. McAdie. Part of Volume XLIX. Octavo. Pages 64.

There was in press at the close of the year a work on crabs of the North
Pacific under the following title:

1717. Report on the Crustacea (Brachyura and Anomura), collected by the
North Pacific Exploring Expedition, 1853-1856. By William Stimpson. Octavo.
Pages 240, with 26 plates. Part of Volume XLIX.

The work, written by Doctor Stimpson, who died in 1892, is edited by Miss
Mary J. Rathbun. In the introductory note the editor thus describes the char-
acter of the report and the causes for delay in its publication:

The North Pacific Exploring Expedition was sent out by the Navy Department
under an appropriation from Congress in 1852, for “‘ building or purchase of suit-
able vessels, and for prosecuting a survey and reconnoissance, for nayal and
commercial purposes, of such parts of Behring Straits, of the North Pacific
Ocean, and the China seas, as are frequented by American whale ships, and by
trading vessels in their routes between the United States and China.” The ex-
pedition set sail in June, 1853, and returned in 1856. Capt. C. Ringgold, U. S.
Navy, was placed in command, but, being recalled to the United States in 1854,
he was superseded by Capt. John Rodgers, U. S. Navy. William Stimpson acted
as zoologist. After leaving Norfolk the five vessels in service touched at Ma-
deira, and then proceeded to Hongkong via the Cape of Good Hope. On this
passage the sloop Vincennes and the brig Porpoise took the more southerly route
to Van Diemens Land, thence through the Coral Seas, and by the Caroline, La-
drone, and Bashee islands, while the steamer John Hancock and the other two
vessels of the fleet traversed the straits of Sunda and Gaspar, the Carimata and
Billeton passages, and the Sooloo Sea. Subsequently the expedition advanced
northward, continuing work along the coasts of Japan and Kamchatka, in
Bering Strait, on the coast of California, and at Tahiti, returning around the
Cape of Good Hope.

Of the vast collections obtained, it was estimated that the Crustacea numbered
980 species. ‘

A few years after his return to the United States, Dr. William Stimpson be-
came director of the Chicago Academy of Sciences, and moved to that place
nearly all of the invertebrate material obtained by the expedition and belonging
to the United States Government. Several preliminary papers had been pre-
pared and published by him in the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural
Sciences of Philadelphia, when the collections with notes and drawings were
destroyed by the memorable fire in 1871. In a statement of losses sustained,
Doctor Stimpson enumerated the manuscript and drawings of the final report
on the Crustacea Brachyura and Anomura. After his death in 1872, however,
this report was discovered at the Navy Department and was sent to the Smith-
sonian Institution, where it has remainded to the present time unpublished.

In the meantime there are few students of the higher Crustacea who have
not felt the need of more light on those rare genera and species known only from
brief Latin diagnoses.

The following report has been treated as an historical document, and is pub-
lished substantially as it was written by the author, the only additions being the
references to his preliminary descriptions and the footnotes giving the current
or accepted name where it differs from that used by Doctor Stimpson. It is
hoped that the value of the descriptions will more than compensate for the an-
tiquated nomenclature.

There was also in press at the close of the year in the series of Smithsonian
Miscellaneous Collections the following publication :

1720. Samuel Pierpont Langley, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution,
1887-1906. Memorial meeting December 3, 1906. Addresses by Doctor White,
Professor Pickering, and Mr. Chanute. Octavo. Pages 49. Part of Volume
XLIX.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 91

III. Smithsonian Annual Reports.

The Annual Report for 1905 was distributed early in the fiscal year:

1667. Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution.
Showing the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the
year ending June 30, 1906. Octavo. Pages i-liv, 1-576, with 48 plates.

The following papers included in the Annnual Report of the Board of Regents
for 1905 were issued separately in pamphlet form:

1668. Journal of Proceedings of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian
Institution at Meetings of December 6, 1904, and January 25, and March 6,
1905. Report of Executive Committee. Acts and resolution of Congress.
Octavo. Pages xi-liv.

1669. New Measurements of the Distance of the Sun. By A. R. Hinks.
Octavo. Pages 101-118.

1670. Photographing Lightning with a Moving Camera. By Alex. Larsen.
Octavo. Pages 119-127, with plates tv.

1671. The Tantalum Lamp. By W. von Bolton and O. Feuerlein. Octavo.
Pages 129-140.

1672. Some Refinements of Mechanical Science. By Ambrose Swasey.
Octavo. Pages 141-150.

1673. Progress in Radiography. By L. Gastine. Octavo. Pages 151-161,
with plates I—vIm.

1674. History of Photography. By Robert Hunt. Octavo. Pages 163-192,
with plates I-tv.

1675. The Genesis of the Diamond. By Gardner F. Williams. Octavo. Pages
193-209.

1676. A description of the Big Diamond recently found in the Premier Mine,
Transvaal. By F. H. Hatch and G. S. Corstorphine. Octavo. Pages 211-213,
with plates I, II.

1677. Gold in Science and Industry. By G. T. Beilby. Octavo. Pages
215-234.

1678. Submarine Navigation. By Sir William H. White. Octavo. Pages
235-245.

1679. Liberia. By Sir Harry Johnston. Octavo. Pages 247-264, with plates
I-VII.

1680. Geographical Results of the Tibet Mission. By Sir Frank Younghus-
band. Octavo. Pages 265-277, with plates 1-Iv.

1681. The Development of Rhodesia and its Railway System in Relation to
Oceanic Highways. By J. T. P. Heatley. Octavo. Pages 279-292, with plate I.

1682. The Ethics of Japan. By Baron Kencho Suyematsu. Octayo. Pages
293-307.

1683. Plague in India. By Charles Creighton. Octavo. Pages 309-338.

1684. The Fight against Yellow Fever. By A. Dastre. Octavo. Pages
339-350.

1685. Luminosity in Plants. By Hans Molisch. Octavo. Pages 351-362.

1686. Notes on the Victoria Lyre Bird (Menura Victorie). By A. E. Kitson.
Octavo. Pages 363-374, with plates I—vI.

1687. The Influence of Physical Conditions in the Genesis of Species. By Joel
A. Allen. Octavo. Pages 375-402.

1688. Parental Care Among Fresh-Water Fishes. By Theodore Gill. Octavo.
Pages 403-531, with plate 1.

1689. On the Relations between the United States of America and Germany,
especially in.the field of Science. By Wilhelm Waldeyer. Octavo. Pages
533-547.
92 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

1690. Walter Reed. A Memoir. By Walter D. McCaw. Octavo. Pages
549-556, with plate I.

1691. Rudolph Albert von K6lliker, M. D. By William Stirling. Octavo.
Pages 557-562, with plate 1.

The Acting Secretary’s Report for 1906, forming a part of the Annual Report
of the Board of Regents to Congress, was printed as usual in pamphlet form
in November, 1906, for the use of the Board, and in January a larger edition
was issued for public distribution, as follows:

1693. Report of the Acting Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution for the
year ending June 30, 1906. Octavo. Pages 91.

There was also issued for the use of the Regents a small edition of the Pro-
ceedings of the Board.

1743. Proceedings of Board of Regents for the year ending June 30, 1906.
Report of Executive Committee. Acts and Resolutions of Congress. Octavo.
Pages xI-1l.

The full report for 1906 was in type, although not ae for distribution at
the close of the fiscal year.

1742. Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution,
showing the Operations and Expenditures and Condition of the Institution for
the year ending June 30, 1906. Octavo. Pages i-li, 1-546, with 48 ese

The contents of the General Appendix are as follows:

1744. The Smithsonian Institution. Octayo. Pages 97-102.

1745. Modern Theories of Hlectricity and Matter. By Madame Curie. Octavo.
Pages 103-115.

1746. Radioactivity. By Franz Himstedt. Octavo. Pages 117-1380.

1747. Recent Advances in Wireless Telegraphy. By G. Marconi. Octavo.
Pages 131-145.

1748. Revisions of the Theory of Electrolysis. By H. S. Carhart. Octavo.
Pages 147-160. é ;

1749. Recent Progress in Astronomical Research. By C. G. Abbot. Octavo.
Pages 161-171, with plates 1, 1.

1750. Astronomy on Mont Blane. By H. Radau. Octavo. Pages 173-186.

1751. The Problem of the Metalliferous Veins. By James Furman Kemp.
Octavo. Pages 187-206.

1752. Iron Ore Reserves. By Charles Kenneth Leith. Octavo. Pages 207-
214.

1753. The Geology of the Diamond and Carbonado Washings of Bahia, Brazil.
By Orville A. Derby. Octavo. Pages 215-221, with plates 1, mu.

1754. The Eruption of Vesuvius in April, 1906. By A. Lacroix. Octavo.
Pages 223-248, with plates I—xIv.

1755. To the North Magnetic Pole and through the Northwest Passage. By
Roald Amundsen. Octayo. Pages 249-273, with plates I-vI.

1756. Iceland: Its History and Inhabitants. By Herr Jon Stefansson. Oc-
tavo. Pages 275-294.

1757. The Recently Discovered Tertiary Vertebrata of Hgypt. By C. W.
Andrews. Octavo. Pages 295-307.

1758. Polyembryony and the Determination of Sex. By H. Bugnion. Octavo.
Pages 309-820.

1759. A Contribution to the Morphology of the Mammoth, Elephas primi-
genius Blumenbach; with an explanation of my attempt at a restoration. By
Hi. Pfizenmayer. Octavo. Pages 321-331, with plate I.

1760. Heredity. By L. Cuénot. Octavo. Pages 335-344.

1761. The Bisons of the Caucasus. By A. Yermoloff. Octavo. Pages 345-
3538, with plates 1, I.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 93

1762. The Founding of Colonies by Atta sexdens. By Jakob Huber. Octavo.
Pages 355-372, with plates I-v.

1763. Quaternary Human Remains in Central Europe. By Hugues Obermaier.
Octavo. Pages 373-397.

1764. The Origin of the Slavs. By Professor Zaborowski. Octavo. Pages
399-422.

1765. Scalping in America. By Georg Friederici. Octavo. Pages 423-438.

1766. Zoology and Medicine. By Raphael Blanchard. Octavo. Pages 439-
452.

1767. The Role of Chemistry in Painting. By Eugene Lemaire. Octayo.
Pages 453-458, with plate I.

1768. Oils, Varnishes, and Mediums Used in the Painting of Pictures. By
A. P. Laurie. Octavo. Pages 459-468, with plate 1.

1769. National Reclamation of Arid Lands. By C. J. Blanchard. Octavo.
Pages 469-492, with plates I-vi.

1770. International Science. By Arthur Schuster. Octavo. Pages 493-514.

1771. Samuel Pierpont Langley. By Cyrus Adler. Octayo. Pages 515-533.

IV. Special Publications.

There was issued during the year a special publication in the form of the
Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, but it was not included in that series
since only a limited number of copies of the accompanying plate were available.
The work is entitled:

1694. Remarks on the Type of the Fossil Cetacean Agorophius pygmaeus
(Miiller). By Frederick W. True. City of Washington: Published by the
Smithsonian Institution, 1907. Quarto. Pages 8, with 1 plate.

The author in the first paragraph of the work says:

Somewhat more than fifty years ago the Smithsonian Institution, then
recently founded, undertook the publication of a number of memoirs by Prof.
Louis Agassiz, and prepared some lithographie plates to accompany them.
Before the work had proceeded very far, Professor Agassiz made other arrange-
ments for the publication of his writings and the plates were never issued. One
of these unpublished plates represents the type specimen of a very remarkable
species of fossil cetacean, now known as Agorophius pygmaeus (Miiller), and
on account of circumstances which are detailed below it has been thought
desirable to issue it, with a brief explanation as to its importance.

As a special publication, No. 1722, there was printed an octavo pamphlet of
388 pages entitled ‘‘ Classified List of Smithsonian Publications available for
Distribution April, 1907.” :

For general distribution to correspondents there was published, without bear-
ing a serial number, a duodecimo pamphlet of six pages entitled “ The Smith-
sonian Institution, at Washington, for the Increase and Diffusion of Knowledge ,
among Men.” This pamphlet gives a brief description of the functions of the
Institution and its branches for the general information of the public.

VY. Publications of United States National Museum.

The publications of the National Museum are: (a) The Annual Report, form-
ing a separate volume of the Report to Congress by the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution; (0b) the Proceedings of the United States National
Museum; (c) the Bulletin of the United States National Museum.

The publications issued during the year are enumerated in the Report on the
National Museum. These included the Annual Reports for 1905 and 1906;
volumes 31 and 32 of the Proceedings; volume 2 of Bulletin 53; Part 1 of Bul-
letin 56; Bulletin 57; a supplement to Bulletin 51; Volume XI of Contributions
to the National Herbarium and three parts of Volume X of the same series.
Three other bulletins were in press at the close of the year.
94 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

VI. Publications of the Bureau of American Ethnology.

The twenty-sixth annual report of the Bureau of American Hthnology and
Bulletins 33, 34, 35, and 36 were sent to the printer during the year. Bulletins
31 and 32 were published in July. Part 1 of Bulletin 30, Handbook of American
Indians, appeared in March, and the twenty-fourth annual report in May.e A
list of publications of the Bureau and a special article on Indian missions were
issued in June. These publications are elsewhere described in detail in the
report on the Bureau.

VII. Report of the American Historical Association.

The annual report of the American Historical Association for the year 1905
was sent to the printer in May, 1906, and Volume I was completed in November
of that year. Volume II, however, comprising a complete bibliography of the
publications of American historical societies for more than a century, had not
been issued at the close of the fiscal year.

The manuscript of the report for 1906 was received in May, 1907, but was
not forwarded to the printer until after the close of the fiscal year.

VIII. Report of the Daughters of the American Revolution.

The ninth report of the National Society of the Daughters of the American
Revolution was received from the society in Mebruary, 1907, and submitted to
Congress in accordance with law.

IX. Smithsonian Committee on Printing.

The editor has served as secretary of the Smithsonian advisory committee
on printing and publication. To this committee have been referred the manu-
seripts proposed for publication by the various branches of the Institution,
also those offered for printing in the Quarterly Issue of the Smithsonian
Miscellaneous Collections. The committee has also passed upon blank forms
for current use in the Institution and its branches. The committee considered
and reported to the Secretary on various questions relating in general to print-
ing and publication. Twenty-six meetings were held during the year and 101
manuscripts were reported upon.

X. Press Abstracts of Publications.

Beginning in March, 1907, an editorial assistant was assigned to the prepara-
tion of abstracts of such publications of the Institution and its branches as
could be put in popular language for the use of newspapers throughout the
country. There has also been sent out a number of brief accounts of current
investigations and longer descriptions of general work in the National Museum,
the International Exchanges, the Astrophysical Observatory, the Zoological
Park, and other branches of the Institution’s work.

Respectfully submitted.

A. Howarp CLARK,

Editor.
Dr. CHARLES D. WALCOTT,

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
GENERAL APPENDIX

TO THE

SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1907

ue af en e ‘i

Li
A i) a ae
A Sine na ” |

P ft fy!

i, ahi! eae 7 cs |
| | | i 7 i nes

ha ee ws ¥ .

7 , 7 ;
ry ry
a
‘vei! He

ADVERTISEMENT.

The object of the GenERAL ApprNnpiIx to the Annual Report of the
Smithsonian Institution is to furnish brief accounts of scientific dis-
covery in particular directions; reports of investigations made by
collaborators of the Institution; and memoirs of a general character
or on special topics that are of interest or value to the numerous
correspondents of the Institution.

It has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution, from a very early date, to enrich the annual
report required of them by law with memoirs illustrating the more
remarkable and important developments in physical and biological
discovery, as well as showing the general character of the operations
of the Institution; and this purpose has, during the greater part of
its history, been carried out largely by the publication of such papers
as would possess an interest to all attracted by scientific progress.

In 1880 the Secretary, induced in part by the discontinuance of an
annual summary of progress which for thirty years previous had been
issued by well-known private publishing firms, had prepared by com-
petent collaborators a series of abstracts, showing concisely the prom-
inent features of recent scientific progress in astronomy, geology,
meteorology, physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zoology, and
anthropology. This latter plan was continued, though not altogether
satisfactorily, down to and including the year 1888.

In the report for 1889 a return was made to the earlier method of
presenting a miscellaneous selection of papers (some of them original)
embracing a considerable range of scientific investigation and discus-
sion. This method has been continued in the present report for 1907.

97
Reg

“SNIGHYN | WVALS GNNOdWOD HSNOYH | NOILOAS

ntl

PII) YY) IDI yyy

7

;
F|
b

VPN

WY

*| 3LV1d *suosie@g—'/06| ‘Wodey uRiuosy}IWUS
THE STEAM TURBINE ON LAND AND AT SEA

By Hon. CHARLES A. Parsons, C. B., M. A., D. Se, F. R. S., M. R. I.

It was with some diffidence that I accepted the subject of steam
turbines on land and at sea for this evening’s lecture, for since I had
the privilege of dealing with this subject six years ago in this room,
there seemed to me to be very little new to add, either from a scientific
or a practical point of view, which had not then been to some extent
considered. However, after consideration, there seemed to be a hope
that an account of some further developments during the last six
years on land and on sea, and a more extended description of the
mechanics of the turbine and its applications, might prove of some
interest, in view of the more general adoption of the turbine principle
for the generation of electricity, for the propulsion of vessels, and
for driving air-compressors, fans, and pumps.

Six years ago there were 75,000 horsepower of turbines on land,
and 25,000 on sea. At the present time there are more than 2,000,000
horsepower at work on land and 800,000 horsepower at work or build-
ing for use at sea.

There are at present afloat, equipped with turbines, three pleasure
steamers, nine cross-channel steamers, five ocean-going vessels, three
Atlantic liners, six yachts, three destroyers, and two cruisers.

Yet it can not be said that the turbine engine is superseding the
reciprocating engine generally, although this is undoubtedly to some
extent the case in certain fields of work.

On land the chief application of the turbine is found in large elec-
trical generating stations, and its adoption in preference to the piston
engine, in its most perfect development of compound, triple, or
quadruple expansion engine, is becoming general in this field of work.

At sea, its use is commencing to extend for all the larger and
faster class of ships; for cross-channel steamers it has found great
favor, and for Atlantic liners and ships of war it is being used to a

7Paper read before the Royal Institution of Great Britain at its weekly
evening meeting, Friday, May 4, 1906. Reprinted, by permission, from the
Transactions of the Royal Institution.

99
100 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

more and more considerable extent, and this tendency is not confined
alone to England, but is shown also on the Continent, and in the
United States and Japan. It will give a clearer idea of the subject
if we first of all examine more closely the characteristics of the steam
turbine, and generally how it works.

All turbines derive their power from the impact of the steam, or,
more correctly speaking, from the momentum of the steam, flowing
through them, just as a windmill receives its power from the wind.

There are three principal types of turbines now in general use, as
well as some which may be described as admixtures of these three
classes. They differ essentially in some respects, more particularly in
their methods of extracting the power from the steam.

The first to receive commercial application, 1884, was the com-
pound or multiple expansion steam turbine; the second was the De
Laval or single-bucket wheel, in 1888, driven by the expanding steam
jet; and, lastly, the Curtis turbine, in 1896, which comprises some of
the principal features of the others combined with a sinuous treat-
ment of the steam.

In the compound turbine, the steam is caused to flow through a
series of many turbine elements of gradually increasing size, grad-
uated so as to allow of the expansion of steam in small increments of
volume at each element, these increments of volume corresponding to
the fall of pressure necessary to cause the steam to flow through each
element. Each element consists of a row of guide blades and a row of
moving blades. The guide blades are attached in circumferential
rows to the case and project inwardly, and the moving blades are
attached in: rows to a drum and project outwardly. The end of
the blades throughout the turbine nearly touch the drum and case
respectively.

To form some idea of the forces at work in a turbine we should
consider, with approximate accuracy, that the steam flows through
the turbine with a force about ten times as great as that of the
strongest hurricane; and though the force acting on each blade is
small, perhaps only a few ounces, or in the largest only a few pounds,
yet in the aggregate the force is great and can propel large ships or
drive large dynamos.

The important factors upon which the proportions of the turbine
are based are the pressures, velocities and percentages of moisture in
the steam, as it gradually expands from turbine row to turbine row.

The blades of the turbine are made of rolled and drawn brass,
well shaped, and polished so as to reduce the frictional losses in the
steam to a minimum. The steam enters all round the shaft and first
traverses the shortest blades on the smallest drum, then through
larger and larger blades set on larger and larger drums, and so on
till as it leaves the last blades it is expanded about 100-fold in vol-
THE STEAM TURBINE—PARSONS. 101

ume. At the opposite end to the blade drums are seen the balance
pistons, or dummy drums, which serve to balance the end pressure
of the steam, and are kept steam-tight with the casing by packing
grooves on the dummy drums which rotate in close proximity to
corresponding but stationary brass rings keyed into the case.

In land turbines, for driving dynamos or other fast moving ma-
chinery, no end-pressure on the shaft is required, nor is it permis-
sible because of the mechanical difficulties met with in thrust-bearings
‘arrying heavy end-pressure and rotating at high speed, and there-
fore balance pistons are provided, which, while being practically
steam-tight, serve to balance all end-pressure arising from the steam
acting upon the rotating barrels and vanes.

In marine turbines, on the other hand, the dummy drunts are so
proportioned as to leave an unbalanced end-pressure, which counter-
acts and balances the thrust of the propeller, thus relieving the thrust-
bearing from. pressure.

The bearings of the engine, it will be seen, have only to support
the weight of the rotating part of the engine; this is comparatively
small, and as continuous lubrication is provided by an oil pump
which circulates the oil continuously through the journals round and
round, there is practically no wear, even after years of continuous
work; and the maintenance of the shaft in a truly central position
relatively to the casing, which is of great importance, is easily main-
tained in practice.

Before proceeding further with the examination of the compound
steam turbine, let us consider the De Laval steam turbine introduced
by Doctor De Laval, of Stockholm, in 1888.

In this turbine the steam at full pressure issues from a diverging
conical jet, so formed and proportioned that the steam after passing
through the neck of the jet enters a gradually divergent passage of
imcreasing cross-section, in which it expands; the result being that
nearly the whole available energy in the steam is utilized in impart-
ing to it a very high velocity, reaching, with 100-pound boiler pres-
sure and a good vacuum, as much as 4,200 feet per second, and the
discovery of this property of the expanding jet is due chiefly to
Doctor De Laval.

This rapidly moving column of expanded steam is directed against
cupped steel buckets on the periphery of a wheel made of the
strongest steel, the wheel being shaped so as to permit of the highest
peripheral velocity consistent with safety, which may be from 800 to
1,200 feet per second; the steam, by striking the cups and reacting,
partly by velocity of flow and partly by elastic gaseous rebound
from the concave surface of the cups, leaves the wheel with a con-
102 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

siderable backward velocity, and to obtain the highest efficiency it
is necessary to reduce this backward velocity by increasing the ve-
locity of the wheel to the uttermost. The strongest materials, how-
ever, do not permit of a close approach to the speed necessary for
the maximum efficiency; yet in this turbine, owing to the compara-
tive absence of losses, which are present to some extent in the other
types (and which we will consider presently), the efficiency of this
turbine compares favorably for moderate and small powers.

In this beautiful construction, developed with mechanical skill
and guided by an intimate acquaintance with the properties of steam
and materials, there are many minor features of interest. Among
them may be mentioned the elastic shaft, to permit of the rotation
of the turbine wheel about its dynamic axis. A device, consisting
of frictional damping washers, which had the same purpose as this
elastic shaft, was used in 1885 in the early development of the com-
pound steam turbine. It was superseded in 1892 by the damping
effect of thin films of oil between several concentric loosely-fitting
tubes surrounding the bearings.

The De Laval turbine has for many years been extensively used
on the Continent and in this country, in sizes up to about 400 horse-
power. Its chief use has been for the driving of dynamos, pumps,
fans, and motive power generally; and, owing to its very high
angular speed, it is necessary in most cases to use gearing, except
when driving very fast-running centrifugal pumps and fans.

The gearing is of steel, and it is accurately cut with very fine
spiral teeth, and it works satisfactorily even at the speed of 30,000
revolutions per minute.

Let us now consider the Curtis turbine. It ranks in a class by
itself, because it comprises the principle of the sinuous treatment of
expanded steam first put into extended commercial use by Mr. Curtis
under the auspices of the General Electric Company of America.

This sinuous treatment of the steam consists in giving to it a high
initial velocity by passing it through a jet of the De Laval type, or a
group of such jets; it then impinges on a ring of bucket-blades like
those used by De Laval, and after leaving the first row of such blades
it is caught by a ring or a sector of stationary bucket-blades set in
the reverse direction, and by them its direction is changed into that
of the next succeeding row of moving blades (there may be three
rows of moving blades in all and two sectors of fixed blades) ; and
the height of each succeeding row is increased, to allow a greater
area for the steam as it flags in velocity after each rebound between
the moving and fixed blades.

The object of this treatment is to transfer a large percentage of
the kinetic energy of the rapidly moving steam to the moving blades
THE STEAM TURBINE—PARSONS. 108

and wheel, without the necessity of very high peripheral speeds of
blades, such as are necessary with the single-wheel type. As regards,
however, “ multiple series action,” the principle resembles the com-
pound turbine.

The expansion process in nozzles, and subsequent sinuous treat-
ment of the steam, is repeated several times by four or more similar
wheels on the same axis, but in separate steam-tight chambers, until
the steam is fully expanded.

If there are four such operations, the velocity of outflow from the
nozzles will be about 2,000 feet per second, and the peripheral velocity
of wheel about 400 feet per second; and at each operation the steam
is expanded through one-fourth of the whole range, and at each it is
brought to rest before flowing to the next chamber through the jets.

A great many other varieties of the turbine have been proposed,
and some have received a limited application. The Rateau, the Reid-
ler Stumpf, the Zoelly, the Escher Wyss, and many others might be
mentioned as varieties of the three fundamental turbines we have con-
sidered ; indeed in some cases the variation would appear to have been
only a retrograde step, and represents some discarded form tried by
one of the originators of the three fundamental types.

As far as we can gather from the history of the steam turbine, it
may be said broadly that all the chief features at present in use in
turbines have been suggested or described in the rough by experi-
menters long ago in the hundred and more patents prior to 1880.

For instance, Hero of Alexandria, B. C. 130, made a reaction
wheel.

William Gilmore’ first suggested the compound steam turbine in
1837.

Matthew Heath first enunciated the principle of the diverging
conical jet in 1838.

James Pilbrow in 1842 used cupped buckets, and suggested a sinu-
ous treatment of the steam.

Robert Wilson developed the compound steam turbine to a con-
siderable extent in 1848.

It would take too long to trace the initiation of each tdea, but
we may say, in the light of recent experience, that most, if not all,
the designs showed a want of knowledge of the properties of steam
and materials, and could not have given a satisfactory performance.

Let us again recur to the compound turbine, and look more closely
into the principles of its working, and more particularly consider the
course of the steam in its passage through the vanes or blades of the
engine.

Viewing the turbine as a whole we see that the steam passes through
the forest of fixed and moving blades just as water flows from a lake

41780—08——11
104 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

of higher level through a series of rapids and intervening pools to a
lake of lower level. The boiler corresponding to the lake of higher
level and the condenser to that of lower level.

In the flow through the turbine the steam is repeatedly gathering
a little velocity from the small falls of pressure, which is as soon
checked and its energy transferred to the blades, over and over again;
fifty to one hundred times is this repeated before it is fully expanded
and escapes into the condenser.

The number of blades in a steam turbine is very great; in a 2,000-
horsepower engine it may be from 20,000 to 50,000 and the surface
speed of the several barrels of the turbine will be from 150 to 300 feet
per second. In such an engine it is arranged that the lineal velocity
of the blades will approximate to one-half that of the tangential com-
ponent of the steam issuing from the guide blades. The blades, as we
have seen, are curved, with thickened backs, and are smooth; the
steam therefore flows around them, and past them, without much loss
by shock or eddy current or frictional loss. The proportions of tur-
bines as regards diameter, height of blade, and blade openings are
calculated so that, under average working conditions, the correct
expansion of the steam shall be attained, and the fall in pressure and
velocity of steam at each turbine of the series shall be such as to secure
for it the highest efficiency.

When a turbine is tested the pressures at many points along the
barrel are recorded, and the calculated pressures confirmed and veri-
fied by experiment, and these are usually in close accord. As the
result of data accumulated from experiments on many turbines, the
probable horsepower that will be obtained from a given design of
turbine can be predicted with as much accuracy as in the case of the
reciprocating engine. The best results that have been obtained from
large turbines show that about 70 per cent of the available energy in
the steam is converted into brake horsepower; and where, we may
inquire, has the other 30 per cent gone to?

The chief losses of efficiency in all steam turbines are due to three
principal causes: Firstly, to skin-friction of the steam coursing at
high temperature through the small openings between the blades;
secondly, to unavoidable leakages; and, thirdly, to eddy-current losses
arising from insufficient blade velocity and errors of workmanship.

The first of these losses, the friction of the steam, is reduced by
superheating, and thus partially removing the fluid frictional loss
arising from the drops of condensed water mingled with the steam.
In some cases this gain in efficiency is worth the extra cost of the
superheater, but, unless intermediate superheaters are used, initial
superheat cannot be raised high enough to maintain dryness through-
out the major part of expansion without destroying the turbine.
Moderate initial superheat, however, is generally used with some gain
Smithsonian Report, 1907.—Parsons. PLATE II.

| l
her

{Rizco]

AN ENLARGED PHOTOGRAPH OF A HARDENED STEEL FILE,
SHOWING THE DESTRUCTIVE ACTION OF STEAM AT HIGH
VELOCITIES.

This file was exposed for 145 hours to the action of a jet of steam at
100 pounds pressure, discharging into a condenser pressure of 1
inch absolute of mercury.
MW ahs: :
Ly Ser Pte

ae ie a) oo a =

wPae a

THE STEAM TURBINE—PARSONS. 105

in economy, which in the compound turbine amounts to 1 per cent
for every 10° F. of superheat. The second loss, which is from leakage,
is present in the compound and the sinuous types but not in the De
Laval type. The amount of this loss decreases as the size of the engine
increases. It is also chiefly consequent on the coefficient of expansion
of metals, which is a bugbear to the turbine designer. If a metal
with a much smaller coefficient of expansion than steel and iron could
be obtained at a reasonable price and of suitable qualities for the con-
struction of turbine cases, drums, and shafts, a considerable increase
of economy could be obtained, as it would allow of smaller working
clearances and less leakage. The third loss, from insufficient blade-
velocity, is not present to a material extent in the larger compound or
sinuous course turbines, but is present, as already explained, to a con-
siderable extent in the single-wheel type.

Reviewing more closely the motion of the steam through the blades
of a compound turbine, we see that the portion of its course during
which it is traveling at relatively high velocity, and in close prox-
imity to the blades, is short in comparison with the total length of its
travel within the turbine. The passageways between the blades con-
stitute virtually jets of rectangular cross section, but having easy
curves, and the frictional losses are consequently small. After leav-
ing the blades, it traverses the intervening space in the form of an
annular cylinder with a spiral motion, the angle of pitch being about
30° to a plane normal the axis; and, as the succeeding blades are
moving in a similar direction to this flow, we see that the velocity
with which the steam is cut by their frontal edges is much less—in
fact, less than one-half the velocity at which the steam has issued
from the previous blades. From this we see how small is the loss
due to the cutting of the steam by the frontal edges in the compound
turbine, and also how small is the velocity with which drops of water
strike the metal of the blades. :

This is an important feature.

It has been shown by experiment that if drops of pure water,
arising from the condensation of expanding steam, impinge on brass
at a greater velocity than about 500 feet per second there results a
slow wearing away of the metal. It is very slow, and would require
about ten years to erode the surface to a depth of 3; mch. In the
compound turbine the striking-velocity is much below this figure,
and the preservation of their form and smoothness of surface has
been found to be practically indefinite.

It appears that the erosive power of drops of pure water moving
at high velocity increases rapidly with the velocity, it may probably
be as the square. Experiment has shown that if saturated steam at
100 pounds pressure be allowed to flow through a divergent jet into a
106 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

good vacuum, attaining a velocity of about 4,500 feet per second, and
allowed to impinge on a stationary brass blade, the blade will be cut
through in a few hours, and the hardest steel will be slowly eroded.
The action seems to be the result of the intense local pressure from
the bombardment of the drops, which may exceed 100 tons.

Owing to the receding velocity of the blades from the blast, and
consequently reduced striking velocity, the erosion of the blades in
impact turbines is much reduced, and in compound turbines there is
complete immunity from such erosion.

It may be asked, how is it that the steam turbine in the larger
sizes is more economical in steam per horsepower development than
the best triple or quadruple expansion reciprocating engine? The
reason is that all large steam turbines are able to take full advantage
of the whole expansive energy of the steam, even when expanding to
the very attenuated vapor densities produced by the best condensers.
Tt is indeed easy to construct the low-pressure portion of the turbine
to deal effectively with the very attenuated vapor, whereas the re-
ciprocating engine, from its nature, can only take full advantage of
about two-thirds of the whole range of expansion, and is unable to
deal usefully with very low vapor densities—the low-pressure cyl-
inders can not (because of structural difficulties) be made large
enough, and the last part of the expansion has to be allowed to run
to waste.

The growth in size of the turbine is perhaps interesting. The first
practical steam turbine, constructed in 1884, was of 10 horsepower.
By 1892 the largest size for driving dynamos had reached 200 horse-
power. It has been continuously increasing, and has now reached
12,000 horsepower in one unit driving one alternating dynamo.

In 1894 the Turbinia, of 2,000 I. H. P., was commenced. The
diagram (fig. 5) shows her low-pressure and reversing turbine. The
L. P. turbine is 3 feet in diameter.

The King Edward was built in 1902, 9,300 I. H. P., and the
diagram shows one of her L. P. turbines and reversing turbine in one
casing, to the same scale.

In 1903 The Queen, of 9,000 I. H. P., commenced to ply between
Dover and Calais. The diagram shows one of her L. P. and reversing
turbines.

In 1905 the Allan liners Virginian and Victorian, of 12,000 I. H. P..
went on service between Liverpool and Canada. The diagram shows
one of the L. P. and reversing turbines, which is 10 feet in diameter
and 35 feet in length; and in last December the Carmania, of 30,000
tons displacement and 20,000 horsepower, commenced to ply between
Liverpool and New York. The diagram shows her L. P. turbine,
which is 14 feet in diameter.
“YOLVNYHSLIY-O8YHNL ASVHd-SSYHL “OM 00c'¢

AI a i

“HT SLV1d ‘suosie4—'/Q6| ‘Hoday ueluosy}iwS
"3NIGUN_L ANINVIA| SDYV] V 4O LAVHS

‘suosiegd—'/06| ‘HOdey ueR!UOSy}ILUS

"A| aLV1d
THE STEAM TURBINE—PARSONS. 107

The application of the turbine to the propulsion of vessels involved
some interesting problems. The most important was, how slow could
a turbine be made to rotate consistently with the maintenance of its
efficiency in steam consumption, and at the same time be of moderate
weight and cost ?

In the same problem naturally arose the question of how fast could
a screw propeller be made to revolve when propelling a vessel of a
given size and at a given speed—in other words, when delivering a
given propulsive horsepower at a given speed? The first question as
to designing a low-speed turbine was solved in 1894 to 1896, by the
aid of the accumulation of accurate data from experiments on land
turbines; and the modification arrived at in the turbine has been
chiefly directed to the splitting of it up into two or three or more tur-
bines in series on the steam, and each working a separate shaft. This
splitting up of the turbine results in a twofold advantage. It makes
the turbine (which otherwise would be very long) much shorter, and
because of being shorter finer clearances and less loss by leakage re-
sults, and the whole engine is hghtened. A secondary gain, resulting
from the division of the power over several separate shafts, arises
from the fact that smaller propellers may be used, making higher
speeds of rotation admissible, which again acts in lightening and im-
proving the economy of the turbines.

The second question, that of the propeller, was much more difficult.
It was not simply the problem of designing a screw with a moderate
slp ratio and a moderate loss by skin-friction of the blades in the
water, but it was complicated by cavitation, or the hollowing out of -
the water and the production of vacuous cavities caused by the force
of the blades tearing through the water, a phenomenon first noticed
by Sir John Thornycroft and Mr. Sidney Barnaby in 1893, and by
them named cavitation. This apparatus shows the phenomenon.

| A small tank was shown, with a model of the screw of a cross-
channel boat or of an Atlantic turbine liner. It was pointed out
that it was very difficult to make the screw cavitate, because it was
especially designed not to cavitate; it was, however, made to do so’
in the tank by removing the atmospheric pressure from the surface of
the water above the propeller by the air-pump. The removal of the
atmospheric pressure, which helped to keep the water solid, enabled
cavitation to be induced at a much lower speed of revolution. In the
tank there was a head of about 14 inches of water above the topmost
blades. If the tank had not been exhausted there would have been a
head equivalent to 32 feet, plus 14 inches, plus capillary forces, tending
to keep the water solid. Therefore, instead of 1,500 revolutions (the
speed of the propeller when serious cavitation was induced), a speed
of at least 20,000 revolutions would have been required (because forces
108 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

that induce cavitation vary as the square of the surface-speeds of the
blades).| Serious cavitation causes an inordinate loss of power,
chiefly because it disturbs the steam lines around the propeller blades,
and it was proved by this experiment how easy it is to put too much
work on a screw. ‘There is a hmiting thrust that it will bear, and if
we exceed this thrust it will, so to speak, more or less strip its thread
in the water and its efficiency will rapidly fall. The solution of the
problem, as regards the screw propeller, has therefore resulted in a
modification of the proportions of the ordinary propeller, and has
lain in the direction of smaller diameters, wider blades, and a slightly
finer pitch-ratio, which three slight changes have combined toward
higher angular speeds of the propeller without material loss of
efficiency.

Let us now turn our attention to the economic results of the steam
turbine. In the case of large engines and dynamos that are coming
generally into use, for the generation of electricity in this and other
countries, of a horsepower of 1,000 to 12,000 and upward, the steam
turbine with its accompanying dynamo is found to be cheaper in first
cost, running expenses, and fuel than the reciprocating engine and
its slow-speed dynamo; and so much is this the case that it seems
possible to generate electricity in colliery districts almost, if not quite,
as cheaply for electro-chemical purposes as it can be produced at
Niagara and some other large centers of water power.

The chief items in which saving has resulted as compared with
the reciprocating engine are: The total capital cost of the station is
reduced by from 25 per cent to 40 per cent; the reduction in the
cost of fuel and boilers is between 10 per cent and 30 per cent, and
the consumption of oil is reduced to one-sixth, while the engine-room
staff is reduced by 25 per cent to 50 per cent.

As to the economic results of turbine vessels compared with vessels
propelled with piston engines, reliable statistics are available.

In 1897 the 7urbinia was found to have an economy in steam per
horsepower developed equal to, if not superior to, that of similar
vessels propelled by reciprocating engines; and later, in 1903, she was
again tried with modified propellers as now generally used which
gave a further increase of efficiency of about 10 per cent over the
1897 trials.

Tn 1902 the first turbine passenger boat, Aing Hdward, on the Clyde,
was found to consume about 15 per cent less coal than a similar vessel
propelled by triple expansion engines and twin screws.

In the diagram (pl. vt) is shown the principal running expenses
of the turbine steamer Queen, plying between Dover and Calais,
compared with three other vessels on the same service. The cost of
coal, engine-room staff, and oil are shown in terms of the number of
passengers each vessel is capable of carrying.
Smithsonian Report, 1907.—Parsons. PLATE V.

— _ —— - - — 4
'

aD

mrs I,

ua al Ta
Cease sees = oT Biel ee' el |
rao q [S15 Ayo

T.S.Y. TURBINIA

T.S.S. KING EDWARD

T.S.S. THE QUEEN

T.S.S. VIRGINIAN

T.S.S.ATLANTIC LINER 20.0001HP

DIAGRAM, SHOWING INCREASE IN SIZE OF MARINE TURBINES.
,0 .0 30 0 224 “9¢* CIC ‘a

0 oO 30 30 281 ‘Se* O82 ‘®

20 sa sO 30 “Bl Ge" Zee a

O33dG  3DABBG adDVaaAY SIONY IZ Gp * EVE NIINO 3H) 'V

23N ‘OoN _ GoN +y oN aN _2aN tl
WORaG iQRGEORY, (a) tal AY (e101 Voda 9) {a} te! voaa
$537,808
ssa, yr SAM 5
SSI Ly
BSVBYON)| 1 9-CE esa oe ALVININ| 9290
$531%93 ath f Gk. BSvewOm) % Sz
ss319,0z ASVIB ONLY Deh ASWIBIN| YT)
B5vaHON| 9,6 08 354 3p2N) %69)
BS¥3YIN] Y/ Col
97% 84 ISVIBIN| YLGI

BevanoMy 4 Jor

ASV3IyIN) Kes

Yewawony Y% 108

“newvy oL 03)38 3°) Buy S1ISSIA Suadnasesw 4O BIBUN}) dad J4V1G, oes a ONY NO “\W07 4do 41s0%) *) an
Sunoy aac anv diay 3990[} Bad INYNG WO) 30 NO) wad G34013Aa7} w3aMmo4 “O=N

“ANBNG VWWOD 4O NO] Y3d ABHV) OL OAldILh3) 3H4v S13SS3/A SBIDNASSYY Jo BIGguaAK) Gg aN
SHINOW) QG NI ZOVQ) Sdls) 40 BABKNN ” + ON

“ABBY OL OAIAILYSD BBV STASS3A “BadNASSH) HWA Yad diB) 31ANOf] H3d NOlLdWNSNOD NO € BN
“ABBY 0) G3ld\2H3) BBY S13SC3A “URONASSVY HVA B3d 44VAG WOODY ANIDN] 4o HIGH) “25N
“AMBVD OL G3l4ILN3D 3uv STassa, “WaONassy4 HIVZ Yad 1NYNa WO 40 SONNO4 “| 5N

*3490)4 AWYG NO S3NIDNG AUYNIOUG) HIIM GaLit) $136S9A BaHLO 3BuH) Him Gaxvawo)

Su 3AMdY HBACG) ONW SiVIV NO _NJaN() BH) H3WW3IG TANNWH -Ss0H7) _G3TI3d044 SNIBUN| JO B3aMQY DNINUY] 30 NosIdvdWO  DNIMZHG WvEDVI()

"IA SLvV1d *suosie@g—'/061 ‘Hodey ueluosyyiWS
THE STEAM TURBINE—PARSONS. 109

The statistics of the turbine vessels Onward and Invicta, on the
Boulogne and Folkestone route, have confirmed these results.

The trials of the third-class cruiser Amethyst, in 1904, and of her
sister vessel the Topaz, propelled by triple expansion engines and
screws, showed that, at a speed of 11 knots, the consumption of steam
was the same in both vessels, but, as the speeds were increased, the
turbine vessel gained relatively in economy, and at 18 knots was 15
per cent more economical, and at 204 knots 31 per cent, and at full
speed 36 per cent. Her superior economy in coal enabled her to reach
a speed of 23.63 knots, or 1} knots more than the Z’opaz, on the same
coal allowance. The results of the trials also showed that, at a
speed of 20 knots, the Amethyst could steam about 50 per cent more
miles than the Zopaz on the same quantity of coal.

The experience as regards Atlantic liners is as yet limited to three
vessels, the Virginian, the Victorian, and the Carmania. 'The first
two are of the Allan line, 520 feet in length, 15,000 tons displacement,
and 12,000 horsepower, with a sea speed of from 16 to 17 knots.

These vessels have been running since the spring of 1905, and
the consumption of coal has been estimated to be no more, and prob-
ably less, than would have been the case had they been fitted with
the most economical engines of ordinary type.

The Cunard liner Carmania, of 672 feet in length, 30,000 tons dis-
placement, and 21,000 horsepower, is a sister vessel to the Caronia,
propelled by quadruple expansion engines of the most economical
type, and during the last four months the consumption of coal in the
two vessels has been carefully measured, but it is too soon as yet to
give the results. However, on the official trials, the turbine vessel
exceeded the speed of her sister ship by 1 knot.

Some of the advantages found to exist with turbine propulsion
are, that the propellers never race in the heaviest seas, and that, as a
consequence, the speed is better maintained under all weather condi-
tions; and the cause of this is to be traced to the smaller diameter of
the propellers, wider blades, and deeper immersion. There is also
much less vibration.

The tendency of late has been to increase the reversing, or astern,
power of turbine vessels to such an extent that, in many cases, the
stopping and maneuvering powers have been equal to those of twin
screw vessels with reciprocating engines. The starting of turbine
vessels is relatively quick, for the torsional force of a turbine, when
starting from rest with full steam on, is at least 50 per cent greater
than the torque at the usual running speed, because the blades, when
running slowly, meet the full blast of the steam instead of moving
with it as they do at their usual speeds. With ordinary engines the
starting torque does not exceed the torque at full speed. When
110 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

maneuvering, turbines can not fail to respond when steam is turned
on, for they have no dead centers upon which to stick, as in the
reciprocating engine.

From the fact that the faster and larger the vessel the better has
been the performance, it seems safe to infer that the two very large
and fast Cunarders now building will give satisfactory results, and
the same may be expected as regards new turbine construction in
ships of war.

The diagram (pl. vit) shows the various steps in the development
of the steam turbine as applied to marine propulsion.

The total horsepower in steamships sailing under all flags is at
present about 8,000,000. Of this total, about one quarter, or 2,000,000,
is in the faster class of ships to which turbines are suitable.

Of the remaining 6,000,000 horsepower, about three to four are
in the larger class of ocean tramps, and the remainder in coasting
steamers and small river boats, ete.

By a combination of the turbine with the reciprocating engine
there seems to be no doubt that the three or four millions horsepower
of large ocean tramps may be successfully propelled with a saving
of from 15 to 20 per cent in cost of fuel.

This combination has not yet been applied to any vessel. In it
the reciprocating engine first expands the steam from the boiler down
to about atmospheric pressure, and then passes on to the turbines,
which complete the expansion down to the condenser pressure. The
turbine thus utilizes the lower part of the expansion, which the re-
ciprocating engine can not do, and the combination is therefore a
good one. For maneuvering or stopping the vessel, either the engine
or the turbines, or both, may be used, and there seems to be no doubt
that this arrangement will come into vogue for the slower class of
vessels of larger size.

Turbines have been applied to other uses within the last ten years.
The most important of these are for the working of rotary blowers,
air compressors, and water pumps.

The photograph (pl. vit) shows a cross section through a turbo-
blowing engine, capable of compressing 21,000 cubic feet of free air
per minute to a pressure of 17 pounds per square inch, which repre-
sents about 1,000 horsepower in the air, reckoned in adiabatic com-_
pression. In general construction the turbine air-blower portion is
similar to a steam turbine. The blades or vanes which propel the air
are plano-convex in section, and set in rows at an angle similar to
that of the blades of a ship’s propeller. Between the rows of moving
blades are rows of guide blades inwardly projecting from the case.
These latter are also of plano-convex section, and are set with their
Smithsonian Report, 1907.—Parsons. PLATE VII.

TURBINIA- 189%.

HING EOWARD. 1901, Various STEPS IN THe Development
OF THE OTEAM TURBINE FoR Marine
PROPULSION,

THE QUEEN. 1903-

VIGTORIAN & VIRGINIAN. 13904,

LUSITANIA & MAURE TANIA. 1307.
“SHSGNITAD SNISHUNL Ul GNV WVaLS HSNOYH] NOILOSS “ANISNA ONIMO1G-O88N L

*suosi@qd—/ 061 ‘Hodey UeBlUOsY}IWUS

“IA SLVId
THE STEAM TURBINE—PARSONS. eed

plane surfaces parallel to the axis; and their purpose is to assist the
flow and to stop the rotation of the air after being acted on by the
moving blades. Each row of moving and fixed blades adds a little
to the pressure, and compresses the air gradually along the annular
space between the drum and the ease. Balance pistons or dummies
are provided for balancing the end thrust of the air, as in the steam
turbine. The speed of rotation is 3,600 revolutions per minute and
the tip velocity of the air blades about 400 feet per second.

Norr.—Since this lecture was given, many of the predictions con-
tained therein have been realized. The two new large express
Cunarders, the Lusitania and the Mauretania, have given eminently
satisfactory results. The steam consumption of the main turbines
has been ascertained to be 12% pounds per shaft ‘horsepower at full
power.

In view of the satisfactory results obtained in the earlier war ves-
sels fitted with turbine machinery for the British Navy, the Ad-
miralty decided to adopt the Parsons turbine exclusively for new
construction, from the largest battle ship and cruiser down to and
including torpedo boats.

The progress of the Parsons turbine in other countries has also
been very noteworthy. In the United States the results attained
recently on the trials of the scout Chester, equipped with Parsons
turbines, when compared with a sister vessel, the Birmingham, fitted
with reciprocating engines, have shown in favor of the turbines at
all speeds. At full speed, on a six hours’ trial, the Chester obtained
a speed of 26.5 knots per hour, as against 24.3 in the Birmingham.

In addition to the above, there are in the United States six mercan-
tile vessels now on service (passenger and freight), and five torpedo-
boat destroyers are also at present under construction, representing a
total horsepower of 110,000 built and under construction.

In Japan there are two large liners now nearing completion, one
of which has already completed her official trials, having exceeded
the contract speed of 19} knots by 1 knot. Two small passenger
vessels are now on service in Japan. A dispatch boat is also being
fitted out for the Japanese Government, and two new passenger ves-
sels and one large liner are at present under construction, representing
a total horsepower of 90,000.

In France six large battle ships and three destroyers are under
construction of 150,000 horsepower; in Germany excellent results
were obtained recently with torpedo-boat destroyer G. 137, and at the
present time a large and powerful cruiser, as well as a small cruiser
and several torpedo-boat destroyers, are under construction, of about
110,000 horsepower; in Italy a cruiser; in Austria a cruiser; and in
112 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

this country two scouts are under construction for Brazil. Negotia-
tions are pending for the placing of four large turbine battle ships
for Russia.

All the above are fitted with the Parsons type of turbines.

Other countries are also at the present time considering projects
for various classes of vessels to be fitted with the Parsons turbine.

The total I. H. P. built and at present under construction of marine
turbines is over one and three-quarter millions of horsepower.

On land, in almost every country, the new construction of large
generating units are nearly all turbine-driven.

Apriu 6, 1908.
THE DEVELOPMENT OF MECHANICAL COMPOSITION
ENP ERIN TING 2

By Prof. A. TURPAIN,
University of Poitiers.

Since the year 1776 efforts have been made to increase the efficiency
of the compositor by adding to the ordinary types in the case certain
combinations of letters which are frequently repeated. The use of
these logotypes makes the type case much more complicated, and in-
stead of increasing the rapidity of composition, diminishes it by
causing more errors and consuming more time in finding the type.

It was then sought to accomplish mechanically the several steps in
composition. Let us recall these steps: When a line of type is once
assembled in the stick, the compositor justifies it by so distributing
between the words the free space at the end as to give to the line its
proper length. After the type has been used, the workman must re-
turn it again to the case.

The first idea of a composing machine seems to have been made
public by an Englishman, Church, in 1822. The first practical apph-
cation of this idea, in accordance with a method devised by Ballanche
in 1833, consisted in supplying the case with a keyboard, the manipula-
tion of which freed the characters or type, and these assembled them-
selves in the composing stick. It was only the operation of picking
out the letters that was rendered mechanical; the justification and the
distribution remained manual.

By another process, invented a little later, the compositor was en-
abled to use both hands in picking out the type. The type were thus
more rapidly selected and were thrown into a funnel whence they
were directed and assembled automatically in the composing stick.

These two processes saved time in the selecting and assembling of
the type in the composing stick, but there was no economy of time
in the manual processes of justification and. distribution.

The keyboard apparatus was imitated and perfected successively by
Gobert (1839), by De Klieger (1840), by Youg and Delcambre, who

“Translated and abridged, by permission, from the second part of “De la
Presse 4 bras a la Linotype et A I’Electrotypographe ” in the Revue Générale des
Sciences pures et appliquées, Paris, November 15, 1907.

118
114 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

in 1844 exhibited a machine which, though immediately adopted in
the Parisian workshops, was discarded as soon as its disadvantages
became apparent.

Since then many composing machines have been invented. Each
of these showed some improvement over its predecessor. In this way,
by successive improvement, the composing machine has become almost
perfect, so that hardly any criticism can be made of the latest model
presented, the electrotypograph, which was introduced in 1902, and
which was still further improved in 1907 and combined with the tele-
typograph. Its introduction once more greatly advances economy in
typography, and it is likely to increase typographical efficiency almost

:

}

Fic. 1.—Lagerman composing and distributing machine.

infinitely. With its aid the printer need not fear to undertake orders
requiring unheard-of speed and numbers of impressions.

Before describing the electrotypograph, we will review the earlier
forms of composing machines in order to understand it more clearly.
Only the most characteristic of these will be described.

MACHINES WITH MOVABLE CHARACTERS.

The composing machines first to be considered, the Kastenbeim,
Thorne, Simplex, Lagerman (1885), Paige, Desjardins (1898), Cal-
endoli (1900), ete., form a class accomplishing composition by moy-
MECHANICAL COMPOSITION IN PRINTING—TURPAIN. gs

able type which they afterwards distribute, often by mechanisms
independent of those of composition. Most of these machines com-
pose by the operation of a keyboard, freeing the type from the chan-
nels of a magazine, but only a few of them justify the line.

Lagerman machine——The Lagerman machine (fig. 1) is very simple
in its arrangement and uses finger-stalls instead of a keyboard both in
composing and distributing. The justification of the line is automatic.
The machine separates the words equally by two 3-em spaces, making
the line either the proper length or too long. If too long, the justify-
ing mechanism then does its work by replacing a 3-em space by a 4-em
space, thus reducing the line by one-twelfth of a quad between each
word. This process is repeated till justification is completed.

—

Nilan;

Fic. 2.—Desjardins justifying machine.

Desjardins machine——The Desjardins machine (fig. 2) is a justify-
ing mechanism used in America in connection with composing ma-
chines. The lines of the galley are successively raised by the machine,
which counts the number of spaces by means of little copper strips
projecting above the type which have been inserted for that purpose.
Another part of the machine feels, so to speak, the space remaining
at the end of the line, adds it to the total of the counted spaces, and
divides the whole by this number of spaces. By the combination of
three sizes of spaces (17, 24, and 31 thousandths of an inch), which it
keeps in reserve, the machine forms and inserts between the words the
space which it has thus automatically measured. If there be a re-
mainder after the division, an ingenious arrangement of the machine
reserves it, and adds it to the last space of the line. The working of
the calculating mechanism takes less than a second.
116 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

Calendoli machine—We will not complete this brief examination
of the first type of composing machines without a word concerning
the Calendoli machine (fig. 3), which is solely a composing machine.
Tt composes with the speed of a typewriter, that is to say 15,000 ems
or characters per hour. The type, cast in a special shape, issues from
90 type-bar magazines consisting of mushroom rails on which the
type is threaded. A workman behind the machine recharges the
magazines as they are emptied. An inclined cylinder provided with

A GGEK?P- SECECK
AK. S

a.

Fic. 3.—Calendoli composing machine.

rails along its long dimension receives each type as the operator
frees it by the manipulation of a keyboard. The type is thus ar-
ranged in the galley by its own weight. The machine neither justi-
fies nor distributes. It is therefore necessary to combine it with a
justifying and distributing apparatus, or with a casting machine.
Composition is effected so rapidly as to allow comparatively more
time to be given to the justification and distribution. One could,
moreover, combine a Desjardins machine of the type already de-
scribed with the Calendoli machine.
MECHANICAL COMPOSITION IN PRINTING—TURPAIN. LG
CASTING MACHINES.

A second class of composing machines marks an interesting im-
provement over the first in that the distribution of type is obviated.
These are casting —
machines. They
thus answer the crit-
icism made against
their predecessors,
the necessity of spe-
cial type with par-
ticular notches (the
Lagerman notch, the
Calendoli groove,
for example), per-
mitting the seizure
of the type by the
parts of the ma-
chine. The casting
machines should be
separated into two
distinct classes.

OlstRieuteUY
TT

(A) MACHINES FOR y ‘
CASTING THE LINE. | fi SSS > ae ae

In the first class
we place the ma-
chines that produce solid lines. The operator plays on the keyboard
and composes the line in copper matrices. It is justified by copper
wedges forced between the words. <A jet of molten lead flows into a
mold the bottom of which is
formed by the matrices, and a
solid line of type is thus made.
We find here the system of stereo-
typing invented by Herhan in 1801
applied to a single line of charac-
ters. In the first class of casting
machines is included the typo-
graph (pl. 1) of Rogers, the, mon-
oline (pl. 1), of Scudder, and
finally the linotype of Mergenthaler, which is the oldest and in France
one of the best known machines for forming a solid line (figs. 4-8).

IT do not mean to say that no distributing function is employed
in these casting machines, for the matrices must be returned to their

Fic. 4.—Diagram showing operation of the linotype machine.

Fig. 5.—Linotype matrices.
118 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

respective chambers after the line is cast. In the linotype machine
this is effected by a V-shaped distribution bar the sides of which have
a series of grooves that engage teeth corresponding to them on the
sides of each matrix. The arrangement of the teeth varies on each
matrix and the position of the grooves likewise varies on the dis-
tributing bar above the compartments of the magazine. The ap-
paratus is so designed that as the matrix is pushed along the distribu-
ting bar, when it reaches its proper channel, nothing prevents it
from dropping
into its compart-
ment in the maga-
; zine. We here find
a vl iti, Vas pen ews
ie EO aT Ors | toe whe
aw SC feeler” = which,
in Baudot’s tele-
graphic machine,
by means of a
combination — of
five levers, prints
each letter at the
moment when the
type wheel car-
Tons rying the letter
brings it into a vertical
position. This is not the
only mechanical similar-
ity between composing
eras pour machines and multiple
GR ces vicmes. telegraphs, for few ma-
scale chines are more involved
one with the other than
those used in rapid teleg-
raphy and typography.
val us wanes | The motive force neces-
pemee sary to work a linotype
Fies. 6 and 7.—Details of molding mechanism of machine is less than half
Rate a horsepower. The speed
of composition is normally 5,000 ems or characters per hour, and
may attain, with skilled operators, 6,000 to 7,000 ems per hour.

A single operator manipulates the machine. One caretaker can
clean and keep in order five or six machines. On the other hand, cor-
rections necessitate the complete making over of the line, and, as in
similar machines, the mental strain on the operator is incomparably
greater than that felt by the hand compositor. Not only must he read

7ROUE DE MOULE

CLI i

ie - = 0p

EJECTEUR
POUR FORCER
LA LIGNE HORS
DU MOULE

GALEE RECEVEUR

=) Sh
“ANI"] LSVO V ONISOdNOD YO4S SANIHOVIA

"SNTIONOW) SHI "HdVHDOdA] SHE

‘f alvad

‘ujedin {—"Z06 | ‘Hoday uriuosyziwsg
PLATE II.

Smithsonian Report, 1907.—Turpain.

THE MONOTYPE.

THE ROTOTYPE,

(}) Casting machine.

(a) Typewriter and perforating machine.

THE ROTOTYPE AND MONOTYPE MACHINES.
MECHANICAL COMPOSITION IN PRINTING—TURPAIN. 119

the manuscript five or six times more quickly than the hand composi-
tor, but he must also watch both the keyboard and the melting
furnace.

Besides the inconveniences of this first class of casting machine,
such as the making over of the whole line for the least correction,
there is another objection. Printers complain, that in casting the
monolines, the typographs, and the linotypes the metal does not flow
into the shallow matrices at a temperature low enough to give a good
-face and to print a very clear impression. Furthermore, the metal

Dey genni dot

1G. 8.—General view of the linotype machine.

lines are often hollow and may be crushed in putting them in the form
for presswork.

The rototype (pl. 11), invented very recently by an Austrian, M.
Schimmel, likewise produces a line cast as a single block. A large
wheel carries four collectors placed at right angles. The collector, I,
at the extremity of the horizontal diameter of the wheel in the posi-
tion of departure, receives the row of matrices forming a line. It is
carried below the diameter of the wheel where the line is justified,
while the second collector, II, receives in its turn a row of matrices.

41780—08-——12
120 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

The justification is no less ingenious. The lines are composed with
elastic spaces and are always a little too long. In shortening the line
to the required length, each space is contracted, which is made possible
by its compressibility. A quarter turn of the wheel brings the justi-
fied line to the casting pot. At the same time collector I receives the
cast line, the line in collector IT is justified, and collector IIT receives
the series of matrices forming a third line. Finally a last quarter of
a turn carries the matrices of the first composed line, previously free
from the cast line, to the height of the vertical diameter, where they |
are distributed in the magazine for further composition. The same
successive rotation by a quarter of a turn continues, so that when the
machine is in operation, while one line is being composed, the preced-
ing one is justified, the one before that is cast, and the matrices of the
previous one distributed.

One of the advantages of the rototype is that the melting pot is
placed as far as possible from the operator.

The distribttion of matrices is simplified by the use of disks analo-
gous to the die of the electrotypograph; but with ten characters
instead of three. Thus, on the circumference of the same disk are
associated the matrices of letters of the same thickness, capitals
G, M, W, . . . small straight letters, i, 1, t, !, . . . and small letters
of equal thickness, d, c,e, ... All disks of the same thickness and
with the same letters have the same compartment in the magazine.
The machine in freeing them threads them around an axle, to which
they become attached only when the desired letter has reached the
vertical position.

The rototype can compose 6,000 characters per hour and requires
only one-eighth of a horsepower for its operation. * * *

The 1907 model of the rototype has no wheel, properly speaking,
but has three arms with only three matrix carriers. These are
hinged, and thus simplify corrections. The keyboard of the latest
model has 100 keys, with 400 roman and 400 italic matrices. The
face of the character is deeper than that of the linotype. Finally,
. the machine, which weighs about 450 kilograms, occupies only a
small space, being 1.40 m. in length, 0.85 m. in width, and 1.50 m.
in height. .

(B) MACHINES CASTING SINGLE TYPE.

To avoid the disadvantages of slug-casting machines, a second
class has been devised. ‘These machines compose with movable char-
acters cast to measure and assembled in justified lines by means of
spaces cast to measure with dimensions calculated in advance. ‘This
machine performs the same work as the compositor at the case, omit-
ting none of the successive steps, but enormously increasing the
MECHANICAL COMPOSITION IN PRINTING—TURPAIN. 121

speed of composition. As usual, these machines, certain types of
which have attained the highest degree of perfection, apply the prin-
ciple of the division of labor. Two absolutely distinct machines are
associated: First, a composing machine with a keyboard; that is, a
writing machine which perforates a ribbon to be transferred to the
casting machine; second, a casting machine, which receives the per-
forated ribbon from the composing machine, casts the successive let-
ters as well as the spaces, and assembles them in justified lines.

The principle of these machines was conceived in 1872 by an
American named Westcott. One can not help comparing the prin-
ciple followed in both of these machines, namely, the perforated
ribbon, with that of the Wheatstone automatic telegraph, invented
by the physicist Wheatstone in 1859.

The first two types in this class are the Goodson graphotype and
the Lanston monotype (pl. 11).

The graphotype, to solve the problem which we have just men-
tioned, employs more than 650 contacts of mercury and 60 electro-
magnets. There are, therefore, opportunities for inaccuracies in its
operation. Furthermore, the keyboard operator must, at the end of
each line, read two numbers on the tables or dials, and then choose in
a definite order a certain number of special keys which control the
justification perforations. Each movement of the block which car-
ries the matrices is followed by a sudden stop, and as the block weighs
3 kilograms and performs 20,000 movements per hour, this is a source
of wear and tear on the machine.

The monotype is based on the same principle. The manipulation
of the keyboard of the perforating machine produces a ribbon, per-
forated with letters clear like those of a typewriter, thus allowing an
inspection of the composition. Justification, as in the graphotype,
necessitates a reading and the choice of a lever; the speed of compo-
sition can not, therefore, attain that of the ordinary typewriter.

The perforated ribbon is then transferred to the casting machine,
where it is drawn between a series of holes which follow the line of
_ perforations and a groove through which comes a jet of compressed
air. This jet of air passes through the perforations and actuates a
mechanism which frees the matrix corresponding to the perforated
character and carries it under the melting pot containing type metal
kept in fusion by a gas jet. A drop of molten metal runs into the
matrix and thus forms the type which, cooling almost immediately, is
deposited in a channel where the entire line of type is assembled.
Corrections are easily made, as each type is a separate piece. Never-
theless, the whole process is a delicate one on account of the appli-
cation of compressed air,
122 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.
THE ELECTROTYPOGRAPH.

The electrotypograph, designed by the Hungarian inventors, Me-
ray and Rozar, is incontestably superior to its predecessors. Just-
fication is absolutely automatic. The keyboard operator, without
making any reading, manipulates a single lever at the end of each
line. One can therefore attain the speed of a typewriter in compo-
sition, or about 15,000 characters per hour.

(1) Composing machine-—The composing machine consists of a
Williams typewriter, a perforator, and a calculator. The typewriter

i
)

1

Cu

@)

Fic. 9._Lhe composing machine of the electrotypograph. ~

furnished a copy of the composition, which can be corrected, thus giv-
ing a proof before casting. The perforator makes a row of holes in
a paper ribbon or band. There are eight series of these holes ar-
ranged in rows across the band (fig. 10); let us designate them by
the numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 0, 6, and 7. The perforations by the series
0 are continuous and are for the purpose of advancing the band.
The combinations of perforations 1, 2, 8, 4, 5 correspond to the series
of small or lower-case letters, just as do the combinations of the five
MECHANICAL COMPOSITION IN PRINTING—TURPAIN. 123

levers of the manipulator in the Baudot telegraph. If to these com-
binations the perforation 7 is added, the letter becomes a capital. If
the perforation 6 is joined to one of the combinations 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5,
a punctuation mark is obtained. Thus the perforations 3 and 4 cor-
respond to the small letter 0; the perforations 3, 4, and 7 to the capi-
tal B, and the same perforations 3 and 4 with 6 indicate the excla-
mation mark (!).

As the band is perforated, the calculating device registers the
thickness of the characters as they will be finally cast, the thickness
being measured in tenths of a millimeter. The spaces between the
words are estimated by the calculator at the normal value of 15 tenths
of a millimeter. These spaces are added up as the line is written.
At the end of the line all the operator has to do is to press the justifi-
cation key and the apparatus (1) calculates the difference between
the total of the spaces and the desired length of the line, (2) divides
this difference by the number of the spaces, and (3) inscribes on the
band as a special perforation the resulting correction for each space.
These corrections indi-
cate either an addition
to the normal spacing
of 15 tenths of a milli-
meter or a subtraction
from that spacing. :
Three successive per- De
forations are produced Fre. 10.—Perforated band furnished by the composing
by the single manipu- machine of the electrotypograph.
lation of the justification key; the first two relating to the operation
of justification and the third indicating the end of the line.

The result of the calculation for justification, inscribed on the band,
indicates how many tenths of a millimeter more or less are needed for
each normal space, 15 tenths of a millimeter, to obtain the justified
line.

12345067

DsDsDabadi

When we pass from one font to another, from the roman to the
italic for example, it is only necessary to substitute in the computing
apparatus a special cylinder which is easily removed. No change is
needed in the justification apparatus.

Theory of justification The operator is warned by a bell when
there remains only 5 millimeters of the line to be filled; he can, how-
ever, go 5 millimeters beyond the prescribed length of the line. He
therefore has a latitude of 10 millimeters and can terminate at the
end of a word or a syllable.

Let / be the length of the prescribed line, A the length of the line
as made by the operator with the normal spaces of 15 tenths of a
millimeter each, and n the number of spaces in the line
124 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

The difference between the length of the line as it must be justified
and its length as actually made is the difference between / and i; 1
may be either greater or less than A.

Let us say that the difference between / and A, divided by 1, is +g,
and suppose first that this division gives a quotient g without re-
mainder. Each space in the line would be increased (++) or dimin-
ished (—) by the amount g according to its sign. These calculations
are performed automatically by the machine, and it is the value of ¢

aan

{ :

aa

Fic. 11.—The casting machine of the electrotypograph.

that is indicated by perforations on the ribbon when the justification
lever is operated. .

Let us suppose, however, that the difference between / and 4, di-
vided by , gives the remainder v, which is generally the case, as the
machine can not calculate the spaces closer than a tenth of a milli-
meter. In this case besides the correction g, which affects each space
in the line, the » first spaces receive a supplementary correction of
one-tenth of a millimeter, until the remainder v is used up.

Proof before casting—The proof copy, furnished by the writing
machine working in the ordinary way, may be corrected even before
the type is cast. Corrections which require the resetting of one or
MECHANICAL COMPOSITION IN PRINTING—TURPAIN. 125

several lines are made by cutting the defective part out of the ribbon
and substituting a piece of corrected ribbon. Corrections of one or
two letters are made in the line by the ordinary nippers after it is
cast.

Keyboard.—In the latest model of the electrotypograph (1907) the
keyboard has in all 97 keys, 90 of which, by means of a shift key,
allow the writing of 180 characters. One key is reserved for justifica-
tion; its manipulation is entirely mechanical, the operator having
only to press it at the end of each line without any preliminary read-
ing. One key is added for the feeding holes, 0, in the ribbon; another
large key for variable spaces and finally four keys for the fixed spaces,
1 em, 2 em, etc.

(2) Casting machine——The perforated ribbon or band, taken from
the composing machine, is transferred to the casting machine (fig.
11). These two machines are entirely independent. The perforated
bands can be composed at leisure and the type cast as needed. This
is not one of the least advantages of machines casting movable char-
acters, and as the electrotypograph is a perfect
example of this class of machines, its superiority
is particularly marked. It permits the printing
of a limited number of copies of a work, and since
the perforated bands are preserved, a new edition
may be printed by again casting the type. Thus
as many successive editions as desired may be
produced without new composition, or the storage Fic. 12.—Matrix disk
of a considerable stock of type or stereotype plates. ome ee

Thus, by a process more economical than+stereo-
typing, one of the desires of the bookseller is realized. One large
printing office in Saxony before the Revolution, and before the inven-
tion of stereotyping, was able to furnish books at prices much lower
than its rivals by preserving the composition in storage and printing
in proportion to the demand. But at the price of how much inactive
capital! +

The perforated band of the electrotypograph of MM. Meray and
Rozar passes through the casting machine in an opposite direction
from its make-up. The lines are thus cast letter by letter in an oppo-
site direction, from right to left. In this way, the machine knows, be-
fore commencing a line, the exact value of the spaces it must furnish.
This is another manifest advantage of this machine.

The molten metal is injected into a mold, one end of which is
closed by an indented matrix, where the face of the character is
formed. A movable carriage holds 29 disks on the facets of which
are cut the matrices. Each disk has three facets at angles of 45°
(fig. 12). The middle facet bears a small or lower-case letter, the
one to the left the capital or upper-case of the same letter, and the one

126 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

to the right the corresponding sign. The choice of the disk is made
according to the combination of the perforations on the ribbon, in a
manner analogous to that of the combiner and feelers of the Baudot
telegraph. The spaces are cast in the same way as the letters, the
mold being closed by a disk without a matrix. The thickness of the
space is determined by the slide valve of the mold, the heel of which
strikes against the justification apparatus. This mechanism con-
sists of four disks mounted on the same axle, forming a combination
which expands or contracts according to the result of the calculation
of justification. When a line is finished, it is pushed automatically
into a galley. The machine then stops casting for three turns, while
the justification apparatus receives the measurement corresponding
to the spaces to be furnished to the line which is to be composed, a
dimension indicated by the perforations D,, D, (fig. 10). These
perforations are reserved for justification at the end of each line.
The first row, D, (fig. 10), indicates by the position of its perforation
the number of spaces at the begin-
ning of the line which should re-
ceive the supplementary correction
of one-tenth of a millimeter; the
second row, D,, indicates, by add-
ing the values determined by the
position of its perforations from 1
to 5 (perforation 5 representing
the value of 10), the number of
tenths of a millimeter to be added

Fic. 13.—Diagram of registering ap- OY Subtracted to all the spaces of the
paratus in the casting machine of the line
electrotypograph.

Let us take for example the band
shown in fig. 10. The perforations of series 6 represent subtraction,
those of 7 addition.

In D, we find perforations 3 and 6 indicating that it is necessary
to subtract (perforation 6) one-tenth of a millimeter from each of
the first three (perforation 3) spaces of the line.

In D, we find perforations 1, 2, 5, and 7, showing that it is neces-
sary to add (perforation 7) to each normal space of 15 tenths of a
millimeter, a number of tenths of a millimeter 1+2+10 (perfora-
tion 5 having the value of 10), that 1s 13 tenths of a millimeter.
Thus in this line, the first three spaces will be cast with a thickness of
15+13—1, or 27 tenths of a millimeter, and all others with a thick-
ness of 15+13, or 28 tenths of a millimeter.

The perforated strip, A (fig. 13), is carried along by a cogwheel
whose teeth engage the perforations of the series 0.

The machine makes 90 turns a minute, advancing the band one
division and casting a character at each turn. The movement of
MECHANICAL COMPOSITION IN PRINTING—TURPAIN. 127

the wheel is very rapid, lasting scarcely one-fifteenth of a second,
the band then remains stationary for nine-fifteenths of a second, the
whole turn thus taking ten-fifteenths, or two-thirds of a second.
While the band is motionless, seven letters, Z (fig. 13), press against
the paper, and those that find perforations make contacts closing
electric circuits. This is accomplished by the heel of the lever Z,
which raises the piston X, pressing the spring B against C and
making the contact.

The electrotypograph is controlled by electricity, hence its name,
but its inventors used only very simple electrical arrangements, with
weak electro-magnets requiring a current of low tension. In con-
trast to the Goodson graphotype, the perforating machine of the
electrotypograph does not use electricity. All its functions are
purely mechanical, without compressed air or electric current. Mech-
anism was substituted because of the inaccuracy of electric or other
contacts established by the play of a keyboard, which produces vari-
able pressure in rapid work. In their casting machine, on the con-
trary, the inventors of the electrotypograph made a very judicious
use of electric power; there the mechanical movement of the parts
assures perfect contacts. Unlke the graphotype, the electrotypo-
graph uses only 15 (instead of 60) electro-magnets. These are all
of the same strength and have a resistance of 100 ohms, using a cur-
rent of only 0.1 ampere under a potential of 10 volts. There is never
but one electro-magnet in action at a time in the machine, and the
duration of its excitement is less than one-twentieth of a second. In
the most recent machines, a single electro-magnet automatically stops
the machine in case of damage or trouble in operation arising from
the negligence of the operator. Thus, the machine stops when the
end of the perforated ribbon is reached. In this way the machine is
automatic to such an extent that one workman can easily watch two
miachmmes ~* > »*,

IMPROVEMENTS AND RESULTS OF THE ELECTROTYPOGRAPH.

Since the trials made by the journal Le Temps with the 1902 model
of the electrotypograph—trials which were attended with complete
success—important improvements have been made in the mechanism
of the machine, and it has now advanced beyond the experimental
stage.

The new model has many and very important improvements over
the 1902 model, among which are: A mechanism permitting the cast-
ing at will of high or low spaces; the addition of letters with a pro-
jecting face like V in italics; simplified construction in the justifica-
128 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1907.

tion mechanism in the casting machine, allowing the use of a single
electro-magnet in place of eight; an increase in the width of the
galley, permitting the production of lines 40 pica ems (180 mm.) in
jength; an arrangement for the automatic feeding of the melting
pot; an improved composing machine in which all the parts are easily
accessible, and which furnishes a band on which each letter is printed
below its corresponding perforation; and finally a change in the cast-
ing machine permitting the casting to commence with the first letter
written, thus making the combination of the two machines possible.

The latest improvement is valuable in the composition of news-
papers. A considerable loss of time is avoided, as it is no longer
necessary to have all the lines of an article cast before putting it in
page form. The casting machine only has to wait for the perfora-
tion of a single line before engaging the band; then it deciphers the
Justification perforations to regulate the spaces, and casts the line
following the band letter by letter as fast as it 1s produced.

Plate III represents the 1907 model of the electrotypograph. We
see in “a” a portion of the band corresponding to a line, attached
in the casting machine so as to allow the combination of the two
machines. The composition may thus commence with the first per-
forated letter.

The electrotypograph has the following advantages over previous
composing machines:

1. The movable characters facilitate the corrections indicated by
the reading of the copy sheet furnished by the composing machine.

2. The matrices have a deep face, and thus give a clearer impres-
sion. They are few in number, making it possible to replace them
at small cost. Thorough tests have demonstrated that the machine
composes in 5-point type with the same clearness as with the largest
characters. ,

3. The division of the apparatus into two machines makes the
learning of its operation easier, and permits a more general use of
it, since even small printing offices can purchase the composing ma-
chine at a slight cost and send the perforated bands to shops possess-
ing casting machines. The perforated band thus takes the place
of the stereotype plate, but is less cumbersome, entails no idle capital,
and can be passed about one hundred times through the casting ma-
chine. During the slack season and at other times when not in use,
the casting machine may be employed to manufacture type.

But there is still more to be said. An apparatus analogous to the
Baudot telegraph called the teletypograph has been designed which
makes possible the telegraphic transmission of the band perforated
by the electrotypograph. A single band produced by the writing
“HdDVYDOdALOYLOANIA SHL SO TSGOW ZO61 SHL

f Tif

ra
if {4

'
a
t

teak (0) wa ee
“Th] 3A4LVId *uredin |—"/96| ‘Hodey ueiuosyyiWg
MECHANICAL COMPOSITION IN PRINTING—TURPAIN. 129

‘machine can be reproduced at a distance by telegraphy, giving an
exact reproduction, which can be placed on the casting machine and
will furnish immediately the composed and justified text ready to be
put on the press. In this way a newspaper article sent from Paris
in this form can be reproduced ready to be printed in various dis-
tant cities, and it is possible for large newspapers to have country
editions without increase in expense and without delay, a great step
forward in journalism.

Finally, on account of its mathematically perfect justification and
its ease of correction, the electrotypograph stands forth as an
apparatus suitable for every sort of delicate work.
MOY,

SOME FACTS AND PROBLEMS BEARING ON ELECTRIC
TRUNK-LINE OPERATION.

By FRANK J. SPRAGUE.

One of the foremost railroad men of this country, in discussing the
needs of the present railway system a few months ago, said:

The only relief which can be obtained through economies of physical opera-
tion must come through the outlay of enormous amounts of money such as
would be involved in a general! electrification or a change in gauge.

At the April meeting of the Buffalo Chamber of Commerce another
eminent railroad official said:

If the development and expansion of the nation is to go on, if the progress
made during the last ten years may be accepted as in any respect a measure
of progress to be made during the coming decade, almost as much money will
have to be expended in increasing the facilities of existing railroads, and in
building additional railroads, as has been expended during the eighty years
since the beginning of the construction of railroads in the United States.

These opinions are confirmed by still another prominent capitalist,
who some time ago startled the investing world by his estimate of
a billion dollar annual expenditure for American railroads, now
actually shown by detailed estimates.

But it is especially to be noted that the keynote of the prophecies
of the future is more specifically sounded in the word capacity, not
only such as is possible and individual to electric application, but
also such as is common to the larger developments of railroads, how-
ever operated.

How much has been actually spent in steam railroad development
it is impossible to say, but that it is a stupendous amount, giving
some suggestion of future capital demands, is evidenced by the

fact that the total of the outstanding stock, bonds, and other obliga-
it 1s impossible to say, but that it 1s a stupendous amount, giving

some suggestion of future capital demands, is evidenced by the

fact that the total of the outstanding stock, bonds, and other obliga-
it 1s impossible to say, but that it 1s a stupendous amount, giving

some suggestion of future capital demands, is evidenced by the

fact that the total of the outstanding stock, bonds, and other obliga-
it 1s impossible to say, but that it 1s a stupendous amount, giving

some suggestion of future capital demands, is evidenced by the

fact that the total of the outstanding stock, bonds, and other obliga-
it 1s impossible to say, but that it 1s a stupendous amount, giving
