The United States

National Museum

Annual Report for the Year Ended
June 30, 1955

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
Unirep Srates Nationat Museum,
Unver Direction OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, D. C., October 15, 1955.
Sirs: I have the honor to submit herewith a report upon the present
condition of the United States National Museum and upon the work
accomplished in its various departments during the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1955.
Very respectfully,
Remineron KeEiwoee,
Director, U.S. National Museum.
Dr. Leonarp CARMICHAEL,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

II
June 30, 1955
Scientific Staff

Director: Remington Kellogg

J. E. Anglim, exhibits specialist; T. G. Baker, Don H. Berkebile, R. O. Hower,
Benjamin Lawless, W. T. Marinetti, Edward W. Normandin, Jr., M. M. Pearson,
George Stuart, exhibits workers

Department of Anthropology: Frank M. Setzler, head curator
A. J. Andrews, exhibits preparator

ARCHEOLOGY: Waldo R. Wedel, curator | PHysicaL ANTHROPOLOGY: ‘T. Dale
Clifford Evans, Jr., associate curator Stewart, curator
G. S. Metcalf, museum aide M. T. Newman, associate curator

Erunotocy: H. W. Kreiger, curator
J. C. Ewers, associate curator
C. M. Watkins, associate curator
R. A. Elder, Jr., assistant curator

Department of Zoology: Waldo L. Schmitt, head curator

W. L. Brown, chief exhibits preparator ; C. R. Aschemeier, W. M. Perrygo, HE. G.
Laybourne, C. 8. East, J. D. Biggs, exhibits preparators; Mrs. Aime M. Awl,
scientific illustrator

MAMMAtLS: Insects: J. F. Gates Clarke, curator
D. H. Johnson, acting curator O. L. Cartwright, associate curator
H. W. Setzer, associate curator W. D. Field, associate curator
Charles O. Handley, Jr., associate Grace HE. Glance, associate curator

curator Sophy Parfin, junior entomologist
J. W. Paradiso, museum aide MARINE INVERTEBRATES: I, A. Chace,

Birps: Herbert Friedmann, curator Jr., curator
H. G. Deignan, associate curator Frederick M. Bayer, associate cu-
G. M. Bond, museum aide rator

REPTILES AND AMPHIBIANS: T. E. Bowman, associate curator

Doris M. Cochran, associate curator Mrs. L. W. Peterson, museum aide
FisHEes: Leonard P. Schultz, curator | Mottusks: Harald A. Rehder, curator
EH. A. Lachner, associate curator Joseph P. BH. Morrison, associate cu-
Robert H. Kanazawa, museum aide rator
W. J. Byas, museum aide

Department of Botany: Jason R. Swallen, head curator

PHANEROGAMS: A. C. Smith, curator GRASSES :

Lyman B. Smith, associate curator Ernest R. Sohns, associate curator
BH. C. Leonard, associate curator CRYPTOGAMS: C. V. Morton, acting cu-
BE. H. Walker, associate curator rator

Velva H. Rudd, associate curator Paul S. Conger, associate curator

FERNS: C. V. Morton, curator

iil
U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1955

Department of Geology: W. F. Foshag, head curator

J. H. Benn, museum geologist; L. B. Isham, scientific illustrator

MINERALOGY AND PETROLOGY: W. F.| VERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY: C. L. Gazin,

Foshag, acting curator
E. P. Henderson, associate curator
G. S. Switzer, associate curator
¥. E. Holden, physical science aide

curator
D. H. Dunkle, associate curator
F. L. Pearce, exhibits worker
G. D. Guadagni, exhibits worker
F. QO. Griffith, m1, exhibits worker

INVERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY AND PALEO-
BOTANY: Gustav A. Cooper, curator
A. R. Loeblich, Jr., associate curator
David Nicol, associate curator
R. J. Main, Jr., museum aide
Vv. M. Gabbert, museum aide

Department of Engineering and Industries: Frank A. Taylor,
head curator

ENGINEERING: R. P. Multhauf, curator;
in charge of Sections of Civil and
Mechanical Engineering, and Phys-
ical Sciences and Measurements,
and Tools

K. M. Perry, associate curator, Sec-
tions of Electricity and Marine
Transportation

S. H. Oliver, associate curator, Sec-
tions of Land Transportation and
Horology

William E. Bridges, museum aide

MEDICINE AND PuBLIC HEALTH:

George B. Griffenhagen, associate
curator

Alvin E. Goins, museum aide

CRAFTS AND INDUSTRIES: W. N. Watkins,
curator; in charge of Section of
Wood Technology

Edward C. Kendall, associate curator,
Sections of Manufactures and Agri-
cultural Industries

Grace L. Rogers, assistant curator,
Section of Textiles

BH. A. Avery, museum aide

GRAPHIC ARTS: J. Kainen, curator

A. J. Wedderburn, Jr., associate cu-
rator; Section of Photography

J. Harry Phillips, Jr., museum aide

Department of History: Mendel L. Peterson, acting head curator

MILITARY AND NAVAL HISTORY:
Mendel L. Peterson, curator
J. Russell Sirlouis, assistant curator
Craddock R. Goins, Jr., junior his-
torian
NUMISMATIOCS:
S. M. Mosher, associate curator

CIVIL HIstorY :
Margaret W. Brown, associate cura-
tor
F. E. Klapthor, museum aide
PHILATELY:
Franklin R. Bruns, Jr., associate cu-
rator
Honorary Scientific Staff

Smithsonian fellows, collaborators, associates, custodians of collections,
and honorary curators

Anthropology
Mrs. Arthur M. Greenwood, Anthro-| Betty J. Meggers, Archeology

pology
Neil M. Judd, Anthropology

W. W. Taylor, Jr., Anthropology
W. J. Tobin, Physical Anthropology

Zoology

Paul Bartsch, Mollusks

A. G. Boéving, Zoology

L. L. Buchanan, Coleoptera

M. A. Carriker, Insects

R. S. Clark, Zoology

Robert A. Cushman, Hymenoptera
Max M. Ellis, Marine Invertebrates
D. C. Graham, Biology

Charles T. Greene, Diptera

A. Brazier Howell, Mammals

W. L. Jellison, Insects

W. M. Mann, Hymenoptera

W. B. Marshall, Zoology

Gerrit S. Miller, Jr., Mammals

J. Percy Moore, Marine Invertebrates

Cc. F. W. Muesebeck, Insects

Theodore S. Palmer, Zoology

Benjamin Schwartz, Helminthology

Mrs. Harriet Richardson Searle, Marine
Invertebrates

C. R. Shoemaker, Zoology

R. HE. Snodgrass, Insects

Alexander Wetmore, Birds

Mrs. Mildred Stratton Wilson, Copepod
Crustacea

Botany

Agnes Chase, Grasses
BH. P. Killip, Phanerogams

F. A. McClure, Grasses
John A. Stevenson, Fungi

Geology

R. 8. Bassler, Paleontology

Roland W. Brown, Paleobotany

Preston Cloud, Invertebrate Paleon-
tology

Frank L. Hess, Mineralogy and Pe-
trology

J. Brookes Knight, Invertebrate Pale-
ontology

Helen N. Loeblich, Invertebrate Paleon-
tology

S. H. Perry, Mineralogy

J. B. Reeside, Jr., Invertebrate Palecn-
tology

W. T. Schaller, Mineralogy

Engineering and Industries

F. L. Lewton, Crafts and Industries
Annual Report of

the Director

United States National Museum
Contents

Page

LENDR ODU CLIO Ne es esi eh SE OU ois Sets tose NTL tay Sele) Nee Dial els ces Solve! eleller sean ue 1
JESSE PG eee te eat hay ree tnees: coat nes cota venir inant) oro oa AALS 2
ACCESSIONS ... ge ea rome ial Ney ae CL SR tans agile Se aea hen, aan eleer rly 9
CARE OF Conmemone! Ar toda ae ia le lsaline SRS ln Rainy romp ariel A hal bee Alla 18
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH. ........ 2s se © «© «© ws » « 26
AVAEHEOPOLO Gynt, we Mons euen Wouter ire isk Sle) toe octal tol le ey iyee Va Vous! lie leveio dts 26
PHOONG RF ae Ca aa AT TR RE ee Ne aor are aan ee ARR taT eNO tae OES 29
ES OUATIV Ae Rusty ecahicnee amelie MONEE pil mm LEAN tire les Mth NS es Heh wb 33
Geology. .... Alte op Atcaoe eR ere EOL MCRAE CN DSR REL TEN ts 37
Engineering and Nerdetricgs Splitter tate Sl feet a ane UME ae Re a a Areas 4]
PAISCORYM ere My ante eat ero Toho tet ah new has! i Sul on Cslbeicie dbep te SRAM a is 44
PUBLICATIONS ... SP chi ens Brag i il lriaachn Wen ad Cawlit 45
DONORS TO THE NICE ON An om meranae TR Oecd AI eo ec ea ALPE TE NI 54
aS ah res m Heomnch a4 mai |
cee Oy aon et
Introduction

On June 8, 1955, during the first session of the 84th Congress, the
House of Representatives on the recommendation of the Committee
on Public Works passed a bill (H. R. 6410) authorizing the construc-
tion of a building for a Museum of History and Technology for the
Smithsonian Institution at a cost not to exceed $36,000,000, including
the preparation of plans and specifications, and all other work inci-
dental thereto. Following a favorable report by the Committee on
Public Works of the Senate of the United States, the same bill passed
the Senate by unanimous consent on June 17, 1955. The President of
the United States on June 28, 1955, approved the Act of Congress
(Public Law 106) which authorizes and directs the Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution to plan and construct this museum building.
In this building will be housed the collections now displayed in the
Arts and Industries building of the United States National Museum.

Funds Allotted

From the funds appropriated by Congress to carry on the opera-
tions of the Smithsonian Institution and its bureaus during the fiscal
year 1955, the sum of $1,136,016 was allotted to the United States
National Museum for the preservation, increase, and study of the
national collections of anthropological, zoological, botanical, and
geological collections, as well as materials illustrative of engineering,
industry, graphic arts and history (this amount includes sums ex-
pended for the program of exhibits modernization).
Exhibits

The program of modernizing exhibits, initiated during the pre-
ceding year, was continued in 1955 by a Congressional allotment of
$360,000. Contracts were awarded and work commenced on the
North American mammal and the bird halls and construction was
started on the cultural history (the colonial tradition in America) |
and the power machinery halls.

Anthropology

On the evening of June 2, 1955, President William M. Milliken of
the American Association of Museums and Secretary Leonard Car-
michael of the Smithsonian Institution formally opened to the public
the newly modernized American Indian hall in a ceremony scheduled
as part of the program of the 50th anniversary meeting of the Asso-
ciation. The ethnographic displays in this hall range geographi-
cally from Tierra del Fuego, at the southern tip of South America,
through Latin America, to southwestern United States and Cali-
fornia. The life-size groups in the displays portray various aspects
of the ways of life of these historic Indian cultures and are a legacy
from the past, having been designed by the talented artist and former
head curator of anthropology, Dr. William H. Holmes. Some were
exhibited at the World’s Columbian Exposition in Chicago, in 1893.
Five miniature dioramas supplement these life-size family groups, and
portray (1) the Indians who met Columbus; (2) life in a Yosemite
Indian village in the fall of the year, when acorns are being collected ;
(3) a sacred ceremony in the antelope kiva of the Hopi Indians;
(4) terrace farming among the Inca; and (5) a camp scene among
the Yahgan Indians, the southernmost people in the world. Wall
cases illustrate the basic economy of each culture in terms of food,
clothing, shelter, and handicrafts.

A selection of the 53 displays that comprise this hall are illustrated
on the pages that follow. These displays were the product of close
cooperation between Associate Curator of Ethnology John C. Ewers,
who planned the hall and suggested the case layouts, and the group
of artists who designed and installed the exhibits under the creative
direction of Exhibits Specialist John E. Anglim. Working with Mr.
Anglim were T. G. Baker, R. O. Hower, W. T. Marinetti, E. H. Nor-
mandin, Jr., and M. M. Pearson. Three of the dioramas were fash-
ioned by Exhibits Preparator A. Joseph Andrews and two others

9
Wild seeds, principally acorns, were an important food resource which
the Hupa women collected and processed. Men hunted and fished.

CALIFORNIA

Pomo women of northwestern
California were noted for making
some of the world’s most finely
woven baskets.

Clamshell beads and dentalia,
another shell, took the place of
money in trade among the tribes
of California Indians.

Carefully painted dolls
help the children recog-
nize and name the hun-
dreds of supernatural
spirits, or kachinas, re-
vered by their tribe.

Around a sand-painting altar in an underground
ceremonial chamber, or kiva, members of the Snake

and Antelope Societies perform traditional Hopi PUEBLO

religious rites. (This is a diorama.)

Many changes in style have
occurred during the Pueblo’s more
than 1500 years of pottery-
making. These examples are from
the late 19th century.

EEA

Corn THE GIFT OF THE GODS
BASIC FOOD OF THE PUEBLOS-

Corn, the most important food of
the Pueblo tribes, was cultivated
with very simple wooden tools—
the hoe, rake, and planting stick.
j2UNI PUEBLO POTTERY MAKING

|_MARY OF THE puro

ae SERVING BOWLS. _

SHE MADE THEM HERSELF aN was
FRO OF T
) BEAUTY ano utiury, Shes

_A Zuni woman,
‘a brush of yucca
‘paints designs on her

|pottery with great skill.
|

In their famous snake dance,
societies ask the rattlesnake spirits to aid them in ob-
| taining rain for their crops.

members of the religious

INTERIOR OF -—
HOP! APARTMENT

In the Hopi 1-room efficiency apartment
the corn-grinding bins and corner fire-
place are built in. The family eats and
sleeps on the floor.
APACHE AND NAVAHO

: oe ose peer

Navaho craftsmen scarcely 100 years
ago learned from the Mexicans how
to work metal. Today they make
beautiful silver ornaments for sale
and for their own use.

The Cocopa gained a liveli-
hood in the deserts of
Mexico along the lower Col-
orado River by growing crops
in the irrigated river bottoms,
hunting small game, and
fishing.

In their preference for buckskin cloth-
ing, the Apache resembled neighbor-
ing tribes of the Great Plains.

The Apache traditionally wove
coiled baskets and also painted and
beaded articles of buckskin. Their
crafts were like those of the South-
western and Plains Indians.
In the Mexican-border region the
desert-dwelling Pima were skilled
potters, basketmakers, and weavers
of cotton blankets and belts. The
cotton they grew in irrigated fields.

DESERT DWELLERS

IN THE SOUTHPESTERN DESERT,

WHERE TEMPERATURES OF MORE
THAN \D0 WEAE COMMON, LITTLE
CLOTHING WAS NECOrD. ;

WORE OMY ASHIRT MEK

A LON CLOTH ;
FACE AND BOOY PAINTING WERE

= coMMON

The pelican-skin garment of the Seri
from Baja California and the cere-
monial body painting of the Mohave
from the Lower Colorado illustrate the
clothing habits of the desert dwellers.
HIGH CULTURES OF CENTRAL AND SOUTH AMERICA
SOME FOLK COSTUMES OF INDIANS IN GUATEMALA

‘Sena
PRACT e CONE GANTT

%
descendants of the Maya,

In highland Guatemala, where live

the folk costumes of each village are both colorful and distinctive.

More than 2 miles above sea level, in the neighborhood of Lake
Titicaca, the ingenious and sturdy Aymara raise potatoes, the
staple food of the Andean highlands.

Basketry fans from modern Mexico
illustrate variation in local styles. In
design, these fans, which are popular
gifts, are remarkably similar to those of
fans appearing on ancient Maya paint-
ings.

CIRCUM-CARIBBEAN AND SOUTH AMERICAN RAIN FOREST

The warlike Jivaro are Selected objects and photographic color transparencies
clever hunters with the interpret the basic economy, traditional manufactures,
blow gun, which they and social life of the Carib and Arawak tribes in the
use solely to kill game. jungles and savannas of the Guianas.

They are skilled crafts-
men in feathers, weav-

ing, and pottery.
A shrunken head, war

trophy of the Jivaro,
is contrasted with the
outline of a life-sized

head.

A diorama recreates in realistic miniature the
moment when the Lucayan Indians of the
Bahamas in 1492 discovered Columbus’ ships
on the horizon.

PD IBN

SOUTHERN SOUTH AMERICA

“INDIANS OF THE LAND OF FIRE

TERRA DEL FUEGO
MANY FIRES BURNED BY NATIVES OF
DAMP REGIONE.

The tribes of Tierra del Fuego are the southernmost people of the world.
Contrasted here are the customs of the Yahgan canoemen, who wore few
clothes and sought their food by the sea, and the Ona footmen, who
hunted the swift-footed Ilama-like guanaco, their principal source of
food, clothing, and shelter.

The horse, introduced by the Spanish, enabled the bola-using Tehuelche
to become more effective nomadic hunters on the grasslands of
Axvrgentina.

EXHIBITS 3

were prepared in the Museum Laboratory of the National Park
Service from Mr. Ewers’ specifications.

After many months of planning by Associate Curator C. Malcolm
Watkins and Chief Exhibits Preparator John E. Anglim, and with
the cooperation of Public Buildings Service, construction was begun
in Hall 26 on exhibits depicting colonial life in North America. In
a series of 50 case exhibits and 6 period rooms household furnishings
as well as useful and decorative arts will be displayed to illustrate
domestic customs from the earliest settlements along the Atlantic
Coast to about 1830. Two of the latter will be ground floor rooms
of the complete 2-story 17th-century house from Everett, Mass., the
gift of Dr. and Mrs. Arthur M. Greenwood of Marlboro, Mass.

An instructive exhibit, “Folk Pottery of Early New England,” was
installed in an alcove of the ground floor foyer of the Natural History
Building by Mr. Watkins and the exhibits preparators. The redware
and stoneware there displayed were selected from the gift collection
of Mrs. Lura Woodside Watkins.

The drama of the buffalo-hunting Plains Indian, the warfare he
waged in defense of his way of life, and the coming of the frontier—
these historical incidents provided themes for special exhibitions in
which the U. S. National Museum participated. Paintings and
drawings of Indian subjects made by such early 19th century Ameri-
can artists as George Catlin, John Mix Stanley, Charles Bird King,
H. Stieffel, and Gustavus Sohon, were lent to various museums and
galleries throughout the United States.

Owing to its unique character and outstanding interest a figurine
of wood, basketry, and cloth from the central coast of Peru, dated
about A. D. 1100, was installed in a special case at the south end of
the hall, “Highlights of Latin American Archeology.”

During June 1955, a display of casts illustrating skeletal age changes
in young American males was installed among the semipublic exhibits
maintained in the third-floor corridors of the Natural History Build-
ing. A temporary exhibit, “The Sickle Cell Disease in Man,” de-
veloped by Associate Curator Marshall T. Newman in collaboration
with the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology, was shown at the
annual meeting of the National Academy of Sciences on April 25,
1955.

Zoology

During the year the exhibits staff of the department of zoology
completed the installation of the puma, Alaska wolf, pronghorn
antelope, and Virginia deer in the recently constructed habitat units.
For the bison group in this North American mammal hall, the Fish
and Wildlife Service provided three animals from the National Bison
Range. Chief Exhibits Preparator W. L. Brown made a trip to

359492—55——__2
4 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1955

Amidon and Bismarck, N. Dak., and to the Bison Range at Moiese,
Mont., for habitat photographs, background accessories, and related
materials.

In the bird hall work was completed on all construction. Also
completed was one habitat group, depicting the bird life of the Ant-
arctic, in which five emperor and three Adelie penguins, a skua, a
kelp gull, and a snow petrel are shown. The paintings on the back-
grounds of display units for the hoatzin, Carolina parakeet, bower
bird, honey-guide, and palm chat were essentially finished at the
close of the fiscal year. The paintings of flying birds for the ceiling
of this hall were completed and the installation of some exhibits was
commenced.

Notable among a special series of small exhibits of insects placed
on display in the foyer of the Natural History Building was an
exhibit of Morpho butterflies showing sexual dimorphism and the
contrast between physical and chemical coloration.

Geology

Planning for the medernization of the geological exhibits has been
resumed. ‘The general plans and layouts of the halls for minerals,
invertebrate fossils, and the lower vertebrate fossils have been deter-
mined. Associate Curator David H. Dunkle and Exhibits Worker
G. Donald Guadagni were in the field during the last five weeks of the
fiscal year searching the Cretaceous chalk beds of Kansas for fossil
fish needed to complete the exhibition series. Curator G. A. Cooper
of the division of invertebrate paleontology and paleobotany visited
the University of Michigan and the Chicago Museum of Natural
History for consultations regarding installation of proposed restora-
tions of fossil life in the hall of fossil invertebrates. Preparation of
the giant ground sloth material from Panama has been completed
and two skeletons have been assembled for mounting and installation
in the exhibition hall.

Engineering and Industries

The detailed planning of the power machinery hall was completed
during the year, the plans and specifications were reviewed, and the
preparation of exhibits for installation was in progress. The ex-
hibits in this hall illustrate the development of power machinery by
means of original machines, models, and graphic devices. Several
new models of pioneer power machines were constructed by Donald
H. Berkebile, modelmaker, in the exhibits workshop. The actual
construction of this hall will start shortly after the close of this fiscal
year. Both the hall of horse-drawn and locomotive transportation,
which was painted under the buildings renovation program, and the
EXHIBITS 5

boat hall have been greatly improved by the installation of fluorescent
lighting. In order to improve the display of instruments in the me-
trology section, all but the more significant have been put in storage.
New exhibits on the development of the balance and the early instru-
ments of astronomy and surveying are now complete.

Tn the hall of textiles eight new exhibits were installed and four
were renovated. A noteworthy new one traces asbestos from early
superstitious use to modern times, and another, “American Cotton
Before Columbus,” features important early Peruvian fabrics. An
exhibit on hand spinning, one on machine spinning, and four on the
development of the loom through fly-shuttle weaving were completed.

Tn the section of manufactures an addition was made to the Fessen-
den exhibit of plant and insect specimens preserved in plastic. The
tire exhibit and opposite cases were repainted to harmonize with the
recently painted south hall, and the appearance of the south hall gal-
lery was further improved by a rearrangement of cases, the repainting
of two wall cases, and the renovation of the sealskin exhibit. A new
exhibit of patent models of harrows, arranged against a large photo-
mural background of a harrow in use, was installed. The planter
exhibit was moved to a lighted case, enlarged, and relabeled.

An outline of the plans for the hall of health was circulated to pro-
fessionally interested individuals and institutions for comment. The
theme of this hall will be man’s knowledge of his body then and now, a
comparison of old and present ideas and knowledge of the human
body.

Exhibits designed and constructed in the division of medicine and
public health during the past year include an introductory exhibit,
pointing out the highlights of the gallery of medical history, and
presenting a brief historical orientation to medical science; “A Tele-
gram From Your Heart,” showing the historical evolution of the
electrocardiograph, and featuring Dr. Frank Wilson’s original electro-
cardiograph; an 1875 dental office containing the significant office
equipment of Dr. G. V. Black, pioneer in dental education; “Hearing
Aids, from Cupped Hand to Transistor,” tracing the development of
the hearing aid; “Mortar and Pestle, Symbol of Pharmacy,” showing
the chronological development of the mortar and pestle from the stone
mortar to the Wedgwood mortar; “The Pharmaceutical Balance,”
tracing the evolution of the balances used in pharmacy; “Percolation,”
describing the historical devolpment of this important pharmaceutical
process; “Compressed Tablets vs. Handmade Pills,” tracing the evolu-
tion of the pill machine and the tablet press; “Milestones in Cardi-
ology,” a portrait exhibit of pioneers of cardiology; “Sculpture Por-
traits of Medical Greats,” featuring ten plaques by sculptress Doris
Appel; “Suppository Mold: Past and Present,” an exhibit showing
6 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1955

the evolution of the suppository mold from paper cone to compression
mold; an exhibit featuring the William R. Warner original pill-
coating pan and pitcher, used for sugar-coating pills; an exhibit
featuring the original Scherer gelatin capsulating machine; “Pre-
scriptions Around the World,” a collection of medical prescriptions
from the far corners of the globe; and an exhibit of apothecary show
globes of the late 19th century.

Exhibits prepared by donors, with the guidance of the associate
curator of the division, and installed in the division of medicine and
public health during the past year, include “The Dodrill-GMR
Mechanical Heart,” presented by General Motors Research Labora-
tories; “Allergies,” featuring an animated step-by-step demonstration
of typical allergic reactions, presented by Ciba Pharmaceutical Prod-
ucts, Inc.; “Binding up a Wound,” an exhibit presented by Johnson
and Johnson to show the evolution of surgical dressings and featuring
a Peruvian skull, some 1,500 years old, on which ancient cotton gauze
is held in place by several strands of strong llama-hair cord; “Take
Away That Bitter Taste,” tracing the evolution of flavoring medicines,
presented by Dodge and Olcott, Inc.; “Your Height and Weight,”
contributed by the American Medical Association; “The Story of the
Ampoule,” presented by Parke, Davis Company; and “The Evolution
of Medical Illustrating,” contrasting early anatomical illustrations
and present day medical illustrations, lent by artist Paul Peck of
Sudler and Hennessey, Inc. In addition Eli Lilly completely refur-
bished their exhibit, “Insulin and Diabetes.”

In cooperation with the American Institute of the History of Phar-
macy, the division of medicine and public health sponsored a pictorial
exhibit tracing the evolution of the drug store at the 75th anniversary
meeting of the Wisconsin Pharmaceutical Association, in Madison,
Wise.

Jacob Kainen, curator of the division of graphic arts, and J. Harry
Phillips, Jr., museum aide, began a complete revision of the exhibits
dealing with the techniques of picture printing. The photogravure
and rotogravure sections have been completed and the section on the
halftone relief process is partially completed. Lighting has been
installed in the hall for the first time.

In the section of photography material was gathered for exhibits
relating to the history of stereophotography and to early motion pic-
ture devices. <A series of new exhibits in the northwest gallery relat-
ing to the development of the camera shutter, the camera lens, artificial
light and instantaneous photography, and the applications of photog-
raphy to everyday life, to science and industry, to welfare, and to
education are in the planning stage.
EXHIBITS

SPECIAL EXHIBITS—DIVISION OF GRAPHIC ARTS

Lesser known French
etchers of the 19th

GRAPHIC ARTS

Prints from the perma-
nent collection

1954
June 21—Sept. 6

century
Jacob Pins Block prints from the Sept. 7—Oct. 3
permanent print col-
lection
Paul Heinrich Ebell 25 woodcuts Oct. 4—Oct. 31
The Yoshida Family 60 block prints Noy. 1—Nov. 28
1955
Victor Delhez 26 wood engravings Nov. 29—Jan. 2
Persis Robertson 33 lithographs Jan. 3—Jan. 30

Arthur W. Heintzelman
John Laurent
Lino S. Lipinsky

32 etchings
22 prints
29 etchings

Jan. 31—Mar. 27
Mar. 28-May 29
May 31-July 24

PHOTOGRAPHY
1954
National Print Collec- 50 pictorial photographs July—Aug.
tion
Robert V. George 45 pictorial photographs  Sept.—Oct.
National Photographic 46 pictorial photographs Nov.—Dec.
Society (Annual and 101 color trans-
Salon) parencies
1955
Wellington Lee 40 pictorial photographs Jan.—Feb.
Charles E. Emery 53 pictorial photographs Mar.—Apr.
Eighth Annual Exhibi- 46 pictorial photographs May
tion of Marine Photog-
raphy
American Society of 51 pictorial photographs June

Photographie Art

History

The First Ladies hall was formally opened on May 24, 1955, with
the President of the United States and Mrs. Eisenhower participating
in the dedication. The eight large display units in this hall, designed
to represent different rooms in the White House from its earliest
period to the present time, contain architectural details received
from the White House during its recent reconstruction. They afford
the visitor an opportunity to view the dresses in surroundings similar
to those in which they were originally worn. Each room contains
from three to six dresses representing a time span of about 20 years.
The changing styles in White House decoration shown in these rooms
are based on available pictorial evidence and written descriptions.
§ U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1955

An exhibit illustrating the history of the United States Marine
Corps was dedicated on August 10, 1954, in a section of the hall of
naval history by Secretary Carmichael and General Lemuel C. Shep-
herd, Commandant of the Marine Corps. In it the historical develop-
ment of this organization is traced by means of a series of uniforms,
swords, and miscellaneous items owned by notable officers and enlisted
men.

A special exhibition, “History under the Sea,” was displayed in the
foyer of the Natural History Building from July 20 to August 20,
1954, and subsequently for about three months in the rotunda of the
Arts and Industries Building.

Seventy-six double frames in the philatelic exhibit cases were
used to display an exceptionally complete series of United States
revenue stamps transferred from the Internal Revenue Service. Com-
missioner of Internal Revenue T. Coleman Andrews made the presen-
tation to Secretary Carmichael on October 12, 1954.
1789-1817 (left to right): Dorothea ‘Dolley’? Payne Todd Madison,
Martha Jefferson Randolph (daughter of Thomas Jefferson), Martha
Dandridge Custis Washington, Abigail Smith Adams.

eas RAE a

Monroe Gouverneur (daughter of James Monroe), Louisa Catherine Adams.

1829-1849 (left to right): Sarah Yorke Jackson (Mrs. Andrew Jack-
son, Jr.), Emily Donelson (niece of Andrew Jackson), Angelica Singleton
Van Buren (daughter-in-law of Martin Van Buren), Jane Irwin Findlay
(William Henry Harrison Administration), Julia Gardiner Tyler, Sarah
Childress Polk.

Abigail Powers Fillmore, Jane Appleton Pierce, Harriet Lane (niece of
James Buchanan), Mary Todd Lincoln, Martha Johnson Patterson (daugh-
ter of Andrew Johnson).
Ce
prelim

eee Give

nr ei po> AGidom on

a

1869-1893 (left to right): Mary Harrison McKee (daughter of Benjamin
Harrison), Caroline Scott Harrison, Mary Arthur McElroy (sister of Chester
Arthur), Lucretia Rudolph Garfield, Lucy Webb Hayes, Julia Dent Grant.

‘ 2 ° r = —

1893-1921 (left to right): Edith Bolling Wilson, Ellen Axson Wilson,
Helen Herron Taft, Edith Kermit Roosevelt, Ida Saxton McKinley, Frances
Folsom Cleveland.
1921-1933 (left to right): Lou Henry Hoover, Florence Kling Harding,
Grace Goodhue Coolidge.

1933- (left to right): Mamie Doud Eisenhower, Anna Eleanor Roosevelt,

Bess Wallace Truman.
the accompanying tabulation.

the past year.

Acecessions

During the Fiscal Year 1955

During the year 7,596,646 specimens were added to the national
collections and distributed among the six departments as shown on
This total includes several million
minute fossils known as Foraminifera collected in Europe during
The other accessions for the most part were received
as gifts from individuals or as transfers from Government depart-
ments and agencies, and the most important of these are summarized
below. A full list of the donors is to be found on page 54.

SPECIMENS IN THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

JUNE 30, 1955

DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY .
Archeology .
Ethnology
Ceramics . } P
Musical inetnaments ji
Period art and textiles .
Physical Anthropology
DEPARTMENT OF BorTany .
Phanerogams .
Grasses .
Ferns
Cryptogams .
DEPARTMENT OF TSNeER NTIS AND ihe
DUSTRIES i
Crafts and THdestnionl!
Engineering .
Graphic? Artsy jar. .<
Medicine and Public Heath
DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY .
Mineralogy and Petrology. .
Invertebrate Paleontology and Paleo-
botany .
Vertebrate Baleoutalary
DEPARTMENT OF HistToRY .
Civil History .
Military History .
Naval History .
Numismatics
Philately .

576, 763
187, 749
10, 048
2, 453
8, 123
37, 244

1, 750, 249
356, 640
210, 627
357, 926

66, 676
33, 432
46, 108
22, 566

265, 879
11, 994, 837
40, 305

38, 332

29, 537

4, 687

63, 507
717, 324

822, 380

2, 675, 442

168, 782

12, 301, 021

853, 387
10 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1955

DEPARTMENT OF ZOOLOGY. ........... 26, 043, 633
Mammals) \., Seaver. fen” were, 272, 108
BRAS is Ga. yao hes OH. 484, 869
Reptilesynts o.oo eke ae ee 143, 746
SHISIN@S ess LOH ES SE pea deat lee eet 1, 557, 614
Tnsectsie lee ee ee 12, 537, 523
Marine Invertebrates. ...... 1, 313, 392
Mollusks it a2se Re ieee soe i ete es 9, 503, 063
Helminths. epee ones ee ea re 46, 408
Hehmodermsyioe sacach cea ee 184, 910

ToraL MusrtumM COLLECTIONS. ...... 42, 864, 645

Anthropology

A unique gift to the division of archeology was the figure of a
human, made from wood, cloth and basketry, recovered from a grave
along the central coast of Peri and dating from about A. D. 1100.
This unusual object was presented by Mrs. Virginia Morris Pollak
as a gift from the Arther Morris collection. A series of large archeo-
logical collections taken from excavation projects in various parts
of the Missouri Basin has been transferred to the Museum by the
River Basin Surveys. <A willow splint figure of a quadruped, prob-
ably prehistoric, from a cave in Grand Canyon, was presented by
Dr. J. D. Jennings, of the University of Utah.

The division of ethnology received from Ralph Solecki numerous
ethnological objects which he obtained, while conducting archeological
cal work in Iraq, from his native employees and their relatives among
the Shirwani Kurds of Kurdistan. Also accessioned were 28 items
of Afghan material culture, consisting of pottery, basketry, weavings
and quilted clothing, a Khyber knife, and Mohammedan cult objects,
collected in 1954 by the donor, Miss May Wilder, from villagers and
country folk in Afghanistan. Another gift was a well-documented
collection of 34 miscellaneous ethnographical specimens from the
Anuak, a Sudanese tribe living in the environs of the Akobo River,
collected by the donor, Miss Joan Yilek, prior to 1953 at Pokwo,
Ethiopia, while she was stationed there as a missionary. Most ex-
traordinary was the gift by Dr. and Mrs. Arthur M. Greenwood of
Marlboro, Mass., of an entire two-story, four-room house, built in
Kiverett, Mass., in 1678. The hand-hewn timbers of this early Ameri-
can home were dismantled and reassembled for future exhibition.
W. Dan Quattlebaum, Pasadena, Calif., presented two outstanding
examples of 18th-century glass, consisting of an engraved glass bowl
blown in 1789 at John Frederick Amelung’s New Bremen Glassworks
in Frederick County, Md., and a decanter of about 1795 bearing an
engraved American eagle.
- ACCESSIONS 11

The division of physical anthropology had an opportunity through
collaborative studies to restore a badly crushed human skull which
had been recovered by Dr. Fred Wendorf near Midland, Tex. This
skull was found associated with Folsom type projectile points. Dr.
T. Dale Stewart, curator of physical anthropology, who restored the
skull, arranged with Dr. F. J. McClure of the National Institute of
Dental Research to test the skull and associated Pleistocene animal
bones for the amount of fluorine. On the basis of these tests and the
excavation record, the age of this skull is considered to be around
12,000 years.

Zoology

The armed forces research teams operating in various parts of the
world continued to make major contributions to the mammal collec.
tions. Specimens of Korean mammals, including the Museum’s first
collection from Quelpart Island, were transferred through the Hemor-
rhagic Fever Commission from the Army Medical Service Graduate
School. A transfer from Naval Medical Research Unit No. 3 at
Cairo included about 350 specimens from Egypt and the Sudan. The
U.S. Army, through the 25th Preventive Medicine Survey Detach-
ment, transferred a collection of specimens obtained by Capt. Gordon
Field and C. M. Keenan in Panamé and the Canal Zone. Dr. Robert
K. Enders contributed three separate collections of small mammals
from Pakistan, the Island of Saipan in the Marianas, and Wyoming.
An especially fine collection of dog and wolf skulls was included
among specimens excavated from an aboriginal site on Southampton
Island by Dr. Henry B. Collins, Bureau of American Ethnology, on
the National Geographic Society-Smithsonian Institution-National
Museum of Canada Expedition.

Most noteworthy among the accessions recorded by the division
of birds was a gift of 1,255 bird skins from the “Benson Grubstakers”
(a group of young men living in Panama who are interested in natural
history) and the Panama Canal Natural History Society. A gift
from Maj. Gen. G. R. Meyer, U.S. Army, of 119 sets of eggs with full
data, largely from the Canal Zone, added important information to
that already available on the breeding dates of Panamanian birds.
A deposit made by the Smithsonian Institution comprised 959 skins,
54 skeletons, 2 alcoholics, and 1 set of eggs collected by Dr. A. Wetmore.
The National Geographic Society presented a small but geograph-
ically important collection of 131 birds obtained in French Equatorial
Africa by Walter. A. Weber.

A considerable number of valuable herpetological specimens were
accessioned as gifts: a type and 18 paratypes of a new species of frog
taken in Jamaica by Dr. W. Gardner Lynn; 119 reptiles and amphib-
iy U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1955

ians from Virginia, including a type and paratypes of a new species
of salamander, from Richard L. Hoffman; 8 reptiles from Puttur,
Chittoor District, Madras, India, including a genus and 8 species not
formerly contained in the Museum collection, presented by Rev. Erwin
Chell. A transfer from the Naval Medical Research Unit No. 3 at
Cairo yielded 390 Egyptian reptiles and amphibians.

The largest collection of fishes received during the year consisted
of 2,341 specimens from freshwater streams in the southeastern United
States collected for the Museum by Dr. Ernest Lachner and Frank
J. Schwartz. Another large gift was composed of 1,813 reef fishes
collected in the Gilbert Islands by the donor, John Randall. Addi-
tional gifts included the holotype of a new scorpaenid fish from the
eastern Pacific through John EK. Fitch; and the holotype of a new
Monocentris from Mas-a-Tierra Island from Dr. Edwyn P. Reed,
Valparaiso, Chile. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service transferred
to the Museum the most important Atlantic collection received in
several years, 983 fishes obtained by George C. Miller in Liberia.
Through exchanges with other institutions the Museum received 6
paratypes of cyprinids from México through Dr. José Alvarez, Es-
cuela Nacional de Ciencias Biologicas; the paratype of a frogfish,
from the Chicago Natural History Museum through Loren P. Woods;
and 3 paratypes of a Mexican catfish, from the Instituto Mexicano de
Recursos Naturales Renovables, through Dr. Jorge Caranza.

One of the most valuable acquisitions of insects received was the
W. M. Mann collection, consisting of 136,288 specimens, of which over
116,000 are ants. Approximately 700 types and hundreds of species
of ants from many areas in the world not previously represented in
Washington were included in this group. Among the important
transfers from the U. S. Department of Agriculture was the S. W.
Bromley collection of well over 35,000 specimens. This accession,
rich in material representative of the dipterous family Asilidae, places
the Museum high on the list among the institutions possessing ex-
tensive collections of these flies. Another transfer included 34,258
entomological specimens from the Department’s Laboratory of Forest
Insects, New Haven, Conn. Over 9,000 medically important “black-
flies” were received as a transfer from the U.S. Department of Health,
Education, and Welfare.

Two notable gifts greatly enhanced the collection of polychaete
worms maintained by the division of marine invertebrates; 3,645
specimens, mostly from New England, including 3 holotypes and 3
paratypes from Dr. Marian Pettibone, University of New Hampshire,
and more than 200 identified specimens from the Gold Coast, Africa,
received from the Rijksmuseum van Natuurlijke Historie, Leiden,
through Dr. L. B. Holthuis. Twelve lots of octocorals were received
ACCESSIONS 13

from His Imperial Majesty’s collections, Laboratory of the Imperial
Household, Tokyo, Japan. Other noteworthy gifts to the collections
were 7 remarkable fossil sea-pens presented by Mr. H. G. Kugler,
Pointe-a-Pierre, Trinidad, and 3 large balanoglossid worms from
Grand Isle, La., given by Dr. Harry J. Bennett, Louisiana State Uni-
versity. Three exchanges from Dr. Alejandro Villalobos F., Uni-
versidad Nacional A. de México, brought 54 isopod and decapod
crustaceans of which 34 were paratype specimens. Among the trans-
fers was one from the Fish and Wildlife Service, U. S. Department
of the Interior, which included more than 1,019 crustaceans and other
invertebrates collected in the Gulf of Mexico by the exploratory fish-
ing vessel Oregon under the direction of Stewart Springer.

The division of mollusks received types of seven new species of
nudibranch mollusks described and presented by J. M. Ostergaard.
From the Gulf of Mexico 34 specimens of gastropods, including the
types of 3 new species, were donated by Daniel Steger. As in the
past, Jeanne S. Schwengel gave many fine specimens to the Museum,
including a specimen of the rare cowrie Cypraea armeniaca from
South Australia. Of the year’s five accessions of helminths two are
worthy of special mention because they brought types of two new
species: Onchocotyle sommiosi, a trematode described by the donor,
Dr. David Causey, and Gigantobilharzia huttoni, presented by the
author, Dr. W. Henry Leigh.

The most important accession of corals is comprised of some 400
specimens from the Great Barrier Reef off Queensland, Australia,
collected and donated by Dr. John W. Wells, Cornell University.

Botany

Two significant collections were obtained for the Museum by staff
members: 2,850 specimens, largely grasses, in the States of San Luis
Potosi and Chiapas, México, collected by Dr. Ernest R. Sohns, and
3,445 specimens from Big Pine Key, Fla., and Isle of Pines, Cuba,
obtained by E. P. Killip, research associate.

Among the numerous collections received as gifts with names re-
quested, one is especially noteworthy, 588 plants from the Herbario
“Barbosa Rodriques,” Itajai, Santa Catarina, Brazil. The Ohio State
University presented 4,084 plants of Guatemala collected by W. A.
Kellerman many years ago, including numerous historically important
specimens. KE. C. Leonard of the department staff donated his
private herbarium consisting of approximately 9,300 specimens ac-
cumulated over a period of many years.

Transfers from other government agencies yielded several fine
collections : from the Agricultural Research Service, U. S. Department
of Agriculture, 983 specimens collected by Richard Evans Schultes in
14 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1955

Colombia; 5,066 specimens collected in India, Afghanistan, and Iran
by Walter Koelz; and a historic set of 575 central European crypto-
gams, the Kryptogamae Germaniae Exsiccatae; from the U. S. Geo-
logical Survey, 1,360 plants of Alaska with a request for identifica-
tions; and 1,105 plants of Micronesia collected by F. R. Fosberg. The
National Research Council through the Pacific Science Board trans-
ferred 532 plants of the Caroline Islands collected by S. F. Glassman.

Important exchanges included 2,009 plants of México, Central
America, and South America, from the Academy of Natural Sciences
of Philadelphia, collected by the late F. W. Pennell.

Geology

Outstanding gifts to the mineral collection are examples of the rare
minerals hurlburtite and bismutotantalite from Prof. E. Tavora; rare
iron and manganese phosphates from Finland from Dr. Mary Mrose;
of superb specimen of crystallized wolframite from Korea from C. S.
Whetzel; the rare uranium mineral kasolite, Hahn’s Peak, Colo., from
C. R. Reddington; and a combination of the rare minerals schallerite
and hedyphane, Franklin, N. J., from J. S. Albanese.

Included in the exhibition material added to the Roebling collection
were a group of large flawless axinite crystals of smoky lavender color
on actinolite from Madera County, Calif., a large benitoite crystal in
neptunite from San Benito County, Calif., and a bastnaesite crystal
from Madagascar weighing eleven pounds. A mass of native lead
weighing 80 pounds is one of the largest masses of this rare mineral
found at Langban, Sweden. A sharp dodecahedral crystal of grossu-
larite of an unusual pink color is one of the largest crystals of this
mineral known.

Among the outstanding exhibition specimens added to the Canfield
collection were a rich nodule of precious turquoise from the mines at
Villa Grove, Colo., a rare group of tourmaline crystals of bronze-
ereen color from Brazil, and a fine exhibition group of apophyllite
on prehnite from a newly discovered occurrence near Centreville, Va.

Gifts to the gem collection included a pink pearl from East Paki-
stan, presented by the former Prime Minister of Pakistan, Mohammed
Ali, and an outstanding collection of 33 cut tourmalines weighing 118
carats, from W. F. Ingram, selected to show the color range of this
gem stone. An uncommon specimen received for the ore collection
was the limb bone of a dinosaur partially replaced by uraninite, from
the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway Co. through T. O. Evans.

During the past year Dr. S. H. Perry donated 35 specimens of
meteorites. Among them was a stone of the Sylacauga fall, weighing
1,682 grams. Another individual of this fall became celebrated as the
first known case of a meteorite striking a person.
ACCESSIONS 15

The support of the Walcott fund again permitted staff members to
obtain important accessions in invertebrate paleontology and paleo-
botany. Specimens of Paleozoic invertebrates numbering 15,000
were collected by Dr. G. A. Cooper and Robert Main, and a very large
group of Mesozoic and Tertiary Foraminifera from the classic locali-
ties of Europe was obtained by Drs. A. R. Loeblich, Jr., and Helen
Tappan Loeblich.

Particular mention is made of the gift of 2,000 specimens of
Silurian and Devonian fossils from little known areas in New Bruns-
wick, Nova Scotia, and Quebec received from Dr. Arthur Boucot; and
800 Triassic invertebrate fossils from the Italian Alps from Dr.
Franco Rasetti. Important foraminiferal donations included 275
type specimens from the Cretaceous rocks of Cuba and Trinidad pre-
sented by Dr. P. Bronnimann; and 320 slides of type Recent Forami-
nifera and 305 foraminiferal slides from the North Atlantic from
Dr. Fred Phleger. Another very valuable gift was presented by
Drs. A. R. Loeblich, Jr., and Helen Tappan Loeblich of 1,000 micro-
samples and 3,500,000 specimens of mounted Foraminifera, with many
types, from the Cretaceous of Texas.

Through the Walcott fund a collection of about 600 specimens of
rare Paleocene and Eocene mammals was obtained by Dr. C. L. Gazin
and F. L. Pearce from southern Wyoming. Of particular interest
were an excellent skull and some skeletal material of the large panto-
dont mammal Coryphodon and two well preserved skulls of the
condylarth mammal Weniscothertum. Under the same fund Dr. D. H.
Dunkle collected fossil fish and reptile remains from Devonian,
Triassic, and Cretaceous rocks of Utah, Idaho, and Wyoming. An
outstanding gift was a nearly complete skull of the large sabre-tooth
cat Smilodon fatalis, collected from the Pleistocene deposits of Texas
by George Klett and presented to the Museum through James E.
Conklin. A remarkable collection of about 750 otoliths of teleostean
fishes from the Eocene lower Barton beds of Hampshire, England, and
representing 22 genera and 28 species was given by Dr. F. C. Stinton.

Engineering and Industries

A turbine reputed to be the first built by Charles Curtis, America’s
best known pioneer steam turbine inventor, was presented by the
Stevens Institute of Technology. Original radio apparatus was re-
ceived from the widow of Edwin Armstrong, comprising his regen-
erative receiver made about 1912, three superheterodyne receivers, a
super-regenerative circuit, and what is considered the oldest surviving
frequency modulation receiver.

The Dodrill-GMR Mechanical Heart, the first to be used success-
fully for the complete bypass of the human heart during surgery,

359492553
16 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1955

was presented by the General Motors Corporation through C. L.
McCuen of the Research Laboratories Division. The Rockefeller
Institute for Medical Research gave the first Kinthoven string gal-
vanometer made in the United States for an electrocardiograph.
This was made in 1914 by Charles F. Hindle for Dr. Alfred E. Cohn.
An electrocardiograph used by Dr. Frank E. Wilson, a pioneer in the
field of electrocardiography, was presented by the University of
Michigan.

Several hundred drawings mostly of the details of early Bessemer
process steel plants made by the distinguished engineer, Alexander
Lyman Holley, were the gift of the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute.

An elaborately carved roller cotton gin from India was received
from Mrs. Stanley M. Walker. A pink brocaded taffeta christening
blanket, known to have been used in 1827, was presented by Faith
Bradford, and a commemorative linen “We Offer Peace, Ready for
War” was given in the name of Sibyl Avery Perkins, deceased, by
her daughter, Mrs. Robert C. Johnson, Jr.

An unusual board section of curly yellow buckeye showing beauti-
ful blue stain markings, was presented by Ray E. Cottrell of the Wood
Collectors Society. Fifty microscope mounts of woods of the family
Celastraceae were received from John A. Boole, Jr., and 20 woods
and 20 corresponding mounts of the genus Garrya through Prof. J. BE.
Adams, from the University of North Carolina.

A linoleum block print, “Le Coup de Vent” by Felix Vallotton
(1865-1925), an important figure in the revival of the wood cut, was
purchased through the Dahlgreen fund.

Two etchings by Giovanni Baptista Piranesi (1720-1778) “Veduta
del Palazzo dell’ Academia” and “Veduta sul Monte Quirinale del
Palazzo Eccelentissima” were received as Smithsonian Institution
deposits. Hight etchings illustrating Homer’s Odyssey, by the well-
known Polish artist Sigmund Lipinsky (1873-1940), were presented
by Mrs. Elinita K. Burgess Lipinsky.

History

A very interesting specimen received in the division of civil history
was a piano used in the White House during the administration of
President John Quincy Adams. This piano, on loan from the Juil-
hard School of Music in New York, is a very early one of American
make and bears the type of label used between 1822-29 by Alphaeus
Babcock, who worked in Boston.

A large collection of vases, andirons, and other ornamental pieces
donated by Mrs. W. Murray Crane of New York City helped to com-
plete the exhibition of almost every setting in the First Ladies Hall.
ACCESSIONS 17

As a loan the Museum received from B. Woodruff Weaver two gold
sofas which were missing from the suite of White House furniture
previously acquired. They had been sold at auction in 1902 by the
White House and were recently acquired by the Barnes family of
Washington.

Mrs. Dwight D. Eisenhower presented the gloves, evening purse,
jewelry and slippers she wore with her inaugural dress. ‘These ac-
cessories complement this unit for exhibition. Two fans and a blue
and white Chinese porcelain vase belonging to Mrs. Herbert Hoover
were presented by Mrs. Herbert Hoover, Jr. A hickory walking stick,
inlaid in silver and bearing the name of Abraham Lincoln, was given
by Samuel J. Prescott.

A gift to the division of military history from Joseph Cummings
Chase contained 79 portraits of World War I officers and enlisted men,
and one portrait of an enlisted man in service during the Korean
conflict.

Outstanding among the accessions in the division of numismatics
was the gift from Mrs. William D. (Gorgas) Wrightson of 43 award
medals and decorations given to Dr. William Crawford Gorgas,
1854-1920, Sanitation Engineer for the Panama Canal Commission
and later Surgeon General of the United States.

The Post Office Department has continued as the principal means
whereby the philatelic collections are kept up to date, forwarding one
specimen of each new stamp distributed by the Universal Postal
Union. Three shipments totaling approximately 3,000 stamps were
thus transferred. The Treasury Department, through the coopera-
tion of T. Coleman Andrews, Commissioner of Internal Revenue,
transferred an additional 49,642 specimens of United States revenue
stamps and proofs.

Among gifts from private donors, especial mention is made of two
additional collections of great value from Ernest Lowenstein. One
collection consists of four volumes of Honduras airmails, replete with
rarities, and the other of a 3-volume collection of Paraguay airmails.
Care of Collections

SPECIMENS ACCESSIONED, IDENTIFIED, AND DISTRIBUTED—
FISCAL YEAR 1955

Trans-

Gifts to ferred Loaned for
Submitied Exchanged educa- to other study to in-
or with other tional Govern-  vestigators
Received in identifi- Identified institu- institu- ment and insti-

Department accessions cation on request tions tions agencies tutions
Anthropology . 34,450 2,679 2,679 2 119 0 839
Zoology .. . 363, 500 40,985 32,396 3,073 2, 546 88 82, 333
Botany .. . 58,526 11,472 8,557 16, 632 858 O 15,125
Geology . . . *7,056,121 4,355 4,272 3,006 15,398 412 7, 460
Eng. & Ind. . 5, 609 810 795 94 48 0 335
History ... 78,440 20,361 20, 351 165 0 0 3, 374

TotaL. 7,596,646 80,662 69,050 22,972 18,969 500 109, 466

* Consists chiefly of foraminiferan specimens collected in Europe during the previous year.

Anthropology

Storage space for new anthropological accessions continues to be a
problem of first importance, since it has now become necessary to
divide large incoming shipments and to store them wherever space
can be found. This fragmentation not only makes systematic classifi-
eation all but impossible but also increases the possibility of confusion.

In the division of archeology a large proportion of the time of the
laboratory aid was devoted to numbering and cleaning new accessions,
and to washing specimens from Ecuador. Consequently, only a rather
limited amount of work was carried forward on the long-term program
of reworking and condensing the study collections from various states.
Nevertheless, the archeological collections from Missouri were checked,
sorted, and regrouped, and in some cases a certain amount of renumber-
ing and restoration could be undertaken. By means of this and the
shifting of other material it was possible to free a small amount of
storage space.

Owing to the transfer of large shipments from the Smithsonian
River Basin Surveys, the processing of these collections has been a
major operation of the year. Many of these collections are from lo-
calities not heretofore represented in the national collections; and in
many instances they are the only materials now extant from sites and

18
CARE OF COLLECTIONS 19

localities submerged by reservoirs constructed under the federal water-
control program. G.S. Metcalf, museum aide, is proceeding with the
task of sorting and listing these specimens.

The Mexican archeological study materials have now all been moved
to the attic. Through this and other shifting of collections and work
facilities the archeological laboratory has gained increased working
space and processing facilities. Structural work was completed on
the storage racks located on the fourth rotunda floor, and both the
racks and the drawers were painted.

During the year Assistant Curator Robert A. Elder, Jr., and Museum
Aide George McBryde were confronted with the tremendous task of
removing thousands of ethnological objects that had been displayed
in the American Indian hall scheduled for modernization. These
specimens were segregated and placed in the classified study series.

A. Joseph Andrews, chief preparator in the anthropological labora-
tory, completed various tasks including the making of a latex mold of
the Midland human skull, the latter dating from between 10,000 and
20,000 years ago, assisting with the refurbishing of the life size groups
in hall 11, supervising the cleaning and reframing of 47 paintings by
George Catlin, and repairing early American stoneware for a special
exhibition. He also prepared a bust of Mrs. Hisenhower for the De-
partment of History, to be used in displaying Mrs. Kisenhower’s gown
in the new First Ladies hall.

Zoology

The completion of a large refrigerated fur-storage room, in which
the tanned skins of large ungulates and carnivores are now installed,
marks one of the greatest advances in storage facilities made available
to the division of mammals in recent years. The merger of the Fish
and Wildlife Service collection and that of the Museum was advanced
during the year by the rearrangement and relabeling of most of
the skins and skulls of primates. A major step in solving the continu-
ing problem of caring for embalmed or pickled specimens of large and
medium-sized mammals was taken when a series of old and unsatis-
factory crocks and barrels was replaced with 10 wooden tanks lined
with monel metal. The new installation increased considerably the
space available for storage. Toward the close of the year a start was
made on rearranging and indexing the entire collection of alcoholic
and embalmed mammals, and all skeletal material.

The merger last year of the Fish and Wildlife Service bird collection
with that of the Museum necessitated considerable relabeling of the
storage cases and the more critical rearrangement of the specimens of
a few difficult groups. This has now been completed. The reidentifi-
cation and relabeling of all specimens, where needed, were continued
20 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1955

by division personnel, assisted by Dr. J. W. Aldrich and A. J. Duvall
of the Fish and Wildlife Service.

The adoption of monel-lined wooden tanks also facilitated the care
of the large alcoholic turtles, lizards, and crocodilians. The collection
of skeletons and other dried materials in the attic was examined for
signs of deterioration and all dry turtle shells were coated with a
cement designed to keep the scales in place. Processing and arrange-
ment of the large backlog of uncataloged fishes awaits the completion
of the new storage room.

Although the insect material in the permanent collections is in
excellent condition the majority of the groups are so overcrowded that
the need for storage equipment is readily apparent. The largest task
accomplished during the year was the labeling of the Mann collection,
which is now being incorporated, insofar as space permits, into the
Museum collection. The labeling of 10,350 specimens of the Shannon
collection of Brazilian Diptera and the labeling and incorporation of
the Korschefsky collection of Coccinellidae (ladybird beetles) were
completed. The remainder of the Smythe collection and much of the
¥. M. Jones collection (both moths and butterflies) were also added.

Special attention was given this year to the dry invertebrate col-
Jections. All the dry echinoderms on the ground fioor and all the mis-
cellaneous dry material in the attic were treated with paradichloro-
benzene, a time-consuming task that involved the opening of hundreds
of individual specimen boxes to insert the crystals. In addition, most
of the faulty specimen bottles in the alcoholic collections were ex-
tracted and replaced with aluminum capped bottles, and all leaky
earthenware crocks were removed from the storage stacks and their
contents placed in recently provided monel-lined wooden tanks.

In general, the physical condition of the study collection of mollusks
is good, but there remains a large number of cataloged lots that
should be incorporated in it. Further progress was made in the reor-
ganization of the marine mollusks of the eastern Atlantic, initiated
three years ago. The helminth slide and alcoholic collections, curated
by the Animal Disease and Parasite Branch of the Agricultural Re-
search Service, continues in excellent shape, but the backlog of uncata-
loged material increases yearly. In recent years there have been added
to this backlog the Van Cleave, Henry B. Ward, and George LaRue
collections. The study collection of corals was relocated on the second
floor in order to release space for exhibition purposes.

Considerable time is spent each year by the exhibits staff and taxi-
dermists making up and renovating skins and cleaning skeletons for
the divisions concerned with the care of the vertebrate collections
other than fishes. During the year 17 mammals were skinned and
CARE OF COLLECTIONS PA

made up; 81 birds were skinned, in part degreased, and all made up;
4 birds were mounted; 2 Galapagos turtles were skinned and made up;
and 6 alligator eggs were blown. For mammals, 2,255 skulls and 16
complete skeletons were cleaned ; for birds, 2 skulls and 110 skeletons
were cleaned.

Botany

The portion of the herbarium in which the type specimens are
housed has been expanded sufficiently this year to give temporary
relief from overcrowding. A number of new bookcases has permitted
the expansion and rearrangement of the Hitchcock and Chase Library
and the department library, but expansion of the general herbarium
has been delayed pending the delivery of a sufficient number of storage
cases.

The major activities in caring for the permanent collections and the
processing of new material are summarized in the following table:

1958-1954 1954-1965

SHECIMENS! MOUNTECCE we ue pe be uchiks oh see ey Lo. Dee 35,124 35,176
SPECIMENS EPAITEC. caw! Ayes ecunsqity, crise ph hotom clgihe 2, 410 3, 550
Specimens stamped and recorded. ........ 37,338 40,085
Specimens incorporated in herbarium ....... 22,9387 42, 895
Photographs; mounted\y a. Sel .rsigoel ies eee - 99 299

Type specimens continue to be found in the general collections and
incoming material. This year 525 types were segregated and added
to the type herbarium, which now contains 54,928 types, including
38,688 phanerogams, 9,831 grasses, 3,277 ferns, and 3,132 cryptogams.

The Hitchcock and Chase Library was increased by the addition of
18 publications, making a total of 7,067. The grass species index now
contains 79,597 cards, 727 having been added during the year.

Geology

Franklin L. Pearce, exhibits preparator, has completed preparation
of the collections of Paleocene and Eocene mammals from Wyoming
which he and Dr. Gazin have collected during past field seasons. The
appointment of Donald Guadagni to the laboratory staff permitted
the preparation of lower vertebrate fossils, including the difficult and
delicate cleaning of the rare embolomerous amphibian skull received
in 1954. The entire Bison Basin Paleocene collection assembled in
1954 was cataloged.

Improvement in the segregation and arrangement of the early Ter-
tiary mammal collections and progress in the preparation of speci-
mens of lower vertebrate fossils have been achieved. A backlog of
preparation still exists, however, in the lower vertebrates and certain
22, U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1955

mammal remains transferred from the Smithsonian River Basin
Surveys.

The great bulk of invertebrate material in the collections and the
small staff available to organize and arrange the collections restrict
the progress that can be made in reducing the backlog of unassimi-
lated material. The fossil sponge collection has benefited by the work
of Robert Finks, a graduate student of Columbia University, who
has undertaken some reorganization to facilitate his own research.

The large accumulation of foraminiferal material on hand, resulting
from collecting by Dr. A. R. Loeblich, Jr., is gradually being sorted
and arranged. With the help of Curtis G. Mudgett, Francois Lascak,
and Joan Bennett, many samples have been washed and concentrated,
but a great many more remain to be processed.

Since the completion of his monograph on Chazyan and related
brachiopods, Dr. G. A. Cooper has incorporated the large quantity of
described materials in their appropriate places in the biological col-
lections. In connection with his studies on Permian brachiopods, he
has continued the sorting, selection, and condensation of the Permian
invertebrate collection. Approximately 300 drawers of specimens
have been sorted and about the same number remains to be done.

Dr. David Nicol has undertaken the reorganization of the Paleozoic
pelecypod collection. This collection has never had a specialist to
supervise it and consequently is in much need of revision and modern
systematic arrangement.

Dr. J. B. Knight has, with the help of Drs. Roger Batten and
Ellis Yochelson, reorganized the fossil gastropod collection and revised
and corrected the generic arrangement. The arrangement of the
species still remains to be completed.

In mineralogy the expansion necessitated by the rapid growth of
the study collections of minerals was completed by James H. Benn
and Robert Jones.

Frank Holden reports the work of the lapidary shop as follows:
388 specimens of rocks, minerals, and ores cut and polished; 18
meteorites cut, polished, and etched; 98 thin sections prepared, and 29
plaster bases for mineral specimens cast and painted. Eight visi-
tors interested in polishing techniques visited the lapidary shop.

Engineering and Industries

The care of collections in the department of engineering and in-
dustries was complicated during the year by the impact of the pro-
erams of building renovation and modernization of exhibits. Among
the resulting problems which the staff of the department met and
solved were: the moving of collections in the storage court to provide
working space for the mechanics, and the temporary storage there
CARE OF COLLECTIONS 23

cf mechanic’s equipment; the moving of collections on exhibit to
permit painting and the installation of lighting ; the removal and stor-
age of exhibited material in the power machinery hall, the health
hall, and the “chapel” to prepare for exhibits modernization; the
shifting of offices and laboratories to provide enough space to set up
an exhibits shop.

Organization of the reference collection of the division of engi-
neering in the storage court was continued. The metrology section is
being centralized on the third floor of the storage court, and the tool
collection on the first floor. Considerable improvement was made in
locating and in recording the locations of the reference collection
material. In connection with the restoration of the power hall, a
number of damaged and incomplete models were repaired and restored.

Restoration of automobiles and other vehicles has been the subject
of discussion with prospective sponsors, and as a first step, the 1903
Cadillac has been removed for renovation.

Orville Hagans of Denver, Colo., is assisting by repairing in his
shop two of the Museum’s most interesting timekeepers, an organ
clock and a Wenzel air clock. Dr. W. Barclay Stephens and Fred
Rau of Alameda, Calif., have continued to assist the Museum in clean-
ing, repairing, and documenting watches in the timekeeping collection.

Ralph E. Cropley of New York City spent several weekends and
holidays in the Museum during the past year adding material to the
outstanding collection of ship illustrations and data which he has
presented.

In preparation for the installation of new exhibits in graphic arts,
about 250 specimens were removed from exhibition cases in the
“chapel” and placed in storage. More than 450 damaged and other-
wise poor objects were eliminated. About 150 prints were matted for
better preservation. Selma Perry, clerk stenographer, improved the
card catalog reference file for the etching collection. About 500 etch-
ings formerly carded only by number were located and new entries
made of the titles and etchers. In the section of photography a 5-ton
air conditioning unit was installed in the workroom, print-storage, and
print-library suite of the section of photography. Prints and rare
books are now kept under constant temperature and humidity control.
About 150 photographic specimens were removed from the northwest
gallery and placed in the storage court.

The project of organizing and classifying the materia-medica col-
lection, which was begun last year, has now been completed. All
specimens have been filed alphabetically into approximately 155 stor-
age drawers, the drawers labeled, and the specimens now await move-
ment to the new storage area. The students from two of Dr. Phillip V.
Hammond’s pharmacognosy classes, Howard University College of
D4 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1955

Pharmacy, aided measurably in this project by assisting in the filing
of the specimens. All specimens in the reference storage collections
have been classified and grouped together by subject and moved to
the storage court. During the year 527 specimens were condemned,
159 specimens were transferred to other divisions, and 52 returned
to donors.

An interesting sampler received this year in badly soiled condition
was restored in the section of textiles. The canvas background ap-
peared dark brown instead of natural tan and, when wet, the wool
canvas was extremely weak and the colors in the silk embroidery bled.
The sampler was placed for cleaning on several thicknesses of ab-
sorbent cloth. By using a small paint brush to wet only a very small
area at each working period, the soil was flushed through the canvas
and absorbed by the expendable absorbent cloth. Identification and
mounting of textile specimens in the Museum collection by students of
the University of Maryland, a project initiated in 1953, was continued,
and 391 specimens were identified and mounted this year.

The projected renovation of the health gallery necessitated a re-
examination of a large number of specimens, stored on the gallery,
from the former section of foods. Certain of these were selected for
retention and the remainder are being held for disposal.

Many duplicates from the large Krukoff collection of Brazilian
woods, previously stored in several places, were brought together;
and 200 recently received woods were cut and numbered.

History

The work of restoring and refinishing the specimens to be exhibited
in the new First Ladies Hall overshadowed all other work in preserva-
tion of the collections of the division of civil history. It was neces-
sary to wash, clean, polish all the silver, china, glassware and other
ornamental pieces used in the alcove cases and the rooms. Lach dress
in the collection was repaired, pressed, and renovated and each man-
nequin was painted to improve its appearance. The furniture in-
stalled in the cases was cleaned, oiled, polished, and in some instances
refinished before being placed in the new setting. Necessary repair
work was done in the cabinet shop by Ewald O. Bankmann and the
refinishing of the pieces by Wilbert Perry, laborer, working under
the supervision of Museum Aide Frank E. Klapthor.

Special attention might be called to the crest of the mirror owned
by the Washington family which is exhibited in the first room. Mr.
Bankmann made the necessary repairs on pieces of the crest which
were in storage and restored them so that they could be placed at the
top of the mirror. Benjamin Lawless cleaned the frame and the
CARE OF COLLECTIONS 25

original parts of the crest, gold-leafed the new parts of the crest, and
antiqued the new gold leaf to match the old. This restoration was
completed so successfully that comparison of the mirror with a photo-
graph taken before restoration is required to detect the restored parts.

In the division of military and naval history, the usual precautions
against damage by insects were taken. The completion of the storage
area over the new First Ladies Hall will allow the removal of civil
history material to this area, freeing two storage rooms on the west
gallery for military and naval history. Some of the very large and
heavy specimens which will not be exhibited in the near future were
placed in storage.

The usual problems encountered in maintaining numismatic ex-
hibits are caused by dirt, fading, tarnishing, heat, and insects.
Most of the 109 exhibit cases in the coin hall are well over 100 years
old (they were made in 1838 for the coin room of the United States
Mint, in Philadelphia), but they are probably as satisfactory as any
but the more modern cases which are provided with ventilation.

A start has been made in the program of remounting philatelic
specimens, though of necessity this has had to be secondary to consid-
eration of their preservation. The United States section has been
completely removed from display, examined for damage, and placed
in new stockbooks. Specimens have been examined by such authori-
ties as Julius Stolow, Finbar Kenny, Robert Meyersburg, and others
for accuracy of classification and for condition. The entire United
States section is now being remounted and will soon be placed on
clisplay.
Investigation and Research

Anthropology

Physical Anthropology.—Plans for the curator of physical anthro-
pology, Dr. T. Dale Stewart, to study skeletal aging based on the
remains of American soldiers killed in North Korea matured during
the summer of 1954. At the request of the Department of the Army,
Dr. Stewart was engaged for 414 months on this project. While
in Japan he examined a series of 450 skeletons and recorded a com-
prehensive series of measurements. The data obtained include casts
and photographs of skeletal elements regarded as critical in the aging
process. These records and casts were forwarded to Washington,
and arrangements were made with the Office of the Quartermaster
General to have an anthropologist detailed to aid in their analysis.

In a study of trephined Inca skulls, Dr. Stewart was attracted by
the signs of osteitis sometimes surrounding the surgical openings in
the bone. From his observations, both here and in Pera, Dr. Stewart
concluded that the pattern of osteitis is indicative of the extent of the
primitive surgical opening through the scalp and may have resulted
from remedies applied to the bone.

In addition to his research activities, Dr. Stewart served as one of
the American delegates to the Third Inter-American Conference on
Indian Life, which met in La Paz, Bolivia, August 2-13, 1954; he
represented the Smithsonian Institution at the 31st Inter-American
Congress of Americanists which met at Sao Paulo, Brazil, August
22-28, 1954; and he was elected president of the American Institute of
Human Paleontology.

Associate Curator Marshall T. Newman completed a paper entitled
“The Significance of Racial and Ecological Factors in Public Health
Studies of South American Indians,” which was presented in Spanish
at the Third Inter-American Conference on Indian Life. For a
report by J. D. Jennings, G. R. Willey, and himself, “The Indian
Mounds at Ormand Beach, Florida,” he prepared a section on
skeletal material. He also completed the basic work on a study of
the relationship of body surface in man to climate. This study is
based on original measurements taken by Dr. C. R. Jones on the
Wai-Wai Indians of British Guiana, and on comparable material in
the literature.

26
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH Di

Archeology.—Curator Waldo R. Wedel completed three manu-
scripts, two of them in co-authorship. Under the title of “Changing
Settlement Patterns in the Great Plains,” he reviewed archeological
and ethnohistorical data on the native occupations of the North
American Plains during the past 10,000 years, outlined the develop-
ment of cultures from the earliest hunting through the foraging to
the corn-growing peoples, and pointed out the environmental and
other factors probably responsible for the observed changes in settle-
ment patterns. In another paper, prepared jointly with Marvin F.
Kivett and entitled “Additional Data on the Woodruff Ossuary
(14PH4), Phillips County, Kansas,” he supplemented the site report
in River Basin Surveys Paper No. 3 with data that include a carbon-14
date of A. D. 611+240 and an identification of trees from charred
wood samples found in the burial site. The date is of interest because
it is the first determination made from material identifiable with a
defined Plains Woodland culture horizon, the antiquity of which has
heretofore been uncertain. The trees suggest a marginal hardwood
forest not substantially different from those of today. Dr. Wedel also
added historical and ethnohistorical data to his continuing investi-
gation of Kansas archeology.

He also prepared, with George B. Griffenhagen, curator of medi-
cine and public health, a paper, “An English Balsam Among the
Dakota Aborigines,” which deals with the appearance in archeological
sites of dated bottles that contained an early patent medicine, Tur-
lington’s Balsam of Life.

Associate Curator Clifford Evans and Dr. Betty J. Meggers, honor-
ary research associate, participated in the South American archeology
section of the 31st International Congress of Americanists. They
presented four papers: ‘“Filiacdes das Culturas da Ilha de Marajo,”
by Betty J. Meggers, “Filiagoes das Culturas do Territorio do Amapa,
Brasil,” by Clifford Evans, and in joint authorship “Preliminary
Results of Archeological Investigations in British Guiana” and “Cul-
ture Areas in South America, an Archeological Point of View.”

During September and October 1954, Drs. Evans and Meggers
conducted stratigraphic archeological excavations in three major areas
of the Guayas Basin of Ecuador. This field work, carried cut in
collaboration with Sr. Emilio Estrada of Guayaquil, made it possible
to place his extensive collections into a chronological sequence on the
basis of deep stratigraphic excavations in village site refuse deposits.
On their return to Washington they completed their classification and
description of the 50,000 pottery sherds obtained from the 1952-53
archeological investigations in British Guiana.

George Metcalf, museum aid, completed a report, “Sites in and about
Fort Berthold Reservation, Garrison Reservoir, North Dakota,” which
28 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1955

is concerned with field investigations made for the Missouri Valley
Project of the Smithsonian River Basin Surveys. A second report
“Additional Data from the Dodd and Philip Ranch Sites, South
Dakota,” describes a number of artifact types recognized by him among
materials from this site transferred to the national collections.

Neil M. Judd, research associate, carried forward his analysis of
materials collected in Chaco Canyon for the National Geographic
Society and has nearly completed his report on the material culture
of the Pueblo del Arroyo site.

Hthnology.—Curator Herbert W. Krieger completed a study on the
Lucayan Indians of Bahama Island that is based on materials recoy-
ered by the Ernest N. May-Smithsonian Expedition in 1936-87, and
on contemporary historical documentation. Additional research by
the curator now in progress includes a study of historical Indian
tribes of the Antilles and of historic Indian village sites associated
with the first voyage of Columbus and with La Isabela, the first planned
Spanish settlement in the New World.

Associate Curator John C. Ewers prepared a paper, on the methods
and procedures followed in exhibits modernization of the Museum’s
new American Indian hall. The paper was read before the Wenner-
Gren Conference on Museum Problems, held at the University of
Pennsylvania. He has also completed the groundwork for a paper on
the George Catlin collection of paintings of North American Indians
of the West, based on these paintings in the U. S. National Museum.

Associate Curator C. Malcolm Watkins devoted 6 weeks to a study
of colonial ceramics at the National Park Service Laboratory at
Jamestown, Va., under a grant from the Jamestown-Williamsburg-
Yorktown Celebration Commission. This investigation is intended
to throw light on colonial culture and to serve as a standard for
archeologists specializing in the excavation of historic village sites.
In a paper prepared for publication in the magazine Antiques, Mr.
Watkins described, from specimens in the Old Sturbridge Village
collection, the characteristic lighting devices of New England rural
towns in the early 1800’s.

Research by visiting investigators.—During the year 4,189 visitors
requested information and conferred with staff members on anthro-
pological problems; 4,262 letters were written, and 11,535 telephonic
inquiries were answered.

Among the distinguished visitors and scientists from foreign
countries who used the collections were the following:

Dr. Yuzuro Okada, Hditor of the Jap-| Dr. D. Diringer, University of Cam-
anese Journal of BHthnology and bridge, England: American Indian

Professor of Hthnology at the Univer- pictographic writing.

>

sity of Tokyo: Hthnology of Formosa.
J ¥
INVESTIGATION

Mrs. Hilda Raj, Tamil ethnologist:
Comparative kinship terminologies.
W. G. Fagg, Africanist, British Mu-

seum: West African wood sculptures.

Kamal el Malakh, Cairo, Egypt, dis-
eoverer of the solar boat of Cheops.

Dr. Zakaria Goneim, Cairo, Egypt, dis-
coverer of a Third Dynasty pyramid.

Dr. Carlos Gonzilez N., Director, Insti-
stitute of Botanical and Zoological
Investigations, Santo Domingo Uni-
versity.

Marius Barbeau, National Museum, Ot-
tawa, Canada: pictographie art; arts
and crafts of the Pacific Northwest
Coast Indians.

AND RESEARCH 29

Ricardo HE. Alegria, Director, Museo de
la Universidad, Rio Piedras, Puerto
Rico: Conferred on the archeology
and ethnology of the Taino Indians.

Thor Heyerdahl: Comparison of his
archeological specimens from the
Galapagos Islands with our type col-
lections from the Viri Valley, Pert.

Antonio Krapovickas, Ministry of Agri-
eulture of Argentina: Study of the
archeological peanut specimens from
Perti and Chile.

Drs. EH. E. Johns, Kingston, Ontario, and
David J. E. Mitchell, Peterborough,
Ontario: Dental occlusion in Indian
and Hskimo skulls.

Zoology

Mammals.—Two major studies were brought to completion during
the year and notable progress was made cn other long-term projects.
Dr. David H. Johnson, acting curator, continued his studies of eastern
Asiatic mammals and, at the request of the Commission on Hemor-
rhagic Fever, Armed Forces Epidemiological Board, and with the
assistance of Lt. J. Knox Jones, Jr., U. S. A., he undertook a review
of Korean mammals based mainly on specimens collected by Army
field teams between 1952 and 1954.

Associate Curator Henry W. Setzer, submitted for publication his
final report on mammals from the Anglo-EKgyptian Sudan. This
thorough study of the fauna of the Sudan increased the number of
known genera of land mammals of that area, other than bats, from
30 to 50; 29 species and subspecies were found to be new. Consider-
able progress on a similar report on Kgyptian mammals, also collected
by Naval Medical Research Unit No. 3, was made by Dr. Setzer.

Associate Curator Charles O. Handley, Jr., completed a revision of
the American plecotine bats, a contribution providing the first clear
indication of the relationship of recent New World species to the Old
World and fossil forms. He also completed a report on the mammals
of the Dismal Swamp for the Virginia Academy of Sciences, made
further progress on a systematic study of the mammals of the Kala-
hari Desert of South-West Africa, the mammals of the high Arctic,
the marsupials of Central America, and the bats of the genus Dasyp-
terus. During the year Dr. Handley completed the requirements for
a doctorate in zoology from the University of Michigan and in June
was granted the degree of Doctor of Philosophy.

Birds.—Curator Herbert Friedmann completed a paper on parasitic
reproduction in African cuckoos, based on information assembled
since the publication in 1948 of his book on this subject, and completed

30 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1955

2 report dealing with a recently discovered drawing of the extinct
Mauritian dodo and with the evidence his study brought to light con-

erning the early observers and illustrators of this bird. His investi-
gation of the digestion of beeswax by honey-g ides, pursued under a
special grant from the Guggenheim Foundation, revealed that the
splitting of the wax is due to microorganisms flourishing in the intes-
tines of the birds and not to any avian enzymes. It is now known
that there is a synergistic relation between the two wax-splitting micro-
organisms discovered. Dr. Friedmann also worked on the second
volume of the “Birds of Mexico” and on the fifth edition of “A. O. U.
Check List of North American Birds,” and revised part of the manu-
script on the birds of Gaboon, a study made jointly with Dr. A. L.
Rand of the Chicago Natural History Museum.

Associate Curator Horbort G Deignan brought the manuscript of
his critical catalog of the type specimens of birds in the Museum up
to date and continued his studies on the birds of Thailand, revising
various groups of species where new data or additional specimens
made such action necessary. So far he has completed the accounts of

I] the non-passerine groups.

Germen * Bond muse-m side. revised the ‘dentifications and the
semenelot re fer a forthcoming ‘taxonomic publication on the birds
of Maryland) Dr. We*more, research associate. who collected over
1,000 specimens during his 3 months’ field trip to Panama this year,
continued his work on the fifth edition of the “A. O. U. Check List of
North American Birds” and also studied the Panamanian and Colom-
bian collections of birds he has amassed during the past 15 years.

Reptiles and Amphibians.—The catalog of type material in the
Museum division of reptiles and amphibians, being prepared by
Dr. Doris M. Cochran, associate curator, nears completion; it will
contain about 2,000 names of types, references to the original de-
scriptions, present synonyms, and a list of cotypes and paratypes in
the national collections. Work on the monographic account of the
frogs of western Brazil awaits the arrival of additional material from
the University of Sao Paulo. Dr. Cochran’s report on the frogs of
southeastern Brazil was published and distributed on June 22, 1955.

Fishes.—Drs. Leonard P. Schultz, curator, and Ernest A. Lachner,
associate curator, continued work on volume 2 of “The Fishes of the
Marshall and Marianas Islands.” At the end of the year this volume,
which now includes 32 families, 110 genera, and 265 species, was 92
percent complete. Two papers, “The Golden Tetra, a New Species
of Hemigrammus from British Guiana” and “Know Your Australian
Rainbowfishes,” were published by Dr. Schultz during the year.
Three others were completed and submitted for publication: “Re-
vision of the Parrotfishes, Family Scaridae, of the World”; “Hand-
book of Tropical Aquarium Fishes” (with H. A. Axelrod); and “A
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 31

new Pinecone Fish, Monocentris reedi, from Chile, a New Family
Record for the Eastern Pacific.” About 90 percent completed is a
world-wide revision of the frogfishes, family Antennariidae.

Dr. Lachner published one paper, “Inquilinism and a New Record
for Paramia bipunctata, a Cardinalfish from the Red Sea,” and com-
pleted two others: “Populations of the Berycoid Fish Family Poly-
mixiidae” and “a Revision of the Shark-Suckers, Family Echene-
idae.” During September 1954 Dr. Lachner, assisted by Frank
Schwartz of the University of Pittsburgh, collected several thousand
fishes and a number of crayfish in promotion of his projected study
of the fresh-water fishes of the mountain streams of Virginia, the
Carolinas, and Georgia. He was also granted a John Simon Guggen-
heim Memorial Fellowship for a 4-months’ study of certain tropical
marine fishes in European museums; and was elected vice-president of
the American Society of Ichthyologists and Herpetologists.

Robert H. Kanazawa, biological aide, has expanded to include re-
lated genera his world revision of the eel genus Conger, which he has
had under way for the past two years.

Imsects.—Curator J. F. Gates Clarke completed a revision of the
Neotropical moths of the genus Orthocomotis and continued with his
study of the Meyrick types of Microlepidoptera in the British Mu-
seum of Natural History, of which the first two volumes of the even-
tual six appears during the year. Also in progress are his studies
of the Microlepidoptera of the Juan Fernandez Islands (Chile) and
of Micronesia, and his revision of the American moths of the family
Phaloniidae. Dr. Clarke in May 1955 started an extended field trip
to the Pacific Northwest

Associate Curator O. L. Cartwright completed an extensive revision
of the scarab beetles of the genus Psammodius and made further
progress with his studies of the beetles of the genus Ataenius and of
the genus Onthophagus, suspected of being the intermediate hosts of
parasites of domestic animals. Also in progress are reports on the
Scarabaeidae of Micronesia and of Bimini.

Associate Curator William D. Field continued his studies of the
Neotropical Lycaenidae (Theclinae) (hair streaks) and the genera
Constachila, Phulia, Piercolias, and Baltica (Pieridae). Miss Grace
Glance pursued her study of the Isotomidae.

Marine Inveriebrates.—Curator Fenner A. Chace, Jr., prepared a
report on the decapod and stomatopod crustaceans of Los Roques and
the neighboring islands of Venezuela, based on collections received
from the Sociedad de Ciencias Naturales La Salle, in Caracas. He
also compiled a list of certain crustaceans identified from collections
made by the U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service vessel Oregon in the
Gulf of Mexico from 1950 through 1954. His study of the porcellanid
crabs of West Africa, in progress since 1948, is nearing completion.

359492554
3, U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1955

Associate Curator Frederick M. Bayer completed five manuscripts,
chiefly on the octocorallians, including a chapter on the Octocorallia
for the “Treatise of Invertebrate Paleontology.” In June 1955 he
joined an expedition to the Palau Islands sponsored jointly by the
George Vanderbilt Foundation and the Office of Naval Research.
Mr. Bayer will be responsible for the invertebrate investigations of
the expedition during a 4-months’ stay on Koror.

Associate Curator Thomas E. Bowman completed two manuscripts
since joining the staff in August 1954, one on a new copepod from the
northeastern Pacific and the other a description of a new species of
the isopod genus Chiridotea. Dr. Bowman is currently engaged in an
extensive study of the calanoid copepods collected off the southeastern
United States by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife vessel Theodore N. Gull.

Clarence R. Shoemaker, associate in zoology, completed 5 manu-
scripts during his 81st year, and is now occupied with a revision of
the amphipods of the family Haustoriidae.

Dr. J. Percy Moore, collaborator, who is still actively working on
the morphology and systematics of leeches at the age of 86, during
the year edited with Marvin C. Meyer a translation from the Russian
of an extensive treatise on leeches by W. D. Selensky. Dr. Moore is
currently working on the anatomy and systematics of some leeches
from the Museum and the University of Natal, South Africa, as well
as on a large collection of leeches, mostly of the genus Helobddella,
from Lake Titicaca.

Mrs. Mildred S$. Wilson, collaborator in copepod Crustacea, has
completed two manuscripts on new species of copepods of the genus
Diaptomus, from Louisiana, and is preparing a taxonomic report on
the copepods of Lake Pontchartrain.

During the year, 23 specialists in other institutions undertook to
identify material of various groups of invertebrates for the Museum.
The individuals who so kindly rendered this service and the groups
on which they work are:

Dr. Donald P. Abbott: Tunicates.

Dr. A. Weir Bell: Oligochaete worms.

Dr. David Causey : Oligochaete worms.

Mrs. May Belle Chitwood: Nemato-
morph worms.

Dr. Elisabeth Deichmann:
rians.

Mr. A. Goldberg: Nematomorph worms.

Dr. Olga Hartman: Polychaete worms.

Dr. Willard D. Hartman: Sponges.

Dr. Dora P. Henry: Barnacles.

Dr. Horton H. Hobbs, Jr.: Crayfishes.

Dr. Libbie H. Hyman: Flatworms.

. Paul L. Illg: Copepod crustaceans.

Dr. Karl Lang: Tanaid crustaceans.

Holothu-

Dr. J. G. Mackin: Isopod crustaceans.

Dr. Marvin C. Meyer: Leeches.

Dr. Milton A. Miller: Isopod ecrusta-
ceans.

Dr. Edith E. Mortensen: Protozoans,

Dr. Raymond C. Osburn: Bryozoans.

Dr. Marian H. Pettibone: Polychaete
worms.

Dr. Edward G. Reinhard: Rhizocepha-
lan crustaceans.

Mr. Bryce C. Walton: Leeches.

Dr. John W. Wells: Hydrocorals.

Dr. Austin B. Williams: Decapod crus-
taceans.
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 33

Mollusks.—Curator Harald A. Rehder made progress on his revi-
sion of the superfamily Pyramidellacea for the “Treatise of Inverte-
brate Paleontology.”

Associate Curator J. P. E. Morrison continued his studies on the
families Ellobiidae, Cyclophoridae, and Amphicyclotidae of America,
and worked on the Hydrobiidae.

Dr. R. Tucker Abbott, associate curator, was occupied, until his
resignation in November to accept a position at the Academy of Nat-
ural Sciences of Philadelphia, with researches on the Assimineidae
of the western Pacific.

Research by visiting investigators.—In addition to investigators
from Federal agencies located in the Washington area, more than 180
professional biologists and students with an interest in systematic
zoology paid one or more visits to the offices and laboratories of the
department, some staying for considerable time. Among the foreign
visitors and their fields of interest were the following:

Dr. Kamal Wassif, Ibrahim University, ; Dr. A. Villalobos F., Universidad Na-

Department of Zoology, Abbassiah cional A. de México: Crayfishes.
(Cairo), Hgypt: Mammals of Hgypt | Dr. Paulo Erichsen de Oliveira, Depart:

and adjacent areas. mento Nacional da Producio Min-

Kaiser Makram, Cairo, Egypt: Mam- eral, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil: Fossil
malogical techniques. mollusks of Brazil.

Dr. Albert Hochbaum, Delta, Canada:| Dr. Denise Mongin, Muséum National
Bird records and library. d’Histoire Naturelle, Paris, France:

Dr. W. H. Phelps, Caracas, Venezuela : Miocene mollusks of the Hast Coast
Venezuelan birds. of North America.

Prof. H. Steiner, Zurich, Switzerland:| Dr. Takashi Ino, Tokai Regional Fish-
Anatomy of birds. eries Research Laboratory, Tokyo,

Ting-ping Koh, Taiwan Teachers Col- Japan: Abalones (Haliotidae) and
lege, Formosa: Tuna fish. starfishes of the Pacific.

Dr. Hubert J. Squires, Newfoundland |} Dr. 8S. Yamaguchi, Kyoto University,
Fisheries Research Station ;: Decapod Japan: Helminths.
crustaceans,

Botany

Phanerogams.—Curator A. C. Smith prepared and submitted for
publication a report on his most recent Fijian explorations, and also
a discussion of the significance of the phanerogam genera that have
distributions terminating in Fiji. Between April 15 and June 30 he
was transferred to the staff of the National Science Foundation to act
as Program Director for Systematic Biology during the absence from
that position of Dr. William C. Steere. Dr. Smith was elected to
serve as president of the American Society of Plant Taxonomists.

Dr. L. B. Smith, associate curator, has continued his studies toward
a Flora of Colombia by the publication of a paper, “Revisio Vio-
lacearum Colombiae,” in joint authorship with Dr. A. Fernandez-
34 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1955

Pérez, of the Instituto de Ciencias Naturales, Bogota. He has nearly
completed a manuscript treating the more than 350 species of Colom-
bian Bromeliaceae. During the year he has been seeing through
press a comprehensive paper on “The Bromeliaceae of Brazil,” dis-
cussing over 570 species and with 128 illustrations prepared by Dr.
Robert J. Downs of the U. S. Department of Agriculture. Besides
its taxonomic interest, this paper provides a basis for research in
bromeliad malaria, and has considerable horticultural application
because of the high proportion of ornamental species of the family in
Brazil. With Father Raulino Reitz, he has been studying the flora of
the State of Santa Catarina, Brazil, and with Dr. Downs he prepared
a treatment of the Rubiaceae of Santa Catarina for publication in
Sellowia, the journal of the Herbario “Barbosa Rodrigues,” edited by
Father Reitz.

Associate Curator E. H. Waiker, in collaboration with Dr. F. R.
Fosberg, completed and submitted for publication a third supple-
ment to a preliminary checklist of plants in the Shenandoah National
Park. He continued to progress in his studies of the genus Corylopsis
(Hamamelidaceae) and in a study of the Myrsinaceae of Taiwan. The
latter project follows naturally after a critical study of the
Myrsinaceae of Japan (published this year) and of the Ryukyu
Islands (now in press). His principal research effort has been di-
rected toward the preparation of a “Flora of Okinawa and the south-
ern Ryukyu Islands,” which is essentially a new edition of the “Flora
of Okinawa, an enumeration of the plants of Okinawa and Sakishima
archipelagos in the Ryukyu Islands,” by S. Sonohara, S. Tawada, and
T. Amano (1952, edited by E. H. Walker). The current work was
started in 1954 at the request of the U. S. Civil Administration of the
Ryukyu Islands, U. S. Army, because of the unexpectedly early ex-
haustion of the supply of the earlier Flora and the urgent need for a
new edition.

Associate Curator E. C. Leonard continued his work on part 3 and
the supplement of his comprehensive study of the Acanthaceae of
Colombia. Revisions were completed for 11 of the 15 genera to be
treated. An annotated list of the plants growing in the Potomac
Triassic Area of Virginia, to be included in a paper on the floristics
of that region by H. A. Allard and Mr. Leonard, has been essentially
completed.

Dr. Velva E. Rudd, associate curator, completed her “Revision of
the genus Vissolia,” part of a study of the subtribe Aeschynomeninae
of the family Leguminosae, of which the first paper, “The American
species of Aeschynomene,” is now in press as a Contribution from
the U. S. National Herbarium. Two more papers are planned to
complete the series.
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 35

Research Associate EK. P. Kallip, continued to make valuable collec-
tions of plants in Cuba and southern Florida, and during his visits
to Washington prepared duplicates for distribution, thus adding sub-
stantially to the material sent out in exchange by the division.

Grasses.—Curator Jason R. Swallen continued his studies on the
grasses of southern Brazil, and completed for publication “Notes on
Honduras grasses.” His “Grasses of Guatemala,” is being published
by the Chicago Natural History Museum.

Associate Curator Ernest R. Schns, published a paper on fascicle
morphology in Cenchrus and Pennisetum. 'Two collecting trips were
made to México during the past year. The first was to the State
of San Luis Potosi in September and October. Over 2,200 specimens,
mostly grasses, were collected throughout the State. Special atten-
tion was given to the Sierra de San Miguelito and the Sierra de
Guadaleazar. Besides numerous range extensions, one very rare
grass genus (Calamochloa) was found for the second time in the
Sierra de Guadalcazar. This grass, represented by an inadequate
specimen in the Paris Museum, was collected by the French mineralo-
gist, Pierre Virlet d’Aoust, in 1881. Not only is the genus a rare
endemic, but the single species is dioecious. It is being redescribed
and illustrated. In March, a trip was made to Lake Miramar in the
State of Chiapas in collaboration with El Centro de Investigaciones
Antropdlogicas de México. Over 650 specimens were collected in the
Lacandon Forest near the lake. Many of the grasses, mostly hy-
grophilous forest species, were new records for the State and one
species was new to México.

Mrs. Agnes Chase, research associate, continued to devote her full
time to editing and verifying the index to grass species prior to
their being typed. Approximately 40,000 cards, or half the index,
have been completed.

Dr. F. A. McClure, research associate, assembled the materials for a
taxonomic treatment of the bamboos of southern Brazil. Under the
auspices of the U. S. Department of Agriculture, he continued work
on a manual for the field identification of bamboos of the genus
Phyllostachys in cultivation in the United States.

Under a 3-year grant from the National Science Foundation, Mrs.
Walter T. Swingle is collaborating with Dr. McClure in the acquisi-
tion and processing of bamboo literature with special reference to
the documentation and clarification of species.

Ferns.—Curator C. V. Morton continued during the first four
months of the current fiscal year his work in Europe as a Fellow of
the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation. During this
period he examined many thousands of sheets of ferns, especially
36 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL. REPORT, 1955

from tropical America, and photographed 8,111 type specimens
and other authentic material. These photographs will form a valu-
able tool for future taxonomic studies. Throughout the work he was
given every facility and encouragement by the staffs of the Muséum
National d’Histoire Naturelle, Paris, the Rijksherbarium, Leiden, the
British Museum (Natural History), London, the Conservatoire et
Jardin Botaniques, Geneva, the Naturhistoriska Riksmuseet, Stock-
holm, the Staatsinstitut fiir allgemeine Botanik, Hamburg, the Botani-
cal Museum and Herbarium, Copenhagen, the Royal Botanic Gardens,
Kew, the Botanisch Museum, Utrecht, and the Jardin Botanique de
VEtat, Brussels.

Cry ptogams.—Associate Curator Paul Conger continued with his
studies of the diatom flora and ecology of Chincoteague Bay, Md. He
also continued with a monographic study of the important diatom
genus Grammatophora and with the accumulation of notes on ab-
normalities in diatoms. :

Research by visiting investigators.— During May and June, Father
Raulino Reitz of the Herbario “Barbosa Rodrigues,” Itajai, Santa
Catarina, Brazil, made intensive studies of the herbarium material
and literature in the department in connection with the preparation
of a flora of the State of Santa Catarina. In October, Miss Nancy
Burbidge of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research
Organization, Canberra, Australia, studied for three weeks on the
identification of introduced grasses in Australia, especially species
of Paspalum. During June, V. D. Zotov, Botany Division, Depart-
ment of Scientific and Industrial Research, Christchurch, New Zea-
land, examined the collections of New Zealand grasses in the her-
barium, especially types, in preparing for a monograph of the family
in New Zealand. Dr. Kittie F. Parker, formerly of the University of
Arizona, continued her research on the western flora and in the family
Compositae. Others who spent short periods at the herbarium were
L. A. Garay, University of Toronto, Arland T. Hotchkiss, University
of Sydney, Australia, J. M. Idrobo, Instituto de Ciencias Naturales,
Bogoté, Colombia, and Antonio Krapovickas, Buenos Aires,
Argentina.

More than 750 persons visited the herbarium, usually seeking
scientific information. The collections of the department continue
to be an important source of reference material for staff members of
other Government agencies, particularly the Department of Agricul-
ture and the Department of the Interior. Thirteen informal loans
with 2,821 specimens were made to local agencies, mostly to the Depart-
ment of Agriculture.
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 37

Geology

Mineralogy and petrology.—Several collateral problems connected
with the study of the mineralogical nature of Meso-American jade
have occupied the attention of Head Curator W. F. Foshag. One
of these relates to the Aztec stone chalchihuitl, and the identification
of its varieties as defined by the early chroniclers. A study of a newly
discovered occurrence of jadeite in Guatemala has been completed.
It probably was a source of jade for some of the ancient indigenous
cultures of Meso-America. A study of a new mineral species, an
oxychloride of aluminum, from the fumaroles of Paricutin volcano
has been completed. Dr. Foshag continued as president of the Section
of Volcanology, Petrology, and Geochemistry of the American Geo-
physical Union.

A study of the hexahedrite type of meteorites has been undertaken
by Associate Curator EK. P. Henderson to determine accurately their
chemical composition and to compare their metallographic structures
and their accessory minerals with a view to determining if these
meteorites have a common origin. He is also studying the occurrence,
composition, properties, and associations of the accessory mineral
cohenite, an iron carbide, in order to learn if there is any correlation
between its presence and the composition of the meteorite.

Dr. S. H. Perry, associate in mineralogy, at the close of the year
presented to the Museum his library of meteorite publications and the
remainder of his meteorite collection. His large 9-album collection
of photomicrographs of iron meteorite structures, previously presented
to the Museum, will be a source of information for many years to come.

A study of the origin of ore-forming solutions of the Iron Springs
district, Utah, continues to occupy the efforts of Dr. George Switzer,
associate curator, who is working in collaboration with Dr. J. Hoover
Mackin of the U.S. Geological Survey. The results of this investiga-
tion should prove useful in the exploration of these economically
important iron ore deposits and others of a similar nature. An in-
vestigation of the nature of the minerals composing the tests of various
fossil micro-organisms, carried out in collaboration with Dr. A. J.
Boucot of the U. S. Geological Survey, has been completed. Work
has been begun on an investigation of two new mineral species; para-
damite, a zinc arsenate from México; and galeite, a sodium fluoride-
sulfate from California. Dr. Switzer prepares, annually, a review of
the diamond industry, widely used by government agencies, commer-
cial organizations, and others interested in the many phases of the
diamond industry. He also prepares, in collaboration with Mr. R. T.
Thompson of the U. S. Bureau of Mines, the Gem Stone Chapter of
the Minerals Year Book.
38 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1955

Dr. John P. Marble, associate in mineralogy, as chairman of the
Committee on the Measurement of Geologic Time, of the National Re-
search Council, prepared the annual summary on the advances in
radiochemistry and geochronology for 1953-1954, including a compre-
hensive annotated bibliography of the works published in these fields
during the year. He also continued as general secretary, and chair-
man of the editorial and publications committee of the American
Geophysical Union, and as official delegate attended the 10th general
assembly of the International Union of Geodesy and Geophysics at
Rome.

On June 6, 1955, the Department of Geology lost, through death,
the valuable services and stimulating associations of Dr. Marble, who
had. served as research associate in the division of mineralogy and
petrology since 1948.

Invertebrate palentology and paleobotany.—Karly in the year
Curator G. A. Cooper, working in collaboration with Dr. H. M. Muir-
Wood of the British Museum, completed a revision of the genera of
the Productacea, a large group of fossil spiny brachiopods. ‘The work
includes both the taxonomy of the group, and discussions concern-
ing morphological variations, paleoecology, and life habits and proc-
esses. In addition, Dr. Cooper described a collection of brachiopods
from Arizona, a rare occurrence in American Cretaceous rocks.

Work was continued by Dr. Cooper on the description of Permian
brachiopods from Oregon. ‘This fauna is related to the Russian Per-
mian forms, and is new to the United States. In preparation for his
study of the Permian brachiopods of the Glass Mountains of Texas,
considerable time was spent in the sorting and organizing of the ma-
terial obtained by the etching of the silicified forms from limestone
blocks. The superb material recovered will yield much information
on the anatomy of the animals, their life habits, and their ecological
environment.

Associate Curator Alfred R. Loeblich, Jr., and Research Associate
Helen Tappan Loeblich have worked continuously on the Treatise of
Invertebrate Paleontology (Foraminifera), a natural classification of
the Foraminifera based on phylogeny and geological occurrence, with
definitive descriptions of all known genera, each description accom-
panied by precisely executed drawings. About 1,500 genera of smaller
Foraminifera will be included in the work. In addition, they have
published a revision of some Recent foraminiferal genera. Mrs. Loe-
blich has completed studies on Jurassic Foraminifera from Alaska,
and has in preparation a volume on Cretaceous Foraminifera.

Associate Curator David Nicol completed and published an analysis
of the Arctic marine pelecypod fauna and its significance in ecological
interpretation, and is continuing morphological studies of the bizarre
and unusual Paleozoic genus Conocardium.
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 39

Dr. J. B. Knight, research associate in paleontology, continued work
on the Treatise of Invertebrate Paleontology (Gastropoda), a classi-
fication with definitive descriptions and illustrations of all known
genera of Paleozoic gastropods. He was assisted in this by Drs. Roger
Batten and Ellis Yochelson.

The studies of Dr. R. §. Bassler, research associate in paleontology,
on Ordovician cystids have been delayed by a serious accident suffered
by him. His project is almost completed.

Vertebrate paleontology.—Curator C. L. Gazin completed and sub-
mitted for publication a description and taxonomic revision of the
upper Eocene artiodactyls, or even-toed ungulates, of North America.
These include 6 families, 18 genera, and 35 species. It isin the Hocene
epoch that the origins of the artiodactyl families are to be found, and
this study will help to determine the phylogenetic sequences leading to
the better known Oligocene forms. Dr. Gazin also completed his
description of the Paleocene mammalian fauna of the Bison Basin
in Wyoming, a study that yielded 19 new species and 2 new genera.
During the early summer of 1954 Dr. Gazin, accompanied by Mr. F. L.
Pearce, carried on field work in the Paleocene beds of the Bison Basin
of Wyoming, and the lower Eocene Knight formation of the Washakie,
Great Divide, and upper Green River Basins.

Dr. Gazin continued to serve as chairman of the Eocene subcom-
mittee of the committee of the Society of Vertebrate Paleontology
preparing a new “Nomenclature and Correlation of the North Ameri-
can Continental Tertiary,” a cooperative project, the results of which
will be published by the Geological Society as a memoir.

Associate Curator D. H. Dunkle, who has been engaged on the plan-
ning of the new exhibition hall of lower vertebrate fossils, made some
progress on his program of research, which includes as its major proj-
ects the detailed study of the fossil fish fauna of the middle Hocene
Green River shales, and the Mesozoic origins of teleostean or common
fishes from holostean, or ray-finned fishes. A description of a remark-
able specimen of a pleuropterygian shark preserved 3-dimensionally in
a phosphate nodule from the upper Devonian Chattanooga shale of
Tennessee was completed in collaboration with Dr. Stuart W. Maher
of the Tennessee Geological Survey. Working in collaboration with
Dr. Bobb Schaeffer he also completed a study of sharks, lung-fishes,
and ray-finned fishes represented in collections from seven new oc-
currences in Brazil.

During the summer of 1954 Dr. Dunkle carried on a search for fossil
fish and reptiles near Paris, Idaho; Cody, Wyo., and Logan and Mon-
ticello, Utah. Later, with Exhibits Worker Donald Guadagni, he
40 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1955

explored the Cretaceous chalk beds of Kansas for fine examples of fos-
sil fish and other vertebrate forms suitable for exhibition.

Research by outside investigators——Among investigators other
than those of government agencies, who have assisted the department
of geology with the study of Museum material, and who in turn have
received help from the staff and the collections, are: Dr. T. W.
Amsden, The Johns Hopkins University, who is studying a collection
of Silurian (St. Clair) brachiopods from Arkansas; Dr. Franco
Rasetti, of the same university, who continued his studies of Cam-
brian fossils; Dr. Norman D. Newell, American Museum of Natural
History, who is monographing a large collection of silicified pelecy-
pods from west Texas belonging to the National Museum; Dr. Harry
B. Whittington, Harvard University, who is now busy with studies of
family groups, other than those described in 1954, represented in the
silicified residues from Strasburg, Va.; Drs. Roger Batten and Ellis
Yochelson, who as graduate students of Columbia University collabo-
rated with Dr. Knight on Permian gastropod studies; Dr. Francis G.
Stehli, California Institute of Technology, who is studying some tere-
bratuloid brachiopod collections; Dr. A. K. Miller, University of
Iowa, who is studying the Museum’s large collection of Permian am-
monoids from the Glass Mountains; and Dr. C. O. Dunbar, Yale Uni-
versity, who is studying the fusulines (Foraminifera) from the
Permian of the Glass Mountains, Tex.

The following students of Foraminifera visited and studied at the
Museum: Dr. Cesare Emiliani, University of Chicago; Dr. J. C.
Troelsen, University of Copenhagen; Noel Brown, Jr., Cuban Gulf
Oil Company, Havana, Cuba; Dr. Hans Bolli, Pointe-a-Pierre, Trin-
idad, B. W. I.; Mr. Y. Nagappa, Digboi, Assam, India; Dr. Eugenie
Montanaro-Gallitelli, University of Modena, Italy; Dr. Frank E.
Lozo, Houston, Tex.; and Dr. L. W. LeRoy, Golden, Colo.

Investigators who made use of the vertebrate paleontology collec-
tions during the past year to further their research projects include:
Dr. J. LeRoy Kay, Carnegie Museum in Pittsburgh, who made ex-
tensive comparisons of his important collection of Green River Eocene
mammals from Utah, with the Museum’s extensive Bridger Hocene
collections from Wyoming; Gordon Edmond, of the Royal Ontario
Museum, who studied and photographed a number of specimens per-
tinent to his investigation of tooth succession in the reptiles; Dr.
John Clark of Princeton University, who reviewed Oligocene and
Miocene artiodactyl] materials and examined the Chadronian mam-
mals in connection with his studies of faunal sequences in the Chadron
formation.

INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 41

Kingineering and Industries

Engineering.—A descriptive account of the history of the develop-
ment of power machinery was prepared by Dr. R. P. Multhauf, asso-
ciate curator, in connection with the design of the power machinery
hall, for use as a guide to this hall. He is engaged in the first stage
of the preparation of a catalog of the metrology collection, and he
collaborated with Museum Aide Don H. Berkebile in research leading
to the design and construction of models of a number of power ma-
chines, plans of which no longer exist. ‘This research thus far has led
to the construction of models of a steam engine of John Fitch and a
boiler of Oliver Evans.

Associate Curator S. H. Oliver’s manuscript, “The First Quarter-
Century of Steam Locomotives in North America: Remaining Relics
and Operable Replicas, with a Catalog of Locomotive Models in the
U.S. National Museum,” was completed in March and submitted for
publication.

Kenneth M. Perry, associate curator of electricity, continued identi-
fying, documenting, and describing the electrical measuring instru-
ments in the Museum collections. A number of the more than 50 such
devices treated during the year represented part of the large collec-
tion recently presented to the Museum by the Western Electrical
Instrument Corp.

Crafis and industries.—Curator William N. Watkins continued his
investigation of woods used in old and rare furniture in an effort to
determine their origins. He assisted Colonial Williamsburg and The
Henry Francis Du Pont Winterthur Museum in their quest for accu-
rate determinations of wood origins, and give similar assistance to the
Corcoran Gallery of Art and the Abby Aldrich Rockefeller Folk Art
Collection, Williamsburg.

In her search for additional unpublished information on the Schol-
field wool carding machine of 1793, Assistant Curator Grace L. Rogers
visited the Baker Library, Harvard University, the Rhode Island His-
torical Society, and old Slater Mill, allin New England, and the Henry
Ford Museum, Dearborn, Mich. Original manuscripts were reviewed
and old company records searched for verification of its history.
Several Scholfield machines examined will be described in the article
on the subject.

Edward C. Kendall, associate curator, investigated the European
origins of 17th- and 18th-century American plow types. Aided by
a generous grant’ from Deere and Company he visited a number of
historical and technical museums in western Europe. His examina-
tion of these collections, particularly in Scandinavia, Holland, Ger-
many, and Great Britain, brought out the fact that American plows
42 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1955

in use in the 18th century were distinctively different from their Kuro-
pean counterparts. The information acquired will be presented in
articles on the origin of American plow types, on the Hohenheim plow
model collection, on the original appearance of the John Deere steel
plow of 1837, and on the types of plows used on the Mount Vernon
estate of George Washington.

Medicine and public health.—Curator George B. Griffenhagen com-
pleted his catalog of apothecary shop restorations on exhibition in the
United States. The catalog, which included descriptions of 28 resto-
rations from Massachusetts to California, was published by the Ameri-
can Pharmaceutical Association under the title of “Karly American
Pharmacies,” and was distributed to all members of the American
Institute of the History of Pharmacy. Also completed was a study,
carried on in cooperation with Dr. Waldo Wedel, curator of archeol-
ogy, that commenced as an investigation into the significance of ‘Tur-
lington’s Balsam bottles found in archeological sites in the Dakotas.
One of the early popular patent medicines used in the colonies, Tur-
lington’s Balsam of Life is an outstanding example of the beginnings
of patent medicines in America.

Curator Griffenhagen gave considerable attention to the history
and evolution of pharmaceutical equipment such as the pill machine,
mortar and pestle, pharmaceutical balance, and the drug container.
Few pieces of pharmaceutical equipment have been treated in separate
historical studies such as these, and the project, which will include
a descriptive catalog of the pharmaceutical collections in the division
of medicine and public health and an annotated bibliography, will
provide a much needed reference source to aid in documenting antique
pharmaceutical equipment.

Other research in progress includes a history of the mechanical
heart, being written with the cooperation of Calvin H. Hughes, re-
search biologist at the Research Laboratories Division of General
Motors Corporation, and a study of the medical equipment and sup-
ples of the American Revolutionary Armies, undertaken in coopera-
tion with Robert Davis of the Medical Museum of the Armed Forces
Institute of Pathology.

Graphic aris.—Curator Jacob Kainen continued his study of the
color prints of John Baptist Jackson, a work that will trace the
origins of color printing in the 18th century and will emphasize
Jackson’s importance as an artist and color printer. It will also pro-
vide a complete descriptive catalog of his work to replace the incom-
plete standard catalog published in 1856.

Mr. Kainen also continued his research into the origins and develop-
ment of photomechanical processes, a study intended to provide a
single reference work for the diverse and complicated history of half-
tone printing.
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 43

Alexander J. Wedderburn, associate curator, completed a study of
a hitherto unknown intermittent movement for motion picture pro-
jectors invented by Thomas Armat, noted for his inventions in this
field. Mr. Wedderburn interviewed members of the inventor’s family
and a machinist closely associated with Armat during the period in
which he made his intermittent movement devices. The study is
scheduled for publication in the Journal of the Society of Motion
Picture and Television Engineers. He continued work on his history
of the camera and served as consultant to the Navy Department in the
preparation of a script for a film on the origins of the motion picture.

Research by outside investigators.—In increasing numbers, outside
investigators used the collections and called upon the staff for assist-
ance on a wide variety of subjects, as shown by these examples.

Ruth Laudlu, textile designer and weaver, Oslo, Norway, studied
the textile collection, especially examples of early American designs.
Margaret Stratton, Russellville, Ky., is assisting Miss Rogers in locat-
ing information on a quilted counterpane received by the Museum
several years ago.

K. Ramesh Rao, assistant wood technologist, Forest Research In-
stitute, Dehra Dun, India, investigated the cataloging system, study
collection, and exhibition hall of the section of wood technology and
discussed future exchanges and mutual assistance. Professor Weifang
Chu, Forestry College, National Taiwan University, Formosa, pres-
ently at the College of Forestry, State University of New York,
completing a study of the woods of the Coniferae, examined the
Museum collection of woods.

Assistance was given George Bender, editor, and Robert Thom,
artist, of Parke, Davis and Company, in their research associated with
the History of Pharmacy in Pictures; the Armed Forces Medical
Library for their “Exhibit of the Month”; Professor Harvey Young
of Emory University, on the development of patent medicines in
America; and Dr. Philip V. Hammond of Howard University, who
presented a paper before the Plant Science Seminar on the national]
materia-medica collection at the U. S. National Museum.

Jay E. Gordon, of the Naval Photographic Center, and James H.
Culver, of the Library of Congress, made studies of the photographic
collections in connection with an official Navy film; Edmond Archer
of the Corcoran School of Art was assisted in research concerning
the camera obscura and its possible use by the 17th century Dutch
painter Vermeer, and Col. Willard Webb, Library of Congress, was
assisted in preparing material for a television show concerning the
history of photography.
44 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1955

History

Mendel L. Peterson, curator of military and naval history, con-
tinued his field investigation in the Florida Straits area during the
months of May and June. His work, carried on under the sponsor-
ship of Mr. Edwin A. Link on board the vessel The Sea Diver, this
year fell into two categories: investigation of Spanish wreck sites on
Silver Bank, and retracing the possible route taken by Columbus in
the Bahamas during his first voyage to America.

His study in the markings and decoration of museum cannon was
continued. During the year he photographed and measured cannon
at Baltimore and Annapolis, Md.; Nassau, Bahamas; Grand Turk
Island; Le Citadelle and Port-au-Prince, Haiti; and Havana, Cuba.

Margaret W. Brown, associate curator of civil history, prepared a
booklet on The First Ladies Hall which was published for the open-
ing of the hall. Her illustrated description of the gown of Mrs.
Harry S. Truman was published as a supplement to her “Dresses of
the First Ladies of the White House.”

Curator of Numismatics Stuart Mosher continued his investiga-
tions of American medalists, the works of the die engraver Edward
Stabler, the Hugh Miller collection of Korean charms and amulets,
and the multiple thalers of Brunswick-Luneburg in the Paul A.
Straub collection.

Franklin R. Bruns, Jr., associate curator of philately continued his
research in several fields, among which were sources of United States
postage stamp design and the postal history of Liberia.

Research by outside investigators.—Among the outside investiga-
tors working in the Department of History were Dr. F. M. Fryxell, a
Guggenheim Fellow who is preparing a history of the Dr. Frederick
V. Hayden Expedition; Emerson Brooks, Department of Agriculture;
Lt. Col. George Chinn, Navy Bureau of Ordnance; representatives of
the Bureau of Internal Revenue who examined specimens in the col-
lections bearing on questions relating to the National Fire Arms Act;
representatives of the Department of the Army, Office of the Chief
of Military History; Mr. Herbert Campbell of the Remington Arms
Company; Mr. Harold Peterson of the National Park Service; Con-
gressman Louis C. Rabault of Michigan; representatives of the Amer-
ican Legion; representatives of the Corcoran Gallery of Art; Lt. Col.
John H. Magruder, curator of the Museum of the Marine Corps.
Publications

In addition to an Annual Report, the National Museum issued 10
publications based on research in the national collections. Of these,
2 were in the Bulletin series and 8 were in the Proceedings series. The
titles of these publications are listed below.

At the close of the year 17 Proceedings papers and the following
four Bulletins were in press: “American Moths of the Subfamily
Phycitinae,” by Carl Heinrich; “The Honey-Guides,” by Herbert
Friedmann; “Nearctic Wasps of the Subfamilies Pepsinae and Cero-
palinae,” by Henry Townes; and “Checklist of the Coleopterous In-
sects of Mexico, Central America, the West Indies, and South Amer-
ica,” Part 6, by Richard E. Blackwelder.

Publications by the staff, including honorary members, totaled 144.
These publications, listed on pages 47 to 58, were distributed as
follows:

Department Publications Department Publications
INTE OAT ONO PL Gt ERESH HO yee gph oe Re apegPe aes q
Botamyaee= See be eet Se Peeve VACGY Oy COA area Wa ie i ha 57
Engineering and Industries_______ 9 ——
Geol Osa ae ee NE 21 FASO Gell eee i rhs ee Seen 144

Publications of the United States National
Museum

July 1954 through June 1955

REPORTS
The United States National Museum annual report for the year ended June 30,
1954. Svo,ix+i100pp. January 14, 1955.
BULLETINS

Bulletin 205. List of North American Recent mammals, by Gerrit S. Miller, Jr.,
and Remington Kellogg. S8vo,xii+954pp. March 3, 1955.

Bulletin 206. Frogs of southeastern Brazil, by Doris M. Cochran. S8vo, xi + 423
pp., 28 figs., front: and 34 pls. June 22, 1955.

45
A6 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1955

PAPERS PUBLISHED IN SEPARATE FORM

From VOLUME 103 OF THE PROCEEDINGS

No. 3334. A supplement to W. M. Tattersall’s review of the Mysidacea of the
United States National Museum, by Albert H. Banner. Pp. 575-588. July 8,
1954.

No. 3335. On the anatomy and relationships of glossy cuckoos of the genera
Chrysococcyx, Lampromorpha, and Chalcites, by Andrew J. Berger. Pp.
585-597, figs. 69-71. January 19, 1955.

No. 3336. Supplement and corrections to J. A. Hyslop’s genotypes of the
elaterid beetles of the world, by Ross H. Arnett, Jr. Pp. 599-619. April
14, 1955.

No. 3337. Neotropical Miridae, LXIV: New bugs of the subfamily Cylapinae
(Hemiptera), by José C. M. Carvalho. Pp. 621-632, figs. 72-76, pl. 15.
March 2, 1955.

FRoM VOLUME 104 OF THE PROCEEDINGS

No. 3338. Revision of the vittate species of the chrysomelid beetle genus Dis-
onycha from the Americas south of the United States, by Doris Holmes
Blake. Pp. 1-86, figs. 1-75. April 4, 1955.

No. 3339. A revision of the Nearctic species of the beetle genus Meligethes
(Nitidulidae), by Alan M. Easton. Pp. 87-103, figs. 76-78. February 25,
1955.

No. 3340. Four new Venezuelan reduviid bugs, by J. Maldonado Capriles. Pp.
105-118, figs. 79, 80. March 28, 1955.

No. 3341. Some polyclad flatworms from the West Indies and Florida, by Libbie
H. Hyman. Pp. 115-150, figs. 81-89. May 2, 1955.
Publications by Members of the Staff
of the

United States National Museum
July 1954 through June 1955

Abbott, R. Tucker. New Gulf of Mexico
gastropods (Terebra and Ocenebra).
Nautilus, vol. 68, No. 2. pp. 37-44,
pl. 2, October 1954.

Bartsch, Paul. The pyramidellid mol-
lusks of the Pliocene deposits of
North St. Petersburg, . Florida.
Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 125, No.
2, pp. 1-102, 18 pls., May 1955.

Bayer, Frederick M. Anthozoa: Alcyo-
naria. In Gulf of Mexico, its origin,
waters, and marine life, Paul S.
Galtsoff (editor). Fishery Bull. 89,
Fish and Wildlife Service, pp. 279—
284, 1954.

——. New names for two genera of
Octocorallia. Journ. Washington
Acad. Sci., vol. 44, No. 9, p. 296, 1954.

Benn, James H. The mineralogy of fos-
Sils. Rocks and Minerals, vol. 30,
No. 1-2, pp. 3-20, pls. 1-12, January—
February 1955.

Boving, Adam G. Mature larvae of the
beetle-family Anobiidae. Danske
Biol. Medd., vol. 22, No. 2, pp. 298,
illustr., 1954.

Brown, Margaret W. The story of the
Declaration of Independence desk and
how it came to the U. S. National
Museum. Ann. Rep. Smithsonian
Inst., 1958, pp. 455-462, 5 pls. 1954.

Dress of Mrs. Harry S. Truman,

supplement to ‘‘Collection of dresses

of the First Ladies of the White

House,” Smithsonian Inst. Publ. 4060,

5 pp., 2 pls., 1954.

The First Ladies Hall. Smith-

sonian Inst. Publ. 4212, 9 pp., 8 pls.,

1955.

359492—55——_5

Brown, Roland W. Composition of
scientific words, a manual of meth-
ods and a lexicon of materials for the
practice of logotechnics, 882 pp., Sep-
tember 1954.

Bruns, Franklin R., Jr. Plans for co-
operation among philatelic libraries.
National Philatelic Museum ‘“Li-
brary” Book, vol. 8, No. 1, pp. 16-17,
1955.

— and Griifenhagen, George. Phar-
maceutical philately. American In-
stitute of History of Pharmacy, 2 pp.,
1955.

Carriker, M. A., Jr. Report on a collec-
tion of Mallophaga, largely Mexican

(Part I). Florida Ent., vol. 37, No.
3, pp. 139-146, illustr., September
1954.

—. Report on a collection of Mallo-
phaga, largely Mexican (Part I), con-
tinued. Florida Hntom., vol. 37, No.
4, pp. 191-207, illustr., December
1954.

—. Studies in Neotropical Mallo-
phaga. (13)—The Menoponidae of
the Neotropical Psittacidae. Rey.
Brasileira Entom., vol. 2, pp. 145-178,
illustr., December 1954.

Notes on the occurrence and dis-
tribution of certain species of Colom-
bian birds. Novedades Colombianas,
pp. 48-64, 1955.

—. The Ischnocera of the Trogoni-
dae. Studies in Neotropical Mallo-
phaga (XV). Novedades Colombi-
anas, pp. 87-100, June 1955.

47
48

Chace, Fenner A., Jr. Two new sub-
terranean shrimps (Decapoda: Cari-
dea) from Florida and the West
Indies, with a revised key to the
American species. Journ. Washing-
ton Acad. Sci., vol. 44, No. 10, pp. 818-
324, 2 figs., 1954.

—. Stomatopoda. In Guif of Mex-
ico, its origin, waters, and marine life,
Paul S. Galtsoff (editor). Fishery
Bull. 89, Fish and Wildlife Service,
pp. 449-450, 1954.

Clark, Austin H. Echinoderms (other
than holothurians) of the Gulf of
Mexico. In Gulf of Mexico, its origin,
waters, and marine life, Paul §.
Galtsoff (editor). Fishery Bull. 89,
Fish and Wildlife Service, pp. 373-
379, 1954.

—. Records of Indo-Pacific echino-
derms. Pacific Sci., vol. 8, No. 3, pp.
243-263, 1954.

Ciarke, J. F. Gates. The correct name
for a pest of cacao (Lepidoptera,
Stenomidae). Proc. Entom. Soe.
Washington, vol. 56, pp. 266-267,
1954.

The correct name for a pest of
legumes (Lepidoptera, Olethreut-
idea). Proc. Entom. Soe. Washing-
ton, vol. 56, pp. 8309-310, 1954.

——. Eustalodes anthivora (Gelechi-
idae, Lepidoptera), a new pest of
Achras sapota in the Philippines.
The Philippine Agriculturist, vol. 37,
pp. 450-451, pl. 1, 1954.

—. Catalogue of the type specimens
of Microlepidoptera in the British
Museum (Natural History) described
by Edward Meyrick, vol. 1, vii+332
pp., 1 fig., 4 pls., 1955 ; and vol. 2, iii+-
531 pp., 2638 pls., 1955.

Cochran, Doris M. Frogs of southeast-
ern Brazil. U.S. Nat. Mus. Bull. 206,
Xxvi+423 pp., 28 figs., front. and 34
pls., June 1955.

Conger, Paul S. A new genus and
species of plankton diatom from the
Florida Straits. Smithsonian Misc.
Coll., vol. 122, No. 14, pp. 1-8, pls. 1-4,
1954.

Present status of diatom studies
in the Gulf of Mexico. Jn Gulf of

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1955

Mexico, its origin, waters, and marine
life. Fishery Bull. 89, Fish and Wild-
life Service, pp. 227-232, October
1954.

Cooper, G. A. New genera of Middle
Paleozoic brachiopods. Journ. Pa-
leont., vol. 29, No. 1, pp. 45-68, pls. 11—
14, January 1955.

New brachiopods from Cuba.
Journ. Paleont., vol. 29, No. 1, pp. 64—
70, pl. 15, January 1955.

— and Stehli, F. G. New Genera of
Permian brachiopods from West
Texas. Journ. Paleont., vol. 29, No.
3, pp. 469-474, pls. 52-54, May 1955.

Deignan, H. G. Review of Austin and
Kuroda’s “The Birds of Japan—
Their status and distribution.” Bird-
Banding, vol. 25, No. 2, p. 82, April
1954.

Review of Smythies’ “The Birds
of Burma.” The Auk, vol. 71, p. 337,
July 1954.

Review of Lockley’s “Shearwa-

ters” and “Puffins.” Atlantic Natu-

ralist, vol. 10, No. 2, p. 102, November—

December 1954.

On the nomenclature of the Him-
alayan goldcrests. Bull. Brit. Or-
nith. Club., vol. 74, No. 9, pp. 103-
104, December 1954.

—. Remarks on Picus vittatus Vieil-
lot and some of its allies. The Ibis,
vol. 97, No. 1, pp. 18-24, January 1955.

Review of Schorger’s ‘The Pas-

senger Pigeon.” Atlantic Naturalist,

vol. 10, No. 5, p. 282, May—August

1955.

Eastern Asiatic races of the bee-
eater, Merops philippinus Linnaeus.
Bull. Brit. Ornith. Club., vol. 75, No. 5,
pp. 57-59, May 1955.

Dunkle, David H. (See under Fries,
Carl Jr.)

Evans, Clifford. New archeological in-
terpretations in northeastern South
America. In “New Interpretations
of Aboriginal American Culture His-
tory,” 75th Anniversary volume, An-
throp. Soc. Washington, pp. 82-94,
1955.

A ceramic study of Virginia ar-

cheology. With appendix “Analysis

PUBLICATIONS

of projectile points and large blades,”
by C. G. Holland. Bull. 160, Bur.
Amer. Ethnol., pp. 1-164, April 1955.

— and Meggers, Betty J. Life
among the Wai Wai Indians. Nat.
Geogr. Mag., vol. 107, No. 3, pp. 329-
346, illustr., March 1955.

Ewers, John C. The Indian trade of
the upper Missouri before Lewis and
Clark: an interpretation. Missouri
Hist. Soe. Bull., vol. 10, No. 4, pp.
429-446, 1954.

Charles Bird King, painter of

Indian visitors to the Nation’s capi-

tal. Ann. Rep. Smithsonian Inst.,

1953, pp. 463-473, 8 pls., 1954.

Chinook. (Signed article) HEn-
cyclopedia Americana, 1955 ed., p.
560.

——. Chippewa. (Signed article) En-
eyclopedia Americana, 1955 ed., pp.
564-565.

—. Problems and procedures in mod-
ernizing ethnological exhibits. Amer.
Anthrop., vol. 57, No. 1, pp. 1-12, 2
pls., 2 figs., February 1955.

The Bear Cult among the As-

siniboin and their neighbors of the

Northern Plains. Southwestern

Journ. Anthrop., vol. 11, No. 1, pp. 1—

14, 2 pls., 1 fig., Spring 1955.

The horse in Blackfoot Indian
culture, with comparative material
from other western tribes. Bur.
Amer. HEthnol., Bull. 159, pp. xv-+374,
17 pls., 33 figs., 1955.

Foshag, W. F. (See under Switzer,
George. )

Friedmann, Herbert. A revision of the
classification of the honey-guides, In-
dicatoridae. Ann. Mus. Congo Tervu-
ren, Zool. 1 (Miscellanea Zoologica
H. Schouteden), pp. 21-27, 1954.

Review of Chapin’s “The birds

of the Belgian Congo, Part 4.” The

Auk, vol. 71, No. 4, pp. 476-477, De-

cember 1954.

Review of Meinertzhagen’s “The
Birds of Arabia.” The Auk, vol. 72,
No. 1, pp. 97-98, January 1955.

Fries, Carl, Jr., Hibbard, Claude W.,
and Dunkle, David H. Barly Ceno-
zoic vertebrates in the Red Conglom-

49

erate at Guanajuato, Mexico. Smith-
sonian Mise. Coll., vol. 123, No. 7, pp.
1-25, 1 pl., 6 figs., 1955.

Gazin, C. Lewis. Activities of the di-
vision of vertebrate paleontology of
the U. S. National Museum. Soc.
Vert. Paleont. News. Bull., No. 42, pp.
9-10, 1954; No. 48, pp. 14-15, 1955,
No. 44, pp. 25-26, 1955.

Greene, Charles T. Larvae and pupae
of the genera Microdon and Mizo-
gaster (Diptera, Syrphidae). Trans.
Amer. Entom. Soc., vol. 81, pp. 1-20,
illustr., April 1955.

Griffenhagen, George B. Early Ameri-
ean pharmacies, a pictorial catalog
of apothecary shop restorations
which are on exhibition in the United
States. Amer. Pharmaceut. Assoc.,
23 pp., 29 figs., 1955.

——. The prescription file and journal
of the Daniel B. Smith pharmacy,
1822-23. Amer. Journ. Pharm., vol.
126, pp. 344-852, 3 figs.

——. Collector’s corner. Journ. Amer.
Pharmaceut. Assoc. (Practical ed.),
vol. 15, pp. 638, 678, 744, 3 figs., Oc-
tober—December 1954; vol. 16, pp. 46,
82, 151-153, 242, 276, January—May
1955.

——. Pharmaceutical history on view.
The Meyer Druggist, vol. 75, pp. 8-9,
24, 4 figs., June 1955.

(See also under Bruns, Franklin
R., Jr., and Wedel, Waldo R.)

Handley, Charles O., Jr. Nomenclature
of some Tertiary Chiroptera. Journ.
Mammalogy, vol. 36, No. 1, pp. 128
130, February 1955.

A new Pleistocene bat (Corynor-

hinus) from Mexico. Journ. Wash-

ington Acad. Sci., vol. 45, No. 2, pp.

48-49, March 1955.

A possible sight record of

Brewer’s blackbird for Virginia.

Raven, vol. 26, Nos. 2-3, pp. 40-42,

March 1955.

New bats of the genus Corynor-
hinus. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci.,
vol. 45, No. 4, pp. 147-149, May 1955.

Henderson, Edward P., and Perry, Stu-
art H. A discussion of the densities
of iron meteorites. Geochemica et

50

Cosmochemica Acta, vol. 6, Nos. 5-6,
pp. 221-240, December 1954.

Johnson, David H. (See under Miller,
Gerrit S., Jr.)

Judd, Neil M. The material culture of
Pueblo Bonito. Smithsonian Misc.
Coll., vol. 124 (whole vol.), pp. iv-+
398, 1954.

Byron Cummings, Archeologist

and explorer. Science, vol. 120, No.

8115, pp. 407-408, September 1954.

Byron Cummings, 1860-1954.

Amer. Anthrop., vol. 56, No. 5, pp. 871-

872, October 1954.

Byron Cummings, 1860-1954.
Amer. Antiq., vol. 20, No. 2, p. 154-157,
October 1954.

Kainen, Jacob. The evolution of the
halftone screen. Raus & Mann Press,
Ltd., Toronto, 17 pp., illustr., 1954.

Kellogg, Remington. (See under Miller,
Gerrit S., Jr.)

Knight, J. B., Batten, R. L., Yochelson,
E. L. Status of invertebrate paleon-
tology; 1953. V. Mollusca: Gastro-
poda. Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool., vol.
112, No. 3, 1954.

Laechner, E. A. Inquilinism and a new
record for Paramia bipunctata, a car-
dinal fish from the Red Sea. Copeia,
No. 1, pp. 58-54, 1955.

Leonard, Emery C. Acanthaceae. In
Flora of Trinidad and Tobago, vol. 2,
pt. 5, pp. 357-379, 1954.

Loeblich, A. R., Jr., and Leeblich, Helen
Tappan. HEmendation of the forami-
niferal genera Ammodiscus Reuss,
1862, and Involutina Terquem, 1862.
Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 44,
No. 10, pp. 806-3810, 1954.

New names for two foraminiferal

homonyms. Journ. Washington Acad.

Sci., vol. 44, No. 12, p. 384, 1954.

A revision of some glanduline
Nodosariidae (Foraminifera).
Smithsonian Mise. Coll., vol. 126, No.
3, pp. 1-9, 1 pl., 1955.

Marble, John Putnam. Report of the
Committee on the Measurement of
Geologic Time, 1953-1954. Publ. 333,
National Research Council, Washing-
ton, 193 pp., 1955.

TL

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1955

McClure, F. A. A new bamboo and a
new record for Guatemala. Phyto-
logia, vol. 5, No. 3, pp. 81, 82, 1954.

Megegers, Betty J. Environmental limi-
tation on the development of culture.
Amer. Anthrop., vol. 56, No. 5, pp. 801—
824, October 1954.

The coming of age of American

archeology. In “New Interpretations

of Aboriginal American Culture His-
tory,” 75th Anniversary volume, An-

throp. Soc. Washington, pp. 116-129.

1955.

(See also under Evans, Clifford.)

Meyer, Marvin C., and Moore, J. Percy.
Notes on Canadian leeches (Hirudi-
nea), with the description of a new
species. Wasmann Journ. Biol., vol.
12, No. 1, pp. 68-96, 2 pls., 1954.

Translation of Selensky’s ‘“Mor-
phological and systematic studies on
the Hirudinea. I. The organization
of the Ichthyobdellidae.” 160 pp., 41
figs., 8 pls., 1955.

Miller, Gerrit S. Jr. and Johnson,
David H. Bibliography of Gerrit
Smith Miller, Jr. Journ. Mammalogy,
vol. 35, No. 3, pp. 329-344, August
1954.

—— and Kellogg, Remington. List of
North American Recent Mammals.
U. S. Nat. Mus. Bull. 205, pp. 954,
March 1955.

Moore, J. Percy.
Meyer, Marvin C.)

Morrison, Joseph P. E. Some zoogeo-
graphic problems among brackish
water mollusks. Ann. Rep. Amer.
Malacol. Union, 1954, pp. 7-10, Janu-
ary 1955.

Conus eldredi, new name for one

of the poison cones. Journ. Washing-

ton Acad. Sci., vol. 45, No. 1, p. 32,

January 1955.

Notes on the genera Lanz and

Fisherola (Pulmonata). Nautilus,

vol. 68, No. 3, pp. 79-88, 4 figs., Janu-

ary 1955.

Notes on American cyclophorid

land snails, with two new names,

eight new species, three new genera,
and the family Amphicyclotidae, sepa-

(See also under

PUBLICATIONS

rated on animal characters. Journ.
Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 45, No. 5,
pp. 149-162, 31 figs., May 1955.

Morton, C. Y. A note on a species of
Cyathea. Amer. Fern Journ., vol. 44,
No. 4, pp. 147, 148, 1954.

Gesneriaceae. Jn Flora of Trin-
idad and Tobago, vol. 2, pt. 5, pp. 801—
315, 1954.

——. Notes on Hlaphoglossum, III.
The publication of Hlaphoglossum
and Rhipidopteris, Amer. Fern
Journ., vol. 45, No. 1, pp. 11-14, 1955.

and Neidorf, Charles. Polypo-

dium vulgare var. virginianum.

Amer. Fern Journ., vol. 44, No. 3,

pp. 111-114, pl. 12, 1954.

and Neidorf, Charles. The hay-
scented fern, Dennstaedtia punciilo-
bula. Amer. Fern Journ., vol. 44,
No. 2, pp. 65-68, pl. 7, 1954.

—— and Neidorf, Charles. The north-
ern beech-fern. Amer. Fern Journ.,
vol. 45, No. 1, pp. 17-19, pl. 2, 1955.

Multhauf, Robert P. John of Rupe-
seissa and the origin of medical
chemistry. Isis, vol. 45, pt. 4, No. 142,
pp. 359-67, December 1954.

——, J.B. Val Helmont’s reformation
of the Galenic theory of digestion.
Bull. Hist. Med., vol. 29, No. 2, pp.
154-63, March—April 1955.

Nicol, David. Morphology of Astar-
tella, a primitive heterodont pelecy-
pod. Journ. Paleont., vol. 29, No. 1,
pp. 155-158, 4 figs., January 1955.

An analysis of the arctic marine
pelecypod fauna. Nautilus, vol. 68.
No. 4, pp. 115-122, 1955.

Oliver, Smith Hempstone. Balzer ro-
tary. Motorsport, vol. 5, No. 5, p. 56,
October 1954.

Perry, Stuart H.
son, Hdward P.)

Peterson, Mendel L. History under the
sea. Smithsonian Inst., Publ. 4174,
17 pp., 7 figs., 1954.

Marine archeology. The Mili-
tary Engineer, vol. 47, No. 315, pp.
119-21, 4 pls. January—February
1955.

Rehder, Harald A. Mollusks. Jn Gulf
of Mexico, its origin, waters, and ma-

(See under Hender-

51

rine life, Paul S. Galtsoff (editor).
Fishery Bull. 89, Fish and Wildlife
Service, pp. 469-474, 1954.

Rudd, Velva E. Centrolobium (Legum-
inosae): Validation of a specific
name and a brief review of the genus.
Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 44,
No. 9, pp. 284-288, figs. 1, 2, 1954.

Botanical contributions of the
Lewis and Clark expedition. Journ.
Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 44, No. 11,
pp. 351-3856, 1 fig., 1954.

Schmitt, Waldo L. Copepoda. In
Gulf of Mexico, its origins, waters,
and marine life, Paul 8S. Galtsoff
(editor). Fishery Bull. 89, Fish and
Wildlife Service, pp. 439-442, 1954.

Schultz, Leonard P. Know your Aus-
tralian rainbowfishes. ‘Tropical Fish
Hobbyist, vol. 3, No. 4, pp. 35-37, 2
figs., 1955.

and Axelrod, H. R. The golden
tetra, a new species of Hemigrammus
from British Guiana. ‘Tropical Fish
Hobbyist, vol. 3, No. 3, pp. 4-7, 2 figs.,
1955.

Setzer, Henry W. Zoological contribu-
tions of the Lewis and Clark expedi-
tion. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci.,
vol. 44, No. 11, pp. 856-857, November
1954.

Setzler, Frank M. Henry Clyde She-
trone. Ohio Hist. Soc., pp. 1-11, 1955.

Shoemaker, Clarence R. Notes on the
amphipod crustacean Maeroides
thompsoni Walker. Journ. Washing-
ton Acad. Sci., vol. 45, No. 2, p. 59,
1955.

Amphipoda collected at the Arc-
tie Research Laboratory, Office of
Naval Research, Point Barrow,
Alaska, by G. E. MacGinitie. Smith-
sonian Mise. Coll., vol. 128, No. 1, pp.
78, 20 figs., 1955.

Smith, Lyman B. Um género novo de
Serofulariaiceas. Anais Bot. Herb.
“Barb. Rodr.,”’ No. 5, pp. 37, 38, 1 pl.,
1958.

Uma nova Buddleja do Rio

Grande do Sul. Sellowia, No. 6, pp.

301, 302, 1 pl., 1954.

Notes on Bromeliaceae, IV.

Phytologia, vol. 5, No. 2, pp. 33-50,

pis. 1-7, 1954.

52

Smith, Lyman B. Notes on Brome
liaceae, V. Phytologia, vol. 5, No. 5,
pp. 177-183, pls. 1, 2, 1955.

A new Navia from Colombia.
Bromeliad Soe. Bull., vol. 5, No. 2,
p. 19, 1 fig., 1955.

— and Downs, Robert J. Xyrida-
ceae from Brazil. Journ. Washing-
ton Acad. Sci., vol. 44, No. 10, pp. 311-
313, 1 fig., 1954.

— and Ferndndez-Pérez, Alvaro.
Revisio violacearum Colombiae. Cal-
dasia, vol. 6, No. 28, pp. 83-181, pls.
1-19, 1954.

and Schubert, Bernice G. Studies
in the Begoniaceae, IV. Journ. Wash-
ington Acad. Sci., vol. 45, No. 4, pp.
110-114, 1 fig., 1955.

Snodgrass, R. E. The dragonfly larva.
Smithsonian Mise. Coll., vol. 128, No.
2, Publ. 4175, 38 pp., illustr., Septem-
ber 1954.

Snyder, Thomas E. A new fossil ter-
nite, Parastylotermes frazieri, from
California (Isoptera, Rhinotermiti-
dae). Proe. Entom. Soc. Washington,
vol. 57, No. 2, pp. 79-80, illustr., April
1955.

Sohns, Ernest R. Cenchrus and Pen-
nisetum: Fascicle morphology. Journ.
Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 45, No. 5,
pp. 1385-143, figs. 1-48, 1955.

Stewart, T. D. American Institute of
Human Paleontology. (Editorial)
Science, vol. 120, No. 3106, p. 3, July
1954.

Comments (on J. N. Spuhler’s
paper entitled “Some problems in the
Physical Anthropology of the Ameri-
ean Southwest.”) Amer. Anthrop.,
vol. 56, No. 4, pp. 619-620, August 1954.
A method for analyzing and re-
producing pipe decorations. Quar-
terly Bull., Archeol. Soc. of Virginia,
vol. 9, No. 1, pp. 2-9, September 1954.
Sex determination of the skele-
ton by guess and by measurement.
Amer. Journ. Phys. Anthrop., n. s.,
vol. 12, No. 3, pp. 385-392, September
1954.

Metamorphosis of the joints of
the sternum in relation to age changes
in other bones. Amer. Journ. Phys.

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1955

Anthrop., n. s., vol. 12, No. 4, pp. 519—

5386, December 1954.

Basic readings on the identifica-

tion of human skeletons: estimation

of age. Special publication, Wenner-

Gren Foundation for Anthrop. Res.,

Inec., 347 pp., 1954. (Hdited jointly

with Mildred Trotter.)

The lower level human skull

(from the McKean site in northeast-

ern Wyoming). Southwestern Journ.

Anthrop., vol. 10, No. 4, pp. 457-459,

Winter 1954.

Physical anthropology. In
Handbook of Latin American Studies
No. 17, pp. 80-83 (1951). Univ.
Florida, 1954.

Switzer, George. 29th annual report
of the diamond industry, 1953. Jewel-
ers’ Circular-Keystone, vol. 124, 10
pp., 1954.

Memorial of Magnus Vonson.

Amer. Mineral., vol. 40, Nos. 3-4, pp.

286-288, 1 pl., March—April 1955.

and Foshag, W. F. Ordojfiezite,
zine antimonate, a new mineral from
Guanajuato, Mexico. Amer. Mineral.,
vol. 40, Nos. 1-2, pp. 6469, 1 fig.,
January—February 1955.

—, Pabst, A., and Sawyer, D. L.
Galeite, a new mineral from Searles
Lake, California. Cordilleran Sec-
tion of the Geol. Soc. America, pro-
gram of annual meeting, p. 22, 1955.

. Thompson, R. D., and Blanken-
baker, Eleanor. Gem Stones. U. 8S.
Bureau of Mines Minerals Yearbook,
1953, 10 pp.

Taylor, Walter W. An analysis of some
salt samples from the Southwest.
Plateau, vol. 27, No. 2, pp. 1-7, Oc-
tober 1954.

Walker, Egbert H. Important trees of
the Ryukyu Islands. (Ryukyu juyo
jumoku shi.) Spee. Bull. U. 8S. Civil
Adm. Ryukyu Isl., No. 3, pp. i-vi, 1-
350, figs. 1-209, January 1954.

Concerning the Myrsinaceae

(“Ardisiaceae’) of Japan I. Bot.

Mag. Tokyo, vol. 67, pp. 105-111; (II)

155-162; (III) 208-218; (IV) 248-

255; 1954.

PUBLICATIONS 53

Wedderburn, Alexander J. Picture materials for the practice of logo-
making. The Multiplier. Foreign technics.” The Auk, vol. 72, p. 101,
Operations Administration, No. 9, pp. January 1955.

5-6, March 1955. ——. The genus Lophodytes in the

Wedel, Waldo R. Archeological mate- Pleistocene of Florida. Condor, vol.
rials from the vicinity of Mobridge, 5%, Pp. 189, May-June 1955.

South Dakota. Anthrop. Paper No.Wetmore, A. Friedmann, H., and
45, Bur. Amer. Ethnol. Bull. 157, pp. others. Twenty-ninth Supplement to
69-188, 1955. The American Ornithologists’ Union

Cheek-List of North American Birds.

The Auk, vol. 71, pp. 310-312, July

nes 1954.
aborigines. Amer. Journ. P harm., wilson, Mildred Stratton. A new spe-
vol. 126, No. 12, pp. 409-415, 8 figs., cies of Diaptomus from Louisana and
December 1954. Texas with notes on the subgenus

Wetmore, A. Review of Brown’s Leptodiaptomus (Copepoda,  Cala-
“Composition of scientific words, noida). Tulane Studies Zool., vol. 2,
a manual of methods and a lexicon of No. 3, pp. 51-60, 8 figs., 1954.

— and Griffenhagen, George B.
An Mnglish balsam among the Dakota
Donors to the National Collections

(Hacept when otherwise indicated, the specimens were presented by individ-
ual donors or were transferred by the Bureaus of the Government in accordance

with law)

Abbott, Mrs. Donald P., Pacific Grove,
Calif.: 75 bottles of diatom material
(202764).

Abbott, Dr. Donald P.
Marine Station)

Abreu, M. R., Guaro, Oriente, Cuba:
Nautiloid cephalopod from Tertiary of
Cuba (200864).

Abriol, Col. R., Manila, P. I.: 1 horse-
shoe crab from Malampaya Sound,
Philippines (205828).

Academy of Natural Sciences of Phil-
adelphia, Philadelphia, Pa.: 1 paratype
of a new subspecies of land snail from
Texas (203844) ; 2,009 plants collected
by Dr. F. W. Pennell (205991, ex-
change).

Aczél, Dr. Martin L., Tucuman, Ar-
gentina: 6 fruit flies from South Amer-
ica (206065).

Adams, Dr. C. D., Achimota, Gold
Coast, Africa: 32 West African ferns
(202916, exchange).

Adams, Mrs. Scott, Chevy Chase, Md.:
218 pieces—costumes and costume ac-
cessories of late 18th and 19th centuries,
sofa, 2 tables of mid-19th century, 2
foot warmers, wine bottle dated “1845,”
and cast iron kettle (206516).

Aellen, Dr. Paul, Basel, Switzerland :
10 specimens of plants (193792).

Agriculture, U. S. Department of,
Washington, D. C.: Agricultural Re-
search Service: 77 grasses from India,
Pakistan and Afghanistan (202626) ;
81 miscellaneous plants (203054,
204604) ; 5 plants collected in Africa
(203328) ; 7 land snails from Cuba and
Hire (203908); 5,066 plants from Af-
ghanistan, India, and Iran collected by
Walter Koelz (205545). Hntomology
Research Branch: 5 land mollusks and

54

(See Hopkins

1 copepod from Azores (202992); 4
brackish water snails from Colombia
(204539) ; 4 land mollusks from Méx-
ico, Costa Rica, the Canal Zone, and
Panama (204794, 205826) ; 2 land snails
and 4 crustacea from Hcuador and Ma-
Geira (205151) ; 7 mollusks from Hon-
duras and St. Thomas, V. I. (206016) ;
35,239 insects from all over the world
(206527) ; (through W. H. Anderson)
18 amphipods with unknown grass
from the Azores (202442) ; (through Dr.
Paul W. Oman) 6 land snails from Lou-
isiana, Hcuador, Jamaica, and Trini-
dad (203271, 203456, 205368) ; 11 hermit
erabs collected from an airplane from
Wake Island by D. H. Bixby (205500) ;
(through G. F. Callaghan) 1 land snail
from Cuba (204008). Horticultural
Crops Research Branch: 575 erypto-
gams and 86 grasses (205426, 205546) ;
4 plants from Texas (206561) ; (through
Dr. H. S. Gentry) 10 plants (203706) ;
(through Dr. Donovan §8. Correll) 30
Mexican ferns (204395) ; (through Dr.
W. Andrew Archer) 87 ferns from India
(205146) ; (through Dr. John A. Steven-
son) $40 specimens of plants and 47
marine algae (205544, 205551); 242
miscellaneous bryophytes collected in
New York (205715). National Arbore-
tum: 360 grasses from Colombia and
India (193146) ; 330 eryptogams from
India (204556) ; 18 phanerogams from
Colombia and Puerto Rico (205716) ;
7 plants from various regions (204772).
Rubber Plant Investigations: 983 plants
eollected in Colombia by Dr. R. E.
Schultes (203546). Forest Service:
34,786 miscellaneous insects from North
America (206528); (through Doris
Hayes) 1 fern from Florida (204771).
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Agricultural and Mechanical College
of Texas, College Station, Texas: 32
specimens of miscellaneous grasses
(204592).

Akers, W. H., New Orleans, La.:
Foraminifer holotype from Recent of
Louisiana (203125).

Alabama Polytechnic Institute, Au-
burn, Ala.: (Through Prof. Donald EH.
Davis) 152 specimens of mosses from
Washington and Florida (205425).

Albanese, John S., Union, N. J.: 1
schallerite with hedyphane in granular
franklinite ore from Franklin, N. J.
(208806).

Aldrich, Dr. John W. (See Interior,
U. S. Department of, Fish and Wildlife
Service)

Alicata, Dr. Joseph E., Honolulu,
T. H.: 71 land and fresh-water mollusks
from Jordan (205945).

Allanson, B. R. (See Cape Town,
University of)

Allard, H. A., Arlington, Va.: 95
plants from Virginia (204606).

Allen, Robert D., Claremont, Calif.:
1 mineral from Death Valley Calif.
(206564).

Alpern, William J., Bridgeport, Conn. :
Pyrolusite from Tetagouche River near
Bathurst, New Brunswick, Canada
(204894).

Alvarez, Dr. José. (See Escuela Na-
cional De Ciencias Biologicas)

Amadon, Dr. Dean. (See American
Museum of Natural History)

Amano, Tetsuo, Naha, Okinawa: 120
plants collected on Okinawa (203157).

American Medical Association, Chi-
cago, Ill.: “Height and Weight” Exhibit
(205103).

American Museum of Natural His-
tory, New York, N. Y.: (Through J. T.
Nichols) 3 fishes, including 1 paratype,
from Florida (202826, exchange) ;
(through Dr. Mont A. Cazier) 131 bugs
from Bimini (203306) ; (through Pa-
tricia Vaurie) 1 paratype weevil from
México (203339) ; (through Dr. Norman
D. Newell) 2,633 specimens of fossil
plants, including 237 figured and type
Specimens, about 1,800 Paleozoic and
1,596 Mesozoic and Tertiary plants

ay)

(204745, exchange) ; (through Dr. Dean
Amadon) 4 Madagascar birds (205851,
exchange).

American Society of Photographic
Art: (Through Edward L. Bafford) 51
prints by members of the Society for
special exhibition during June 1955
(206534, loan).

American Viscose Corporation, Phil-
adelphia, Pa.: 1 xanthate crumb, 3
rayon fabries (202699).

Anaconda Copper Mining Co., Grants,
N. Mex.: (Through James Elias) 1
uranophane from Jurassic Todilto for-
mation, Valencia County, N. Mex.
(204599).

Ananthakrishnan, T. N., Madras,
South India: 8 slides of thrips from
India (202979, exchange).

Andersen, Dr. Harold V., Baton
Rouge, La.: 3 foraminiferal samples
from Eocene of Louisiana (204736, ex-

change).

Anderson, F. A. (See Burdick Corpo-
ration)

Anderson, Karen, Arlington, Va.:

Hand-painted, and decorated, china silk
fan, late 19th century (203722).
Anderson, Philip, Cambridge, Mass.:
(Through Dr. Arthur Boucot) 1 Mis-
sissippian crinoid from Greencastle,
Ind. (203772).
Anderson, W. H.
U. S. Department of)
Anonymous: Silk commemorative
handkerchief, World’s Columbian BHx-
position, 1893 (204097) ; 1 egg of ex-
tinct elephant bird (205515); 5 mis-
cellaneous notes of 1786, 1857, 1858 and
1862-1874 (206056) ; (through Library
of Congress) medallion in porcelain of
George Washington (205980).
Anisgard, Harry W., Maracaibo, Vene-
zuela: 8 microsamples Foraminifera
from Cretaceous, Eocene, Oligocene, and
Miocene of Venezuela (208161); 1
echinoid from Eocene of Venezuela
(208329).
Ansari, Dr. N., Teheran, Iran: 12
mosquitoes from Iran (202611).
Archbold Biological Station, Lake
Placid, Fla.: (Through L. J. Brass) 1
fern specimen from Florida (205435).

(See Agriculture,
56

Archer, Dr. W. Andrew (See Agri-
eulture, U. S. Department of).

Armstrong Cork Co., Lancaster, Pa.:
61 small glass and plastic prescription
containers (205915).

Armstrong, Mrs. Dorothy Hall,
Bronxville, N. Y.: 1 Hall typewriter
(205421).

Armstrong, Mrs. Edwin H., Rye
Beach, N. H.: 11 electronic devices
representing original inventions of
Major Armstrong (202631).

Arnaud, Dr. Paul H., San Francisco,
Calif.: 100 flies from Japan (206568).

Arnett, Dr. Ross H., Jr., Rochester,
N. Y.: 640 beetles from India (203080,
203332).

Arnold, Mrs. John M., Hast Orange,
N. J.: Washington Bi-Centennial silk
commemorative handkerchief (203576).

Arp, Mr. and Mrs. L. G., Elkhorn,
Wis.: (Through Mr. and Mrs. Arnold
Miles) 1 white cotton apron of late 19th
century with rhyme embroidered upon
it in red (206480).

Artia, Ltd. (See Czechoslovakia,
Government of)

Ashley, George, Pala, Calif.: Beryl
erystal in matrix of montmorillonite
and feldspar from Vandenburg mine,
Pala, Calif. (203189, exchange).

Atchison, Topeka, and Santa Fe Rail-
way Co., Prewitt, N. Mex.: (Through
T. O. Evans) 1 specimen of saurian leg
bone, partially replaced by pitchblende,
from McKinley County, N. Mex.
(205560).

Atlantic Biological Station, St. An-
drews, New Brunswick, Canada:
(Through H. D. Fisher) 8 cetaceans
(204653).

Atomic Energy Commission, Wash-
ington, D. C.: 617 plants collected by
F.. R. Nease from White Oak Creek and
Lake Area, Oak Ridge National Lab-
oratory (204202).

Aurouze, Mile. G., Paris, France: 1
microsample from Hocene of France
(203064).

Australia, Commonwealth Govern-
ment of, Department of Agriculture: 1
fern from Paraguay (2021380) ; 193 Aus-
tralian plants (202917, exchange).

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1955

Botanic Museum and Herbarium: 232
plants of Queensland and the Solomon
Islands (203803, exchange). Common-
wealth Scientific and Industrial Re-
search Organization: 1 plant, cultivated
in Australia (203327) ; 87 specimens of
plants from northern Australia (206351,
exchange) ; (through Dr. J. M. Thom-
son) 83 fishes from Australia (2038037,
exchange).

Axelrod, Herbert, New York, N. Y.:
28 golden tetra fishes, including types,
from Georgetown, British Guiana
(201839).

Bacon, B. B., Front Royal, Va.: 264
marine mollusks from near Aitape, New
Guinea (205979).

Bafford, Edward L. (See American
Society of Photographie Art)

Baker, Benjamin, Front Royal, Va.:
6 starfish, one with only four rays, from
coral reef, Seleo Island, near Aitape,
New Guinea (202753).

Baldinger, Col. O. M., Pasadena,
Calif: 104 specimens: clothing and per-
sonal relics of President and Mrs. War-
ren G. Harding, uniforms for Major of
the Infantry, Regular Army, ca. 1910,
and uniforms worn by donor as per-
sonal military aide to President War-
ren G. Harding (201626).

Baldwin, Dr. J. T., Jr., Williamsburg,
Va.: 1 red bat from Virginia (203766).

Bandy, Dr. Mark, Redfield, Iowa:
26 specimens of block mica, and 1 rutile
from Miami District, Southern Rho-
desia (203896).

Bandy, Dr. Orville L., Los Angeles,
Calif.: 383 Foraminifera from Miocene
of California (204469, exchange).

Banks, Mrs. Edgar J., Eustis, Fla.:
75 items of needlepoint lace, drawn
work, embroideries and edgings, and
other accessories of 19th-century ladies’
and infants’ dress (204996).

Barker, Dr. David. (See Hong Kong,
University of)

Barker, Elonzo L., Deale, Md.: 1
double-zither type stringed instrument
(204720).

Barlow, Dr. Eric. (See Southern
Rhodesia Geological Survey)
DONORS

Barnard, Dr. J. lLaurens. (See
Southern California, University of,
Allan Hancock Foundation)

Barnes, Mrs. Alice Toole (deceased) :
(Through Elizabeth Barnes) 20 speci-
mens of costumes, costume accessories,
children’s clothes of 19th century; 4
bedspreads and piece of tapa cloth
(204487); (through Col. Theodore
Barnes, Jr.) 1 single-woven Jacquard
eoverlet (206519).

Barnes, Elizabeth. (See Barnes,
Mrs. Alice Toole)
Barnes, George (deceased):

(Through Col. Theodore Barnes, Jr.)
Alabaster hand-carved pedestal and
fireplace hood and facing (204486).
Barnes, Mabel A. (deceased):
(Through Col. Theodore Barnes, Jr.)
28 specimens or late 19th- and early
20th-century dolls and doll clothes, col-
lection of Indian basketry, water jars,
metate and mano; Chinese jar

(204485) .
Barnes, Col. Theodore, Jr. (See
Barnes, Mrs. Alice Toole; Barnes,

George; Barnes, Mabel A.; Woodruff,
Pauline B.)

Barr, Dr. A. Ralph, St. Paul, Minn.:
12 mosquitoes and 2 flies from Minne-
sota (203308, 205893, 206531).

Bartenstein, Dr. Helmut, Celle, Ger-
many: 6 Foraminifera from Cretaceous
of Austria and Jurassic of Germany
(204915, exchange).

Bartholomew, Dr. George A., Jr., Los
Angeles, Calif.: 1 barnacle from an ele-
phant seal, San Nicolas Island
(182915).

Bartley, Floyd, Circleville, Ohio: 120
plants collected in Ohio and adjacent
areas (204457).

Bartsch, Dr. Paul, Lorton, Va.: 2
beetles and 1 land snail from Virginia,
1 silver-haired bat, 3 birds (202924,
203417, 204621, 204882).

Baschant, Dr. Rudolf, Linz, Austria:
100 Austrian plants mostly collected by
donor (202851, exchange).

Bassindale, Dr. R.,. Bristol, England:
190 shrimps and 15 miscellaneous ma-
rine invertebrates collected by donor
from Gold Coast (203870).

TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

57

Bastes Tigre, Carlos. (See Minis-
tério da Viacio e Obras Publicas)

Bayer, Frederick M., Washington,
D. C.: 18 fresh-water snails from Vir-
ginia (202679).

Bayerisches Feldspatwerk, Weiden,
Germany: (Through Herr Direktor
Wildenauer) 8 minerals from Hagen-
dorf-Sud mine, Hagendorf, near Pley-
stein, Oberpfalz, Germany (204802).

Bayly, Mrs. Clay, Boston, Mass.: 1
green satin dress, ca. 1895, and 1 fire-
place screen of French bronze, Louis
XVI style (206486).

Bears Bluff Laboratories, Wadmalaw
Island, 8. C.: (Through Dr. G. Robert
Lunz) 1 fish from off Kiawah Island,
S. C. (204195).

Beaudoin, Kenneth L.,
Tenn.: 2 bones of
(201896).

Beck, William M., Jr.
State Board of Health)

Becker, George E., St. Louis, Mo.:
Harly electric door bell (204109).

Beck-Lee Corporation, Chicago, Ill.:
1937 office medel electrocardiagraph
(203311).

Beckmann, Dr. H., Berkhopen ub.
Peine, Germany: 6 Devonian Foramini-
fera from Germany (205281).

Beckwith, Frank D., Charles Town,
W. Va.: Zanze, iron double bell, and
hand rattle of cut seed pods collected
about 1990 by Warren Cramet in Bel-
gian Congo (208043).

Becraft, David T., Lodi, Calif.: 12
miscellaneous land and marine mollusks
(202926, exchange).

Beer, Dr. Robert E., Lawrence, Kans. :
51 mites including holotype from Kan-
sas (205996).

Beetle, Dorothy E., Laramie, Wyo.:
72 fresh-water mollusks from Wyoming,
Colorado, and New Mexico (202137).

Beier, Dr. Max. (See Naturhis-
torische Museum, Vienna)

Belgium, Government of, Station
@Entomologie de VEtat, Minisiere de
VAgriculture, Gembloux: (Through Dr.
W. HE. van den Bruel) 3 muskrats from
Belgium (201840).

Memphis,
swamp rabbit

(See Florida
58

Belkin, Dr. J. N., Los Angeles, Calif. :
9 mosquitoes from Arizona (203595).

Bellini, Dr. E., Modena, Italy: 2
microsamples of Foraminifera from
Tertiary of Italy (204673, exchange).

Ben-Dor, Dr. I., New York, N. Y.: 3
used Israel “Coin” stamps (205617).

Benedict, J. E., Jr., Silver Spring,
Md.: 1 wood pewee (202853).

Benesh, Bernard, Burrville, Tenn.:
4 beetles (206569).

Bengston, Mrs. George, Evansdale—
Waterloo, Iowa: 187 land and fresh-
water mollusks from Iowa (203351).

Bennett, Dr. Harry J., Baton Rouge,
La.: 3 balanoglossids from Grand Isle
(198968).

Benson Grubstakers, and Panama
Canal Natural History Society, Balboa,
Panama: (Through James Zetek) 1,255
bird skins (203049).

Bentinck, William C.,
Calif.: 14  blackflies
(202862).

Berg, Dr. Clifford O., Ithaca, N. Y.:
52 insects from New York (206530).

Bermudez, Dr. Pedro J., Jusepin,
Venezuela: 10 Foraminifera from Re-
cent of the Caribbean (203297); 34
Foraminifera from Cretaceous of Cuba
and Jamaica (204916, exchange).

Berner, Leo D., La Jolla, Calif.: 23
type pelagic tunicates (202524).

Berry, Dr. S. Stillman, Redlands,
Calif.: 43 marine and fresh-water mol-
lusks, including paratypes of new spe-
cies, from western part of the North
American continent, and 19 paratypes of
new species of marine mollusks from
the Pleistocene of southern California
(202750).

Bestor, Charles.
School of Music)

Bettenstaedt, Dr. F., Hannover, Ger-
many: 150 Cretaceous Foraminifera
from northern Germany (208291, ex-
change).

Bieda, Prof. Dr. Franciszek, Cracow,
Poland: 85 Foraminifera from the Ju-
rassic of Poland (205952, exchange).

Biese, Dr. Walter N., Santiago, Chile:
293 fresh-water shells, including para-
types, from Chile (204473, exchange).

Berkeley,
from Japan

(See Juilliard

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1955

Biester, Mrs. Rae VY. (See Treasury
Department, Bureau of the Mint)

Biezanko, Dr. C. M., Pelotas, Rio
Grande do Sul, Brazil: 293 miscellane-
ous insects (203869) ; 362 insects from
Brazil (206062, 206064, 206070, 206570).

Biggs, Joseph D., Washington, D. C.:
1 gray fox from Washington, D. C.
(204805).

Bishop Museum, Bernice P., Hono-
lulu, T. H.: 183 plants of Micronesia
and Rotuma; 398 plants of Fiji and
Hawaii, collected by H. St. John and
others (205240, 205990, exchange).

Blake, Mrs. Doris, Washington, D. C.:
142 beetles from Texas (206455).

Blakeslee, Maj. Theodore C. (See
Defense, Department of, Department of
the Army)

Blandford, Ned, McLean, Va.: 1 born-
ite from Fairfax Quarry, Centreville,
Va. (203981); 3 chabazite specimens
from Lane County, Oreg. (205093).

Blandy Experimental Farm, Boyce,
Va.: 34 plants (203122).

Blanton, Col. F. S., Washington, D. C.:
265 miscellaneous insects from Panam4&
(202982, 205097).

Bliven, Brunson P., Eureka, Calif.:
16 type bugs (204800).

Blom, Richard A., Sioux Falls, S.
Dak.: 3 land snails from South Dakota
(204857).

Blume, Dr. Werner, Goettingen, Ger-
many: 102 land and marine mollusks
from Egypt and Syria (203234, ex-
change).

Bobst, Elmer H.
cott Laboratories)

Boerger, Alfred G., Toledo, Ohio: 1
folder letter sheet with reprint of ‘“Mag-
nus” view of Chicago (205614).

Bolli, Dr. Hans, Trinidad, B. W. I.:
6 Foraminifera from the Cretaceous of
Tunisia (198177) ; 2 samples of Recent
river mud for Protozoa from Trinidad
(203295) ; 31 Foraminifera from Oligo-
ecene of Trinidad (203522, 204467) ; 200
Foraminifera and 1 microsample from
Cretaceous and Tertiary of Trinidad,
B. W. I. (206355, exchange).

Boole, John A. Jr., Chapel Hill, N. C.:
25 microscope mounts of woods (204696,
exchange).

(See Warner-Chil-
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Borro Garcia, Primitivo, Havana,
Cuba: 27 Recent and Oligocene brachio-
pods from Cuba (205096).

Boston Public Library, Boston, Mass. :
(Through Arthur W. Heintzelman) 32
etchings by Mr. Heintzelman for exhi-
bition January 381-March 27, 1955
(204716, loan).

Boston University, Boston, Mass.: 39
plants collected in Alaska by Dr. A. R.
Hodgdon (203052).

Botanic Garden, Washington, D. C.: 1
trunk section of a dwarf Hinoki False-
cypress (205986).

Botanisch Museum en Herbarium,
Utrecht, Netherlands: 124 ferns, includ-
ing types (204667, exchange).

Botanische Staatssammlung, Mu-
nich, Germany: 1 plant from México
(205200).

Botanisches Institut der Universitat,
Heidelberg, Germany: 380 plants col-
lected in PerG and Heuador by Prof.
Dr. Werner Rauh (204887).

Bottimer, L. J., Kerrville, Tex.: 1
beetle from New Jersey (2048389).

Boucot, Dr. Arthur J., Arlington, Va.:
2,000 invertebrate fossils from Silurian
and Devonian formations of New Bruns-
wick, Nova Scotia, and Quebec
(208552) ; 2 minerals from Richmond,
N. H., and Deadman’s Canyon, Hl Paso
County, Colo. (203956, exchange) ; 10
tungsten ores from North Carolina, 1
jarosite from Maryland, 1 diadochite
from Tennessee, and 1 chabazite from
West Greenland (204464, exchange) ; 1
mineral, glaucodot, from Quartzberg,
Oreg. (205283) ; 10 brachiopods from
Silurian of New York (206085) ; 1 side-
rite specimen from Greenland (206506).
(See also Anderson, Philip; Gould,
James; and Kingsley, Prof. Louise)

Bousfield, Dr. E. L. (See Canada,
Government of)

Boush, Dr. G. Mallory, Lexington,
Ky.: 2 crayfishes from Kentucky
(203645).

Bowman, Capt. H. E., Ventura, Calif. :
Skull of Indian female found on bank
of Ventura River (205525).

Bowman, Dr. Thomas E., Washing-
ton, D. C.: 993 marine invertebrates and

59

2 gastropods from the Pacific (2038690).
(See also Scripps Institute of Ocea-
nography )

Box, Harold E., Port-of-Spain, Trin-
idad, B. W. I.: 8 moths from Central
and South America (2083807).

Bradford, Faith, Chevy Chase, Md.:
1 pink brocade christening blanket ; cot-
ton exercise suit worn by donor’s
mother, and iron slave collar, both of
1860 period (204880, 205244).

Brady, Thomas F., Yorktown Village,
Va.: 10 amphibians and reptiles from
Elk Mountain, Nelson County, Va.
(206341).

Branham, Mrs. Hugh, Fort Myers
Beach, Fla.: 1 marine mollusk from
East Africa (203427).

Brantley, Odell M., Silesia, Md.: 1
raccoon from Maryland (205412).

Brass, L. J. (See Archbold Biological
Station)

Brazer, Dr. Clarence W., Flushing,
N. Y.: 28 U.S. cigar and snuff Internal
Revenue stamps, overprinted (204479).

Breckenridge, Dr. Jack D., Centralia,
Wash.: Polished slab of agate from
near Tono, Wash. (203779).

Bridwell, J. C., Lignum, Va.: 119
weevils and 4 hymenopterous parasites
(205098).

Brigham Young University, Provo,
Utah: 30 grasses from Utah (201298).

Brissaud, Marce, Trona, Calif.: 20
saline minerals from Searles Lake,
Calif. (205802, exchange).

Brittan, Dr. Martin R.
mento State College)

Bronnimann, Dr. P., Havana, Cuba:
275 type specimens of Foraminifera
from Cretaceous and Tertiary of Cuba
and Trinidad (203721).

Brother Ginés. (See Sociedad de
Ciencias Naturales La Salle, Caracas)

Brown, Noel, Havana, Cuba: 48 For-
aminifera from the Cretaceous of Cuba
(203720, exchange); 8 microsamples
from Cretaceous of Texas (2043888, ex-
change).

Brown, Paul L., Champaign, Ill.: 3
crayfishes (205359).

Brown, Dr. W. L. (See Harvard
University, Museum of Comparative
Zoology)

(See Sacra-
60

Bruce, David K. E., Washington, D.
C.: 122 first flight covers in 2 volumes,
dating from 1929 to 1988 (206484).

Brunel, Pierre. (See Nadeau, Vic-
tor)

Brunner, Dr. Henri, Lausanne, Switz-
erland: 96 European ferns (205434, ex-
change).

Bruns, Franklin R., Jr.. Washington,
D. C.: Collection of Chinese stamps,
1878-1940 (204197) ; 3,014 foreign and
domestie philatelic specimens (204198,
204894, 205628, 206372, 206492, 2065388).

Bruns, Hattie H., New York, N. Y.:
1 United States first day cover and 1
United Nations first day cover (205616).

Brunson, Dr. Royal Bruce, Missoula,
Mont.: 22 specimens gastrotricha from
Michigan (205251). (See also Pres-
eott, Dr. Gerald W.)

Brush, Warren D., Silver
Md.: 7 phanerogams (206028).

Bullis, Harvey, Jr. (See Interior,
Department of the, Fish and Wildlife
Service)

Bureh, John B., Ann Arbor, Mich.:
210 land snails from Virginia (204540).

Burch, Mrs. T. A., Silver Spring, Md.:
2 mammals from Liberia (206450).

Burdick Corperation, Milton, Wis.:
(Through F. A. Anderson) Modern elec-
trocardiograph display (203309).

Burkhart, J. (See Hattrick, E. N.)

Burks, Dr. B. D., Washington, D. C.:
Approximately 2,000 miscellaneous
adult insects collected by donor in May—
June, 1954, near Paris, France (202866).

Burlingame, Agnes. (See Women’s
International Stamp Club)

Burroughs, Paul, Concord, N. H.: 1
cut rose quartz from Minas Gerais,
Brazil (203983, exchange); 1 rock-
bridgeite specimen from Fletcher mine,
North Groton, N. H. (204676, ex-
change) ; 1 cut rose quartz from Brazil
(205882, exchange).

Bushee, Mrs. Florence, Newbury,
Mass. : 63 antique paperweights and as-
sociated specimens of glass (205600,
loan).

Butler, Mrs. Virginia, Osterville,
Mass.: 4 pieces of gold and black Chi-
nese lacquer from Foochow (203542).

Spring,

8S eee
SS

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1955

Butler University, Indianapolis, Ind. :
(Through Dean K. L. Kaufman) All-
glass Oldberg percolator, ca. 1890
(204491).

Byas, Walter J., Washington, D. C.:
48 land moliusks from Warren County,
Va., (203337).

Cahalane, Victor H. (See Interior,
U. S. Department of the, National Park
Service)

Calderwood, Stanford.
Corporation)

California, University of, Berkeley,
Calif.: 5 grasses from California
(202691, 204106) ; 845 plants, mostly
collected in El Salvador by J. Tucker
(2038605, gift-exchange) ; (through Dr.
Deane Furman) 8 fresh-water snails
from California (202217); (through
Boyd W. Walker) 16 fishes, including
2 paratypes, from tropical Pacific Ocean
(202444, exchange) ; (through Beecher
Crampton) 12 grasses collected in Cali-
fornia (205285) ; (through Dr. Paul D.
Hurd, Jr.) 1 first-stage meloid larvae,
blister beetles (205537).

California Academy of Sciences, San
Francisco, Calif.: 2 grasses from Cali-
fornia (204608) ; 449 plants from Cali-
fornia (205906, exchange); (through
Dr. Hugh B. Leech) 4 beetles from Brit-
ish Columbia and Oregon (202987).
(See also Interior, U. S. Department of,
Fish and Wildlife Service)

California State Fisheries Labora-
tory, San Pedro, Calif.: (Through John
H. Fitch) 1 fish, holotype, taken May 3,
1954, by Harold B. Clemens on tuna
clipper Mayflower (202845).

Callaghan, G. F. (See Agriculture,
U. 8S. Department of, Hntomology Re-
search Branch)

Cambridge, Mrs. Henry S., Wilmette,
Ill.: 2 vests, lined with fur, used by
U. S. Navy during World War II
(204488).

Cambridge, Philip,
Wales: 75 Paleozoic
brachiopods (205092).

Campbell, Maj. J. Duncan, Harris-
burg, Pa.: 1 iron fife, ca. American Rey-
olution (2047038, exchange).

(See Polaroid

Cardiff, South
and Mesozoic
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Campbell, Dr. Kenneth, Armidale,
Australia: 5 Permian brachiopods from

Queensland, Australia (204548, ex:
change).
Canada, Government of, National

Museum of Canada, Ottawa: 139 Cana-
dian lichens (206027, exchange);
(through Dr. Loris S. Russell) 7 fossil
mollusks from the Hocene, Kishenehn
formation, Montana (204672) ;
(through Dr. BH. L. Bousfield) 53 speci-
mens of amphipods (204918, exchange).

Canfield Fund, Smithsonian Institu-
tion: Turquoise nugget from Villa
Grove Turquoise Lode, Colo. (203229) ;
1 tourmaline group from Conselheiro
Pena, Brazil (203890) ; 2 minerals from
Centreville, Va. (203891) ; 1 dinosaur
bone replaced by agate and amethyst
from western Montrose County, Colo.
(204903) ; 400 minerals from Franklin,
N. J. (204904) ; 6 minerals from Crystal
Park, Pikes Peak, Hl Paso County, Colo.
(204440) ; 3 schallerite specimens from
New Jersey (205553).

Cantrall, Dr. Irving J. (See Michi-
gan, University of)

Cape Town, University of, Ronde-
bosch, Union of South Africa:
(Through B. R. Allanson) 5 mollusks,
including paratype, from South Africa
(204853) ; (through Dr. E. A. Schelpe)
8 ferns from South Africa (206472,
exchange).

Cardozo, J. S., Klamath Falls, Oreg.:
73 United States and foreign coins
(201556).

Carrow, John J., Brookmont, Md.: 1
etching by G. B. Piranesi, “Veduta in-
terna della Villa de Mecenate”’
(208075).

Carpenter, Dr. F. M.
University,
Zoology)

Carranza, Dr. Jorge. (See Instituto
Mexicano De Recursos Naturales Re-
novables)

Carson, Frank, New Concord, Ohio:
1 nail, ca. 1825 (205256).

Carter, Ann, Tyler, Tex.: 1 Mesozoic
core sample from the Gulf Coastal Plain
(205249).

Carter, D. J., London, England: 4
Recent foraminiferal samples from

(See Harvard
Museum of Comparative

61

Funafuti Atoll and the Challenger Ex-
pedition (203065, exchange).

Casanova, Dr. Richard L., Statesville,
WN. C.: 150 Tertiary invertebrate fossils
from Okinawa (203610, exchange).

Casey, Raymond, London, England: 1
microsample of Lower Cretaceous from
England (203057); 7 foraminiferal
samples and 6 ammonites from the
Lower Cretaceous (Gault) of England
(205559).

Cate, Margaret Davis, Sea Island,
Ga.: 1 fresh-water mussel from Georgia
(203639).

Causey, David, Fayetteville, Ark.:
4 slides, comprising the type series of
a trematode worm (205704) ; 7 lots of
parasitic copepods from vicinity of Pas-
eagoula, Miss. (204709). (See also
Causey, Dr. Nell Bevel)

Causey, Dr. Nell Bevel, and Causey,
Dr. David, Fayetteville, Ark. : 19 marine
invertebrates, 8 echinoderms, and 7 mol-
lusks, collected early summer 1954 at
Isla de Sacrificios, off Veracruz, México
(203626).

Cazier, Dr. Mont A. (See American
Museum of Natural History)

Central Inland Fisheries Research
Station, Calcutta, India: 33 specimens
of Indian mullets (202918, exchange).

Central Institute for the Deaf, St.
Louis, Mo.: (Through Dr. S. Richard
Silverman) 1 “acoustic fan” hearing aid
combined with a hearing trumpet
(205981).

Chace, E. P. (See Natural History
Museum, San Diego, Calif.)

Chadbourne, Mrs. H. C., Washington,
D. C.: 5 illuminated family records, Bal-
timore, ca. 1850 (204721).

Chamberlain Fund, Frances Lea,
Smithsonian Institution: 1 greened
amethyst, and 1 twin-colored amethyst
from Bahia, Brazil (202409) ; 1 scapo-
lite cat’s eye from Malaya (203889) ; 1
eut blue topaz from Bald Face Moun-
tain, North Chatham, N. H. (204912) ; 1
albite Cat’s eye, 42.60 carats, from
Burma (205339) ; 2 sherry-colored to-
pazes, Crystal Park area, Colo., 1 blue
topaz from Glen Cove, Pikes Peak, Colo.
(206034).
62

Chapman, Milton, Puerto Barrios,
Guatemala: 25 butterflies and moths
from Colombia (204884).

Chase, Joseph Cummings, Milwaukee,
Wis. : 79 portraits of World War I U. S.
Army personnel, and 1 portrait Korean
War U.S. Army enlisted man (203612).

Chell, Rey. Erwin, Puttur, South In-
dia: 1 chameleon, 7 snakes, and collec-
tion of insects from Chittoor District,
South India, collected by donor
(204140).

Chicago Natural History Museum,
Chicago, Ill.: 3 flying lizards from the
Philippines, Sumatra, and Indo-China
(198236, exchange); 2 plants from
South America (202760); 24 plants
from Venezuela and 10 from Missouri
collected by J. A. Steyermark (203117,
203963, exchange) ; 149 plants, various
regions and collectors (203587, gift-ex-
change) ; 22 plants, mostly historical
specimens, from South America (204554,
exchange) ; (through Loren P. Woods)
38 frogfishes, including 1 paratype
(204527, exchange).

Christian, David M., Nanticoke, Pa.:
1 yellow-billed tropic bird (203976).

Christian, Dr. John J. (See Johns
Hopkins University, School of Hygiene
and Public Health)

Ciba Pharmaceutical Products, Inc.,
Summit, N. J.: 1 allergy exhibit consist-
ing of three panels (205534).

Ciry, Professor. (See Université de
Dijon)

Clancy, Jack T.
Co.)

Clark, Col. Eugene S., Jr., Sandwich,
Mass., Glass, Robert, Ellisville, Mass.,
and Slip, Roy, Attleboro, Mass. : basket-
starfish mounted in plastic (205059).

Clark, Dr. R. B., Berkeley, Calif.: 5
type polychaetes collected by M. L.
Jones from San Francisco Bay, Calif.,
September 1958 (2043877).

Clark University, Worcester, Mass.:
7 phanerogams (205651) ; (through Dr.
David Potter) 69 ferns, 46 cryptogams
from New Zealand (206093).

Clarke, Dr. J. F. Gates, Washington,
D. C.: 21 land snails from Maryland
(204105).

(See Kremers Urban

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1955

Clarke, Mr. John Semple (deceased) :
Model of American-type locomotive
made of brass and steel (206440).

Clarke, William D., New York, N. Y.:
15 paratype mysids (203888).

Claude Ezell and Associates, Dallas,
Tex.: 1 Cretaceous ammonite from near
Fort Worth, Tex. (204239).

Clay, Dr. William M. (See Louis-
ville, University of)

Clemson Agricultural College, Clem-
son, 8S. C.: 21 plants collected in Haiti
by Prof. C. H. Arndt (205540);
(through Frances McAlister) 4 beetles
from James Island, Va. (202923).

Clench, Dr. William J. (See Har-
vard University, Museum of Compara-
tive Zoology)

Clint, Mrs. Katherine L., Brownsville,
Tex.: 14 plants from México (206563).

Cloud, Dr. Preston E., Jr. (See In-
terior, U. S. Department of the, Geologi-
cal Survey)

Coats, Jim, Pratt, Kans. : 3 bird skele-
tons (203506).

Cogswell, Guy K., Washington, D. C.:
10 items relating to fashions and naval
clothing of the early 1900’s (205723).

Colby, Sylvester, New York, N. Y.: 1
United States first day pictorial post-
card, franked with 2-cent Jefferson post-
age stamp of 1954 (205613).

Cole, Dr. A. C., Knoxville, Tenn. : 149
ants, including 18 paratypes, from
North America (202860, 206029, 2065783).

Cole, Dr. Lewis Gregory, White
Plains, N. Y.: 1925 model of X-ray mo-
tion picture machine made by donor
(203970).

Colégio Anchieta, Porto Alegre, Rio
Grande do Sul, Brazil: 77 grasses from
Brazil, collected by Dr. B. Rambo
(202759).

Coleman, R. G., Falls Church, Va.: 4
minerals, 1 analyzed rock from near
Idria, Calif. (205157).

Collin, H.G. (See White Motor Com-
pany)

Collins, Dr. Henry B., Washington,
D. C.: 21 miscellaneous insects and
spiders from Southampton Island, Hud-
son Bay, Canada (203531).
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Colorado Agricultural and Mechani-
cal College, Fort Collins, Colo.: 1 plant
from Colorado (203053).

Columbia Stamp Co., Elmhurst,
N. Y.: 1 first day cover, United Nations
3-cent ICAO stamp, Feb. 9, 1955
(205619).

Commerce, U. S. Department of,
Washington, D. C.: 8 medals awarded
by act of Congress, March 1914, to crew
of Steamer Kroonland for bravery in
rescuing crew of Steamer Volturno
(208525). Coast and Geodetic Survey:
Chronometer obtained in 1848 and
marked “Arnold and Dent, 84 Strand,
London, No. 1131” (206050). Weather
Bureau: Late 19th century telescope
(204611); (through Robert Wright)
scientific precision clock (205420) ; mis-
cellaneous meteorological instruments
(204612).

Commerford, Leon, Washington, D.
C.: 7 G.A.R. badges (203593).

Compere, Dr. H., Riverside, Calif.:
100 Chaleid wasps from Africa
(205710).

Conant, Lewis C., Fort Myers, Fla.:
5-dollar note issued by Bank of West
Florida, Appalachicola (203331).

Conkin, James E., Beeville, Tex.: 20
Foraminifera from the Mississippian of
Kentucky (203058) ; holotype of Ordo-
vician pelecypod from Kentucky
(204391). (See also Klett, George)

Cook, Dr. Edwin F. (See Minnesota,
University of)

Cooley, George R., Cambridge, Mass. :
4 grasses from Georgia and Florida
(204199).

Cooper, Dr. G. Arthur, Washington,
D. C.: 750 specimens of invertebrate
fossils from Porterville Quarry, Va.
(206509).

Cooper, Dr. K. W., Rochester, N. Y.:
2 land snails from Florida (205287).

Copenhagen, University of, Copen-
hagen, Denmark: 96 plants (202671, ex-
change) ; 370 plants collected in Argen-
tina by ‘Troels Myndel Pedersen
(203904, exchange); 479 plants col-
lected in southern Europe by Joh. Lange
and C. Raunkiaer (204886, exchange).

859492—55 6

63

Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y.
(Through Dr. W. J. Hamilton, Jr.) : 9
small mammals from Korea (205207).
Bailey Hortorium: 17 cultivated plants
(204444, gift-exchange) ; (through Dr.
H. E. Moore, Jr.) 5 cultivated plants

(204726) ; 4 cultivated phanerogams
(206349, exchange).
Cornman, Dr. Ivor, Washington,

D. C.: 7 gorgonians, 4 isopods (204976).

Coronado, Dr. Pedro S., Lima, Pert:
115 Perfivian ferns (204232).

Correll, Dr. Donovan S. (See Agri-
culture, U. S. Department of, Horticul-
tural Crops Research Branch)

Corroy, Professor, Marseille, France:
1 slab of rock containing Foraminifera,
and 16 invertebrate fossils from Cre-
taceous and Triassic of France (203198,
exchange).

Cortés, Rail, Santiago, Chile: 9 flies
from Chile, including allotype of new
species (206066).

Corwin, Dr. Gilbert. (See Interior,
U. S. Department of the, Geological
Survey)

Costlow, Dr. John D., Jr., Beaufort,
N. C.: 1 type lot of barnacles, found at
Beaufort (204822).

Cott, Dr. H. Edwin, Dugway, Utah:

14 beetles (205003); 29 antlions
(205005).
Cottam, Dr. Walter P. (See Utah,

University of)

Cottrell, Ray E., Houston, Pa.: Fin-
ished board section of curly yellow
buckeye from Canonsburg, Washington
County, Pa. (205985).

Cox, Thomas F., Berkeley, Calif: 1
colored lead figure of mounted trooper,
U. S. Cavalry, 1876 (202960).

Craig, Wilfred G., Ames, Iowa: 9
moths from North America (202983).

Crampton, Beecher. (See California,
University of)

Crane, Max H., Brooklyn, N. Y.: 1
Hastman 3A autographic folding pocket
Kodak (205479).

Crecelius, Dr. H. Gilbert, Phoenix,
Ariz.: (Through Health, Education
and Welfare, Department of) 2 fresh-
water clams from water supply of
Phoenix (203613).
64

Crickmay, Dr. Colin H., Calgary, Al-
berta, Canada: 2 Devonian brachiopods
from British Columbia (205094, ex-
change).

Crooks, William D.
and Company )

Crown Agents for the Colonies,
Washington, D. C.: (Through A. J. E.
Davis) 26 philatelic specimens (203805,
204208, 205574, 206369).

Cummings, Dr. R., Glasgow, Scot-
land: Approximately 25 Foraminifera
from the Carboniferous of Scotland and
Tertiary of Africa (2038070, exchange).

Curtis, Karl P., Gamboa, C. Z.: 2
brocket deer from Panama (203603).

Curtis, Lawrence, ort Worth, Tex.:
5 copperhead snakes from southeast
Texas (205519).

Cushman Foundation for Foraminif-
eral Research, Washington, D. C.:
(Through Dr. John B. Reeside, Jr.) 20
washed Miocene foraminiferal samples
and 2 slides of Foraminifera from
Austria (205399).

Cutress, Charles E., Honolulu, T. H.:
9 lots of aleyonarians (204975).

Cuvillier, Dr. J., Paris, France: 25
Foraminifera from Cretaceous. of
France and Paleocene of Arabia
(203194, exchange).

Czechoslovakia, Government of:
(Through Artia) 50 Czechoslovakian
philatelic specimens (204188, 204616,
204899, 206362, 206552) ; Antonin Zapo-
tocky 70th birthday mint set, first-day
cover, and souvenir sheet (205219).

Dahlgreen Fund, Smithsonian Insti-
tution: “Le Coup de Vent,” linoleum
cut by Felix Vallotton (203968).

Dalbies, M. F., Begles, France: 8 type
Foraminifera from Cretaceous of Tu-
nisia (204739).

Dales, Dr. Phillips, London, England:
36 polychaetes, including 1 paratype
(205257).

Dally, Jesse L., Morgantown, W. Va.:
60 early Mississippian brachiopods from
Bluefield, W. Va. (204570, exchange).

Darlington, Dr. P. J. (See Harvard
University, Musewmn of Comparative
Zoology)

(See Eli Lilly

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1955

Darnell, Dr. Rezneat M., New Or-
leans, La.: 583 miscellaneous marine
invertebrates from Lake Pontchartrain,
Louisiana (200306). (See also Tulane
University )

Davis, A. G., London, England: 100
foraminifera from Persia (203066).

Davis, A. J. E. (See Crown Agents
for the Colonies)

Davis, Dr. David E., Baltimore, Md.:
Skulls of 4 deer from James Island, Md.
(206524).

Davis, Prof. Donald E.
bama Polytechnic Institute)

Davis, Francis W., Waltham, Mass.:
Prototype power steering apparatus for
automobiles constructed by donor in
1925 (202515).

Davis, Guy C., Kansas City, Mo.: 1
drawing instrument used by General
Philip H. Sheridan (203524).

Davis, Dr. Jess H., (See Stevens In-
stitute of Technology)

Dawson, Albert, Heathsville, Va.: 1
Tertiary crab from Northumberland
County, Va. (203342).

de Andrade, N. F., Lisbon, Portugal:
7 paratype wasps from Cyprus
(203597).

Debourle, A., Pau, France: 53 For-
aminifera from Eocene of France
(205554, 206357, exchange).

Defense, U. S. Department of, Wash-
ington, D. C., Armed Forces Epidemio-
logical Board: (Through Lt. J. Knox
Jones, Jr.) 480 mammals from Korea
(202890). Armed Forces Medical Li-
brary: (Through R. H. Eeckenbach) 1
Draeger microfilm camera (204575).
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY: Commis-
Sions, relics, documents, ete., relating to
eareer of General David L. Brainard
(203592). Army Medical Service Grad-
wate School: (Through Dr. Phyllis T.
Johnson) 3 crayfish (204448) ; (through
Lt. Col. Robert Traub) 350 mammals
collected by Capt. William H. Lawrence
in Korea, 49 birds, and 1 Malayan slow
loris (202867, 206557). Brooke Army
Medical Center: (Through Lt. Col. Sam-
uel O. Hill) 1 red bat from Texas
(202613). 406th Medical General Labo-
ratory: (Through Maj. Theodore C.

(See Ala-
DONORS

Blakeslee) 4 mammals collected by Lt.
Howard R. Bullock in Korea (208200).
Preventive Medicine Survey: (Through
Capt. Hilton H. Earle, Jr.) 72 fishes, 38
reptiles, insects, 86 marine inverte-
brates, 823 mollusks (201951, 204856) ;
(through Charles M. Keenan) 88 mam-
mals from Panama and Canal Zone
(202695) ; (through Lt. J. Knox Jones,
Jr.) 40 mammals from Korea (206448).
Walter Reed Army Medical Center:
(Through Lt. Col. Robert Traub) 92
fleas from North America and 345 vials
of ticks, world wide (206517, 206518).
DEPARTMENT OF THE Navy, U. S. Naval
Medical Research Unit No. 8: (Through
Colin Campbell Sanborn) 236 mammals
from the Anglo-Egyptian Sudan
(190610) ; (through Lt. Comdr. Robert
EK. Kuntz) 106 mammals from Egypt
(206558) ; (through Dr. William H.
Wells) 390 reptiles and amphibians, 8
marine fishes, 225 mollusks, 52 marine
invertebrates, and 25 birds (202886,
204560). Naval Observatory: 1 caleu-
lating machine, Heli ‘Millionaire’
(204773).

DeFriece, Frank W., Jr.
sengill Co., S. H.)

Degener, Otto, Waialua, Hawaii: 1
Hawaiian sooty tern (204883).

Deichmann, Dr. Elisabeth. (See
Harvard University, Museum of Com-
parative Zoology)

de Klasz, Dr. I., Gabon, French West
Africa: 25 Foraminifera from the Cre-
taceous of Bavaria and France, includ-
ing 19 types (208071) ; 32 Foraminifera,
including 11 paratypes, from the Cre-
taceous of Bavaria (208121, 203294, ex-
change).

de Koninck, Dr. Marcel, Quezalte-
nango, Guatemala: 148 grasses from
Guatemala (202694, 203025, 203326,
203898); 39 plants from Guatemala
(203840).

Delhi, University of, Delhi, India:
105 plants collected in India (203545,
exchange). ;

Demaree, Dr. Delzie, Ocean Springs,
Miss.: 459 plants from Mississippi
(201397, 204456, 204607, 205603); 83

(See Mas-

TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

65

grasses from Mississippi and Arkansas
(204025, 204360).

Denmark, Dr. H. A.
State Plant Board of)

Dennen, Mrs. Sarah S., New York,
N. Y.: Model of the yacht America
(206439).

de Oliveira, Dr. Paulo E., Rio de
Janeiro, Brazil: 1 marine mollusk from
Brazil (205243) ; 1 pelecypod from Up-
per Cretaceous of Brazil (205400).

DePauw University, Greencastle,
Ind.: 58 plants collected in Tonga
(203606, gift-exchange).

des Abbayes, Prof. Henry N.
Université de Rennes)

Desautels, Paul E., Towson, Md.: 1
eyanotrichite from Banat, Hungary
(204730).

de Souza Lopes, Dr. H., Rio de Ja-
neiro, Brazil: 6 marine mollusks from
Fernando Noronha Island, Brazil
(208611).

Diem, José, San Carlos de Bariloche,
Argentina: 44 ferns from Argentina
(204392).

Diener, Richard L., Reading, Pa.: 148
plants collected in Mississippi (203287).

Dietz, Ralph W., China Lake, Calif.:
1 specimen of hubnerite from California
and 1 hyalite from Idaho (205331, ex-
change).

di Napoli Alliata, Dr. Enrico, Rome,
Italy: 3 Foraminifera from Pliocene of
Italy (208719).

Diviszo de Defesa Sanitaria Vegetal,
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil: (Through Dr.
C. R. Gonealves) 633 ants from Brazil,

(See Florida,

(See

including 11 paratypes (2083874, ex-
change).

Division of Entomology, Pretoria,
South Africa: (Through Dr. J. C.

Faure) 16 thrips, including 9 paratypes,
from Africa (202703).

Dix, George P., Jr., Grand Junction,
Colo.: Gold in uraninite from Virgin
mine, Placer de Guadeloupe, Chihuahua,
México (204914, loan).

Dodds, L. B. (See Hazeltine Corpo-
ration)

Dodge, Dr. H. R., Savannah, Ga.: 5
type sarcophagid flies from Georgia
(202606). (See also Health, Education
66

and Welfare, U. S. Department of, U. S.
Public Health Service)

Dodge and Olcott, Inc.. New York,
N. Y.: (Through Ruth Farnworth) An
exhibit titled “The Evolution of Fla-
voring Medicine” (203201).

Donken, W. P., New York, N. Y.: 1
posteard marking 25th Anniversary ist
flight Buenos Aires to Miami (204882).

Dorfman, David, Washington, D. C.:
1 unused Palestine, 5 milliemes on 1
piastre, Scott’s No. 3 (206368).

Douse, Mrs. Dorothy E., Washington,
D. C.: 1 German Bundespost cover, Feb.
26, 1955 (206493).

Drake, Dr. C. J.. Ames, Iowa: 5 bugs
from Africa (202610).

Dranga, Ted, Miami, Fla.: 4 marine
mollusks from Costa Rica (205703).

Drooger, Dr. C. W., Utrecht, Nether-
lands: 2 Foraminifera from Tertiary of
Hast Indies (204740).

Duke University, Durham, N. C.:
(Through Donald W. Strasburg) 19
fishes, mostly from Arno Atoll, Marshall
Islands, collected by Mr. Strasburg
(202825) ; 23 fishes, including types of
blennies from the Hawaiian Islands
(206058).

Dupérier, Roger, Biarritz, France: 5
Recent brachiopods from off the coast
of France (203199).

Dupont, James M., Stirling, N. J.: 2
jadeite celts from Patuztin, Guatemala
(204775) ; 2 mineral specimens from

Canada and Germany (204936, ex-
change).
Earle, Capt. Hilton H., Jr. (See De-

fense, Department of, Depariment of
the Army)

Ebert, F. M., Tamaqua, Pa. : 10 fresh-
water pearls and 12 Unio shells from
Schuylkill River, Pa. (204856).

Kckenbach, R. H. (See Department
of Defense, Armed Forces Medical Li-
brary)

Ecole d’Agriculture, Rimouski, Que-
bec, Canada: 24 grasses from Canada
(208764); 12 plants (204559, ex-
change).

Eddy, Dr. Samuel.
University of)

(See Minnesota,

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1955

Eggler, Prof. Willis A.
comb College)

Hichner, L. C., Clifton, N. J.: Repro-
duction of Isaae Newton’s telescope
(205702, loan).

Eickemeyer Fund, Smithsonian In-
stitution: 1 motion picture camera, 17.5
mm., made about 1915 for Thomas
Armat by Joseph Chlopicki (205522).

Eide, Paul M., Mount Vernon, Wash. :
6 moths (205064).

Eisenack, Prof. Dr. A., Reutlingen,
Germany : 3 slides of Ordovician Foram-
inifera from Germany (205250, ex-
change).

Eisenhower, President Dwight D,
Washington, D. C.: 3 painted pottery
vases presented to President Hisen-
hower by Ulysses O. C. Tsangarides on
behalf of people of Cyprus (203984) ;
vase of bone china commemorating the
coronation, June 2, 1953, of Queen Eliz-
abeth II, presented to the United States
of America through the British Em-
bassy (205524, deposit).

Hisenhower, Mrs. Dwight D., Wash-
ington, D. C.: Pair of pink silk opera-
length gloves worn by donor with her
inaugural ball gown (208303); pearl
and rhinestone choker-type necklace,
bracelet and earrings, worn by donor
with inaugural ball gown (203966).

Elbel, Robert E., Bangkok, Thailand:
182 mammals and 4385 birds collected in
Siam by Mr. Elbel and Dr. Boonsong
Lekagul (206514).

Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis,
Ind.: (Through William D. Crooks)
Replica of Kimble ampoule (original
anti-toxin bulb) made of amber glass,
and set of ampoule slides with deserip-
tive ecards (203203).

Elias, James. (See Anaconda Copper
Mining Co.)

Ellis, T. K., Hot Springs, Va.: 300
cladocerans, 496 mysids, and 4 shrimps
from South Carolina (200849).

Ellsworth, D. W., Lynnwood, Wash. :
Pen and ink drawing of battle of Vicks-
burg made during the Civil War by
Alfred Garrett (206540).

Ely, Mrs. Myra H., Washington, D. C.:
Diary kept by Joseph K. Hoyt, Company

(See New-
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

G, 45th Brigade, Illinois Volunteers,
1863 (204804).

Emerson, Dr. A. E., Chicago, Ill.: 15
termites from Illinois (205708).

Emerson, Lt. Col. K. C., Fort Leaven-
worth, Kans.: 32 lice, including 10
paratypes, from Europe, South Asia,
and Philippine Islands (203171).

Emerson, William K., Berkeley,
Calif.: 1 specimen of Gorgonian
(203846).

Emery, Charles E., Annapolis, Md.:
538 pictorial photographs by Charles EH.
Emery for special exhibition March—
April 1955 (205237, loan).

Enders, Dr. Robert K., Swarthmore,
Pa.: 23 mammals from Pakistan
(202868) ; 269 mammals from vicinity
of Jackson Hole, Wye. (202989) ; 31 rats
from Saipan, Marianas Islands
(202990).

Engler, Arthur, Oakland, Calif.: 1
signed die proof of unofficial Santa
Claus poster stamp (202446).

Erdman, Donald S., Mayagiiez, Puerto
Rico: (Through Isaac Ginsburg) 4
fishes collected near the mouth of
Guajataca River, Puerto Rico (203290).

Escuela Agricola Panamericana,
Tegucigalpa, Honduras: 1 fern from
Honduras (202449) ; 427 plants of Hon-
duras (204108, exchange).

Escuela Nacional de Ciencias Biologi-
cas, México, D. F.: (Through Dr. José
Alvarez) 6 paratype fishes (203160, ex-
change).

Estacao Agronomica Nacional, Saca-
vém, Portugal: 97 plants of Portugal
(205909, exchange).

Estaci6én Experimental Agrondémica,
Santiago de las Vegas, Cuba: (Through
Ing. de F. Zayas) 65 bugs from Cuba
(203305) .

Estes, Michael W., Washington, D. C.:
Brazilian bow and 3 arrows and neck-
lace (205898).

Evans, Mark, Wallace, Idaho: 2
samples of heavy sands from California
Creek, Idaho (202766).

Evans, T. O. (See Atchison, Topeka
and Santa Fe Railway Co.)

Fabian, Dominick, Portland, Oreg.:
2 first-day covers (204192, 206496).

67

Fahrenbach, W. H., Berkeley, Calif. :
7 type copepods collected at Moss
Beach, San Mateo County, Calif.
(202019).

Fairchild, Dr. Graham Bell, Monti-
cello, Fla.: 29 flies, including paratypes
of 9 species (206063).

Fargo, William G., Jackson, Mich.:
75 paratype Pliocene Mollusca from
Florida (202920).

Farnworth, Ruth.
Olcott, Inc.)

Fassett, Norman C., Madison, Wis.: 1
four-eyed fish collected in Rio Desagiie,
at Desagiie outlet of Lago de Giiija, El
Salvador (203240).

Faure, Dr. J. C.
Entomology)

Faust, Burton, Washington, D. C.: 18
land snails from Cathedral Caverns
near Woodville, Ala., 20 earthworms,
and 16 insects (202869).

Ferguson, Dr. Edward, Jr., Orange-
burg, S. C.: 5 type specimens of ostra-
cods (205111).

Ferguson, William E., Berkeley,
Calif.: 3 wasps from North America
(203018, exchange).

Ferreyra, Dr. Ramén. (See Museo
de Historia Natural “Javier Prado’’)

Ferriere, Dr. Charles. (See Museum
of Natural History)

Fernandez-Yepez, Dr. F. (See Uni-
versidad Central de Venezuela)

Fessenden, G. Russell, Baltimore,
Md.: 5 plants and 3 ferns from Mary-
land (205431, 205910).

Feth, J. H. (See Interior, U. S. De-
partment of the, Geological Survey)

Field, Dr. Henry, Coconut Grove,
Fla.: 1 crab collected in Anglo-Egyptian
Sudan (202893) ; 16 plants collected in
Wyoming (203368).

Fisher, George B., Reading, Pa.: 13
fishes from aquaria (201400).

Fisher, H. D. (See Atlantic Biologi-
eal Station)

Fitch, John E. (See California State
Fisheries Laboratory)

Fix, Ernest E., Susanville, Calif.: 1
scorpion from California (204801).

Florida, State Board of Health of,
Jacksonville, Fla.: (Through William

(See Dodge and

(See Division of
68

M. Beck, Jr.) 93 biting midge larvae
from Florida (202609).

Florida, State Plant Board of, Gaines-
ville, Fla.: (Through Dr. H. A. Den-
mark) 5 land snails from Dade County,
Fla. (202722).

Florida, University of, Gainesville,
Fia.: (Through Dr. E. Lowe Pierce) 34
copepods from Florida (181772);
(through Dr. Philip J. Westgate) land
snail from Florida (203533).

Florida Agricultural Supply Co.,
Jacksonville, Fla.: (Through Herman
S. Mayeux) 10 land snails from near
Jacksonville, Fla. (203353).

Florida National Bank and Trust Co.
(See Hall, Josephine V.)

Floyd, G. Thomas, Akron, Ohio: 12
fresh-water mussels from Lake Hrie,
Ottawa County, Ohio (203816).

Fluke, Dr. C. L., Madison, Wis.: 9
flies, including 1 paratype, from North
America and Argentina (205895).

Ford, Clayton, Lakeport, N. H.: 1
specimen of herderite from Fietcher
Mine, North Groton, N. H. (202918).

Forest Research Institute, Kepong,
Malaya: 59 plants from Federation of
Malaya (203158, exchange).

Fosberg, Dr. F. R., Falls Church, Va.:
61 plants from Shenandoah National
Park, Va. (203774) ; 12 plants of United
States and Canada (204452); 3 plants
from Virginia (204551).

Foshag, Dr. W. F., Washington, D. C.:
Andesite lava specimen of 1952, Paricu-
tin volcano, Michoacin, México
(203768).

Foster, Mrs. E. Carter, The Plains,
Va.: Pair 18th-century white satin
shoes; pair shoes, 2 pair hose, satin
bodice, and pair white kid gloves, 19th
century (202940).

Foster, John H., Warwick, R. I.: 30
plants collected in India (202852).

Fouts, Robert M., Laredo, Tex.: 4
parasitic wasps (205892).

Fowler, Verna A., Salina, Kans.: 16
land snails from Salina (199972).

Fox, John A., New York, N. Y.: 93
Specimens of postal history material
(205561, exchange).

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1955

Franklin, W. Neil.
B. D.)

Freed, Sam D., Union, N. J.: 111 land
and fresh-water mollusks from northern
New Jersey (203179).

Freeman, Oliver M., Tryon, N. C.: 23
grasses from North Carolina (203749).

Friedmann, Dr. Herbert, Washington,
D. C.: 5 skins, 14 alcoholic specimens,
and 5 skeletons of honey-guides from
Spanish Guinea, collected by Georges
Sabater (203367) ; 9 skeletons and 14
honey-guides (alcoholic birds)
(204474).

Frimerkjasalan, Reykjavik, Iceland:
6 Aerogramme forms (204190). (See
also Iceland, Government of)

Frisbey, Mrs. W. C., Port Isabel, Tex. :
2 marine mollusks from Port Isabel
(205496).

Frondel, Dr. Clifford.
University )

Fundacion Miguel Lillo, Tucuman,
Argentina: 170 plants of Brazil and Ar-
gentina (204372, exchange).

Furman, Deane P., Berkeley, Calif.:
2 types and 14 paratypes of mites from
California (205999). (See also Cali-
fornia, University of)

Gallitelli, Dr. Eugenia Montanaro,
Medena, Italy: 1 microsample from
the Triassic St. Cassian beds of Italy
(204878, exchange) ; 3 paratypes of a
foraminifer from the Cretaceous of
Italy and 22 foraminiferal samples from
the Mesozoic and Cenozoic of Italy
(205718).

Ganier, Albert F., Nashville, Tenn.:
Type of Appalachian sapsucker
(204099).

Gardner, Dr. Julia, Bethesda, Md.:
Approximately 150 marine mollusks
from Drum Point, Md. (205286).

Gardner, Dr. T. R., Beltsville, Md.:
359 miscellaneous insects from Ha-
waiian Islands and Japan (205099).

Geduly, Prof. Oliver, Cincinnati,
Ohio: 1 turtle from Rio Magdalena near
Barranquilla, Colombia (203878).

Geison, Mike, Miami, Fla.: 1 Hay’s
snake from Florida (205016).

General Electric Co., Richland,
Wash., and Milwaukee, Wis.: (Through

(See Gibbs, Mrs.

(See Harvard
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

C. C. Palmiter) 17 samples of diatoms
(203505) ;
Model “A” electrocardiograph (205221).

General Motors Corp., Detroit, Mich. :
(Through C. L. MeCuen) Mechanical
heart exhibit (2038312).

Gentry, Dr. H. S. (See Agriculture,
U. S. Department of, Horticultural
Crops Research Branch)

Geologisch-Palaontologisches Insti-
tut, Tiibingen, Germany: (Through Dr.
O. H. Schindewolf) 2 specimens of a
rare Jurassic brachiopod from Ger-
many (206511, exchange).

George, Robert V., Towson, Md.: 45
pictorial photographs by Mr. George
for special exhibition September—Octo-
ber 1954 (203163, loan).

Georgia, University of, Athens, Ga.:
155 plants (204450, exchange).

Gerber, Adele (deceased) : (Through
Amelie M. Gerber) 1 black Canton-crepe
shawl worn by Sarah Fillmore Haton
at inauguration of President Millard
Fillmore in 1850, and photograph of
Mrs. Eaton wearing the shawl (206500).

Gerber, Amelie M. (See Gerber,
Adele)

Gerber, Carl B., Arlington, Va.: 1
rhodonite from 30 miles west, 15 miles
north, of Lancaster, Calif. (203717)

Germany, Republic of, Der Bundes-
minister fur das post- und Fernmel-
dewesen, Bonn: 4 postage stamps, air
mail and commemorative (206361); 1
20-pfennig commemorative stamp for
the “Association for the Encouragement
of German Science” issued June 24, 1955
(206546).

Ghika, George, Hyattsville, Md.: 5
geometrid moths from District of Co-
lumbia area (202675).

Gianotti, Agostino, Rome, Italy: 3
Foraminifera from Miocene of Italy
(204738).

Gibbs, Mrs. B. D., Knoxville, Tenn.:
(Through W. Neil Franklin) 1924 Pres-
idential campaign tag for automobile
(203723).

Gibbs, John, Washington, D. C.: 1
agate found in gravel bank, Washing-
ton, D. C. (202700).

69

Giers, Dr. Rudolf, Hamm, Westfalen,

(through E. W. Philleo) 1} Germany: 2 invertebrate fossils and 1

microsample of Foraminifera from Up-
per Cretaceous of Westphalia, Germany
(203196).

Gill, Dr. Edmund D., Melbourne, Aus-
tralia: 168 Miocene and Pliocene mol-
lusks from Australia (195502, ex-
change).

Gilmore, Clifford E., Ft. Myer, Va.: 3
Burmese 1 Pya pieces, 1952 (202718).

Gilmore, Dr. Raymond M. (See
Smith, Robert O.)

Ginsburg, Isaac. (See Stick, Frank,
and Hrdman, Donald 8.)

Glass, Jewell J. (See Interior, U. S.
Department of the, Geological Survey)

Glass, Robert. (See Clark, Col. Bu-
gene S., Jr.)

Goldich, Dr. S. S., Minneapolis,
Minn.: Holotype of arthropod from
Vennsylvanian of Brewster County,
Tex. (204379).

Goncalves, Dr. C. R. (See Divisio
de Defesa Sanitaria Vegetal)

Gonzales G., Dr. Alfonso, México, D.
F.: 8 moths and 7 flies from México
(205539).

Gosline, Dr. William A.
waii, University of)

Gottfried, Oscar, New York, N. Y.: 2
ampins of normal saline solution man-
ufactured by Strong Cobb Co., Ine.
(203205).

Goudey, Hatfield, Gabbs, Nev.: 1 cal-
laghanite from Gabbs (203961, ex-
change).

Goudey, Hatfield, Gabbs, Nev., and
Parnau, John L., Stockton, Calif.: 1
mineral trom Churchill Buttes, Lyon
County, Nev. (203957).

Gould, James, Washington, D. C.:
(Through Dr. Arthur J. Boucot) Speci-
men of tin ore from Sungei Liat Divi-
sion of Tambang Timah Banka, Indo-
nesia (2043898).

Graham, Judge Samuel Jordan (de-
ceased): (Through Mrs. Samuel J.
Graham) 20 costume accessories of late
19th and 20th centuries (204484).

Graham, Judge (deceased) and Mrs.
Samuel Jordan, Washington, D. C.: 50

(See Ha-
70

items of period art and jewelry
(206462).

Grau, Gilbert, Hollywood, Calif.: 1
marine mollusk from New Zealand
(202888).

Graves, Mrs. Henry, Miami, Fla.: 1
calcite from near Miami (203977).

Gray, Samuel, Woods Hole, Mass..
8 squilla and 2 stomatopods from Yar-
mouth, Mass. (202614).

Great Britain, Government of:
Board of Trade, Standards Department:
Hassler balance, precision beam
(201802). British Museum (Natural
History), London: 31 mosquitoes, in-
cluding 8 paratypes, from Ethiopia and
Orient (202981, exchange) 634 Forami-
nifera and 72 Recent foraminiferal
samples from Atlantic and Pacific
Oceans, and Mediterranean Sea
(203062, exchange) ; 7 Recent forami-
niferal samples collected by Challenger
Expedition from Atlantic and Pacific
(203068, exchange) ; 391 plants from
Malaysia (203324, 203509, exchange) ;
313 plants from various regions and
collectors (2054388, 206478, exchange) ;
(through P. F. Mattingly) 48 mosqui-
toes, including 5 paratypes, from old
world (203556, exchange); (through
Dr. Norman B. Marshall) 1 paratype
parrotfish from Red Sea (203590, ex-
change).

Greenwood, Dr. and Mrs. Arthur M.,
Marlborough, Mass.: Frame house built
in 1678 in Malden, Mass. (203905).

Gregg, Dr. Robert E., Boulder, Colo.:
6 paratypes of ants (205709).

Griffith, Dr. Ivor. (See Philadelphia
College of Pharmacy and Science)

Griffiths, Prof. Henry J. (See Min-
nesota, University of)

Gross, Paul J., Okmulgee, Okla.: 2
first-day cards, Kansas Territorial and
4-cent airmail (204893).

Guam, Gevernment of, Office of Terri-
tories, Agana: (Through George D.
Peterson, Jr.) 2 house mice from Guam
(205521).

Gudmundsson, Finnur.
seum of Natural History)

Guiler, Dr. Eric R., Belfast, Ireland:
5 copepods, 2 isopods, 15 amphipods, 15

(See Mu-

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1955

porcellanids, 2 hermit crabs, 28 crabs,
and 2 polychaetes (205675).

Gulf Coast Research Laboratory,
Ocean Springs, Miss.: (Through Dr.
J. KF. Walker) 61 miscellaneous marine
invertebrates (183865); (through Dr.
John FE. Howell) 12 crustaceans
(208149).

Gutschick, Dr. R. C., Notre Dame,
Ind.: 51 fossil sponge spicules and holo-
thurian plates (201697).

Guyer, Dr. Gordon, East Lansing,
Mich.: 79 aquatic midges from Michi-
gan (205278).

H and R Worm Farm, Muskogee,
Okla.: (Through Vera Rounds) 20
earthworms (201457).

Hagn, Dr. H., Munich, Germany: 5
microsamples Foraminifera from Ter-
tiary and Cretaceous of SBavaria
(198841, exchange); 8 Foraminifera
from the Hocene of Germany and Italy
(208718, 205558, exchange); 9 micro-
samples from Hocene of Bavaria and
Miocene of Austria, and 105 Foraminif-
era from Tertiary of Italy and Creta-
ceous of Italy (204470, exchange).

Hall, Josephine V.: (Through the
Florida National Bank and Trust Com-
pany) 2 ancient Greek ‘tear bottles,”
4 carved shell plaques, and an antique
box with ancient coins (2026380, be-
quest).

Hallman, Roy C., Panama City, Fla.:
1 hummingbird and 1 sparrow (205418).

Halstead, Dr. Bruce W. (See School
of Tropical and Preventive Medicine)

Hamelly, Henry, Grove City, Pa.: 22
first-day covers and other philatelic
specimens (204384, 206548) ; 2 first-day
eovers, Canada Boswell and Canada
Thompson stamps (205102); 5 United
States and United Nations first-day
covers (205563); 2 Canadian and 2
United Nations first-day covers
(206378).

Hamilton, Dr. William J., Jr., Ithaca,
N. Y.: 2 short-tailed shrews from Flor-
ida (205010). (See also Cornell Uni-
versity)

Handley, C. O., Charleston, W. Va.:
8 mammals from West Virginia
(206449).
DONORS
Hanes, Clarence R., Schoolcraft,
Mich.: 3 grasses from Michigan
(203621).

Haque, A. F. M. Mohsenul, Aberyst-
wyth, Wales: 50 Paleocene Foramini-
fera and 8 microsamples from Paleocene
of Pakistan (203072) ; 70 Paleocene and
Lower Hocene Foraminifera from Nam-
mal Gorge, Salt Range, Pakistan
(208551, exchange); 31 Foraminifera
from the Tertiary of Pakistan (203771,
exchange).

Hardy, Jerry D., Jr., Elon College,
N. C.: 2 bats from Cuba (204227) ; in-
sects, 1 leech, and 3 mollusks (204405) ;
collection of reptiles, amphibians, and
fish, from Cuba (204500).

Harkness, Norris, New York, N. Y.:1
United States first-day cover, 3-cent
George Eastman stamp (205611).

Harlan, Mrs. John G., Jr., Bethesda,
Md.: 1 scarlet tanager (204881).

Harlow, J. A., Janesville, Wis.: Sioux
Indian blanket band decorated in bead-
work (2053857).

Harper, Dr. Francis, Mount Holly,
N. J.: Jumping mouse from New Jersey
(203335) ; 37 bird skins, 1 set of eggs,
and 69 mammals from Ungava, Canada
(205601).

Harrington, Dr. John P., Washington,
D. C.: 1 feathered staff, Chiricahua
Apache Indian (206466).

Harris, Mr. and Mrs. Clare, Rushford,
N. Y.: 1 United States flag, 1877-1880
(205007).

Harry, Dr. Harold W. (See Tropical
Research Medical Laboratory)

Hartman, Dr. Frank A., Columbus,
Ohio: 288 bird skins from Panama
(202710).

Harvard University, Cambridge,
Mass.: (Through Dr. Clifford Frondel)
5 mineral specimens (203591, ex-
change); (through E. O. Wilson) 32
ants, including 26 types, from North
America (203728). Gray Herbarium:
4 plants from South America (198996).
Museum of Comparative Zoology:
(Through Dr. W. L. Brown) 47 ants
from Neotropical region (201705); 44
ants from Australia, New Guinea, and
North and South America (202986,

TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

71

205501, 205682); 18 New Caledonian
ants (205711) ; (through Dr. Elisabeth
Deichmann) 10 gorgonians from Ber-
muda (202894); (through Dr. F. M.
Carpenter and Dr. P. J. Darlington) 11
spongilla flies, including types, from
South America and British Quiana
(203529); (through Dr. William J.
Clenech) 1,112 mollusks, mainly land
and fresh-water forms, from the Chat-
tahoochee River, Fla. (205492) ; 1 ma-
rine mollusk from Senegal (204541, ex-
change).

Haskins, Caryl P.
Laboratories)

Haskins Laboratories, New York,
N. Y.: (Through Caryl P. Haskins) 5
fishes from Trinidad (202824).

Hattori Botanical Laboratory, Nichi-
nan, Japan: 100 cryptogams from Japan
(203900, exchange).

Hattrick, E. N., and Burkhart, J.,
Washington, D. C.: 48 marine mollusks
from Sea Isle City, N. J. (203375).

Hawaii, University of, Honolulu: 17
plants collected in Hawaii and 20 culti-
vated plants (203510, 204609) ; (through
John EH. Randall,) 1,813 fishes from Gil-
bert Islands and other areas, mostly col-
lected by Mr. Randall (195399) ;
(through Dr. William A. Gosline) 26
Silver hatchet fishes from collection of
Mauna Loa lava flow of 1950 (204472) ;
(through Dr. Jan Newhouse) 43 speci-
mens of blue-green algae from Tuamotu
Archipelago (205717).

Hayes, Doris. (See Agriculture, U. S.
Department of)

Haynes, George R., Greensburg, Pa.:
2 glass structural tiles with photo-
graphic impressions (205899).

Haynes, J. R., Aberystwyth, Wales:
10 Foraminifera from Tertiary of Eng-
land (203193, exchange).

Hazeltine Corporation, Little Neck,
N. Y.: (Through L. B. Dodds) 6 early
radio receivers (204116).

Health, Education, and Welfare, U.S.
Department of, Washington, D. C.:
Public Health Service: (Through Dr.
H. R. Dodge) 50 North and South Amer-
ican sarcophagid flies, including types
(206071); (through Dr. Harry D.

(See Haskins
72

Pratt) 5 type biting midges from United
States (202607); (through Dr. W. L.
Jellison) 5 bot fly larvae taken from
moose in Montana (202861) ; 42 insects,
8 spiders, 1 scorpion, and 1 leech from
Idaho, Assam, Burma, and China
(202899) ; 2 land snails from Hamilton,
Mont. (203180, 208352); 1 bat from
Montana (203499). Arctic Health Re-
search Center, Anchorage, Alaska:
(Through Dr. Robert Rausch) 25 fox
skulls from St. Lawrence Island, Bering
Sea (202830); 4 crabs and 2 shrimps
from Alaska (203625); 1 horse crab
from St. Lawrence Island, Alaska
(204165) ; (through Dr. Laurence Ir-
ving) 14 bird skins from Northern
Alaska (203048). National Institutes
of Health: (Through Dr. W. H. Wright)
9,003 flies, including paratypes, from
Guatemala (203598). (See also Cre-
celius, Dr. H. Gilbert)

Hebrew University, Jerusalem, Is-
rael: 100 plants (204889, exchange).

Heinemann, C. B., Washington, D. C.:
Record-o-phone dictation machine
(205531).

Heinmuller, John P. V., New York,
N. Y.: 5,856 United States and Philip-
pine Islands stamps in a National album
(204477).

Heinrich, Clara, Washington, D. C.:
Brain of Carl Heinrich, entomologist
(206521).

Heintzelman, Arthur W.
ton Public Library)

Helgerson, Henry, Missoula, Mont.:
One black bear from Butlers Creek, Mis-
soula County, Mont. (205520).

Hendey Machine Company, Inc., Tor-
rington, Conn.: (Through A. D. Patter-
son) Steam engine, rotary, constructed
by Henry J. Hendey about 1870 to power
tools in his shop (203480).

Hendricks, Genevieve, Washington,
D. C.: 1 pair walrus tusks (203132).

Henny, Keith, New York, N. Y.: 2
electronic devices (204100).

Henry, Dr. Dora P., Seattle, Wash. :
1 crab from Lower California, E. F.
Ricketts collection, and 7 mollusks
(204872).

(See Bos-

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1955

Hepner, A., Washington, D. C.: 1 pa-
per 25-cent fractional currency, 1st is-
sue, dated 1863 (206367).

Herbario “Barbosa Rodrigues,”
Itajai, Santa Catarina, Brazil: 588
plants from Santa Catarina (203017) ;
23 plants collected by Raulino Reitz
(203056).

Hermann, Dr. Frederick J., Beltsville,
Md.: 225 plants from Michigan and
Indiana (205428).

Herrmann, Mary Ann, Washington,
D. C.: 25 woodcuts by Paul Heinrich
Ebell for exhibition October 1954
(203523, loan).

Hewatt, Dr. Willis G. (See Texas
Christian University, and Magnolia
Field Research Laboratory)

Heyl, Allen V., Takoma Park, Md.: 1
ealcite from Calumet and Hecla mine,
Lafayette County, Wis. (204729).

Hild, Mrs. G. S., Washington, D. C.:
4 mounted heads and 7 frontlets of
Philippine mammals collected by David
W. Fry (203532).

Hildebrand, Henry, Port Aransas,
Tex.: 74 marine invertebrates and 5
mollusks from México and Texas
(201788).

Hill, Bernard L., New Orleans, La.:
10 type ostracodes from Tertiary of
Mississippi and Cretaceous of Texas
(204788).

Hill, Dr. Howard R., Los Angeles,
Calif.: 98 land snails from western
United States (203386).

Hill, Lt. Col. Samuel O. (See De-
fense, U. S. Department of, Department
of the Army)

Hiltermann, Dr. H., Hannover, Ger-
many: 12 Foraminifera from the Ter-
tiary of Northern Germany (203129) ;
15 Foraminifera from the Tertiary of
Germany (203197, exchange).

Hinton, Dr. J. William, New York,
N. Y.: 28 colored scenes of Civil War
battles (204114).

Historical Society of Pennsylvania,
Philadelphia: 18th-century balance
made by Pat Lyon (204610, loan).

Hobbs, Dr. Horton H., Jr., Charlottes-
ville, Va.: 8 types of crayfish (203579).
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Hodziewicz, Stanley, Hyattsville,
Md.: 6 philatelic specimens (204478).

Hoehne, Dr. F. C., Sio Paulo, Brazil:
8 specimens of plants (205604).

Hoes, Laurence Gouverneur, Fred-
ericksburg, Va.: 2 plates of the Monroe
administration china used in the White
House (206491, loan).

Hoffman, Dr. Glenn L., Grand Forks,
N. Dak.: 16 fresh-water clams from
North Dakota (204406).

Hoffman, Richard L., Blacksburg, Va.:
119 reptiles and amphibians from Vir-
ginia, North Carolina, West Virginia,
and Kentucky, including types of new
subspecies of racerunner lizard from
Virginia (202724); 375 specimens of
fresh-water mollusks, also fresh-water
amphipods, all from Virginia (202910) ;
6 scorpion flies and 2 brown lace-wings
from Virginia (206060).

Hofker, Dr. J., The Hague, Nether-
lands: 3 Recent Foraminifera from the
Bay of Naples, Italy (203550) ; 9 For-
aminifera from Lower Cretaceous of
Holland (204471, exchange).

Hogan, Mrs. George W., Jr.. Mc-
Leansboro, Ill.: 1 ladies’ handkerchief
printed with stamp motifs (204167).

Hoglund, Dr. Hans, Lysekil, Sweden:
4 paratype Foraminifera from the Re-
cent of Sweden (2038555).

Holderer, George B., Washington,
D. C.: 3 specimens of manganese ore
from Brazil (205282).

Holling, Henry, Slick Rock, Colo.:
(Through Omer Raup) 20 specimens
uranium ore from Cougar mine, Slick
Rock Canyon, San Miguel County, Colo.
(204186).

Hollman, Karl H., New York, N. Y.:
1 Netherlands first-day cover (204898).

Holthuis, Dr. L. B. (See Rijksmu-
seum van Natuurlijke Historie)

Homan, B. H., Jr., New York, N. Y.:
2 albums containing 1110 postal issues
of the Transvaal, 1869-1883 (204386).

Honess, Dr. Ralph F. (See Wyo-
ming, University of):

Hong Kong, University of, China:
(Through Dr. David Barker) 2 mam-
mals, 8 reptiles and amphibians, 2 mol-

73

lusks, and 8 invertebrates from Hong
Kong (196144, exchange).

Hood, James R., Chattanooga, Tenn. :
65 fresh-water mollusks from Elk River,
Tenn. (203796, exchange) ; 205 marine
mollusks from the South Pacific and
from Trinidad, B. W. I. (204974, ex-
change).

Hoogstraal, Dr. Harry, Cairo, Egypt:
1 type specimen of tick (205408).

Hoopes, Mrs. W. H., Washington,
D. C.: 19 specimens of furniture, china,
stockings and other costume accessories
of 19th century (203959).

Hoover, Mrs. Herbert, Jr., Washing-
ton, D. C.: 1 blue and white Chinese
porcelain vase (206499, loan) ; 2 fans
that belonged to Mrs. Herbert Hoover,
First Lady of the White House, 1929-
1933 (206543).

Hopkins Marine Station, Pacific
Grove, Calif.: (Through Julius B. Phil-
lips) 1 fish from off Pigeon Point, Calif.
(202993, exchange) ; (through Dr. Don-
ald P. Abbott) 148 marine invertebrates
from the collection of Dr. W. K. Fisher
(203496).

Hottes, Dr. F. C., Grand Junction,
Colo.: 10 slides of thrips, including 3
holotypes (203281).

Howard, Col. John K., South Hamil-
ton, Mass.: 8 fishes taken from a marlin
east of Durban Harbor, Natal, South
Africa (205273) ; (through Gilbert L.
Voss) 150 marine invertebrates, 66
echinoderms, mollusks, and 6 fishes,
collected on expedition to Great Barrier
Reef, Australia, in 1953 (203245).

Howden, Dr. Henry F., Knoxville,
Tenn.: 8 beetles from United States
(2028638).

Howell, Dr. John F.
Research Laboratory)

Hubbard, Dr. C. Andresen, Tigard,
Oreg.: 57 fleas from Oregon (205599).

Hubbell, Edith S., Warrenton, Va.:
Notebook of drawings by a Southern
Plains Indian collected by donor’s
father, the late Gen. Henry W. Hubbell,
between 1869-1876 (203386).

Hubbs, Dr. Clark. (See Texas, Uni-
versity of)

(See Gulf Coast
74

Hubert, Lt. Alexander A., APO, San
Francisco, Calif.: 142 flies, 10 butter-
flies, 1 mayfly, and 8 stonefiies from
Korea (204885).

Hudson, Dr. George E.
ington, State College of)

Hummelinck, Dr. P. Wagenaar,
Utrecht, Netherlands: 5 beetles from
Caribbean Islands (1938780).

Hummer, Mrs. Nellie Blake Henry,
Macedon, N. Y.: Original cloth coffee
bag and coffee, and original leather
sugar bag and sugar issued during the
Civil War to Byron Simeon Blake
(206541).

Humphrey, Dr. Fred L., Stanford,
Calif.: (Through Dr. Walter L. Young-
quist and Dr. Siemon W. Muller) 6 type
Mississippian Goniatites from Nevada
(208300).

Humphrey, Dr. William, México, D.
F.: 2 microsamples Foraminifera from
Lower Cretaceous of México (204874).

Hungary, Government of: (Through
Hungarian Hmbassy) 52 assorted, used,
Hungarian stamps (206365).

Hurd, Dr. Paul D., Jr.
fornia, University of)

Husak, Jerome, Milwaukee, Wis.: 1
cacheted envelope (204481).

Hussey, Dr. Keith M., Ames, Iowa: 5
foraminifers from Eocene of Louisiana
(206356).

Iceland, Government of, Reykjavik:
(Through Frimerkjasalan) 4 philatelic
specimens of Iceland (204618).

Illg, Dr. Paul L., Seattle, Wash.: 4
specimens of octocoral (205112).

Illinois, University of, Urbana, II1.,
Museum of Natural History: (Through
Dr. Hobart M. Smith) 1 paratype of a
lizard from La Gloria, Oaxaca, México
(203004).

Illinois Natural History Survey Divi-
sion, Urbana, Ill.: (Through Dr. Lewis
J. Stannard) 4 thrips, including 2 para-
types, from Illinois (202608, exchange).

India, Geological Survey of, Calcutta:
(Through Dr. M.S. Krishman) 12 Fora-
minifera from Hocene of India (199816,
exchange).

Ingeloff, Thorsten, Karlstad, Sweden:
41 envelopes bearing commemorative

(See Wash-

(See Cali-

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1955

Swedish postal markings (204264); 3
Swedish covers (205607) ; 13 envelopes
with special Swedish cancel (206360,
206536).

Ingram, W. F., Griffin, Ga.: 33 cut
tourmalines from Brazil (205934).

Inigo, Félix. (See Puerto Rico, Com-
monwealth of)

Institute for Plant Diseases, Bogor,
Indonesia: 3 bugs (205001).

Institute of Jamaica, Kingston, Ja-
maica: Science Museum: 149 plants
collected in Jamaica by G. R. Proctor
(203114, gift-exchange) ; 18 plants col-
lected in West Indies by George R.
Proctor (204666) ; 107 plants from Ja-
maica (205608, exchange).

Instituto Agrondémico do Norte,
Belém, Parad, Brazil: 9 plants collected
in Brazil (202698).

Instituto Agronémico do Sul, Pelotas,
Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil: 62 grasses
from Brazil (202762, 2038967, 206468) ;
28 plants from Brazil (204163).

Instituto Botanico, Caracas, Vene-
zuela: 6 Venezuelan ferns (200491).

Instituto Butantan, Sao Paulo, Bra-
zil: (Through Dr. Aristoteris T. Leao)
2 toads from Goids and Mato Grosso,
Brazil (204283).

Instituto de Biologia, México, D. F.:
1 grass from México (204723).

Instituto de Botanica, Sado Paulo,
Brazil: 7 plants from Brazil (203288,
204553).

Instituto de Ciencias Naturales, Bo-
gota, Colombia: 26 plants and 1 grass
from Colombia (203055, 203548, 204888,
206478, 206479) ; 125 plants collected in
Colombia by Dr. Hernando Garcia-Bar-
riga (208724) ; 246 plants collected in
Colombia (204458, exchange) ; 28 plants
of Colombia (204605, gift-exchange).

Instituto de Ciencias Naturales,
Universidad Central, Quito, Heuador:
(Through Gustavo Orcés V.) 477 fresh-
water fishes from Ecuador (1993384, ex-
change).

Instituto Geobiologico “La Salle”
de Candas, Porto Alegra, Rio Grande do
Sul, Brazil: 54 plants from Brazil
(204112, 205905, exchange).
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Instituto Mexicano de Recursos Nat-
urales Renovables, México, D. F.:
(Through Dr. Jorge Carranza) 3 cat-
fishes from well in the State of Coa-
huila, México (205516, exchange).

Interior, U. S. Department of the,
Washington, D. C.: Fish and Wildlife
Service: 8 plants from Texas and New
Mexico (203765) ; 21 sheets of migra-
tory bird hunting stamps, 1934-1954
(205721); 156 mammals (206446) ;
(through Gustaf T. Sundstrom) 844
fishes collected in Gulf of Mexico during
August and September 1954 by Mr.
Sundstrom on the M/V Oregon
(202653) ; (through Stewart Springer)
1,019 miscellaneous marine inverte-
brates, 9 echinoderms, 18 mollusks,
2 corals, and 18 microsample foram-
inifers collected by the M/V Oregon
in the Gulf of Mexico (202732);
12 microsamples for Foraminifera
from Recent of Gulf of Mexico
(204547); (through Oscar H. Sette)
4 surgeonfishes from Pacific Ocean
(202833) ; (through Dr. A. L. Nelson)
4 holotypes of flies (202859) ; (through
George C. Miller) 983 fishes, also crus-
taceans, 1 starfish, and 700 mollusks,
collected by Mr. Miller in Liberia, 1952-
1954 (202912) ; (through John W. Ald-
rich) 2 nematodes (202988) ; (through
Roland L. Wigley) 4 amphipods from
Woods Hole harbor (203872) ; (through
Stewart Springer and Harvey Bullis,
Jr.) 982 fishes from Gulf of Mexico
(204890) ; (through California Acad-
emy of Sciences) 367 mollusks from the
northern and eastern Pacific Ocean, col-
lected by the U. S. S. Albatross
(205222) ; (through Clark P. Salyer) 4
bisons from National Bison Range,
Mont. (205701); (through Oscar H.
Sette and Joseph EH. King) 8 fishes col-
lected by the Pacific Oceanic Fishery
Investigations in the central Pacific
(206054). Geological Survey: 10 min-
erals: montrosite and hummerite from
Colorado, navajoite from Arizona, and
sahamalite from California (2025388) ;
soil samples from caves at Trail Creek,
Seward Peninsula, Alaska, collected by
David M. Hopkins and Dr. Helge Lar-

75

sen in 1948 (202550); 395 rocks and
ores from James River-Roanoke River
manganese district, Virginia, and South-
eastern States (202746) ; 3 specimens of
analyzed lavas from Mauna Loa and
Kilauea Voleanos (203023) ; 279 slides
of Cretaceous, Triassic, and Jurassic
Foraminifera from South Dakota, Wyo-
ming, Montana, and northern Alaska
(208126, 203293, 208372) ; 26 Pleistocene
Foraminifera from Long Island, N. Y.
(203127) ; 7 brachiopods from well core
AC-51-2, Williams County, N. Dak.
(208238) ; 180 rock and mineral speci-
mens described by P. B. King (203239) ;
13,150 well samples and 951 surface
samples of rock from Montana
(203296) ; 1,860 plants from Alaska
(203354) ; 1 uraninite from Monument
No. 2 Mine, Apache County, Ariz.
(203429) ; 3 Specimens and 2 casts of
fossil invertebrates from Yorktown for-
mation of Virginia (203547); 2 speci-
mens of ferruginous conglomerate from
Texas (208548); 6 plants collected in
Utah and Nevada by Robert R. Coats
(203620) ; 1483 slides of Foraminifera
types from Recent of Florida (203725) ;
5 specimens zine-lead ore regional col-
lection of Manning Area, Orleans
County, N. Y. (203980); 1,105 plants
collected in Micronesia by F. R. Fos-
berg (204460); 100 fresh-water mol-
lusks from California, and 7 Carbonif-
erous gastropods (204854); 5 land
snails from Alaska and 35 fresh-water
mollusks from Montana (205517,
205518) ; (through Jewell J. Glass) 5
specimens of Irish Creek tin deposits,
and 1 fluorescent sodalite and hack-
manite from Magnet Cove, Ark.
(203026) ; (through J. H. Feth) 35 land
and fresh-water mollusks from Utah
(208252); (through Dr. Preston H.
Cloud, Jr.) lower jaw, associated bones,
and scales of fossil teleost fish, col-
lected by Messrs. Van Horn, Scott, and
Cobban in Upper Cretaceous Pierre
shale formation, Jefferson County, Colo.
(203348) ; 19 fresh-water mollusks from
Alaska (203418) ; palate of fossil por-
poise from Lower Pliocene Bone Valley
formation at Noralyn Mine, near Bar-
76

tow, Polk County, Fla. (2038520); 28
Slides containing type and figured speci-
mens of 36 Radiolaria ; 14 holotypes and
3 plesiotypes of discoasters and related
organisms (203553) ; (through Dr. Gil-
bert Corwin) 588 land and marine mol-
lusks, and insects from Pagan Island,
Marianas Islands (2043738). National
Park Service: (Through Floyd L. Kel-
ler) 48 ant lions and lace-wing flies
from California (198348); (through
Victor H. Cahalane) 2 fresh-water mol-
lusks from Alaska (204549). (See also
Robin, Art)

International Ryukyu Stamp and
Coin Society, Los Angeles, Calif.:
(Through J. N. Wong) 385 Ryukyu
Islands postage and airmail stamps
(202856).

Iowa State College, Ames, Iowa:
(Through Dr. W. J. Zimmermann) 2
species of nematodes (204226).

Iraq Ministry of Agriculture, Bagh-
dad: 2,361 plants of Iraq collected by
Dr. Ali Al-Rawi and associates (205542,
exchange).

Irving, Dr. Laurence. (See Health,
Education, and Welfare, U. 8. Depart-
ment of, Arctic Health Research
Center)

Irving, Robert B., Gooding, Idaho:
Approximately 153 marine inverte-
brates, also mollusks from MHenry’s
Lake, Idaho (1960382).

Irwin, H. S., Subryanville, British
Guiana: 297 plants from British Guiana
(202668, 204136, 205549, 205993).

Israel, Government of, Geological In-
stitute, Jerusalem: (Through Dr. Z.
Reiss) 161 Foraminifera from Creta-
ceous and Tertiary of Israel (203162,
exchange).

Jackson, Ralph W., Cambridge, Md.:
62 National Teat Fire cartridges, .32
caliber (202858).

Jacobson, Morris K.. Rockaway
Beach, N. Y.: 22 mollusks from New
York and Cuba (206556).

Jagellonian University, Herbarium of
the Botanical Garden, Cracow, Poland:
50 specimens of bryophytes (206477,
exchange).

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1955

Jago, John B., San Francisco, Calif. :
3 minerals from San Benito County,
Calif., Madagascar, and Uganda
(203982, exchange) ; 1 mineral, betafite,
from Madagascar (205557).

James, Incorporated, Louisville, Ky. :
(Through D. W. and L. R. Karp) Gen-
eral Robert E. Lee nickel-silver medal
dated 1807-1870 (203801).

James, Dr. Maurice T.
ington, State College of)

Jameson, Prof. E. W., Jr.: 3 fleas and
2 chiggers from California (206572).

Jamnback, Dr. Hugo. (See New
York State Museum)

Japan, Laboratory of the Imperial
Household, Tokyo: 12 samples of Octo-
corallia from the Imperial collection of
the Hmperor of Japan (201561).

Japan Seciety, Inc., New York, N. Y.:
60 block prints by Yoshida family lent
for exhibition November 1954 (203895,
loan).

Jardin Botanique de l’Etat, Brussels,
Belgium: 39 phanerogams and 41
grasses from the Belgian Congo
(206350, exchange).

Jellison, Dr. William L. (See Health,
Education, and Welfare, Department of,
Public Health Service)

Jennings, Dr. Jesse D., Salt Lake
City, Utah: (Through Dr. F. H. H.
Roberts, Jr.) Willow splint figurine of
quadruped (204370).

Jiménez, Dr. José de Js., Santiago de
Los Caballeros, Dominican Republic:
182 plants from Dominican Republic
(208051, 204898).

Jodidi, Mrs. Elizabeth R. (deceased) :
(Through Melville W. Stuart) 1 neck-
lace of gold beads with topaz pendant;
2 lidded porcelain Meissen vases; 1 sil-
ver crutch-handled ebony cane (205868,
bequest).

Johns Hopkins University, School of
Hygiene and Public Health, Baltimore,
Md.: (Through Dr. John J. Christian)
5 deer from James Island, Md.
(206559).

Johns-Manville Corp., Washington,
D. C.: 5 pieces of asbestos materials
(203978).

(See Wash-
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Johnson, Dr. Donald R., Washington,
D. C.: 215 miscellaneous insects from
Indonesia (206057).

Johnson, Joe C., Bryan, Tex. : 6 plants
from Texas (204555).

Johnson, Phyllis T. (See Defense,
Department of, Department of the
Army, Army Medical Service Graduate
School, Washington, D. C.)

Johnson, Mrs. Robert C., Jr.
Perkins, Sibyl Avery)

Johnson and Johnson, New Bruns-
wick, N. J.: 1 exhibit entitled “Binding
Up a Wound” showing surgical dress-
ings from prehistoric times to the
bandage of today, and featuring a band-
aged 1500-year-old Peruvian skull
(206453).

Johnston, Dr. Franklin D.
Michigan, University of)

Johnstone, Mr. and Mrs. Harry Inge,
Mobile, Ala.: 29 marine mollusks from
off the coast of Mississippi and Florida
(202991).

Johnstone, Mrs. Harry Inge, Mobile,
Ala.: 100 marine mollusks from Gulf
eoast of Alabama (205015).

Jokelson, Paul, New York, N. Y.: 6
sulphide paper weights containing por-
traits of George Washington, Thomas
Jefferson, Abraham Lincoln, and Robert
EK. Lee, made by Baccarat, 1954 (202922,
203986, 206482).

Jones, Dr. J. J.. La Plata, Md.: Hog-
nose snake from Charlotte Hall, Md.,
collected by donor (201599).

Jones, Lt. J. Knox, Jr. (See Defense,
Department of, Depariment of the
Army)

Jones, Mrs. Joyce H.
University of)

Jones, Robert H., Madison, Wis. : 129
biting midges and 116 mosquitoes from
Wisconsin (205277, 206069).

Jones, Warren R., Erongaricuaro,
México: 5 minerals from México, and
sublimates from Paricutin volcano
(2003883).

Julius Roehrs Company, Rutherford,
N. J.: 1 cultivated fern (204059).

Juilliard School of Music, New York,
N. Y.: (Through Charles Bestor) 1

(See

(See

(See Michigan,

Ri

piano made by A. Babcock, Boston, be-
tween 1822 and 1829 (205595, loan).

Junge, Dr. Carlos, Concepcion, Chile:
2 land mollusks from Ciudad Trujillo,
Dominican Republic (204886).

Kagoshima University, Kyusyu, Ja-
pan: 450 plants of Japan and Ryukyu
Islands (204807, exchange).

Kainen, Jacob, Washington, D. C.: 1
three-color letterpress halftone ‘“Yosem-
ite,’ from a photograph, published in
1899 by the Detroit Photographic Com-
pany (205416); 1 color woodcut,
“Tiger,” by Jacob Pins (205982).

Kannowski, Paul B., Ann Arbor,
Mich. : 84 ants from Michigan (205997).

Kansas, University of, Lawrence,
Kans. : 50 plants from México (2029038) ;
3 plants (205908).

Karp, D. W. and L. R. (See James,
Incorporated)

Kaufman, Dean K. L. (See Butler
University )

Kausel, Dr. Eberhard, Santiago,
Chile: 16 plants collected in Chile

(202697, exchange).

Keen, Dr. A. Myra, Stanford, Calif. :
7 paratypes of Cretaceous and Cenozoic
ecardiid pelecypods from Washington,
New Caledonia, and Japan (204774).

Keenan, Charles M. (See Defense,
Department of, Department of the
Army.)

Keller, L. Floyd. (See Interior,
U. S. Department of the, National Park
Service)

Keller, Dr. Mark, New Haven, Conn.:
2 nematomorphs (202748).

Kellogg, Dr. Remington, Washington,
D. C.: Section of Japanese whaling har-
poon forerunner, acquired by donor in
Japan (202870); 1 meter marking of
Canada including frank of G. R. Clark,
Deputy Minister of Fisheries (206502).

Kelton, L. A., Ottawa, Canada: 130
plant bugs from Canada and the United
States (205894).

Kernodle, George, Washington, D. C.:
Shell necklace on cotton string base
from Perti (202975).

Kettle, Dr. D. S., Hdinburgh, Scot-
land: 9 paratype mosquitoes from Scot-
land (201472).
is

Kezer, Dr. James, Colombia, Mo.: 58
western newts of 2 different subspecies
from Crater Lake National Park, Oreg.
(202966).

Khan, Dr. M. H., Quetta, Pakistan:
46 Permian brachiopods from Salt
Range of India (203519, exchange).

Killip, E. P., Washington, D. C.: 1
marine mollusk from Florida, 6 marine
invertebrates (204717).

Kimball, Charles P., Sarasota, Fla.:
7 moths from Florida and New Hngland
(205280).

King, Clyde B., Chillicothe, Ohio: 26
fresh-water mollusks from Michigan
and Ohio (203852).

King, Joseph E. (See Interior, De-
partment of the, Fish and Wildlife
Service)

King, Dr. Willard V., Fort Lauder-
dale, Fla.: 6,247 mosquitoes from Phil-
ippine Islands (202702).

King Ranch, Kingsville,
grasses from Texas (203325).

Kingdom, George D., Conneaut, Ohio:
1 postcard bearing a 4cent airmail
stamp cancelled Sept. 3, 1954 (205578) ;
1 oversized postcard first day 4-cent
U. 8S. airmail stamp (205615).

Kinghorne, Mrs. Edna Mae Sibley,
Washington, D. C.: Silk dress, ca. 1858 ;
2 pair undersleeves ; gold brooch, owned
by Angeline Sibley, and print of photo-
graph showing her wearing the dress
and brooch (202855) ; 2 pieces late 19th-
century needlework, and 1 fillet crochet
centerpiece (203513).

Kingsley, Prof. Louise, Wellesley,
Mass.: (Through Dr. Arthur Boucot)
1 Paleozoic coral from metamorphic
rocks of Skitchewaug Mountain, Clare-
mont Quadrangle, Vt. (203729).

Kirk, Dr. Edwin, Washington, D. C.:
8 archeological specimens from Neo-
lithic of Switzerland and Denmark
(204602).

Klages, Edward A., Crafton, Pa.: 6
bird skins (203385).

Klett, George, and Conklin, James E.,
Beeville, Tex.: Skull of fossil saber-
tooth tiger, and tooth of horse, collected
by Mr. Klett in 1949 from Pleistocene

Tex.: 2

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1955

Juana Maria Planes Survey on banks of
Medio Creek, near Beeville, Tex.
(204118).

Knepton, James C., Jr., Macon, Ga.:
One chipmunk from Georgia (205487).

Knight, Joseph LeRoy, Wilmington,
Del.: 1 model bomb ketch, European,
18th century (206539).

Knipscheer, Dr. H. C. G., Miinchen,
Germany: 1 microsample of the Ceno-
manian of Bavaria (203128).

Knull, J. N., Columbus, Ohio: 27
beetles from Ohio (206030).

Koch, Dr. Leo F., New Orleans, La.:
22 mosses from California and Oregon
(204668, exchange).

Kormilevy, Dr. Nicholas A., Buenos
Aires, Argentina: 29 bugs from Argen-
tina, Brazil, and Chile (203373, ex-
change).

Kozloff, Eugene, N., Chapel Hill,
N. C.: 94 land and marine mollusks
from Florida (200995).

Kraft, Mrs. Lucy, Washington, D. C.:
Sampler dated 1834 (203514).

Krauss, Dr. N. L. H., Veracruz, Méx-
ico: 1 plant from México (206560).

Krauss, Noel, Honolulu, T. H.: 99
miscellaneous insects from México and
Arizona (204849).

Kremers Urban Co. Milwaukee,
Wis.: (Through Jack T. Claney) 25-
gallon copper pereolator equipped with
cover and inside disc (203202).

Krishman, Dr. M. S. (See India,
Geological Survey of)

Krombein, Karl V., Arlington, Va.:
195 miscellaneous insects from Kill
Devil Hills, N. C. (202865) ; 6 wasps,
including 4 paratypes, from North
America (2038527) ; 8364 wasps with asso-
ciated prey and parasites from North
Carolina (203528).

Krombein, Dr. Louis H., Derby, N. Y.:
328 miscellaneous insects from Florida
(2082382).

Kugler, H. G., Trinidad, B. W. I.: 7
fossil ‘“‘bilobites’” from Point-a-Pierre,
Trinidad, B. W. I. (205941).

Kunkle, Donald E., Bloomfield, N. J.:
11 marine mollusks from Marco Beach,
Fla. (2038210).
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Kuntz, Lt. Comdr. Robert E. (See
Defense, U. S. Department of, Depari-
ment of the Navy)

Kutter, Dr. H., Flawil, St. Gallen,
Switzerland: 120 ants, including 8 co-
types, from Europe (202985, exchange).

Laboratorias Cosmos S. A., Caracas,
Venezuela: (Through Dr. Victor M.
Marquez) 4 marine mollusks from Ven-
ezuela (204961).

LaGanke, Nelson P., Cleveland, Ohio:
1 National Cash Register meter mark-
ing and 2 Pitney-Bowes meter markings

(205620); 1 envelope face bearing
meter markings, Columbus, Ohio
(206494).

Lambie, Margaret, Washington,

D. C.: 16 prints by Napoleon Sarony,
C. M. Bell, Abraham Bogardus, Matthew
B. Brady, Richardson, and George Rock-
wood (205891). (See also Stuart, Mr.
and Mrs. A. Donaldson)

Lamm, Donald W., Accra, Gold Coast,
West Africa: 66 bird skins from Mo-
zambique (204194).

Landis, Martin A., Greencastle, Pa.:
(Through National Zoological Park) 1
fish, lamprey, from Potomac River
(206346).

Lane, Dr. John, Sio Paulo, Brazil: 8
fungus gnats from Brazil (205538).

Lang, Dr. Karl, Stockholm, Sweden:
47 copepods (184730, exchange).

Latham, Meneva S., Palm City,
Calif.: Linen curtain crocheted in 1900
by mother of donor (204428).

Latham, Roy, Orient, N. Y.: 33
grasses from New York (202625,
204594) ; 4 slugs and 6 land mollusks
from Long Island, N. Y. (203244,
204344).

Laurent, John, Ogunquit, Maine: 22
prints in various media by John Lau-
rent for special exhibition March 28-
May 29, 1955 (205523, loan).

Lawalrée, André, Auderghem, Bel-
gium: 45 ferns (204373, exchange).

Lawson, Ethel M., Washington, D. C.:
5 necklaces and other items of bead-
work from the Puyallup Indians; 1
beaded evening bag; 2 ruffled and lace-
trimmed nightgowns; and 1 chenille
eotton table cover (203573).-

859492—55-——7

79

Lawson, Walter J., Pietermaritzburg,
Natal, South Africa: 2 nestling birds in
alcohol and 2 sets of eggs, from Natal
(202709).

Lawton, Dr. Elva, New York, N. Y.:
70 bryophytes (205718).

Leao, Dr. Aristoteris T.
tuto Butantan)

Learnard, R. A., Washington, D. C.:
2 Mearns and 1 Asiastic quail, 1 bare-
throated francolin (203971, 205415).

Leathem D. Smith Shipbuilding Co.,
Sturgeon Bay, Wis.: Ship model of
Great Lakes self-unloading bulk-cargo
vessel (201628).

Lee, Wellington, New York, N. Y.: 40
pictorial prints for exhibition January—
February 1955 (204489, loan).

Leech, Gordon, Washington, D. C.: 1
moufion (203600).

Leech, Dr. Hugh B.
Academy of Sciences)

Leggett, Frank L., Meredith, N. H.:
10 phosphate minerals from Palermo
Mine, North Groton, N. H. (204883, ex-
change).

Leigh, Lewis, Chantilly, Va.: 1 en-
velope bearing special markings
(205566).

Leigh, Dr. W. Henry, Coral Gables,
Fla.: 4 slides containing cotypes of a
new species of helminth (205457).

Leith, Dr. Edward, Winnipeg, Can-
ada: 1 type slide of Octocorallia
(205949).

Leonard, E. C., Washington, D. C.:
9,300 plants, mostly collected in the
United States (203116).

Leve, J. Arthur, New York, N. Y.:
5,930 South American stamps (206055).

Liberia, Republic of: 4 Liberian
stamps (204265); (through Liberian
Philatelic Agency) 6 Liberian “Presi-
dential Visit’? stamps (204900);
(through Dr. Frederick A. Price) 6
Liberia “Sports” stamps (205567).

Liberian Philatelic Agency.
Liberia, Government of)

Library of Congress, Washington,
D. C.: Medal struck at Mint in Brussels,
Belgium, in 1954 to commemorate In-
stitut Royal Belge (203783) ; medallion

(See Insti-

(See California

(See
80

in porcelain of George Washington
(205980) ; (through Library of Con-
gress Stamp Club) 1,226 philatelic spec-
imens from Belgium, Bohemia, Moravia,
Croatia, Serbia, and Slovakia (204620).
(See also Anonymous)

Library of Congress Stamp Club.
(See Library of Congress)

Ligon, J. Stokley, Carlsbad, N. Mex.:
Skeleton of Seesee partridge (203507).

Limestone College, Gaffney, S. C.: 8
plants (203607).

Lin, Dr. Shu-ye, Tegucigalpa, Hon-
duras: 85 fishes from Honduras and 2
erustaceans (202935).

Lindroth, Dr. Carl H., Lund, Sweden:
43 ladybugs from Newfoundland and
Nova Scotia (2055386).

Link, Marilyn, Binghamton, N. Y.: 1
U. S. first-flight cover (205609).

Lipinsky, Mrs. Elinita K. Burgess,
Rome, Italy: 8 etchings illustrating
Homer’s Odyssey by Sigmund Lipinsky,
1873-1940 (206487).

Lipinsky, Lino S., New York, N. Y.: 29
etchings and drawings by Mr. Lipinsky
for exhibition June-July 1955 (206488,
loan).

Livingston, Col. John L., Jr., Yuba
City, Calif.: 28 tungsten and other ores
from Korea (206505).

Loeblich, Dr. Helen T., and Dr. Alfred
R., Jr.. Washington, D. C.: 1,000 foram-
iferal samples from Paleozoic to Re-
cent, world wide, and 3,500,000 speci-
mens of Foraminifera from Texas and
Oklahoma (206510).

Lorenz, Charies. (See National Tu-
berculosis Association)

Louisville, University of, Louisville,
Ky.: (Through Dr. William M. Clay)
270 fresh-water fishes from Kentucky
(204889, exchange).

Lowe, Ed H., Marathon, Fla.:
(Through Joseph Curtis Moore) 2 tym-
panic bones of a piked whale from
Bahia Honda Key, Fla. (205977).

Lowe, Edith Blinston, Washington,
D. C.: 28 shawls, laces, and pieces of
jewelry (206461).

Lowenstein, Ernst, New York, N. Y.:
2,238 philatelic specimens ; 4-volume col-

U. 8S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1955

lection of Honduras airmail stamps and
covers, and 3-volume collection of Para-
guay airmails (204876).

Lowerre, F. G., St. Petersburg, Fla.:
1 deep-water marine mollusk from
South Africa (203909).

Lunz, Dr. G. Robert. (See Bears Bluff
Laboratories)

Lura, Soren, Forest Heights, Md.: 2
Danish philatelic wrappers (204383) ;
2 souvenir label sheets issued for Lions
International ““Extamp” exhibition
(205569).

Lutz, John C., Philadelphia, Pa.: 8
bugs from South America (208770, ex-
change).

Lynn, Dr. W. Gardner, Washington,
D. C.: 19 frogs, a type and 18 paratypes,
from Portland Ridge, Clarendon, Ja-
maica (206342).

Lyon, William J., Makati, Rizal, P. I.:
41 miscelianecus Philippine philatelic
specimens (203731) ; 39 Philippine Is-
lands first-day covers (204010).

Lys, M., Rueil-Malmaison, France: 50
Foraminifera from Tertiary of France
(203195, exchange).

MacManus, Ruth 8B. Washington,
D. C.: Balinese theatrical face mask of
carved and painted wood (203044).

Magnolia Field Research Laboratory,
Dallas, Tex.: (Through Dr. Willis G.
Hewatt) 90 miscellaneous marine inver-
tebrates from Heald Bank area of Texas
gulf coast (202026).

Main, Robert J.. Washington, D. C.:
16 marine mollusks from Maryland
(205241).

Malkin, Dr. Borys, Seattle, Wash.:
100 marine invertebrates, and 1 insect,
collected near San Blas, Nayarit, Méx-
ico (201009).

Manahan, Addie Baile, Westminster,
Md.: 1 album quilt made in 1850-51 by
Eliza Jane Baile (202673) ; white mus-
lin wrapper, chemise and drawers hand
made by Fannie Jane Manahan between
1873 and 1874 (203078).

Mangin, M. Jean Philippe, Dijon,
France: 1 sample containing topotype
foraminifers from Cretaceous of Spain
(204734, exchange),
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Manitcba, University of, Winnipeg,
Manitoba: 156 plants from Manitoba
(202670, exchange).

Mann, Dr. William M., Washington,
D. C.: 186,288 insects, including 116,247
ants; 150 mollusks (205236). (See
also National Zoological Park)

Manning, J. H., Solomons, Md.: 45
marine mollusks from Patuxent River,
Md. (204959).

Marble, Dr. Jchn P., Washington,
D. C.: 15 specimens of lava and volcanic
products from Italy (204462). (See
also Marble, Mrs. John P.)

Marble, Mrs. John P., Washington,
D. C.: (Through Dr. John P. Marble)
Beaded silver chain bracelet bought in
Ttaly about 1900 (205706).

Marie, M. Pierre, Paris, France: 35
topotype Foraminifera from Oligocene
of Alsace, France (203073, exchange).

Mariners Museum, Newport News,
Va. (Through Harold S. Sniffen) 46
pictorial prints from 8th Annual Exhibi-
tion of Marine Photography for exhibit,
May 1955 (205983, loan).

Marks, A. and Marks, Edward §.,
Washington, D. C.: United States flag
presented to Washington Light Guard,
commanded by Capt. S. A. H. Marks,
Jr., by citizens of southeast Washing-
ton in 1861, and 2 small banners
(202857).

Marks, Edward S. (See Marks, A.)

Markuze, Abraham L., Arlington, Va.:
21 pages of foreign prescriptions
(206452, loan).

Markwith, F. R., Cheverly,
Oliver, No. 9 typewriter (205423).

Md.:

Marquez, Dr. Victor M. (See Labo-
ratorias Cosmos §. A.)
Marriage, Dr. Lowell D. (See Ore-

gon, Kish Commission of)

Marshall, Ernest B., Laurel, Md.: 21
mammals from vicinity of Laurel
(206523).

Marshall, Dr. Norman B. (See Great
Britain, Government of, British Museum
(Natural History) )

Martin, Dr. Arthur W.
ington, University of)

(See Wash-

81

Martin, J. Lynton, Sault Saint Marie,
Ontario: 4 moths from Canada
(203638).

Martin, Lloyd M., Los Angeles, Calif. :
10 moths from Arizona and California
(2055385).

Massengill Co., S. E., Bristol, Tenn. :
(Through Frank W. DefFriece, Jr.)
15-gallon copper kettle complete with
stand, and Colton pillmaking appara-
tus (203204).

Mathers, Carol K., Marshalltown,
Iowa: 4 leeches from Silver Lake Fen,
Lake Park, Iowa (205144).

Matthews, Donald C., Honolulu, T.
H.: 8 hermit crabs and 12 hippas from
Hawaii (202891).

Matthews, Oliver V., Salem, Oreg.:
2 plants collected in Oregon (202288).

Mattingly, P.F. (See Great Britain,
Government of, British Museum (Natu-
ral History) )

Maiuda, Dr. Eizi, México, D. F.: 198
plants collected in México (204267).

Mayer, Fritz, Hamburg, Germany: 6
fishes (203871).

Mayeux, Herman S.
Agricultural Supply Co.)

Mayne, Dr. Wolf, Caracas, Venezuela:
5 thin sections and 2 type Foraminifera
from Venezuela and Algeria (204546) ;
4 type Foraminifera from Tertiary of
Venezuela (204741); 10 type Forami-
nifera for the Cushman collection
(205714).

Maysiiles, James H. Ann Arbor,
Mich.: 16 plants from México (203928).

McAlister, Frances. (See Clemson
Agricultural College)

McAllister, Dr. Raymond F., Galves-
ton, Tex.: 1 shrimp found in bottom
sediment core taken 8 miles offshore
from Galveston jetty (204375).

McCabe, John H., Arlington, Va.: 1
gyrafalecon (204193).

McCain, Laura B., Alexandria, Va.:
1 plant collected in Ohio (203115).

McCormick, Lela S., Everett, Wash.:
Appointment of Joseph Dodge, Jr., as
1st lieutenant, 6th Regiment Middlesex
County Militia, Massachusetts Bay
Colony, dated April 9, 1778 (206550).

(See Florida
82

McCuen, C. L.
Corp.)

McDermott, Frank A., Wilmington,
Del.: 46 beetles from Chile (20383883,
206458).

McDunnough, Dr. J., Halifax, Nova
Scotia: 8 paratype moths from North
America (205406).

McKim, Mrs. W. D. Washington,
D. C.: 2 small wooden bowls and a
framed mirror, examples of Norwegian
folk art in wood carving and applica-
tion of color (205707).

McKinney, Elva L., Washington,
D. C.: Leather neediecase, 1842, lace
collar, ca. 1870, pair black satin shoes,
pair white lisle stockings and 1 red and
white patchwork quilt (205091, 205528).

McLane, Dr. William M., Crescent
City, Fla.: 2 polychaete worms, 1
shrimp, and 1 mollusk (205494).

McMullen, Dysart, Washington,
D. C.: United States bronze medal,
1889, commemorating the 100th anni-
versary of the incorporation of George-
town College (205572).

Mead, Hilda, Springfield, Mo.: 9
fresh-water mollusks from Missouri
(202887).

Medical Evangelists, College of,
Loma Linda, Calif.: 188 plants from
California (205427).

Mehta, Dhirubhai, Ghatkopar, India:
3 first-day covers from India (204892).

Metropolitan Museum of Art, New
York, N. Y.: 1 arm chair, 2 side chairs,
and 1 slipper chair of rosewood, attrib-
uted to John Belter, mid-19th century
(206485, loan).

Metter, Raymond E., Columbus, Ohio:
20 Mississippian and Permian brachio-
pods from Utah (205779, exchange).

Meyer, Maj. Gen. G. Ralph, El Paso,
Tex.: 119 sets of eggs of Panamanian
bird (206444).

Meyer, Robert C. Staten Island,
N. Y.:2 grasses from New York
(203975).

Meyerburg, Robert, Silver Spring,
Md.: 2 philatelic specimens (204617).
(See also Treasury Department, Secret
Service)

(See General Motors

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1955

Miami, University of, Coral Gables,
Fla.: (Through Mrs. Gilbert Voss):
9 larval fishes from Florida (203003).

Michigan, University of, Ann Arbor,
Mich.: 3 plants collected in México
(204458) ; (through Dr. Franklin D.
Johnston) original electrocardiograph
owned by Dr. Frank N. Wilson, pioneer
in field of _ electrocardiography
(2038310); (through Mrs. Joyce H.
Jones) 63 lichens (205239, exchange) ;
(through Dr. Irving J. Cantrall) 36
flies from Florida and Michigan
(206532).

Michigan State College, Hast Lan-
sing, Mich.: 18 plants from México
(205361).

Micks, Don W., Galveston, Tex.: 35
flies from Iwo Jima (206459).

Miles, Mrs. Arnold, Washington,
D. C.: 1 stoneware jar marked “W. J.
Lehew and Co., Strasburg, Va.,” and
wrought-iron, butterfly-type wagon nut
(202666) ; 1 redware kitchen pot and 1
fragmentary stoneware jar (204769).

Miles, Mr. and Mrs. Arnold, Wash-
ington, D. C.: § pieces of children’s un-
dergarments, 19th century (204483) ; 1
black and white cotton challis house
dress, style late 19th century (206338).
(See also Mr. and Mrs. L. G. Arp)

Miller, Dr. A. K., Iowa City, Iowa:
215 Ordovician fossils, including types,
from Baffin Island (204204) ; 35 Juras-
sie brachiopods from Arabia (204731).

Miller, George C. (See Interior, U. 8S.
Department of the, Fish and Wildlife
Service)

Miller, John. (See Weston BHlectri-
cal Instrument Corp.)

Milier, Neal E. (See Yale Univer-
sity)

Miller, Comdr. Walter B., Falls
Church, Va.: 89 land and fresh-water
mollusks from various localities in the
United States (203276).

Miner, Mrs. Leo D., Washington,
D. C.: Chinese brocaded grass cloth
hanging (205275).

Mineralogisch-petrographisches In-
stitut, Gottingen, Germany: 2 speci-
mens of corrensite from Germany
(205552).
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Ministério da Viacao e Obras Pub-
licas, Fortaleza-ce, Brazil: (Through
Carlos Bastos Tigre) 20 fishes from
Brazil (203383).

Ministério de Agricultura y Cria,
Caracas, Venezuela: 2 plants (205114) ;
(through Dr. Francisco Tamayo) 1
lichen from Venezuela (203874).

Ministério de Agricultura e Indus-
trias, San José, Costa Rica: (Through
L. A. Salas F.) 9 land snails from San
José (204354).

Minnesota, University of, Minneap-
olis, Minn. : 67 phanerogams, 8 grasses,
and 15 ferns from the United States
and México (206353, exchange) ;
(through Prof. Henry J. Griffiths) 98
fresh-water mollusks from Minnesota
(202749) ; 21 fresh-water snails from
Polk County, Minn. (203763) ; (through
Dr. Samuel Eddy) 4 fresh-water fishes
from North Carolina (205235, ex-
change) ; (through Dr. Gerald B. Own-
bey) 25 New Zealand ferns (205284,
exchange); (through Dr. Hdwin F.
Cook) 95 flies from North America, in-
cluding 1 paratype (206058, 206059,
206460).

Missouri Botanical Garden, St. Louis,
Mo.: 1 cultivated plant (2054380);
(through Dr. R. M. Tryon, Jr.) 1 iso-
type of fern (205543, exchange).

Mitchell, Dr. T. B., Raleigh, N. C.: 2
bees (202770, exchange).

Mohammed Ali, Prime Minister of
Pakistan, Karachi: Pink pearl from
Hast Pakistan (204597).

Molley, R. E., Mohnton, Pa. : 160 speci-
mens comprising model, patent letters,
manuscripts, photographs, and miscel-
laneous documents pertaining to the in-
ventions of Theodore Ruggles Timby,
chiefly in the field of equipment for use
in naval warfare (206545).

Monaco, Government of: (Through
Office des Emissions de Timbres-Poste)
72 miscellaneous philatelic items from
Monaco (205562, 206554).

Monod, Dr. Théodore, Dakar, French
West Africa : 13 amphipods from Philip-
pine Islands (2033880).

Montana State College, Bozeman,
Mont.: 1 grass from Montana (202693).

83

Montana State University, Missoula,
Mont.: 57 plants from Montana and
México, collected by LeRoy H. Harvey
(197309).

Montgomery, William H., New York,
N. ¥.: Franklin D. Roosevelt Memorial
stamp collection comprising 246 speci-
mens (206553).

Moon, George E., Bakersfield, Calif. :
5 barite sand roses, Cuyama River Val-
ley between Bakersfield and Santa
Maria, Calif. (202186).

Moore, Dr. H. E., Jr.
University )

Moore, Joseph Curtis.
Ed H.)

Moore, Mrs. William T., Washington,
D. C., and Tasher, Dr. Lucy Lucile,
Normal, Il.: 18 items of clothing and
accessories of the late 19th and early
20th centuries (205719); 1 paisley
printed gauze shawl, 1 overshot cover-
let, and 1 Jacquard coverlet (205417).

Morlan, Harvey B., Savannah, Ga.:
2 type lice from United States (202941).

Morris, Mrs. George Maurice, Wash-
ington, D. C.: 36 pieces of English and
Irish 18th-century silver (206052, loan).

Morrison, Dr. Joseph P. E., Washing-
ton, D. C.: Williamson teat fire revolver
(203526).

Moul, Prof. Edwin T.
University )

Moule, George R., Queensland, Aus-
tralia: 10 ethnographical specimens
from aborigines of Queensland
(203876).

Mroczkowski, Maciej.
Academy of Sciences)

Mrose, Dr. Mary, Arlington, Va.: 11

(See Cornell

(See Lowe,

(See Rutgers

(See Polish

minerals from EHrajarvi, Viitaniemi,
Finland (204782).

Muller, Dr. Siemon W. (See Hum-
phrey, Dr. Fred L.)

Mumford, Russell E., Pinckney,

Mich.: 31 mammals from Indiana
(202828).

Munby, A. N. L., Cambridge, England:
Drawing of Washington City from the
Southeast copied from an _ original
sketch by Blanc; probably made about
1830 by J. W. Heathcote (206537).
84

Murch, Robert Westlund, St. Louis,
Mo.: 1 Laclede Steel Co. Balloon Derby
posteard (204381) ; 1 envelope with spe-
cial rubber stamping (205618).

Murray, Rev. J. J., Lexington, Va.: 4
chickadees and 1 sapsucker (203619) ;
4 bird skins from Virginia (203972).

Museo de Historia Natural “Javier
Prado”, Lima, Peri: (Through Dr.
Ramon Ferreyra) 28 grasses of Peru
(206471).

Museum of Natural History, Geneva,
Switzerland: (Through Dr. Charles
Ferriere) 3 cotype ants from Europe
(202984, exchange).

Museum of Natural History, Reykja-
vik, Iceland: (Through Finnur Gud-
mundsson) Greenland white-fronted
goose (204110, exchange).

Museum of Natural History of Hous-
ton, Houston, Tex.: 1 plant (203899).

Mushlitz, Lt. R. D., Arlington, Va.:
2 babingionites from Arlington Quarry,
Leesburg, Va. (203960, exchange).

Myers, ©. A., and Son, Inc. Pitts-
burgh, Pa.: 2 hearing aids, models B-6
and 830 (205911).

Nadeau, Victor, Montreal, Canada:
(Through Pierre Brunel) 8 specimens
parasitic copepods (204708).

Nagappa, Y.. Assam, India: Approx-
imately 150 Recent and Tertiary Foram-
inifera from India and Pakistan
(204387, exchange).

Namegata, Dr. Tomitaro, Chiba-ken,
Japan: 100 Japanese ferns (204557,
exchange).

National Geographic Society, Wash-
ington, D. C.: 14 earthenware vessels
restored from fragments found by Neil
M. Judd in Chaco Canyon, N. Mex.
(198370); dugout canoe made by
Charlie Cypress, a Seminole Indian,
Great Cypress Reservation, southern
Florida (203036) ; 11 bird skins and 11
fishes from Ungava district, Quebec
(203089) ; 131 bird skins, 15 mammals
from Weeks African Expedition
(205414).

National Museum, Manila, P. I.: 146
plants of the Philippine Islands
(205328, exchange).

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1955

National Photographic Society,
Washington, D. C.: (Through Harry
B. Shaw) 46 monochrome prints and
101 color slides by the Society members
for exhibition, November—December,
1954 (204665, loan).

National Research Council, Pacific
Science Board, Washington, D. C.: 532
plants collected in Caroline Islands by
S. F. Glassman in 1949 (203511) ; 1,115
plants collected in Micronesia by vari-
ous collectors (204459).

National Science Museum, Tokyo,
Japan: 199 Japanese plants collected
by Dr. J. Ohwi (202669, exchange) ;
1 plant from Japan (204552).

National Tuberculosis Association,
New York, N. Y.: 2 labels with repro-
duction of 1953 Christmas Seal, and
2 National Tuberculosis Association
“Wifty Years of Service’ labels
(205612); (through Charles Lorenz)
% blocks of 4, progressive printing
proofs, 1954 Christmas seals; 1 block of
4, 1954 Christmas seal imperforate
(205410).

Natura! History Museum, San Diego,
Calif.: (Through HE. P. Chace) 7 land
and marine mollusks from Lower Cali-
fornia (203237).

Naturhistorische Museum, Vienna,
Austria: (Through Dr. Max Beier) 6
insects from Paraguay, Colombia, Costa
Rica, and Brazil (205405).

Naturhistoriska Riksmuseet, Stock-
holm, Sweden: 1,119 plants collected in
Haiti by E. L. Ekman (2038118, ex-
change) ; 36 land snails from Scandi-
navia (205578, exchange).

Nebraska, State of, Game, Foresta-
tion, and Parks Commission, Lincoln:
126 plants and 65 grasses from Ne-
braska (201946, 204789).

Needham, R. M., Lancaster, Ohio:
3 first-day covers (204191, 205570).

Neisser, Philip B. (See Treasury
Department, Bureau of the Mint)

Nelson, Dr. A. L. (See Interior,
U. S. Department of the, Fish and Wild-
life Service)

Netherlands, Government of the,
The Hague: Administration des Postes,
des Telegraphes et des Telephones: 15
DONORS

philatelic specimens of the Netherlands
(204189). Director Swuperieur des
Postes: 1 Netherlands stamp commem-
orating Royal Statue (205006) ; 7 com-
memorative stamps and semipostals of
The Netherlands (206371).

Nevada, University of, Reno, Nev.: 1
grass from Nevada (202692).

New Hampshire, University of, Dur-
ham, N. H.: 57 plants collected in
Alaska by A. R. Hodgdon (204896, ex-
change).

New Mexico Bureau of Mines and
Mineral Resources, Socorro, N. Mex.: 1
titanoclinohumite specimen from Buell
Park, Ariz. (205989).

Newcomb College, New Orleans, La.:
(Through Prof. Willis A. Eggler) 3
fragments of plants (191640).

Newell, Dr. Norman D. (See Ameri-
can Museum of Natural History)

Newhouse, Dr. Jan. (See Hawaii,
University of)

New York Botanical Garden, New
York, N. Y.: 147 grasses collected in
Heuador by W. H. Camp (185855) ; 127
plants, mostly collected in Heuador by
W. H. Camp (202667, exchange) ; 291
plants of South America collected by
Dr. Bassett Maguire, Dr. W. H. Camp,
and others (208289, exchange).

New York Schoo! for the Deaf, White
Plains, N. Y.: 1 early hearing trumpet
(206077).

New York State Museum, Albany,
N. Y.: (Through Dr. Hugo Jamnback)
14 flies from New York (205279).

New Zealand, Government of, De-
partment of Internal Affairs: (Through
Thane Riney) 19 rats from New Zea-
land (193027).

Nicaragua, Government of, Philatelic
Agency of Nicaragua: (Through Sr.
Agustin Vanegas P.) 16 miscellaneous
Nicaraguan philatelic specimens
(204891).

Nichols, J. T. (See American Mu-
seum of Natural History)

Nielsen, Peder, Silkeborg, Denmark:
39 crane-flies, representing 16 species,
from Denmark (202864, exchange) ; 74
flies from Denmark (203596, exchange).

Nolan, Dr. Thomas B., Washington,

TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

89

D. C.: 38 fossil fish from Lower Cre-
taceous near Hureka, Ney., collected by
Dr. G. A. Cooper, Robert Main, and
donor in summer 1954 (204670).

North Carolina, University of,
Chapel Hill, N. C.: 20 wood specimens
and 20 microscope mounts of the genus
Garrya (205984, exchange).

North Dakota, University of, Grand
Forks, N. Dak.: (Through Prof. G. C.
Wheeler) 32 land and fresh-water mol-
lusks from North Dakota and Min-
nesota (201454).

North Dakota Agricultural College,
Fargo, N. Dak.: 15 plants from North
Dakota (194345); 140 plants from
North Dakota (204060, gift-exchange).

Nerway, Government of, Norwegian
Embassy, Washington, D. C.: (Through
Torfinn Oftedal) 3 Norwegian State
Telegraph System commemorative
stamps (2041387) ; 3 Norwegian postage
stamp centennial commemorative
stamps (204358); Norwegian 10-ore
“official” stamp and imprinted posteard,
2 specimens (206548).

Northwestern University Dentai
School, Chicago, Ill.: (Through Dr.
George W. Teuscher) Dental office
equipment of Dr. G. V. Black (203911) ;
Caligraph No. 2 typewriter (204618).

Norten Company, Worcester, Mass.:
54 specimens of abrasive and refractory
materials (203888, exchange).

Gaks, G. A., Wilmette, Ill. : 10 selected
woods from Texas, Africa, Cuba, Vene-
muela, New Guinea, and New Zealand
(2043866, exchange).

Office des Emissions de Timbres-
Poste. (See Monaco, Government of)

Oftedai, Torfinn. (See Norway, Gov-
ernment of)

Ognjencvie, V.
ernment of)

Ogren, Larry, Gainesville, Fla.: 2
Suwannee turtles from Florida
(205867).

Ohio State Museum, Columbus, Ohio:
(Through Hdward 8. Thomas) 32 birds
from Panama (203281, exchange).

Ohio State University, Columbus,
Ghio: 4,084 plants collected by W. A.
Kellerman in Guatemala (205992).

(See Yugoslavia, Gov-
86

O’Keefe, Dr. John A. Washington,
D. C.: 19 phanerogams, 2 grasses, and
1 fern collected in Philippines (204362).

Oklahoma Agricultural and Mechani-
cal College, Stillwater, Okla. : 19 grasses
from Oklahoma (203792, exchange).

Oman, Dr. Paul W. (See Agriculture,
U. S. Department of, Entomology Re-
search Branch)

Orcés V., Dr. Gustavo, Quito, Ecua-
dor: 80 shrimps, 2 spiny lobsters, 5 por-
cellanids, and 69 crabs from Ecuador
(205863). (See Instituto de Ciéncias
Naturales)

Oregon, Fish Commission of, New-
port, Oreg.: (Through Dr. Lowell D.
Marriage) 3 marine mollusks from Ore-
gon (203248).

O’Reurke, Don, Grosse Ile, Mich.: 4
moth larvae from Michigan (205403).

Ortman, Clara, Cocheton, N. Y.: 55
dyed vegetable ivory buttons (204862).

Osborne, Dr. Douglas. (See Wash-
ington, University of)

Ostergaard, J. M., Honolulu, T. H.:
Holotypes of 7 new species nudibranch
mollusks from Hawaiian Islands

(204115).

Otarion Inc., Dobbs Ferry, N. Y.: 1
Model A-2 Otarion hearing aid
(204949).

Owen, Dr. Gareth, Glasgow, Scot-
land: 16 Recent foraminiferal samples
from Challenger Expedition (203067).

Owens-Illinois Glass Co., Toledo,
Ohio: 47 small glass and plastic pre-
scription containers and 1 small apothe-
cary show globe with stand (205913).

Ownbey, Dr. Gerald B. (See Minne-
sota, University of)

Oxford University Museum, Oxford,
England: (Through Dr. L. R. Wager)
15 rocks from Skaergaard Intrusion
Kangerdlugssuaq, East Greenland
(204205, exchange).

Page, M. Josephine, Alexandria, Va.:
160 specimens of costumes, costume ac-
cessories, and domestic implements of
the 19th century (205078).

Paleontologisk Museum, Oslo, Nor-
way: 1 slab of shale containing several
Ordovician brachiopods from Dalarna,
Sweden (203973, exchange).

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1955

Palmer, Mrs. W. J., Charlotte Hall,
Md.: 2 black-widow spiders from Mary-
land (203081).

Palmer, William G., Jr., Charlotte
Hall, Md.: Young hognose snake from
Charlotte Hall (203584).

Palmiter, C.C. (See General Electric
Co.)

Panama Canal Natural History So-
ciety. (See Benson Grubstakers)

Papua and New Guinea, Territory of,
Deparimenit of Forests, Lae: 109 phan-
erogams, 5 grasses, and 9 ferns from
New Guinea (205944, exchange).

Paradiso, John L., Washington, D. C.:
1 mouse from Baltimore County, Md.
(206526).

Paravox Inc., Cleveland, Ohio: 1
Paravox standard Model VH hearing
aid (205914).

Parke, Davis, & Company, Detroit,
Mich.: Single panel exhibit entitled
“The Story of the Ampoule” (206051).

Parker, Frances L., La Jolla, Calif.:
320 type slides and 18 specimens of
Foraminifera from Recent of Gulf of
Mexico (204371, 204735) ; 2,000 speci-
mens of Recent foraminifer Rotaliella
from Yugoslavia (206508) ; 36 Recent
foraminifera from the Gulf of Mexico
(205248, exchange).

Parker, Robert H. (See Scripps In-
stitution of Oceanography)

Parkhurst, Joseph L., Jr., Colonia,
N. J.: 1 dried worm tube (202199) ; 5
echinoderms and 3 scallops, from Ply-
mouth, England, and Tromso, Norway
(202458, 202548); 4 barnacles, 5 sea-
stars and 2 echinoderms collected at
Haifa, Israel (202736) ; 1 fresh-water
and 1 marine mollusk from New Jersey
(204409, 205264).

Parnau, John L.
field)

Patterson, A. D. (See Hendey Ma-
chine Company, Inc.)

Peck, Paul, New York, N. Y.: 18
mounted pictures forming exhibit en-
titled ‘The Hvolution of Medical Illus-
trating” (203208, loan).

Perconig, Dr. E., Lodi (Milano),
Italy: 20 foraminiferal slides and 17

(See Goudey, Hat-
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

microsamples from Tertiary of Italy
(203061, exchange).

Perkins, Sibyl Avery (deceased) :
(Through Mrs. Robert C. Johnson, Jr.)
Commemorative linen napkin, ca. 1850
(203588) ; 1 silk embroidered shawl, 2
machine-knit silk shawls, 1 silk gauze
shawl, 3 tortoise shell and metal combs,
and 4 tortoise shell hairpins (205527).

Permingeat, F. (See Service Geo-
logique du Maroc)

Perry, Kenneth M., Falls Church, Va.:
German radiosonde apparatus, and
Japanese radiosonde apparatus
(204101).

Perry, Dr. Stuart H., Adrian, Mich. :
Sample of Horse Creek, Colo., meteorite
(202714, loan) ; piece of meteorite that
fell at Sylacauga, Ala., 1,682 grams
(205402) ; 33 meteorites (205897).

Peterson, George D., Jr. (See Guam,
Government of)

Peterson, Mendel L., Washington,
D. C.: 1 sipunculid worm, 2 isopods, 2
crabs, also mollusks, collected in Flor-
ida (204791).

Pettibone, Dr. Marian H., Durham,
N. H.: Approximately 3,645 marine in-
vertebrates, including 6 types, from
Woods Hole, Mass. (204024).

Pfeiffer, J. E., Swedesboro, N. J.: 1
wine bottle from i18th-century ship-
wreck in Delaware River, and 1 lot of
wine-bottle fragments from Wistarberg
Glassware site (205901).

Phelan, Sgt. Thomas L., Spokane,
Wash.: 5 fossil leaves from Miocene
Latah formation near Spokane
(203786).

Phelps, Dr. William H., Caracas,
Venezuela: 2 birds (203047).

Philadelphia College of Pharmacy
and Science, Philadelphia, Pa.: McFer-
ran tablet press, patented July 31, 1888
(204622) ; (through Dr. Ivor Griffith)
2-piece wooden pill machine made by
S. Z. Hall of Philadelphia (203206).

Philleo, E.W. (See General Electric
Co.)

Phillips, Ira Dean, Santa Rosa, Calif. :
14 lichens from California (204727).

Phillips, Julius B. (See Hopkins
Marine Station)

87

Phillips, Mrs. T. C. Catlettsburg,
Ky.: Uniform coat, trousers, shirt,
medals, and decorations owned by Lt.
Robert Lee Cox, Jr., during World War
II (202580).

Phleger, Dr. Fred B., La Jolla, Calif. :
305 foraminiferal slides (203124).

Pierce, Dr. E. Lowe. (See Florida,
University of)

Pinch, William, Rochester, N. Y.: 2
minerals from Loomis tale mine,
Fowler, N. Y., and Steele mine, Lin-
hurst, Ontario (203549).

Pineapple Research Institute of Ha-
wali, Honolulu, T. H.: (Through K.
Sakimura) 16 paratype thrips on 3
Slides (202547).

Pittendrigh, Prof. C. S., Princeton,
N. J.: 11 plants of Trinidad (206476).

Place, Dr. Philip W., South Lincoln,
Mass.: French medical ofiicer’s bottle
container and shoulder carrying belt
(205358).

Poland, Government of: (Through
Prasa I Ksiazka) 76 Polish stamps and
other philatelie items (204096, 204545,
204619, 204895, 205565); 14 Polish
stamps, including commemorative spec-
imens of the USSR Treaty of Friend-
ship, 10th Anniversary; 8th Interna-
tional Cycling Race of Peace; and War-
saw Monuments (204897, 206488); 2
Polish stamps commemorating the “5th
Intern competition of Chopin’s Music,”
2nd edition (206364).

Polaroid Corporation, Cambridge,
Mass.: (Through Stanford Calderwood)
1 Model 80 land polaroid (still) camera
(202854).

Poling, James W., New York, N. Y.:
5 land snails from New Guinea
(206555).

Polish Academy of Sciences, Institute
of Zoology, Warsaw, Poland: (Through
Maciej Mroczkowski) 8 beetles, includ-
ing 4 paratypes, from Europe (202612).

Pollak, Mrs. Virginia Morris, New
York, N. Y.: 1 basketry and wood figure
from a grave on central coast of Pert,
from the Arther Morris collection, Nor-
folk, Va. (206465).

Pollock, Arline M., Washington,
D. C.: 2 revolvers, 1 Belgian pistol, 1
88

powder flask, 1 powder horn, 1 shot
pouch (205627).

Poos, Dr. Fred W., Washington, D. C.:
80,000 leafhoppers (206454).

Post Office Department, Washington,
D. C.: 1,187 postage stamps: 1 each
from International Bureau of Universal
Postal Union and circulars 2-IV, Feb.
12; 4IV, Mar. 19; 7-IV, Apr. 27; and
§-IV, May 21, ail 1954 (203818); 36
commemorative and ordinary postage
stamps (203416, 205685); 81 postage
meter devices and machines and mis-
cellaneous meter items (205409) ; 2,097
philatelie specimens (2053387, 205474) ;
540 specimen meter markings prepared
for the Post Office Department by Pit-
ney Bowes, Inc. (205720) ; 671 postage
stamps: 1 each issued in other coun-
tries and described in Universal Postal
Union Bulletins No. 4IV, Feb. 18; No.
6-IV, Mar. 18; and No. S-IV, Apr. 15,
all 1955 (206382).

Potter, Dr. David.
versity )

Pou, Alejandro and Peu, Gonzalo,
Montevideo, Uruguay: 3 copper-nickel
coins and 9 stamps from Uruguay
(202883, 2038461).

Pou, Gonzalo.

Prasa I Ksiazka.
ernment of)

Pratt, Dr. Harry D. (See Health,
Education, and Welfare, U. S. Depart-
ment of)

Prescott, Col. and Mrs. Dana S., Ar-
lington, Va. : 10-piece costume of a Gash-
ghai woman, sister of the 4 tribal chief-
tains, collected from the Ghashghai, in
Tran (206522).

Prescott, Dr. Gerald W., Hast Lan-
sing, Mich.: (Through Dr. Royal Bruce
Brunson) 9 land mollusks from EHeuador
(203181).

Prescott, Samuel J., Washington,
D. C.: Hickory walking cane with let-
ters “Abraham Lincoln” inlaid in silver
supposedly used by President Lincoln in
White House (203979).

Price, Dr. Frederick A.
Republie of)

Priest, Amel, Peru, Iowa: 200 as-
sorted invertebrate fossils from Penn-

(See Clark Uni-

(See Pou, Alejandro)
(See Poland, Gov-

(See Liberia,

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1955

sylvanian of Iowa (2043877, exchange).

Prince, Robert E., Coral Hills, Md.:
1 bug from Maryland (203530).

Prohaska, Dr. Janet A, APO, San
Francisco, Calif.: 1 blind-snake from
Andersen Air Force Base, Guam, Mari-
anas Islands (202744).

Puerto Rico, Commonwealth of, De-
partment of Agriculture and Commerce,
San Juan: (Through Félix Ifigo) 12
shrimps and 1 crab collected by Luis A.
Cestas Grana from Jayuya, Puerto Rico
(202783).

Puerto Rico, University of, Mayagiiez,
P. R.: 8 grasses from Puerto Rico
(204447).

Purchon, Dr. R. Denison, Singapore,
Malaya: 17 marine mollusks from Ma-
laya (203233).

Puri, Dr. Harbans S., Tallahassee,
Fla.: 17 type ostracodes from Miocene
of Florida (204913, exchange).

Quattlebaum, W. Dan, Pasadena,
Calif.: Amelung clear blown glass bowl,
and decanter engraved with eagle
(203045).

Query, Lt. Col. L. J., Alexandria, Va. :
Cut “bottoms-up” glass, made at Boston
and Sandwich Glass Works (205902).

Guimby, Eisie Howland, Washington,
D. C.: 2 Sheraton arm chairs with cane
seats (205621).

Quynn, Mrs. Dorothy MacKay, Fred-
erick, Md.: 2 lots giass sherds, 1 lot
melting-pot fragments from site of John
Frederick Amelung’s New Bremen
Glassworks, Frederick County, Md., 1
wine-glass stem, 1 bottle fragment, 1
shaft of drawer pull, and 3 bottle sherds
dug from yard adjacent to Amelung
mansion (204722).

Radalj, Mirko. (See Yugoslavia, Fed-
eral Government of)

Rageot, Roger, Norfolk, Va.: 24 land
and fresh-water mollusks from Nanse-
mond County, Va. (202837).

Rancho Santa Ana Botanic Garden,
Claremont, Calif.: 6 plants of Califor-
nia (204669).

Randall, John E.
versity of)

Rapp, Floyd A., Takoma Park, Md.:
8 minerals from Japan (208800).

(See Hawaii, Uni-
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Rasetti, Dr. France, Baltimore, Md.:
800 assorted invertebrate fossils from
the Italian Alps (203302).

Rauch, Leonard A. Jr. Seattle,
Wash.: Part of fish skull from Adak,
Alaska (202539).

Raup, Omer. (See Holling, Henry)

Rausch, Dr. Robert. (See Health,
Haucation and Welfare, Department of,
Arctic Health Research Center)

Reddington, C. Richard, Denver,
Colo.: 1 kasolite from Mica Lakes area
near Hahn’s Peak, northern Colorado

(204674).

Reed, Dr. Edwyn P., Valparaiso,
Chile: 1 fish, holotype of new species
(205677).

Reeside, Dr. John B., Jr. (See Cush-
man Foundation for Foraminiferal Re-
search)

Rehder, Dr. Harald A., Washington,
D. C.: 1 picture postcard (204480).

Reid, Dr. J. A. Kuala Lumpur,
Malaya: 141 miscellaneous insects from
Malaya (206567).

Reinhard, Prof. H. J., College Station,
Tex.: 7 flies, including 2 paratypes,
from Texas and Utah (202769, ex-
change); 9 flies, including 8 types
(204999).

Reiss, Dr. Z. (See Israel, Govern-
ment of, Geological Institute)

Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute,
Troy, N. ¥.: 7 cartons of papers and
drawings of Alexander Lyman Holley
and his organization, 1860 to 1880
(204490).

Rhodesia-Nyasaland, Office of the
High Commissioner, London, England:
2 Rhodesia and Nyasaland Victoria
Falls Centenary commemorative
stamps, July 15, 1955 (206870).

Ridgely, Mrs. William Barrett, Wash-
ington, D. C.: 1 painted leather fire
bucket with portrait of George Wash-
ington (204768).

Riek, E. F., Canberra, Australia: 1
wasp from Australia (206061, ex-
change). (See also Scientific and In-
dustrial Research Organization)

Riggle, Byron A. (See Triton-Hast
Africa Company)

89
Riggs National Bank. (See Zears,
Charlotte H.)

Rijksherbarium, Leiden, Nether-
lands: 21 fragments of fern types
(203962, exchange) ; 17 plants of Ma-
laysia (205605, exchange).

Rijksmuseum Van Naituurlijke His-
torie, Leiden, Netherlands: (Through
Dr. L. B. Holthuis) 218 specimens of
polychaetes (203875).

Riney, Thane. (See New Zealand,
Department of Internal Affairs)

Riser, Dr. N., Nashville, Tenn.: 1
piebald little brown bat from Kentucky
(204744).

Ritcher, Dr. P. O., Corvallis, Oreg.:
30 beetles from Oregon (206457).

Ritchey, Mrs. H. S., Winchester, Ind. :
1 silver knitting-needle shield (206436).

Roberts, Dr. F. H. H., Jr. (See Jen-
hings, Dr. Jesse D.)

Roberts, Mrs. Alfred, Baltimore, Md.:
2 pink chiffon and lace over pink satin
evening dresses of early 20th century
and 1 white satin petticoat worn under
dresses (206489).

Robertson, Mrs. Persis, Washington,
D. C.: 33 lithographs by Mrs. Robert-
son for exhibition January 1955
(204600, loan).

Robin, Art, Ketchikan, Alaska:
(Through Department of the Interior,
Forest Service) Tlingit Indian burial
recovered by donor at Port Malmesbury,
Kuiu island, southeast Alaska (201863).

Robinsen, Douglas C. Haverford,
Pa.: 1 green frog (203799).

Rockefeller Institute for Medical Re-
search, New York, N. Y.: Original Hin-
thoven string galvanometer (205104).

Roebling Fund, Smithsonian Institu-
tion: 14 minerals from Stari Trg mine,
Trepea, Yugoslavia (201908); 3 elles-
tadites from California (202921); 31
minerals including apophyllite, prehnite
and byssolite, from Centreville, Va.
(202977, 204907, 206033) ; 5 specimens
of pyrophyllite from Staley, N. C.
(203119) ; 1 spodumene, and 1 tour-
maline erystal from Brazil (203227) ;
10 minerals (203384) ; 9 mineral speci-
mens from Algeria, Australia, France,
Italy, Morocco, and Tunisia (203521) ;
90

1 nadorite from Algeria (203726) ; 34
minerals from various localities in
United States, and 1 from Bolivia
(203727, 204805) ; 1 axinite on actino-
lite from Madera County, and 1
neptunite with benitoite from San
Benito County, Calif. (203892) ; 1 min-
eral from Morocco (203893); 1 opal
from Andamooka, Australia (203894) ;
10 minerals from California, Maryland,
Ontario, British Columbia, Malaya,
México, Italy, and Switzerland
(204144) ; 1 bastnaesite crystal from
Ambatofangehana, Andakatana, Mada-
gascar (204803) ; 20 mineral specimens
from Langban, Sweden (2043882); 2
topaz crystals and 1 smoky quartz
erystal from Walker quarry, North
Conway, N. H. (204395); 1 crystal of
bournonite from Germany (204482) ;
20 mineral specimens from Switzer-
land, Germany, Hungary, Czechoslo-
vakia, Japan, Russia (204647) ; 3 min-
erals from south of Oxon Run, Anacos-
tia, Md. (204906) ; 1 dawsonite from
Tunisia (204908); 6 dufrenites from
Tazenarht, Morocco (204909); 3 end-
lichites from Santa Maria del Oro,
Durango, México, and 3 miargyrites
from Randsburg, Calif. (204910); 3
minerals from India, and 1 mineral
from México (204911); 2 chrysotiles
from Swaziland, South Africa
(205066) ; 1 topaz from Fisher quarry,
Topsham, Maine (205220); 2 artinite
specimens from California, and 3
rosasite specimens from México
(205344) ; 1 fibrolite (sillimanite) from
Burma (206081); 1 jamesonite and 1
pyrite from Taxco, México (206032) ; 1
Specimen each of zincite, hedyphane,
mooreite, sussexite and yeatmanite,
from New Jersey (206354).

Roger, Dr. J., Paris, France: 42 para-
type Cretaceous Foraminifera from
Tunisia (2038059).

Rogers, Maj. Gerald T., Wright-Pat-
terson Air Force Base, Ohio: 1 purple
gallinule (203508).

Rohrer, Josephine, Washington,
D. C.: 4 daugerreotypes and 4 ambro-
types (204601).

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1955

Roosevelt, Mrs. Kermit, New York,
IN. Y.: White silk wedding gown worn
by Belle Wyatt of Fairfax, Va., when
she married Joseph E. Willard, Sept.
16, 1891 (204615) ; 12 U. S. Army and
militia uniforms of Civil War and
Spanish-American War periods
(205100).

Rosengarten, A. G., Jr., Philadelphia,
Pa.: 1 Militia Dragoon jacket, ca. 1854,
and 1 infantry coat, ca. 1860 (203481).

Rosenzweig, Abraham, Minneapolis,
Minn.: 3 specimens of goldichite from
Dexter 7 Mine, Calf Mesa, San Rafael
Swell, Utah (202919).

Ross, Gordon B., México, D. F.: 170
plants from México (202757, 205195).

Ross, Mrs. Helen M., Millburn, N. J.:
34 United States and United Nations
first-day covers (204187, 205622, 206497,
206551).

Rothenberg, Mrs. Pearl Gertrude,
Los Angeles, Calif.: Silver Jewish cere-
monial cup and saucer used at Feast of
the Passover (203767).

Rounds, Vera. (See H and R Worm
Farm)

Rowell, Chester M., Jr., Ann Arbor,
Mich.: 40 Méxican ferns (201196).

Rowley, Elmer B., Glen Falls, N. Y.:
2 tourmalines from northwest end of
Brant Lake, near MHoricon, N. Y.
(203230, exchange).

Royal Botanic Garden, Edinburgh,
Scotland: 1 cultivated plant (204725).

Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, Surrey,
England: 344 plants from Borneo
(202672, 204108, 205548, 206469, ex-
change) ; 166 ferns from Africa and
Australia (205602, exchange).

Rozebcom, Dr. Lloyd E., Baltimore,
Md.: 38 mosquitoes, type series, from
Fiji (202604).

Ruiz de Gaona, Dr. Maximo, Tolosa,
Spain: 100 Foraminifera from Tertiary
of La Pobla de Claramunt, Cataluiia,
Spain (204917).

Ruoff, Mrs.
Ruoff, John H.)

Ruoff, John H. (deceased):
(Through Mrs. Frank Bower Ruoff) 50
G.A.R. medals and badges (203130).

Frank Bower. (See
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Russell, Dr. Loris S.
Government of)

Rutgers University, New Brunswick,
N. J.: (Through Prof. Edwin T. Moul)
84 specimens of marine algae (206474).

Ryckman, Raymond E., Loma Linda,
Calif.: 1,537 miscellaneous insects from
México, Texas, and California (203175).
(See also School of Tropical and Pre-
ventive Medicine)

Sabrosky, Curtis W., Washington,
D. C.: 700 miscellaneous insects from
Norway (203599); 46 fungus gnats
from Michigan (205276).

Sacramento State College, Sacra-
mento, Calif.: (Through Dr. Martin R.
Brittan) 2 paratype fishes from Sungei
Patari, Kedah, Malaya, collected by
Major R. C. Neath, 1953 (204397).

Saenz-Pena, Charles, Washington,
D. C.: 26 wood engravings by Victor
Delhez for exhibition December 1954
(204098, loan).

Said, Dr. Rushdi, Dokko, Cairo,
Egypt: 4 samples of Foraminifera
from Paleocene and Cretaceous of
Egypt (2047387, exchange).

Sailer, Dr. Reece I., Washington,
D. C.: 8 marine invertebrates and col-
lection of insects from Alaska (205367).

Sakimura, K. (See Pineapple Re-
search Institute of Hawaii)

Salas F., L. A. (See Ministério de
Agricultura e Industrias)

Salter, William E., Washington,
D. C.: Approximately 140 land and
fresh-water mollusks from Oklahoma
and Texas (202677) ; 250 fossils from
Lower Devonian at White Mound, Okla.
(208608) ; 1 dental battery of fossil
fish from Plum Point, Md. (205247) ;
30 mollusks from Maryland (205398).

Salyer, Clark P. (See Interior, U. S.
Department of the, Fish and Wildlife
Service)

Sanborn, C. C. (See Defense, De-
partment of, Department of the Navy)

Saxton, R. N., Stafford, Va.: 1 long-
tailed weasel (202676).

Schallert, Dr. Paul O., Altamonte
Springs, Fla.: 20 grasses from Florida
(203759).

359482—55——_8

(See Canada,

91

Schelpe, Dr. E. A. (See Cape Town,
University of)

Scherer Corporation, R. P., Detroit,
Mich.: 1 Scherer rotary-die capsulating
machine (205238).

Schindewolf, Dr. O. H. (See Geo-
logiseh-Palaontologisches Institut)

Schmitt, Dr. Waldo L., Washington,
D. C.: 1 magnolia warbler (203228).

Schnoeker, E. N., Addis Ababa, Ethi-
opia: 5 Ethiopian coins of different
denominations, minted in 1944
(206363) .

Scholander, Dr. P. F., Woods Hole,
Mass.: 1 shrimp, 1 hermit crab, and
1 crab (206018).

School of Tropical and Preventive
Medicine, Loma Linda, Calif.:
(Through Dr. Bruce W. Halstead) 2
fishes, including a paratype, from the
tropical Pacifie (202620, exchange) ;
(through Dr. Raymond E. Ryckman)
135 insects from México (204853).

Schwartz, Albert, Charleston, S. C.:
3 parasitic copepods and tapeworms
(176051) ; 1 snake, paratype of a new
subspecies, from Finca Bucaress, Ori-
ente, Cuba (206343).

Schwengel, Dr. Jeanne S., Scarsdale,
N. Y¥.: 880 miscellaneous marine mol-
lusks (203185) ; 1 marine mollusk from
Pulawat Atoll, Caroline Islands
(205242); 1 rare marine shell from
South Australia (206049).

Scientific and Industrial Research
Organization, Canberra, Australia:
(Through H. F. Riek) 10 wasps, in-
cluding 9 paratypes, from Australia
(202978), exchange.

Scripps Institution of Oceanography,
La Jolla, Calif.: (Through Robert H.
Parker) 56 miscellaneous marine inver-
tebrates, 1 mollusk, 1 holothurian, and
echinoderms (202730); (through Dr.
Thomas E. Bowman) approximately
809 copepods, including 235 types, from
off California coast (203843).

Seaman, G. A. (See Virgin Islands,
Government of, Depariment of the In-
terior)

Segeler, Curt G. Brooklyn, N. Y.: 2
triphyllites from Chandlers Mills, N. H.
92

(208517, exchange) ; 1 pseudomalachite
from New Jersey (205555).

Selli, Prof. R. Bologna, Italy:
Sample of Foraminifera from the Mio-
cene of Italy (203190, exchange).

Sennott, Mrs. J. N., Fort Myers Beach,
Fla.: 22 marine mollusks (203235).

Service Geologique du Maroe, Rabat,
Morocco: (Through F. Permingeat) 1
specimen of the mineral tapiolite
(206358).

Sette, Oscar E. (See Intericr, U. S.
Department of the, Fish and Wildlife
Service)

Severin, Prof. H. C.
kota State College)

Shaner, James B., Sr., Kutztown, Pa.:
1 posteard, first day of issue (204206).

Sharp and Dohme, West Point, Pa.: 1
replica stethescope made between 1816
and 1819 (205912).

Shaw, Dr. Alan B.
University of)

Shaw, Harry B.
graphic Society)

Shedenhelm, William R. C., Berkeley,
Calif.: 3 mammals, 2 fleas, and 1 inver-
tebrate (196729).

Sherfy, Mrs. Raphael, Washington,
D. C.: Foot-powered dental drill, dental
head, and complete set of dental drills
(205538).

Shinn, Alvin F., Beverly, N. J.: 2 spec-
imens of syrphid flies from Colorado
(206456) .

Sigler, C. R., Washington, D. C.: 1
young pilot blacksnake from the foot-
hills of the Shenandoah, 15 mi. south of
Luray, Va. (206420).

Silverman, Dr. S. Richard (See Cen-
tral Institute for the Deaf)

Simler, Mrs. John W., Oklahoma City,
Okla.: Map of Fort Brentwood, Tenn.,
drawn by Samuel Banks, May 1864, and
modern reproduction of photograph of
Samuel Banks (202207).

Simons, Sylvia, Washington, D. C.:
Child’s parasol, mid-19th century
(205626).

Sinkankas, John, Arlington, Va.: 1
golden calcite from Rosarita Beach,
Baja, California, México (204598, ex-
change) ; 1 enstatite specimen from In-
dia (206504).

(See South Da-

(See Wyoming,

(See National Photo-

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1955

Skotzke, Sigmund C., Milwaukee,
Wis.: 8 U. S. Naval covers and 299 as-
sorted United States and foreign stamps,
mostly used (205571).

Slip, Roy. (See Clark, Col. Eugene
S., Jr.)

Smith, Dr. Allan, Pullman, Wash.:
116 plants from Ryukyu Islands
(203050).

Smith, Foster D., Jr., Upper Mont-
clair, N. J.: 1 tinamou from Venezuela
(208366).

Smith, Frank R., Laurel, Md.: 1 shrew
from Maryland (203802).

Smith, Dr. Hobart M.
University of)

Smith, Marshall C., Moylan, Pa.:
Waterman ‘Porto’ outboard boat en-
gine, purchased in 1909 (202674).

Smith, Maj. Robert B. W., Silver
Spring, Md.: 3 Japanese birds (206442).

Smith, Robert O. Lima, Pert:
(Through Dr. Raymond M. Gilmore) 1
harbor porpoise captured by the donor
off Callao, Peri (206525).

Smith, Mrs. S. Watson, Tucson, Ariz. :
1 plant cultivated in Arizona (204770).

Smith, William R., Falls Church, Va.:
1 stilbite from near Medford, Oreg.
(202713, exchange) ; 1 prehnite and 6
casts of prehnite after calcite from
Centreville, Va. (203120, exchange) ;
hubnerite with scheelite reaction rim
from Hamme tungsten mine, Tungsten,
N. C., and 1 clinoclase from near Oat-
lands, Va. (204465, exchange) ; 3 speci-
mens phlogopite and 1 graphite from
Canada, 1 specimen clinochlore from
Virginia (205088, exchange).

Smithson, C. D. (See Treasury De-
partment, Bureau of Customs)

Smithsonian Institution, Washington,
D. C.: Period household furnishings and
prints from Mrs. Josephine Boardman
Crane (deposit 206579). Found m
collections: 2 etchings by G. B. Piranesi,
“Veduta del Palazzo del’ Accademia,”
and “Veduta sul Monte Zuirinale
del Palazzo Eccelentissima” (203076,
deposit); 11 different types of mar-
bled paper (203077, deposit); 2 oc-
tants (204107, deposit); 1 collotype
by Ernest Edwards after engraving

(See Illinois,
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

showing departure of Ulysses (204776) ;
surveying instrument, telescopic sight
compass (205530); pen and ink draw-
ing of U. S. Steamer Curlew, Civil War
period (205888, deposit); 1 seismo-
graph and 20 specimens of acoustic ap-
paratus from instrument room (205890,
deposit); 1 Wedgwood queensware
laboratory tray from taxidermy shop
(2059038) ; 1 photogravure by Karl Klic
entitled “C. Russell” (206345, deposit).
Made in Laboratories: Cast of skull
from Midland, Tex. (205791); 926
photographs and microfilm frames
(206470). (See also following funds:
Canfield, Chamberlain, Dahlgreen,
Hickemeyer, Roebling, Springer, Wal-
cott.) BurrEau oF AMERICAN HTHNOL-
oay: Archeological materials consisting
of potsherds collected by Dr. Matthew
W. Stirling on Taboguilla Island in
1953 (202531) ; insects, 95 mammals,
and 15 marine invertebrates from
Southampton and Coats Islands col-
lected by Dr. Henry B. Collins on Na-
tional Geographic Society, National
Museum of Canada, and Smithsonian
Expedition, 1954 (203786) ; 385 plants
collected by James Mooney at Cherokee
Reservation, Qualla, N. C., in 1888
(204571) ; models of heraldry, peyote
and game equipment, collected by James
Mooney among the Kiowa Indians
(205978) ; 1 badger from New Mexico
(206445). River Basin Surveys: Arche-
ological material from the Allatoona
Reservoir area on the Etowah River,
Cherokee, Bartow, and Cobb Counties,
Ga. (202185) ; 327 specimens of archeo-
logical material consisting of pot-
sherds, copper, stone, bone and shell
objects, from 3 sites in Tuttle Creek
Reservoir, Pottawatomie County, Kans.,
collected by Missouri Basin Project field
parties in 1952-53 (202358) ; 120 arche-
ological specimens from site 35-WS-5,
Dalles Reservoir on Columbia River,
Wasco County, Oreg. (202532); arche-
ological materials from the Conomaugh
Reservoir, Pennsylvania, scattered sites
in Marshall and Wetzel Counties, W.
Va., and Cheatham and Old Hickory
Reservoirs, Tenn., collected by Ralph S.

93

Solecki 1950 and 1954 (202587) ; arche-
ological material from 2 sites in Ca-
chuma Reservoir area on Santa Ynez
River, Santa Barbara County, Calif.
(203964) ; archeological material in and
about Broncho Reservoir, Mercer
County; Dickenson Reservoir Area,
Stark County ; Koehler site, Heart Butte
Reservoir, Grant County, all in North
Dakota (205486) ; 21,046 archeological
specimens from 2 sites in Oahe Reser-
voir, Stanley County, S. Dak. (205487) ;
archeological material from sites in and
about Garrison Reservoir, in Dunn,
Mercer, McLean, Mountrail, and Wil-
liams Counties, N. Dak. (205438) ; 797
archeological specimens from Allatoona
Reservoir area, Cherokee County, Ga.
(205526) ; 3,648 archeological specimens
from Montana, collected by the Missouri
Basin Project (206347). (See also
Solecki, Ralph.) NationaL Museum:
Coliected: 427 plants collected in New
Caledonia by M. G. Baumann-Boden-
heim, University of Zurich, and associ-
ates (202711) ; 16 marine invertebrates,
1 starfish, 14 mollusks, and 1 coral col-
lected off the coast of Florida by Fred-
erick M. Bayer and John E. Randall
(208241) ; 31 birds and 5 mammals from
Colombia, collected by M. A. Carriker,
Jr. (203046) ; 8 jadeite and 2 sericite
beads from various archeological zones
in México through Dr. W. F. Foshag
(202791); 23 small mammals from
Southern Appalachian Highlands col-
lected by Charles O. Handley, Jr.
(206451) ; 3,445 piants from the Isle of
Pines, Cuba, and the Florida Keys, col-
lected by E. P. Killip (202635, 204454) ;
21 crustaceans, 1 reptile, 2,341 fishes,
and 29 marine invertebrates from
Georgia, North Carolina, South Caro-
lina, and Virginia, collected by Dr.
Hrnest A. Lachner and Dr. Frank
Schwartz, September 1954 (203516) ;
2,850 plants and 166 land and fresh-
water mollusks collected in México by
Dr. Ernest R. Sohns (203775, 205907) ;
7 galeite specimens from Searles Lake,
Calif., collected by George Switzer,
August 1948 (205988) ; 195 plants col-
lected in the Philippine Islands and 87
94

plants from other localities by Mr.
E. H. Walker (203159, 203512); 959
bird skins, 54 skeletons, 2 alcoholics, 1
set eges, 9 mammals, 2 insects from
Panamd4, and 3 mammals from Shenan-
doah National Park, Va., collected by
Dr. A. Wetmore (203850, 206512).
Purchased: East Indian hand-mill or
roller gin (202696) ; 117 beetles, includ-
ing types, from South America
(203582) ; mounted Japanese long-tailed
fowl (203798) ; 11 mammal skins from
Korea (204650). Natrona ZOOLOGICAL
ParxK : 30 mammals (206447) ; (through

Dr. William M. Mann) 42 birds
(206441). (See also Landis, Martin
A.)

Smitter, Dr. Y. H., Johannesburg,
Union of South Africa: 34 Upper Cre-
taceous Foraminifera from the Union
of South Africa (205645).

Smout, Dr. A. H., London, England:
272 Foraminifera from Tertiary and
Cretaceous of Middie East (203068, ex-
change).

Sniffen, Harold S.
Museum)

Sociedad de Ciencias Naturales La
Salle, Caracas, Venezuela: (Through
Brother Ginés) 560 plants from Vene-
zguela (200571, 203845) ; 14 shrimps and
4 crabs from Venezuela (202275).

Socin, Prof. Constantino, Torino,
Italy: 3 microsamples for Foraminif-
era from Eocene of Northern Italy
(204461, exchange).

Solano, Solita, Morristown, N. J.: 2
fly larvae and host (mouse) (203109).

Solecki, Ralph, New York, N. Y.:
(Through Smithsonian Institution, Bu-
reau of American Ethnology) 46 Ethno-
graphical specimens collected in Iraq
in 1951-53 (202536).

Soukup, Dr. J., Lima, Pert:
plants from Peri (204451, 205904).

Soule, Lucia, Boston, Mass.: 1 U. S.
Lincoln Indian Peace Medal of silver
dated 1862 (205943).

South African Institute for Medical
Research, Johannesburg: (Through F.
Zumpt) 4 flies from Africa and 1 from
Japan (205896).

(See Mariners

137

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1955

South Dakota State College, Brook-
ings, S. Dak.: (Through Prof. H. C.
Severin) 1 beetle from United States
(202988).

Southern California, University of,
Allan Hancock Foundation, Los An-
geles, Calif.: (Through Dr. J. Laurens
Barnard) 4 amphipods (202969, ex-
change); (through Fred C. Ziesen-
henne) 15 Ophiuroid paratypes
(205205).

Southern Methodist University, Dal-
las, Tex.: 24 specimens of mosses
(202976, exchange).

Southern Rhodesia Geological Sur-
vey Office, Salisbury: 8 minerals from
Southern Rhodesia (205987) ; (through
Dr. Eric Barlow) 1 simpsonite from
Bikita District, Southern Rhodesia
(204468, exchange).

Sowerby, Arthur de C., Estate of:
(Through Mrs. Arthur de C. Sowerby)
Approximately 550 mollusks from
South Africa, Okinawa, Gulf of Cali-
fornia, and Trinidad, 1 alga and 8
echinoid tests (204550).

Sowerby, Mrs. Arthur de C.
Sowerby, Arthur de C., Estate of)

Spangler, Paul J., Columbia, Mo.: 8
type beetles (202925).

Spanton, H. G., Buenos Aires, Argen-
tina: 8 South American philatelic
specimens (206487, 205623).

Sperry, Mrs. John L., Riverside,
Calif. : 335 microlepidoptera from North
America (202605).

Speyer, E. R., Cheshunt, England: 119
thrips from England (203079).

Springer Fund, Smithsonian Insti-
tuition: 19 type and figured Ordovician,
Silurian, and Mississippian crinoids
from Oklahoma (203804) ; 42 Pennsyl-
vanian crinoids of north-central Texas,
including 29 types (204201).

Springer, Stewart, Pascagoula, Miss. :
103 fossil shark’s teeth and vertebrae
from Florida (204229). (See also In-
terior, U. S. Department of the, Fish
and Wildlife Service)

Stahl, Barton E., Washington, D. C.:
1928 Westinghouse portable oscillo-
graph (204111).

(See
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Stainbrook, Dr. Merrill A., Brandon,
Iowa: 2 foraminiferal samples from
the Devonian of Iowa (205401).

Stamp Collectors Club of Toledo,
Toledo, Ohio: 1 first-day postcard, 4-
cent airmail, Sept. 3, 1954, Philadelphia,
Pa. (205610).

Stanford University, Stanford, Calif. :
155 plants (204890, exchange).

Stannard, Dr. Lewis J. (See Illi-
nois Natural History Survey Division).

Stanton, Douglas A., Falls Church,
Va.: Slab of Oriskany sandstone from
Gore, Va., containing 2 impressions of
erinoid (203902).

Stearns, Dr. Harold T., Hope, Idaho:
1 fossil gastropod from early Tertiary
of Idaho (203086).

Stearns, J. L., Philadelphia, Pa.: 9
plants collected in California (204380).

Stearns, Richard E., Baltimore, Md.:
52 stone and pottery artifacts (202602).

Steel, Dr. W. O., Maidenhead, Eng-
land: 12 insect paratypes from Africa
(182221, exchange).

Steger, Daniel, Tampa, Fla.: 34 Gulf
of México gastropods, including holo-
types of 3 new species (201483) ; 1 mol-
lusk from Florida (208903).

Stehli, Dr. Francis G., Pasadena,
Calif.: 1 color-marked type brachiopod
from the Devonian of Northwest Terri-
tories of Canada (204200).

Steinberg, Joan, San Francisco,
Calif.: 1 holotype marine invertebrate
(204792).

Stephen, W. A., Raleigh, N. C.: 2
moths from North Carolina (205404).

Sterner, Oscar E., Syracuse, N. Y.:
Edison C-150 phonograph (205422).

Stevens Institute of Technology,
Hoboken, N. J.: (Through Dr. Jess H.
Davis) Curtis steam turbine (202632).

Stevenson, Dr. John A. (See Agri-
culture, U. S. Department of)

Stick, Frank, Kitty Hawk, N. C.:
(Through Isaac Ginsburg) 5 fishes from
off Kitty Hawk, N. C. (203589).

Stifler, Mrs. James M., Bradenton,
Fla.: 3 cultivated ferns (203787).

Stinton, Dr. F. C., Bournemouth, Eng-
land: Approximately 750 otoliths of
fossil fishes from Eocene Lower Barton

95

Beds, Highcliffe, Hampshire County,
England (204671).

Stockvis, A. P. (See Treasury, U. S.
Department of, Secret Service)

Stoddard, Herbert L., Sr., Thomas-
ville, Ga.: 4 skins of Canadian geese
(204664) ; 201 bird skins from south-
eastern United States (205090).

Stone, Theodore, Chevy Chase, D. C.:
10 mollusks from Long Island, N. Y.
(202678).

Strasburg, Dr. Donald W.
University )

Strelak, Joseph S., Waukegan, IIl.:
74. first-day covers, cacheted airmail
postcards, wrappers, and other phila-
teliec specimens (204385, 205101, 205624,
205625, 206498, 206547).

Strobell, Robert, Washington, D. C.:
1 Costa Rica envelope franked with
5-centimo uncanceled stamp (206503).

Strott, Louis L., Marietta, Pa.: 1 cut
star moonstone from Ceylon (204031).

Stuart, Mr. and Mrs. A. Donaldson,
Rutherford, N. J.: (Through Margaret
Lambie) 5 cartes de visite by E. S.
Dunshee, Napoleon Sarony, and Abra-
ham Bogardus, and 1 photograph by
Napoleon Sarony (206533).

Stuart, Melville W. (See Jodidi, Mrs.
Elizabeth)

Stukenberg, Dr. B., Pietermaritz-
burg, South Africa: 5 flies from South
Africa (206067).

Sundstrom, Gustaf T. (See Interior,
U. 8S. Department of the, Fish and
Wildlife Service)

Sutton, Dr. George M., Norman,
Okla.: 5 specimens of western mourn-
ing dove (203910).

Swain, Dr. Frederick M., Minneap-
olis, Minn.: 161 ostracods, including 57
types, from Texas (205159).

Swallen, Jason R., Washington, D. C.:
346 miscellaneous U. S. grasses
(205547).

Swanson, Dr. Earl H.
ton, University of)

Swoboda, Edward R., Los Angeles,
Calif.: Garnet from Lake Jaco, Chihua-
hua, México, 2 specimens of beryl and
1 kyanite from Minas Gerais, Brazil,
and 2 clinozoisites from near Ensenada,
Baja, Calif. (203958, exchange).

(See Duke

(See Washing-
96

Sydney, University of, Sydney, Aus-
tralia: 81 plants collected in Australia
by A. T. Hotchkiss (204104, exchange).

Takayanagi, Dr. Yokichi, Sendai,
Japan: 38 paratype Foraminifera from
the Pliocene of Japan (203292, ex-
change).

Taibot, Dr. Mary, St. Charles, Mo.:
Approximately 50 ants from North
America (203334).

Taliaferro, Philip A., Monroe, La.: 1
oyster specimen growing on a marble
and 1 abnormal crab claw from Florida
(206079).

Tamaye, Dr. Francisco. (See Minis-
tério de Agricultura y Cria)

Tantz, Mrs. Minnia A., Baltimore,
Md.: Mahogany drop leaf table
(195554).

Tasher, Dr. Lucy Lucile.
Mrs. William T.)

Tateoka, Tuguo, Misima, Sizuoka-ken,
Japan: 47 grasses from Japan (205541,
exchange).

Tavora, Prof. Elysiaro, Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil: 2 minerals from Brazil
(203554).

Taylor, Mrs. A. N., Alexandria, Va.:
14 ethnographic specimens collected
about 1890 by Miss Virginia Pride, aunt
of donor, from the Matabele, Paarl,
South Africa, seed necklace and 2
bracelets from island of St. Helena,
Masonic watch fob, and 6 photographs
of South African subjects (202712).

Tearse, C. D., Winona, Minn.: 1 tor-
toise shell tagalog headman’s helmet
(205815).

Telex, St. Paul, Minn.: 1 audiscope
and i Telex Telemite hearing aid
(205419).

Templeman, Mrs. Eleanor Lee, Ar-
lington, Va.: Small photograph of Har-
riet Lane, niece of President James
Buchanan and First Lady of the White
House, 1857-1861 (205245); 5 articles
of men’s and women’s clothing of mid-
19th and early 20th centuries (206544).

Teuscher, Dr. George W. (See North-
western University)

Texas, University of, Austin, Tex.: 1
grass from Texas (202763); (through

(See Moore,

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1955

Dr. Clark Hubbs) 66 fishes from Korea,
and 5 crustaceans (2038515).

Texas Christian University, Fort
Worth, Tex.: (Through Dr. Willis G.
Hewatt) 300 marine mollusks from
Texas (201275).

Thailand Royal Forest Department,
Bangkok: 20 samples of woods from
Thailand (205889, exchange).

Thienes, Dr. Clinton H., Pasadena,
Calif.: 1 East Indies poison-arrow
quiver and 14 poison-arrow darts
(205009).

Thomas, Edward S.
Museum)

Thomsen, Dr. J. M.
Government of)

Thorman, Emanuel, Arlington, Va.:
Chinese slate gong and Chinese picture
of the “tree of life’? (205705).

Tidestrom, Ivar, St. Petersburg, Fla. :
173 plants collected in Sweden
(205429).

Tier, Mrs. Lillie K., Washington,
D. C.: 3 dresses and fan, mid-19th cen-
tury (202767); 1 patchwork and ap-
plique quilt, basket design (205529).

Tierney, Peter, Washington, D. C.: 1
Columbus King pocket watch (206344).

Timberlake, P. H., Riverside, Calif. :
9 bees from United States (201256).

Todd, Dr. E. L., Washington, D. C.:
Approximately 2,575 miscellaneous
moths from all over the world (203083).

Todd, M. Ruth, Washington, D. C.: 1
Maryland yellowthroat (206448).

Tokunage, Dr. Masaaki, Kyoto,
Japan: 12 biting midges from Japan
and Formosa (206566).

Tomkins, Ivan R., Savannah, Ga.: 4
fresh-water mollusks from Altamaha
River, Ga. (203885).

Tomlinson, Jack, Berkeley, Calif. : 75
barnacles on 25 slides (202523).

Tonti, Edmond C., Baton Rouge, La.:
50 Jate Hocene and Oligocene pectens
(205095, exchange).

Trainer, Mrs. John N., Brewster,
N. Y.: The John N. Trainer collection
of garnets, 600 specimens (204675).

Traub, Lt. Col. Robert. (See De-
fense, U. S. Department of, Department
of the Army)

(See Ohio State

(See Australia,
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Treasury, U. S. Department of the,
Washington, D. C.: 2 copies of the An-
nual Assay Medal of bronze dated 1955
(205019). Bureau of Customs:
(Through Mr. C. D. Smithson) 5 fire-
arms (206481). Bureau of Engraving
and Printing: 28 sample sheets of pa-
per submitted with bids during Novem-
ber 1878 for use in manufacture of U.S.
currency (204614). Bureau of the
Mint: (Through Philip B. Neisser) 2
pattern 5-cent pieces 1896, Philadelphia
Mint, struck in aluminum (203131) ;
(through Mrs. Rae V. Biester) 2 bronze
medals of President Dwight D. Hisen-
hower (204125, loan) ; 2 sets U. S. coins,
2 sets proof coin, 1955 issue (204796).
Internal Revenue Service: 49,642 Inter-
nal Revenue stamps (206483). Secret
Service: (Through Robert Meyerburg
and A. P. Stockvis) 28 counterfeit
stamps (204718).

Treat, Asher E., New York, N. Y.: 7
mites, eggs, and embryos, including 3
types, from Tyringham, Mass. (202980).

Triton-East Africa Company, Sara-
sota, Fla.: (Through Byron A. Riggle)
6 marine mollusks from Formosa Bay,
Kenya, Hast Africa (204591).

Trobridge, Gerry, Bayshore, Port of
Spain, B. W. I.: 3 fishes (2048238).

Troelsen, Dr. J. C., Copenhagen, Den-
mark: 6 Foraminifera from the Cre-
taceous of Denmark, including 4 para-
types (203069) ; 609 Foraminifera from
the Paleocene, Cretaceous, and Ter-
tiary of Denmark (203330, 204263,
204468, exchange); 2 Woraminifera
from the Pliocene of Italy (203773,
exchange).

Tropical Research Medical Labora-
tery, San Juan, Puerto Rico: (Through
Dr. Harold W. Harry) 479 shrimps
and 12 crabs from Puerto Rico
(204084).

Tryon, Dr. R. M., Jr.
Botanical Garden)

Tsuneki, Dr. K., Fukui, Japan: 145
wasps from Japan (205995, exchange).

Tucker, Grattan B., Miami Beach,
Fla.: Political button inscribed ‘“An-
drew Jackson, President, 1829”
(202284).

(See Missouri

97

Tulane University, New Orleans, La.:
6 diatoms from Louisiana, collected by
Dr. R. M. Darnell (203370) ; (through
Dr. Rezneat M. Darnell) sample of ma-
vine diatoms (204009).

Turner, Eugene A., Tryon, N. C.:
Chinese silver dollar, 1928 (202597).

Turver, Mrs. H. B., South Gate, Calif. :
d3 Marine mollusks from Sonora, Méx-
ico (202748).

Tvedt, Reidar. (See United Nations
Postal Administration)

Tyler, Richard W., Umnak Island,
Alaska: 16 plants of Alaska (204455).

United Nations, Food and Agricul-
ture Organization of the, Washington,
D. C.: 44 plants from Afghanistan eol-
lected by Dr. A. T. Semple (202618).

United Nations Postal Administra-
tion, New York, N. Y.: (Through Reidar

Tvedt) 5 first-day covers, UNESCO
ecommemoratives (205411, 205564,
206359).

Universidad Central de Venezuela,
Maracay, Venezuela: (Through Dr. F.
Hernandez-Yepez) 37 butterflies from
Venezuela (205000).

Universidad Nacional de Eva Perén,
Eva Peron, Argentina: 150 plants from
Argentina (203974, exchange).

Universitatis Jagellonicae, Cracow,
Poland: 127 plants of Poland (204724,
exchange).

Université de Dijon, Dijon, France:
(Through Professor Ciry) 637 Foram-
inifera, ammonites, pelecypods, and
brachiopods from the Jurassic and Cre-
taceous of France (203123, exchange).

Université de Rennes, Rennes,
France: (Through Prof. Henry N. des
Abbayes) 28 ferns from Africa
(205550).

Unknown donor: 28 _ postcards,
printed in Switzerland, reproducing
Swiss and foreign stamps in color and
1 cacheted envelope marking centennial
of incorporation of Hlizabeth, N. J.
(206366) ; 3 first-day covers, and 1
posteard with “First Day of Issue” can-
cellation (206501).

Uppsala, University of, Uppsala,
Sweden : 88 phanerogams, 35 grasses, 17
98

ferns from Sweden and Arctic Norway
(206352, exchange).

Usinger, Dr. Robert L. Berkeley,
Calif.: 2 bugs from Micronesia and 2
from Guam, paratypes (204433, 205002).

Utah, University of, Salt Lake City,
Utah: (Through Dr. Walter P. Cottam)
1 plant from Arizona (203848).

Utah State Agricultural College,
Intermountain Herbarium, Logan,
Utah: 148 phanerogams, 48 grasses
(206467, exchange).

Valle, Rafael Heliodoro, Washington,
D. C.: 53 cancelled postage stamps from
Latin America (204743).

van den Bruel, Dr. W. E.
gium, Government of)

Van-der Hoef, Col. George T., and
Mrs. Harriet Bellamy Van-der Hoef,
Washington, D. C.: 10-keyed transverse
flute marked “H EF Meyer, Hannover”
(203769).

Van-der Hoef, Mrs. Harriet Bellamy.
(See Van-der Hoef, Col. George T.)

Vanegas P., Sr. Agustin. (See Nica-
ragua, Government of)

Van Ells, Dr. M. E., Sr., Ann Arbor,
Mich.: 1 alga, 2 marine invertebrates,
and 4 toads from Michigan (202942,
203474).

Van Noten, Jean, Englewood, N. J.:
12 Belgian Rotary International stamps
and 6 Belgian semipostals, autographed
by donor as designer (204896, 206495).
_ Vatikiotis, Sezon, Tarpon Springs,
Fla.: Approximately 180 marine, land,
and fresh-water mollusks from Oaxaca,
México (202771).

Vaurie, Patricia. (See American Mu-
seum of Natural History)

Vazquez, Alberto W., Arlington, Va.:
2 erayfishes from Gasconade River,
Pulaski County, Mo. (202522) ; 5 small
mammals and 89 mollusks:-from Mis-
souri and Virginia (202650).

Verner, Jared, Moscow, Idaho: 8
birds from Ecuador (204269, exchange).

Verrill, A. Hyatt, Chiefland, Fla.: 4
ant lions from Florida (203084,
206529) ; 11 marine mollusks from Flor-
ida and Dominica, B. W. I. (203761) ;
4 reptiles from Chiefland, Fla., collected
by donor (203839).

(See Bel-

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1955

Vickrey, Mrs. Emma Mae, Chevy
Chase, Md.: 10 ethnological specimens
from the San Blas Indians of southeast-
ern Panama, collected by donor in 1932
(203188).

Vigneaux, Dr. Michel, Bordeaux,
France: 400 samples of Foraminifera
from the Tertiary near Bruges, France
(203192, exchange).

Villalobes, Dr. Alejandro, México,
D. F.: 22 isopods, 31 crayfishes and 1
erab from México, including types
(194157, 196171, 204188, exchange).

Virgin Islands, Government of, De-
partment of the Interior, Office of Terri-
tories, St. Croix: (Through G. A. Sea-
man) 2 rats from St. Croix (205203).

Vitan, Alberto, Manila, P. I.: 18 min-
iature Moro weapons made and
mounted on hardwood shield at Bilibid
prison (206464).

Viadykov, Dr. Vadim D., Quebec, Que-
bec: 3 specimens of argulids (205636).

Volta Bureau for the Deaf, Washing-
ton, D. C.: Audiphone bone-conduction
hearing aid invented by R. S. Rhodes,
1879 (205532).

Voss, Gilbert L., Coral Gables, Fla.:
38 nudibranchs from the Bahamas and
2 snapping shrimps (203209, 203279).
(See also Howard, Col. John K.)

Voss, Mrs. Gilbert. (See Miami, Uni-
versity of)

Wager, Dr. L. R.
versity Museum)

Walcott Fund, Smithsonian Institu-
tion: 500 Middle Devonian invertebrate
fossils collected by Dr. G. A. Cooper in
central New York, 1955 (185108) ; 2,000
microsamples for Foraminifera, and ap-
proximately 3,500,000 invertebrate fos-
sils from Paleozoic, Mesozoic, and Ceno-
zoie of England, France, Italy, Spain,
Belgium, Netherlands, Germany, and
Austria, collected by Dr. A. R. Loeblich,
Jr., 1953-54, 18 Middle Hocene fishes
from Italy and 1 boehmite (bauxite)
from Engardine Mine, Var, France
(195551) ; 153 Cretaceous Foraminifera,
30 Cretaceous microfossil samples, and
250 Cretaceous brachiopods from Eng-
land (203074) ; approximately 607 speci-
mens of fossil Mammalia from the

(See Oxford Uni-
DONORS

Paleocene and Lower Hocene of south-
central and southwestern Wyoming, col-
lected by C. L. Gazin and Franklin L.
Pearce, JuneJuly 1954 (203298) ;
15,000 invertebrate fossils from Missis-
sippian and Devonian of Iowa, Missouri,
and New Mexico, Ordovician of central
Nevada, Mississippian of Indiana, and
Pennsylvanian of Illinois, collected by
Dr. G. A. Cooper and R. J. Main, June
1954 (208298) ; 182 Triassic brachiopods
(203301) ; 1,000 Ordovician and Penn-
sylvanian echinoderms and Ordovician
and Silurian trilobites from Oklahoma
(203518) ; 1,000 Mesozoic brachiopods,
60 Mesozoic ammonites, and 300 Per-
mian invertebrate fossils, all from Sicily
(204102); approximately 271 fossil
fishes, reptiles and associated inverte-
brates collected by Dr. David H. Dunkle
in Park County, Wyo.; Paris, Idaho;
Cache and San Juan Counties, Utah,
during July, August, and September
1954 (204207) ; 165 Foraminifera from
the Tertiary of Czechoslovakia
(204802) ; 48 foraminiferal samples of
Miocene from Florida, and Cretaceous
from Oklahoma and Texas (205008).

Walden, Mrs. Mayme Ruhelmann (de-
ceased): (Through Sylvia Walden) 2
notes issued by Hagerstown Bank, Md.,
1814, and Phenix Bank of New York,
1822 (202755).

Walden, Sylvia.
Mayme Ruhelmann)

Walker, Boyd W.
University of)

Walker, Dale R., Delaware, Ohio:
Fossil fish median dorsal plate, collected
in 1952 by donor from Devonian of Dela-
ware County, on Weiser Run, near Dela-
ware, Ohio (202603).

Walker, Dr. Egbert H., Washington,
D. C.: 7 plants from Maryland and Vir-
ginia and 11 from Shenandoah National
Park (202761, 206562); 1 sponge and
2 crabs from Maine (203348).

Walker, Dr. J. F. (See Gulf Coast
Research Laboratory)

Ward, Philip H., Jr. Philadelphia,
Pa.: 42 philatelic specimens (204117).

Wark, Mrs. Florence C., Henderson-
ville, N. C.: 4 dresses, ca. 1890, a Chi-

(See Walden, Mrs.

(See California,

TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

99

nese child’s jacket, and pair of wedding
slippers (2038304).

Warner-Chilcott Laboratories, New
York, N. Y.: (Through Elmer H. Bobst)
Copper pill-rolling pan used in mid-19th
century by William R. Warner to manu-
facture America’s first mass-produced
sugar-coated pills, and copper pitcher
for pouring sugar syrup in this manu-
facturing process (203207).

Washington, University of, Seattle,
Wasb.: (Through Dr. Earl H. Swan-
son) 4 fresh-water mussel shells from
archeological sites near Vantage, Wash.
(202577) ; (through Dr. Arthur W.
Martin) 8 fresh-water mussels from
King County, Wash. (202617);
(through Dr. Douglas Osborne) 4 fresh-
water mussel shells from archeological
sites near Vantage, Wash. (203424).
Arboretum: 5 plants (202765).

Washington, State College of, Pull-
man, Wash.: (Through Dr. George H.
Hudson) 18 mammals from southeast
Alaska (201617) ; (through Dr. Maurice
T. James) 10 flies from North America
(203681, exchange).

Waskey, Frank, Olney, Md.: 1 vivia-
nite from near Cape Vancouver, Nelson
Island, Alaska (204728).

Wass, Marvin L., Pass-a-Grille, Fla.:
Approximately 1,000 marine inverte-
prates (203280).

Watkins, C. Malcolm, Washington,
D. C.: Stoneware jug and fragment of
melting pot from Kohlenburg Glass
Works (205900).

Watters, Bruce W., St. Petersburg,
Fla.: 5 conductor’s batons of ebony,
ivory, and gold, originally presented
by Anna Held and others to Frank N.
Darling (201949).

Weaver, Mrs. Alicia Barnes, Wash-
ington, D. C.: Embroidered curtain
from Baghdad, Iraq, imported from
Turkey about 1880 (204603).

Weaver, B. Woodruff, Washington,
D. C.: 6 pieces of furniture, 19th cen-
tury, for exhibit in First Ladies’ Hall
(206542, loan).

Webb, J. H., Rochester, N. Y.: 52 mis-
cellaneous marine mollusks (203426) ;
1 marine mollusk from Japan (205753).
100

Weber, Walter A., Washington, D. C.:
1 bobcat from Adirondack Mountains,
N. ¥. (208897).

Webster, Frances M., Washington,
D. C.: Machete with brown leather
seabbard, of Mexican War period
(204038).

Wedderburn, Alexander J., Wash-
ington, D. C.: 4 Egyptian “British
Evacuation” stamps, 1954 (204196); 1
Heyptian cover with 5 stamps, includ-
ing 2 with King Farouk portrait
(204901).

Wellington, J. W., Fort Yates, N.
Dak.: Pair of dolls made by Assiniboin
Indian woman (206348).

Wells, Dr. John W., Ithaca, N. Y.:
Approximately 400 corals from Aus-
tralia; also some aleyonarians and
sponges (205168).

Wells, Dr. William H. (See Defense,
Department of, Department of the
Navy)

West Virginia University, Morgan-
town, W. Va.: 43 plants from south-
eastern United States (206475, ex-
change).

Westchester County Coin Club, New
Rochelle, N. Y.: 20th Anniversary
medal of the Westchester County Coin
Ciub, New York, 1954 (202627).

Western Australia, University of,
Nedlands: 111 Paleozoic and Mesozoic
invertebrate fossils from Western Aus-
tralia (208969, exchange).

Westgate, Dr. Philip J. (See Florida,
University of)

Weston Electrical Instrument Corp.,
Newark, N. J.: (Through John Miller)
Collection of electrical measuring in-
struments (203371).

Westrex Corporation, New York,
N. ¥.: Western electric disk recording
machine (205598).

Wetmore, Dr. Alexander, Washing-
ton, D. C.: 1 partially webbed foot of
a mallard duck (196326) ; 17 miscella-
neous coins and tokens of the 19th cen-
tury, 1 Canadian 1-dollar bank note, 35
foreign coins of modern issue and 2
Canadian coins (202745, 208594,
204268); 1 Tele-Photo A camera
(203616) ; tobacco pipe of incised hard-

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1955

wood collected by donor in 1920 from
Toba Indians at Riacho Pilagi, Terri-
tory of Formosa, northern Argentina

(208965); 4 skeletons of wren-tit
(204475) ; 8 casts of fossil bird bones
(205712). (See also Smithsonian In-
stitution )

Whalen, William F., Bronx, N. Y.; 1
glauecochroite from Franklin, N. J. and
1 roeblingite (204742, exchange).

Wheeler, Prof. G. C. (See North
Dakota, University of)

Wheeler, Dr. Marshall, Austin, Tex.:
16 paratypes of ephydrid flies from
North America (205407).

Wherry, Dr. Edgar T., Philadelphia,
Pa.: 1 fern from Virginia (205432).

Whetzel, Carl S., Washington, D. C.:
2 specimens of ore from Chungchong
Namdo, Korea (206565).

White, Marcus W., Worcester, Mass. :
17 philatelic specimens (204375).

White Motor Company, Arlington,
Va.: (Through H. G. Collin) 2 model
“White 3000” kits of truck used for mail
transportation (205274).

Whitford, Hope, Washington, D. C.:
Green moire taffeta dress worn by the
wife of Gov. N. G. Ordway at the White
House during the Administration of
President Abraham Lincoln (205722).

Whitmore, Maj. David A., Alexandria,
Va.: Pair of Korean leather shoes
(203586) ; 9 items of Korean costume
and a collection of Korean coins and
paper curreney (206515).

Whittington, Dr. Harry B., Cam-
bridge, Mass.: 9 Mississippian brachio-
pods from Belgium, and 61 Permian
brachiopods from Glass Mountains
(204466, exchange).

Wigley, Roland L. (See Interior,
U. S. Department of, Fish and Wildlife
Service)

Wileex, Leroy, Speonk, N. Y.: 200
marine mollusks from Varadero Beach,
Cuba (203926).

Wilcox, Mrs. Marie Bullock, Wash-
ington, D. C.: 2 boy’s dresses, ca. 1850;
16 miscellaneous costume accessories of
19th century; foot warmer and wall
mirror (202768).
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Wildenauer, Herr Direktor. (See
Bayerisches Feldspatwerk)

Wilder, May, Washington, D. C.: 28
ethnographical specimens of Afghan
material culture, collected by donor in
1954 in Afghanistan (206463).

Wilkinson, Mrs. Howard S. (de-
ceased): (Through Madeleine Wilkin-
son) 386 specimens of Americana
(202517).

Wilkinson, Madeleine, Washington,
D. C.: 65 pieces of costumes and acces-
sories, late 18th and early 20th centur-
ies, 4 pieces French brocade, records of
White House Thanksgiving Day Serv-
ice, Novy. 26, 1942, and 1 linen handker-
chief with floral printed border
(204821). (See also Wilkinson, Mrs.
Howard)

William and Mary, College of, Wil
liamsburg, Va.: 24 plants collected in
Virginia by Dr. J. T. Baldwin, Jr.
(204558, exchange).

Williams, Dr. Austin B., Morehead
City, N. C.: 25 shrimps, including types
(202995).

Williams, Col. F. M. Miami, Fla.:
Portrait of donor by Joseph Cummings
Chase (204902).

Williams, J. C., Brooklyn, N. Y.: 1
celt from Amazon Drainage, Brazil, col-
lected by donor in 1910 (204719).

Williams, Dr. J. Stewart, Logan,
Utah: Lower jaw of fossil mammal ¢el-
lected by Bob Adamson from Norwood
tuff on the north side of Norwood Can-
yon, Morgan County, Utah (203708) ;
7 fossil fishes collected by donor from
Lower Triassic Woodside formation at
mouth of Paris Canyon, Bear Lake
County, Idaho (204331).

Williams, Dr. Ralph B., Juneau,
Alaska: 1 nematomorph worm from
Alaska (198737)

Williams, Dr. Roger W., New York,
N. Y.: 39 biting midges from Michigan,
including types of new species (206068).

Wills, Margaret L. Washington,
D. C.: 1 pistol, and 1 Belgian revolver
(204266). ;

Wilson, E.O. (See Harvard College)

Wilson, Kenneth A, Ann Arbor,
Mich.: 1 fern from Jamaica (205253).

101

Wilson, Mrs. Mildred S., Anchorage,
Alaska: 2 type specimens of copepods
from Louisiana (203927) ; 2 fresh-water
copepods, from Benton County, Oreg.
(204166).

Wilson, William M., Philadelphia,
Pa.: 2 first-day covers issued at Phila-
delphia (205606).

Winokur, Dr. William and Winokur,
Seymour, Detroit, Mich.: 2 books,
“Postage Stamps of Japan” by Wood-
ward, and “Stamps of México, 1856-
1868” by Chapman (204482).

Winokur, Seymour. (See Winokur,
Dr. William)

Winslow, Mrs. Francis, Chevy Chase,
Md.: 1 parian figurine and 1 gilt and
mahogany pedestal, mid-19th century
(205246).

Winslow, Harriet, Washington, D. C.:
1 pair of 19th-century brass andirons
(206490).

Wisconsin, University of, Madison,
Wis.: 19 plants (201456).

Witt, William Lee, Arlington, Va.: 11
fresh-water mollusks from Florida and
Georgia (208716).

Women’s International Stamp Club,
Brookiyn, N. Y.: (Through Agnes Bur-
lingame) 1 cacheted envelope “Women’s
International Stamp Club Honors A.
Lincoln on its 20th Anniversary,” post-
marked Lineoln City, Ind., Feb. 12, 1955,
franked with 4-cent Lincoln 1954 issue
(205568).

Wong, J. N. (See International Ryu-
kyu Stamp and Coin Society)

Wood, Prof. Alan, Aberystwyth,
Wales: 5 Lower Eocene Foraminifera
from Pakistan (203060) ; 2 thin sections
of a Silurian foraminifer from Great
Britain (203191, exchange).

Woed, Dr. Stephen L., Ottawa,
Canada: 16 beetles from United States,
including types (200887).

Woodceck, H. E., Chicago, Ill.: 205
miscellaneous moths from South Amer-
ica (203082).

Woodruff, Dr. John G., Hamilton,
N. Y.: 1 starfish from Devonian, Hamil-
ton formation, Lebanon, N. Y. (203609,
exchange).
102

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1955

Woodruff, Pauline B. (deceased) :| utensils, and a woman’s fighting brace-

(Through Col. Theodore Barnes, Jr.) 1
Chinese lacquer screen (204663).

Woods, Loren P. (See Chicago Natu-
ral History Museum)

Wrather, Dr. W. E., Washington,
D. C.: 1 lot bryozoans from Alaska
(206014).

Wright, Robert. (See Commerce,
U. S. Department of, Weather Bureau)

Wright, Dr. W. H. (See Health, Edu-
cation and Welfare, U. S. Department
of, National Institutes of Health)

Wyoming, University of, Laramie,
Wyo.: 1 grass from Wyoming (203544) ;
(through Dr. Ralph F. Honess) approxi-
mately 3,056 fresh-water and land mol-
lusks, 315 marine invertebrates, and 20
inseets from Wyoming (202011,
203250); (through Dr. Alan B. Shaw)
133 Permian fossils from Phosphoria
formation of Wyoming (204803, ex-
change).

Yale University, New Haven, Conn.:
1 grass from Perti (203369) ; (through
Neal E. Miller) calculator, Dr. Clark
Hull’s coordination machine (205424).

Yasumatsu, Dr. Keizo, Fukuoka, Ja-
pan: 3 paratypes of wasps from Japan
(205998) .

Yates, Mrs. Lucile W., McLean, Va.:
1 Kentucky warbler (205976).

Yedlin, Neal, New Haven, Conn.: 4
specimens of bertrandite from Collins
Hills, Conn. (205556).

Yilek, Joan, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia:
34 ethnographical specimens collected
by donor at Pokwo, Ethiopia, consisting
of skin costumes and baby carriers, ob-
jects of personal adornment, amulets,
pottery, basketry, decorated gourd

let (206520).

Yogore, Dr. Mariana G., Jr., Balti-
more, Md.: 3 crabs collected in Sorso-
gon Province, southernmost tip of
Luzon Island, Philippines (204449).

Youngquist, Dr. Walter L. (See
Humphrey, Dr. Fred L.)

Yugoslavia, Government of, Bel-
grade: (Through Mirko Radalj) 19
philatelic specimens from Yugoslavia
(204476) ; (through V. Ognjenovic) 6
philatelic items from Yugoslavia
(206535) .

Zayas, Ing. de F. (See Estacién Ex-
perimental Agronémica)

Zears, Charlotte KE. (deceased):
(Through The Riggs National Bank)
Decorated gourd from Siam (201855,
bequest).

Zeiss, Arnold, Munich, Germany: 13
foraminiferal samples from the Juras-
sie of Bavaria (206507).

Zenith Radio Corporation, Chicago,
Tll.: 5 hearing aids (205418).

Zetek, James. (See Benson Grub-
stakers, and Panam& Canal Natural
History Society)

Ziesenhenne, Fred C. (See Southern
California, University of)

Zimmerman, HE. <A. Washington,
D. C.: Marine engine, Gray Engine Co.,
ca. 1901 (203118).

Zimmermann, Dr. W. J.
State College)

Zumpt, Dr. F., Johannesburg, South
Africa: 8 flies from Africa and 1 from
Europe (205994). (See also South
African Institute for Medical Re-
search)

(See Iowa
WILL Ah
a —— = » = ~ 7 — — Saare
SS SLES ES EE = SS = Sr SEES SSS SSS SS a ——— = <=

uw
’ — o
¥ ~
”
‘
- : = = sat — * — ma ee - = ee ss
fa = = es = = = ame = = _. — — = —_
