my a oe on .

rey a
x i a
a ‘
~ 4 an
d
ine e

c f

Se 7 is ie

‘.

Ai Cots ¥ Ss

¥. * w Bt. B.2 - ee Ns _k s a -
cu te fe ews ie wm eo . \® 4 ee a | z yer * ae
an ee ee ee ee ee

t, : _- & js. i leat eeeeoa ope b & ws ‘© &@ &) @
| eI pee eh © Be we ee ee ee

a Dp e a a >?
o a Ps 2) to ne wa > oS ee ee
¢ @ * Be ee ee we ee ee

le
wk ‘te
ion
U

Pa alt

Mri’

ya

n #5 r) a
haha 4c Pawi os
We sn
ait’: of ‘ ave

TAA ENN Ui ht

sh PRuE
Fase)
A

i
"

4 i
\
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF REGENTS OF

THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION

SHOWING THE

OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND
CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION
FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30

194]

(Publication 3651)

UNITED STATES
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
WASHINGTON : 1942

For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D.C. - - - - - = Price $2.00 (cloth cover)
Wye
ey, i
p A

ha e i

hs
Ung i, i
a Hi 3? oa Bie). J aie eh neman re ij fa
4 ay 4 eel ! ‘ Pl he i my i ity Mi a a
i. , ee 1% pn Nir ;
ae

Ms
Hi” mn

Bind Phe
ait iw tte :

Ne sud ma tee ne :
Wi aint Be erent oe : nan mi
TSOP ATLR ne j f
at , Penh De eR Te Aen ENTE
AM hal rely age tay,

Rais
¥', tie

Raw TET kE ih r 4 ia y \ ea Nh ae
Beil asthe yy! ‘ Ee Wy : AG ma Die i
iy baa) hey p ee : gilt Nan EN ; LE inl iy

\!
Ie a Nite
ON EN Ie

aie a

Ri \
Ake

= hh yi ) i Whe
Wi Mikes! . ak it

na init
i ie i
» BY i

»

LETT OF TRANSMITTAL

SMITHSONIAN INsTITUTION,
Washington, December 3, 1941.
To the Congress of the United States:

In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, I have the honor, in behalf of the Board of Regents,
to submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expendi-
tures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year
ended June 30, 1941. I have the honor to be,

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
C. G. Assor, Secretary.

Tir
a , nv M

a

Mi} i) f

| uy i

7 us
Ween hee

i) Me i van
gate fh 7

MAW {ay

sly oa vipa )

whi

TR Wa ri
Caan iB titi
Line Lar i\

Aisity |

/ ry fn / mA
Pi) A ie

“Mh hah is abt eG
a a Li ‘st

Nt Wh
)

hey nn
ne

CONTENTS

Page

RAPA REPCU ESA OCRELLAS ope Mk ah et Ae ie tae SC Se ee eg tN 9 IX

Onitsrandin Peviente as ee s= ae oe ee ee ee eee een eer Lye ie ae en ee 1

Summary of the year’s activities of the branches of the Institution_______ 2

PIPERCSUS UN RINEN GE. ooo teas Che ee Ne sie ee eee 8

BeremIsOArt Ol 1eOpOUie eon oles UE ee oe eee ee 8

CTE EAE ero a OE ed I ed As A ay Ne eae a an PR RE aos 9

Matters oteeneralpnterest= 0-222 Me ek) ee a a 9

PIMA esOMIan TACIO PTORTAMm 22222 s0o 2 2552. ee ee ee 9

Niaiteruatabone Bacon ‘scholarship =..4 = 2522 ilo lease) 2 eee Se 11

Sap nonlan main all exhibits. 2-92.26. o2 0.52220. Le Lee ee 12

PIM MeAMD MUN CeChIne. 225 52- o2ten Co ea ee eee st Swe 13

Vi EDODE ere he Sa IS Ee 3k a ape fe he 14

PE plOTe Onn ang Meld Wonk. ties Sose Soe Se se See eee 15

RMR CRGIONM Vans co en ese a ata ae my a eR cle i ube

eee el te a RS Lk ee i le oe ee 17

Appendix 1. Report on the United States National Museum___________- 19

2. Report on the National Gallery of Art__....__....--.___-- 34

3. Report on the National Collection of Fine Arts___________- 45

a” tReport-on the Preer Gallery Of Arts. 2028 =5--9-22.. 542242 51

5. Report on the Bureau of American Ethnology. ____.______- 56

6. Report on the International Exchange Service___________-- 69

7. Report on the National Zoological Park_....._----..----_-- 78

8. Report on the Astrophysical Observatory _._.--.-_..___--- 108

9. Report on the Division of Radiation and Organisms-_----__-__ 111

ROS LenOru Ol ‘tHe LWOpary a0 22 2 Ne oe we te a 116

Tete BOTs OM PUUNCATIONS 2022 se eee SRE Cie el he 123

Report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents_._-.________ 130

GENERAL APPENDIX

What lies between the stars? by Walter S. Adams__________.________-_- 141

Artificial converters of solar energy, by H. C. Hottel_-_-_____-___-_---- 151

The new frontiers in the atom, by Ernest O. Lawrence__----_ ee Lean ae 163

Science shaping American culture, by Arthur H. Compton___--__-__----- 175

Mathematics and the sciences, by J. W. Lasley, Jr__.-----_--____--__-- 183

The role of science in the electrical industry, by M. W. Smith___________ 199

The new synthetic textile fibers, by Herbert R. Mauersberger__--_---_-_-- 211

LED SIPOSRN by PA Borirs Poy a tet Duel £00 2 C: Yl pen nO ety Pee PC EN eA OUR 2 aM 225

Vitamins and their occurrence in foods, by Hazel E. Munsell___________- 239

Science and human prospects, by Eliot Blackwelder____---_---_-_-_-_-- 267

Iceland, land of frost and fire, by Vigfus Einarsson_.._._.-__-_-------- 285

The genes and the hope of mankind, by Bruce Bliven____--___-_--_-_--- 293

Care of captive animals, by Ernest P. Walker..........--...---.------ 305
The influence of insects on the development of forest protection and forest

managempnt, Dy. . Op Craignend 52S cst e eS Soot ee ee kes 367

Growth hormones in plants, by Kenneth V. Thimann_-_-____-__-_-_-_---_- 393

Useful algae, by Florence Meier Chase_____---.---------------------- 401
VI CONTENTS

The excavations of Solomon’s seaport: Ezion-geber, by Nelson Glueck... 453
Decipherment of the linguistic portion of the Maya hieroglyphs, by Ben-

Jamin: Lee Wihort (ir 2 Bee een ieee eh ees ene 479
Contacts between Iroquois herbalism and colonial medicine, by William N.

Benton 23.) Se see le Hae ge ae ee a ee Lesa ioe 22 re NO NE GAO 503
The study of Indian music, by Frances Densmore________.___________.. 527
Snake bites and the Hopi Snake Dance, by M. W. Stirling____-__________ 551
The Eskimo ehild,\ by Ales, Hirclite keg 2 se pots a for ei elie 557

Wings for Transportation (Recent developments in air transportation
equipment) "by Theodore’ PP! Wright: | Di se. ae Le Se ee 563
LIST OF PLATES

Page
Secretary’s Report:
ESE RCS a hr 2 ee A ap pa ed Rate PB eg es) ae 12
ISSCC Seana ee eee ea hhc ge ra A Se a ein eee 52
BE safe ey a eg pe mL seit EAR te yk Beh Se 78
What lies between the stars? (Adams):
TEARS Sys TA Lo aA Rak EP ae esa ee peepee cee Oe ee ae eegte e e d PE 150
The new frontiers in the atom (Lawrence):
BEA Ces l= Ome een BE ae OR eaten ieee Se Ue ee oe eee ees 174
The role of science in the electrical industry (Smith):
JSAP CSR a ety Re PORE OO a Ed A Ae ee ee eee oe 210
Plasties (Kline)
Plates plot sate Shane eh perme ery ee La Ls ee hs es 238
Iceland, land of frost and fire (Einarsson):
VBS ers a 1 ES Pa hr ae ny eT 292
Care of captive animals (Walker):
DEAE zy or a 1 ia Jac Drak aS iG: ee RIE ee ae eee nyu AeA 366
The influence of insects on the development of forest protection and forest
management (Craighead):
MTs see = Aas a as ee Sled gS EL Sa he ah da AY gc 392
Growth hormones in plants (Thimann):
EVO EE Bi 7 deal | be Sara a each Ea al sete ae id Oe NEA es 92 400
Useful algae (Chase):
PEP Ver tees ol mae ths lt Op ES PER nS i Ae 452
The excavations of Solomon’s seaport: Ezion-geber (Glueck):
ee Gein tate oe 2. at aoe ar en ede pe Mek eur en RN ee AAPA 478
Contacts between Iroquois herbalism and colonial medicine (Fenton):
TRADE aS) LS pe RS A he Ss aa a Ce dg ae en 526
The study of Indian music (Densmore):
Ueber isl — Gil ease SN igs crea SOE peel ets ee JOM A eh hh ae be 550
Snake bites and the Hopi Snake Dance (Stirling):
[ETN a3 yg] Giclee ped pall a a Be ete IPE Sa At op NU Sse teres eS LEN iE 556
The Eskimo child (Hrdli¢ka):
lathes yl Oia eas orks oS Be Lat OU eats Pd eh eer aN ES 562
Wings for transportation (Wright):
CEU CVI CEES SA Fie ei SR OL epee ale Pee ene Rly Sel ese name An ene ey pete 584
Wit hd i i J
, a t hs
ye

ne a

Wi hain

eae

, hy
ie

an * ni wt

0
nt

‘ah

vi We an in

ie

iat . Tie st
Ny,

} i i 4 i !
Led ane p
mnt

i
i
7 jj

Nay
iy) ie cra 7 4 ii ed

Soa Ni ie hfe

allt
Vit Whi
1h

Ay A " ny

il
‘ny

iy Bit
oy
nM

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
June 30, 1941

Presiding officer ew officio—FRANKLIN D. Roosrvett, President of the United
States.
Chancellor—CHARLES EvANS Huauss, Chief Justice of the United States.
Members of the Institution:
FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT, President of the United States.
Henry A. WALLACE, Vice President of the United States.
CHARLES EvAns HUGHES, Chief Justice of the United States.
CORDELL HULL, Secretary of State.
Henry MorGENTHAU, Jr., Secretary of the Treasury.
Henry L. Stimson, Secretary of War.
Rosert H. JAckson, Attorney General.
FRANK C. WALKER, Postmaster General.
FRANK Kwnox, Secretary of the Navy.
Harrop L. Ickes, Secretary of the Interior.
CLAUDE R. WicKARD, Secretary of Agriculture.
JESSE H. JoNES, Secretary of Commerce.
FRANCES PERKINS, Secretary of Labor.
Regents of the Institution:
CHARLES EVANS HUGHES, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor.
Henry A. WALLACE, Vice President of the United States.
CHARLES L. McNary, Member of the Senate.
ALBEN W. BArKiEyY, Member of the Senate.
BENNETT CHAMP CLARK, Member of the Senate.
CLARENCE CANNON, Member of the House of Representatives.
Wim P. Cots, Jr., Member of the House of Representatives.
Foster STEARNS, Member of the House of Representatives.
FREDERIc A. DELANO, citizen of Washington, D. C.
Rouanp S. Morris, citizen of Pennsylvania.
Harvey N. DaAvIs, citizen of New Jersey.
ARTHUR H. Compton, citizen of Illinois.
VANNEVAR BusgH, citizen of Washington, D. C.
Executwe committee.—FREDERIC A. DELANO, VANNEVAR BUSH.
Secretary—CHARLES G. ABBOT.
Assistant Secretary.—ALEXANDER WETMORE.
Administrative assistant to the Secretary.— HARRY W. DORSEY.
Treasurer.—NIcHOLAS W. DORSEY.
Chief, editorial division—WeEsSTER P. TRUE.
Librarian.—Wi.iAmM L. CorBin.
Personnel officer.—HELEN A. OLMSTED.
Property clerk.—JAMES H. HILL.
x ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

Keeper ex officio—CHARLES G. ABBOT.
Assistant Secretary (in charge).—ALEXANDER WETMORE.
Associate Director.—JOHN BE. GRAF.

SCIENTIFIC STAFF

DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY :
Frank M. Setzler, head curator; A. J. Andrews, chief preparator.

Division of Ethnology: H. W. Krieger, curator; J. E. Weckler, Jr., assistant
curator; Arthur P. Rice, collaborator.

Section of Ceramics: Samuel W. Woodhouse, collaborator.

Division of Archeology: Neil M. Judd, curator; Waldo R. Wedel, assistant
curator; R. G. Paine, senior scientific aid; J. Townsend Russell, honorary
assistant curator of Old World archeology.

Division of Physical Anthropology: AleS Hrdlitka, curator; T. Dale Stewart,
associate curator.

Collaborators in anthropology: George Grant MacCurdy; W. W.
Taylor, Jr. ,
DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY:
Leonhard Stejneger, head curator; W. L. Brown, chief taxidermist;
Aime M. Awl, illustrator.

Division of Mammals: Remington Kellogg, curator; H. Harold Shamel, senior
scientific aid; A. Brazier Howell, collaborator; Gerrit S. Miller, Jr.,
associate.

Division of Birds: Herbert Friedmann, curator; J. H. Riley, associate cura-
tor; H. G. Deignan, assistant curator; Alexander Wetmore, custodian
of alcoholic and skeleton collections; Casey A. Wood, collaborator;
Arthur C. Bent, collaborator.

Division of Reptiles and Batrachians: Leonhard Stejneger, curator; Doris
M. Cochran, assistant curator.

Division of Fishes: Leonard P. Schultz, curator; E. D. Reid, senior scientific
aid.

Dwision of Insects: L. O. Howard, honorary curator; Edward A. Chapin,
curator; R. H. Blackwelder, assistant curator; William Schaus, honorary
assistant curator.

Section of Hymenoptera: 8. A. Rohwer, custodian; W. M. Mann, assist-
ant custodian; Robert A. Cushman, assistant custodian.

Section of Myriapoda: O. F. Cook, custodian.

Section of Diptera: Charles T. Greene, assistant custodian.

Section of Coleoptera: L. L. Buchanan, specialist for Casey collection.

Section of Lepidoptera: J. T. Barnes, collaborator.

Section of Hemiptera: W. L. McAtee, acting custodian.

Section of Forest Tree Beetles: A. D. Hopkins, custodian.

Division of Marine Invertebrates: Waldo L. Schmitt, curator; C. R. Shoe-
maker, assistant curator; James O. Maloney, aid; Mrs. Harriet Rich-
ardson Searle, collaborator; Max M. Ellis, collaborator; J. Perey Moore,
collaborator; Joseph A. Cushman, collaborator in Foraminifera; Charles
Branch Wilson, collaborator in Copepoda.

Division of Mollusks: Paul Bartsch, curator; Harald A. Rehder, assistant
curator; Joseph P. E. Morrison, senior scientific aid.

Section of Helminthological Collections: Benjamin Schwartz, collab-
orator.

Division of Echinoderms: Austin H. Clark, curator.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY x1

DEPARTMENT OF BioLocy—Continued.

Division of Plants (National Herbarium): W. R. Maxon, curator; Ells-
worth P. Killip, associate curator; Emery C. Leonard, assistant curator;
Conrad V. Morton, assistant curator; Egbert H. Walker, aid; John A.
Stevenson, custodian of C. G. Lloyd mycological collection.

Section of Grasses; Agnes Chase, custodian.

Section of Cryptogamic Collections; O. F. Cook, assistant curator.
Section of Higher Algae: W. T. Swingle, custodian.

Section of Lower Fungi: D. G. Fairchild, custodian.

Section of Diatoms: Paul S. Conger, custodian.

Associates in Zoology: C. Hart Merriam, Mary J. Rathbun, Theodore S.
Palmer, William B. Marshall, A. G. BoOving.

Associate curator in Zoology: Hugh M. Smith.

Associate in Marine Sediments: T. Wayland Vaughan.

Collaborator in Zoology: Robert Sterling Clark.

Collaborators in Biology: A. K. Fisher, David C. Graham.

DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY:
R. 8. Bassler, head curator; Jessie G. Beach, aid.

Division of Physical and Chemical Geology (systematic and applied): W. F.
Foshag, curator; Edward P. Henderson, assistant curator; Bertel O.
Reberholt, senior scientific aid.

Division of Mineralogy and Petrology: W. F. Foshag, curator; Frank L.
Hess, custodian of rare metals and rare earths.

Division of Stratigraphic Paleontology: Charles E. Resser, curator; Gustav
A. Cooper, assistant curator; Marion F.. Willoughby, senior scientific aid.

Section of Invertebrate Paleontology: T. W. Stanton, custodian of
Mesozoic collection ; Paul Bartsch, curator of Cenozoic collection.

Division of Vertebrate Paleontology: Charles W. Gilmore, curator; C. Lewis
Gazin, assistant curator; Norman H. Boss, chief preparator.

Associates in Mineralogy: W. T. Schaller, S. H. Perry.

Associate in Paleontology: E. O. Ulrich.

Associate in Petrology: Whitman Cross.

DEPARTMENT OF ENGINEERING AND INDUSTRIES:
Carl W. Mitman, head curator.

Division of Engineering: Frank A. Taylor, curator.

Section of Transportation and Civil Engineering: Frank A. ‘Taylor,
in charge.

Section of Aeronautics: Paul BE. Garber, assistant curator.

Section of Mechanical Engineering: Frank A. Taylor, in charge.

Section of Electrical Engineering and Communications: Frank A.
Taylor, in charge.

Section of Mining and Metallurgical Engineering: Carl] W. Mitman, in
charge.

Section of Physical Sciences and Measurement: Frank A. Taylor, in
charge.

Section of Tools: Frank A. Taylor, in charge.

Division of Crafts and Industries: Frederick L. Lewton, curator; Eliza-

beth W. Rosson, senior scientific aid.
Section of Textiles: Frederick L. Lewton, in charge.
Section of Woods and Wood Technology: William N. Watkins, assistant
curator.
Section of Chemical Industries: Wallace E. Duncan, assistant curator.
Section of Agricultural Industries: Frederick L. Lewton, in charge.
XII ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

DEPARTMENT OF ENGINEERING AND INDUSTRIES—Continued.
Dwwision of Medicine and Public Health: Charles Whitebread, associate
curator.
Division of Graphic Arts: R. P. Toiman, curator.
Section of Photography: A. J. Olmsted, assistant curator.
DIvIsION oF History: T. T. Belote, curator; Charles Carey, assistant curator;
Catherine L. Manning, philatelist.

ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF

Chief of correspondence and documents.—H. S. BRYANT.

Assistant chief of correspondence and documents.—L. HE. COMMERFORD.
Superintendent of buildings and labor.—R. H. TREMBLY.

Assistant superintendent of buildings and labor.—CuHaries C. SINCLAIR.
Hditor.—PavL H. OFHSER.

Accountant and auditor.—N. W. DoRsEY.

Photographer.—A. J. OLMSTED.

Property clerk.—LAWRENCE L, OLIVER.

Assistant librarian.—LEILA FE’, CLARK.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

Trustees:

THE CHIEF JUSTICE OF THE UNITED STATES.

THE SECRETARY OF STATE,

TH SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY.

THe SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

Davin K. E. Bruce.

DUNCAN PHILLIPS.

FERDINAND LAMMOT BELIN.

SAMUEL H. KRgESs.

JOSEPH FE). WIDENER.
President.—Davip K. HE. Bruce.
Vice President.—KFERDINAND LAMMOT BELIN.
Secretary-Treasurer and General Counsel.—Donatp D. SHEPARD.
Director.—Davm EK. FINLEY.
Assistant Director.—MaccILL JAMES.
Administrator..—H. A. MCBRIDE.
Chief Curator. —JOHN WALKER.

NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS

Acting Director—RvuEt P. TOLMAN.

FREER GALLERY OF ART

Director —JOHN ELLERTON LODGE.

Assistant Director.—GRACE DUNHAM GUEST.
Associate in archeology.—CarL WHITING BISHOP.
Associate in research.—ARCHIBALD G. WENLEY.
Superintendent.—W. N. RAWLEY.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

Chief —MAtTTHEW W. STIRLING.

XIII

Senior ethnologists—H. B. Cottins, Jr., JoHN P. Hargincron, Joun i:

SWANTON.
Senior archeologist —Frank H. H. Roserts, Jr.
Senior anthropologist.—JuLIAN H. STEWARD.
Associate anthropologist—W. N. FrentTon.
Hditor.—M. HELEN PALMER.
Librarian.—Mir1AM B. KETCHUM.
Illustrator.—EpWIN G. CASSEDY.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE

Secretary (in charge).—CuHaArtes G. ABBOT.
Chief Clerk.—CoaTtrs W. SHOEMAKER,

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Director.—WiILLIAM M. MANN.
Assistant Director.—EHRNEST P. WALKER.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Director.—CHARLES G, ABBOT.
Assistant Director.—LoyaL B. ALDRICH.
Senior astrophysicist—WILt1AM H, Hoover.

DIVISION OF RADIATION AND ORGANISMS

Director.—CHARLES G. ABBOT.

Assistant Director.—EHaAr.L S. JOHNSTON.

Senior physicist —Epwarp D. McALIsTER.

Senior mechanical engineer.—LELAND B. CLARE.
Associate plant physiologist—ILORENCE M. CHASE.
Junior biochemist.—RoBrert L. WEINTRAUB.
Phe en
i

Dea y ui
4A ty Bho:

Tlantoi!
yi

Wi an
Nyy ith

a

inl

i ny I
fh? Ut ls ci Mp aii o ny

ee ery
pa thn "4 and

ie it fbi

i
i
viet

1 wnt

ity

’ iat yy
Nei i A wt a

‘i iain
iW nh H :

ty rye !
uit Ky hin WAL)

a

selene

Tt Is’ NE | ee clea ; el f i) ip ‘ i ty
PMR cca ~alisa , egiai
LAAN
ae "i Theda) } , 7 f
re f pre 1M wii At
eon, yeh : NP, i Me i) ae | ie
Avie RNY HONEA Rae |
vat \ bit gtr ents ty nit Bi yy iad,
Boe \unavcantaar ih Wenn .
ANG em MALU if) y lad i j t ;
ay y 4 if * yi wat ne nadia) A yl ii
i ; ; hiealt
, : iN y 4 wn iW an ih MG ;

ie Hh a iN
ki iyi

mn Hin

rey
Hain ah mI it Wa

1 ay ey
Hn nae wen aay VN iH mAliie

i ‘ We Ber) {
h Ain} Filly tN \ My WE Ane Ain

i
Ae A
PAs aidarh Wide
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

C. G. ABBOT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1941

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution.

GENTLEMEN: I have the honor to submit herewith my report show-
ing the activities and condition of the Smithsonian Institution and
the Government bureaus under its administrative charge during the
fiscal year ended June 30, 1941. The first 18 pages contain a sum-
mary account of the affairs of the Institution, and appendixes 1 to 11
give more detailed reports of the operations of the National Museum,
the National Gallery of Art, the National Collection of Fine Arts,
the Freer Gallery of Art, the Bureau of American Ethnology, the
International Exchanges, the National Zoological Park, the Astro-
physical Observatory, the Division of Radiation and Organisms, the
Smithsonian library, and of the publications issued under the direc-
tion of the Institution. On page 180 is the financial report of the
executive committee of the Board of Regents.

OUTSTANDING EVENTS

Among the numerous bureaus and agencies in Washington, certain
ones are listed as defense agencies, and the Smithsonian Institution
was included during the year in this list. Its vast collections are
of great usefulness in the identification and study of strategic ma-
terials relating to national defense, such as rubber, tin, aluminum,
mica, optical glass, abrasives, and many others. Its staff includes
scientific experts and technicians with outstanding experience in
connection with such materials, as well as laboratories and equipment
for all sorts of delicate experimental work. The Smithsonian has
already been assigned a number of defense problems and stands
ready to devote all its resources to such work when called upon.

The National Gallery of Art was completed and opened to the
public in March 1941, bringing to fruition the late Andrew W.
Mellon’s gift to the Nation of his priceless art collection and a mag-
nificient building to house it.

The great hall of the Smithsonian Building was completely re-
decorated, and in it was installed a unique exhibit designed to

B
2 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

illustrate concisely for visitors all the activities of the Institution
and its branches. Opened in January 1941, after a preview by the
Board of Regents, the new exhibit aroused widespread favorable
comment.

The Smithsonian radio program, “The World is Yours,” on June
14, 1941, put on the air an anniversary broadcast marking the com-
pletion of 5 full years of the series. A tabulation of station-manager
ratings of the program showed that its popularity throughout the
country continued unabated.

Among several bequests to the Institution announced during the
year, the largest was that from Mrs. Mary Vaux Walcott, widow of
the late Secretary Charles D. Walcott. Her bequest amounted to
more than $400,000.

New members on the Board of Regents were Vice President Henry
A. Wallace, and Representative Foster Stearns, of New Hampshire.

The revision of all solar-constant values collected by the Astro-
physical Observatory from all Smithsonian observing stations from
1923 to the present proved to be an even more tremendous task than
had been anticipated. It was nearing completion, however, at the
close of the year, and publication is expected to begin by the first
part of 1942.

M. W. Stirling made further archeological discoveries in southern
Mexico, working in cooperation with the National Geographic
Society. Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., conducted his sixth and
final archeological expedition to the Lindenmeier site in northern
Colorado, his work having added greatly to our knowledge of
Folsom man and the whole subject of the early occupation of
America.

The work of the International Exchange Service was seriously
hampered by world conditions, but the scientific and other publica-
tions intended for foreign exchange that cannot now be sent are
being stored at the Institution until the end of hostilities.

SUMMARY OF THE YEAR’S ACTIVITIES OF THE BRANCHES OF
THE INSTITUTION

National Museum.—aAppropriations for the maintenance and
operation of the Museum during the fiscal year amounted to $818,305.
Additional funds are needed annually for guards, curators, and im-
provements, but in the press of defense needs the Congress has not
found it expedient to grant them. Accessions for the year totaled
326,686 individual specimens, bringing the number of catalog entries
in all departments of the Museum to nearly 17,500,000. Among the
outstanding things received were the following: In anthropology,
a collection of Paleolithic, Neolithic, and Bronze Age implements
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 3

and ornaments from Java, nearly 1,000 potsherds and shell imple-
ments from Indian burial mounds near Belle Glade, Fla., skeletal
remains from Peru, and a reconstruction of the newly found remains
of the fourth Pithecanthropus; in biology, 74 mammals, 472 reptiles
and amphibians, and nearly 2,000 fishes from Liberia, all resulting
from the Smithsonian-Firestone Expedition to that country, the
Nevermann collection of about 33,000 Costa Rican Coleoptera includ-
ing much type material, and a large collection of marine inverte-
brates resulting from the participation of Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt
in the Fish and Wildlife Service’s investigations of the Alaska king
erab; in geology, an 1,800-carat aquamarine crystal from Agua
Preta, Brazil, the Sardis, Ga., meteorite, weighing 1,760 pounds.
the fifth largest ever found in the United States, many thousands of
Cambrian, post-Cambrian, and Devonian fossils collected in various
parts of the United States by members of the Museum staff, and the
greater part of a fossil skeleton of the primitive mammal U%ntather-
dum; in engineering and industries, an operating exhibit of the West-
inghouse air brake, a fighter plane known as the Curtiss Sparrow-
hawk, and a 93-dial display clock made by Louis Zimmer, of Lier,
Belgium, which tells the time at many places around the world,
the tides at various points, and many calendar and astronomical
events; in history, busts, costumes, or mementos of famous Americans
including Abraham Lincoln, William Jennings Bryan, and Brig.
Gen. Caleb Cushing. As usual, many members of the scientific
staff took part in field expeditions, financed for the most part by
Smithsonian private funds or through cooperative arrangements
with other organizations or individuals. Twenty-five publications
were issued by the Museum, and 52,170 copies of its publications
were distributed. Visitors for the year totaled 2,505,871. Fourteen
special exhibits were held under the auspices of various educational,
scientific, and other groups. Changes in staff included the retire-
ment of Gerrit S. Miller, Jr., as curator of the division of mammals
and the advancement of the assistant curator, Dr. Remington Kellogg,
to succeed him, and the appointment of two new assistant curators,
Dr. Joseph E. Weckler, Jr., in the division of ethnology, and Dr.
Richard E. Blackwelder in the division of insects.

National Gallery of Art—The completed building of the National
Gallery of Art was formally accepted by the trustees of the Gallery
on December 10, 1940, and on the evening of March 17, 1941, the
opening ceremonies were held. Chief Justice Charles Evans Hughes
briefly described the purposes of the Gallery, Mr. Paul Mellon, son
of the donor of the Gallery, presented the building and the Mellon
Collection to the Nation, and Mr. Samuel H. Kress presented the
Kress Collection to the Gallery. The President of the United States

430577—42

2

4 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

then accepted the Gallery on behalf of the people of the Nation.
The following day the building was opened to the public, and the
attendance from that day to June 30 was 798,156, an average of
7,529 per day. Practically all the initial staff of the Gallery had
been employed by March 1, 1941, the number of employees on June
30 being 229. The first catalog of the Gallery and a booklet of
general information were ready for distribution at the time of the
public opening, as were also a book of illustrations of all the art
works in the collection, color reproductions, and postcards. A num-
ber of important prints and four paintings were accepted as gifts
during the year. Under the educational program of the Gallery,
the docent staff has been organized so that there are at least two
public gallery tours every day and two auditorium lectures every
week. A memorial tablet to the late Andrew W. Mellon, donor of
the Gallery, was installed in the lobby, and four marble panels were
set aside for the names of important donors to the Gallery. The
names at present carved on the panels are those of Mr. Mellon and
Samuel H. Kress, and the names of future donors will be added as
authorized by the Board of Trustees.

National Collection of Fine Arts.—The National Collection re-
ceived two additions to its endowment funds during the year:
$5,000 from the Cornelia Livingston Pell Estate of New York,
and $10,000 from the Miss Julia D. Strong Estate, of Washington,
D. C. Three paintings were accepted for the National Collection
by the Smithsonian Art Commission in December 1940, and several
other gifts of etchings, miniatures, and paintings were deposited
during the year to be passed upon by the Commission at its next
annual meeting. Three miniatures were purchased through the
Catherine Walden Myer Fund. The following eight special exhibi-
tions were held: 48 pastels, drawings, and lithographs by Lily E.
Smulders; the Sixth Annual Metropolitan State Art Contest, 1940,
comprising 289 art works by 158 artists; the work of William Baxter
Closson (1848-1926), comprising 94 oils, 40 pastels, 21 water colors,
112 wood engravings, and other material; 111 pastels by 17 artists,
exhibited by the National Society of Pastelists; 22 water colors and
21 pastels by Ethel H. Hagen; 42 paintings by Alejandro Pardinas
under the patronage of the Cuban Ambassador; 39 caricatures by
Antonio Sotomayor under the patronage of the Bolivian Minister ;
and a memorial exhibition of 17 color prints and 50 black and white
prints by Bertha E. Jaques (1863-1941). A new edition of the
Catalog of American and European Paintings in the Gellatly Collec-
tion was published.

Freer Gallery of Art—Additions to the collections included
Chinese bronze, Chinese jade, Arabic manuscripts, Indian and Per-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 5

sian painting, Chinese porcelain, and Chinese and Persian pottery.
The work of the curatorial staff was devoted to the study and record-
ing of these new acquisitions and other art objects and manuscripts
already in the collection. In addition 693 objects and 180 photo-
graphs were brought or sent to the Director for information con-
cerning them, and reports upon all these were made to the owners.
Changes in exhibition involved 84 individual objects. Visitors to
the Gallery totaled 111,784 for the year. Six illustrated lectures
were given in the auditorium, six study groups were held in a study
room and ten groups were given docent service in exhibition galler-
ies. A. G. Wenley of the Gallery staff gave a 6 weeks’ lecture course
in Chinese and Japanese art in the Far Eastern Institute at the
1940 Harvard University Summer School. William R. B. Acker, also
of the staff, returned from Holland, having taken his Ph.D. cum
laude in Chinese at the University of Leyden.

Bureau of American Ethnology.—The Chief of the Bureau, M. W.
Stirling, continued his archeological excavations in southern Mexico
in cooperation with the National Geographic Society. At Cerro de
las Mesas 20 carved stone monuments were unearthed, and 2 initial
series dates were deciphered. At Izapa, a link between the west
coast of Guatemala and the isthmian region of southern Mexico, a
large number of stelae were excavated. The collections made were
brought to Mexico City, where they were studied by Dr. Philip
Drucker, assistant archeologist of the expedition. Dr. J. R. Swan-
ton brought to completion his extensive report on the Indians of
the Southeast, comprising 1,500 typewritten pages, which the Bureau
plans to publish shortly. Three other ethnological papers by Dr.
Swanton were in process of publication. Dr. J. P. Harrington con-
tinued his comparative study of the Navaho and Tlingit languages.
His work on the Navaho was completed during the year, forming a
manuscript of more than 1,200 pages. Dr. F. H. H. Roberts, Jr.,
brought to completion the sixth and final season of archeological in-
vestigations at the Lindenmeier site in northern Colorado, wherein
much new and valuable information on the subject of Folsom man
and the early occupation of North America has been obtained. To-
ward the close of the year he went to San Jon, N. Mex., to start
excavations at a promising site suggestive of another phase of early
man in North America, the so-called Yuma. Dr. J. H. Steward
completed his researches on the Carrier Indians of British Columbia
and investigated a burial site on an island off the coast of Alaska.
He devoted the rest of the year to editorial and organizational work
on the proposed Handbook of South American Indians. Dr. H. B.
Collins, Jr., continued his study of collections from Eskimo sites in
the vicinity of Bering Strait. Dr. W. N. Fenton conducted field
6 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

work among the Senecas of Allegany Reservation, N. Y., and carried
forward a number of other investigations dealing with Iroquois
problems. Miss Frances Densmore, a collaborator of the Bureau,
continued her study of Indian music, collecting additional songs,
transcribing these and songs previously recorded, and preparing ma-
terial for publication. The Bureau published its annual report and
three bulletins. The library accessioned 378 items and relabeled and
reshelved over 5,000 books.

International Exchange Service-—The Exchange Service acts as
the official United States agency for the interchange of parliamentary,
governmental, and scientific publications between this country and
the rest of the world. During the past year the Service handled
576,282 packages of such publications, with a total weight of 388,649
pounds. Naturally, the last 2 years have shown a marked falling off
in the number of packages passing through the Exchange Service
because of war conditions in large parts of the world. The material
that cannot now be shipped abroad will be stored at the Institution
until the end of hostilities. Transmission of shipments to and from
Great Britain and to Latin America has been practicaly uninter-
rupted, and some material has been forwarded to Spain and Portugal,
although irregularly. Five consignments of exchanges have been lost
through war activities.

National Zoological Park.—The W. P. A. project which has been
of such great assistance to the Park in the past few years was termi-
nated on August 6, 1940, so that few improvements could be under-
taken during the year. The four new waterfowl ponds were com-
pleted and birds transferred to them at the beginning of the year.
The new restaurant constructed by the P. W. A. was completed in
the fall of 1940 and was opened to the public in March 1941. Visi-
tors for the year totaled 2,430,300, including 48,050 representing school
or other groups from 20 States and the District of Columbia. The
Smithsonian-Firestone Expedition to Liberia for the purpose of
collecting live animals for the Zoo returned to this country in August
1940. The animals brought back numbered nearly 200, representing
61 species of mammals, birds, and other forms, several of them being
new to the history of the collection. The usual large number of
gifts was received during the year, and 70 mammals, 49 birds, and
14 reptiles were born or hatched in the Park. The total number
of animals in the collection at the close of the year was 2,380, repre-
senting 730 different species. The chief need of the Zoo is for
three new buildings: one for antelope, deer, wild hogs, and kan-
garoos; one for monkeys; and the third for carnivores.

Astrophysical Observatory.—At Washington the work of the staff
was devoted largely to completing for publication the immense table
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY r/

of daily solar-constant observations at the three field stations at
Montezuma, Table Mountain, and Mount St. Katherine from 1923
to 1989. The rest of the text for volume 6 of the Annals of the
Observatory was also nearly completed, and the whole is expected
to be ready for the printer before January 1942. During preparation
of a paper on “An Important Weather Element Hitherto Generally
Disregarded,” Dr. Abbot noted that the solar variation is several
times greater in percentage for blue-violet rays than for total radia-
tion. This led him to consider whether the sun’s variation might
not be more effectively followed by observations limited to the blue-
violet region of the spectrum. He finally devised a method of thus
restricting the observations, which was introduced near the close
of the year at the three field observing stations. There is great
hope that the new method will yield more reliable daily indications
of the solar variations. Dr. H. Arctowski continued his meteoro-
logical investigations relating to the effects of solar variation on
atmospheric barometric pressure and temperature and completed a
manuscript incorporating the results of this study which will be
published during the coming year. Daily determinations of the solar
constant of radiation were made at the three field stations whenever
conditions permitted. A new concrete dwelling house for the
observers was erected at the Montezuma station.

Division of Radiation and Organisms.—The Division continued its
program of research on the relation of radiation to various phases of
plant growth. In continuing the project dealing with the genesis of
chlorophyll and the beginning of photosynthesis, a large amount of
information was obtained on the respiration of etiolated barley seed-
lings. This material is important because of its bearing upon photo-
synthesis as measured by the gaseous exchange method. It appears
that conditions of carbon dioxide storage or depletion develop in
the plant tissue depending upon the concentration of this gas sur-
rounding the plants. In subsequent periods, when the respiration is
measured there is an increase or decrease in the rate of CO, excre-
tion (i. e., in the apparent rate of respiration) until a state of
equilibrium with the new environment is attained. Considerable
time was spent in improving the performance of the spectrograph
used in measuring carbon dioxide for very short periods, and the
new features developed have greatly improved the speed-sensitivity
and stability of the apparatus. Further study was made of the
spectral effectiveness of radiation for the growth inhibition of the
oats mesocotyl, and a comparative study was undertaken of some
other species of grasses. A paper resulting from experiments in the
ultraviolet irradiation of algae showed that algae exposed four times
8 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

to stimulative amounts of certain wave lengths of the ultraviolet
exhibited 4 to 4.8 times the growth rate (expressed as number of
cells) of the control cultures. The influence of culture conditions
on the photosynthetic behavior of the alga Chlorella pyrenoidosa
was investigated. The growth cycle of this organism was studied
in relation to light intensity, carbon dioxide concentration, and the
composition of the nutrient solution. A number of papers were pre-
sented by members of the staff before meetings of scientific bodies,
and six publications resulting from the work of the Division were
issued during the year.

THE ESTABLISHMENT

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in
1846, according to the terms of the will of James Smithson, of
England, who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United States
of America “to found at Washington, under the name of the Smith-
sonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of
knowledge among men.” In receiving the property and accepting
the trust, Congress determined that the Federal Government was
without authority to administer the trust directly, and, therefore,
constituted an “establishment” whose statutory members are “the
President, the Vice President, the Chief Justice, and the heads of
the executive departments.”

THE BOARD OF REGENTS

Changes in the personnel of the Board of Regents during the
fiscal year included the succession of Vice President Henry A. Wal-
lace to the membership held by former Vice President John N.
Garner, effective January 20, 1941, the Vice President being by law
a regent ex officio, and the appointment by the Speaker of the House
of Representatives on January 22, 1941, of Representative Foster
Stearns, of New Hampshire, to succeed Representative Charles L.
Gifford, who had resigned his membership as a regent.

The roll of regents at the close of the fiscal year was as follows:
Charles Evans Hughes, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancel-
lor; Henry A. Wallace, Vice President of the United States; mem-
bers from the Senate—Charles L. McNary, Alben W. Barkley,
Bennett Champ Clark; members from the House of Representatives—
Clarence Cannon, William P. Cole, Jr., Foster Stearns; citizen mem-
bers—Frederic A. Delano, Washington, D. C.; Roland S. Morris,
Pennsylvania; Harvey N. Davis, New Jersey; Arthur H. Compton,
Illinois; and Vannevar Bush, Washington, D. C.

Proceedings.—The annual meeting of the Board of Regents was
held on January 17, 1941. The regents present were Chief Justice
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 9

Charles Evans Hughes, Chancellor; Senator Bennett Champ Clark;
Representatives Charles L. Gifford and Clarence Cannon; citizen
regents Frederic A. Delano, Roland S. Morris, Harvey N. Davis,
and Vannevar Bush; and the Secretary, Dr. Charles G. Abbot.

The meeting was held in the Smithsonian main hall, which had
recently been newly decorated and equipped with illustrative exhibits
giving a comprehensive view of all Smithsonian activities. The new
exhibits were viewed with approval by the regents.

The Board received and accepted the Secretary’s annual report
covering the year’s activities of the parent institution and the several
Government branches. The Board also received and accepted the
report by Mr. Delano, of the executive committee, covering financial
statistics of the Institution; and the annual report of the Smith-
sonian Art Commission.

The Secretary informed the regents of the death of Mrs. Mary
Vaux Walcott on August 22, 1940, and of her designation of the
Smithsonian Institution as residuary legatee, the bequest, when re-
ceived, to be made a part of the Charles D. and Mary Vaux Walcott
Research Fund set up by the former Secretary. Appropriate resolu-
tions were adopted by the Board.

In his usual special report the Secretary mentioned briefly the
more important activities carried on by the Institution and its
branches during the year.

FINANCES

A statement on finances will be found in the report of the Execu-
tive Committee of the Board of Regents, page 130.

MATTERS OF GENERAL INTEREST
SMITHSONIAN RADIO PROGRAM

The Smithsonian educational radio program, “The World is
Yours,” celebrated its fifth anniversary on the air on June 14, 1941.
On that date a specia] program was prepared wherein extracts from
specially successful previous broadcasts were woven together into
a composite story to illustrate the way in which the various sciences
are handled in this series. “The World is Yours,” a series of weekly
half-hour broadcasts in dramatized form on science, invention, his-
tory, exploration, and art, is put on the air over a Nation-wide
network through the cooperation of the United States Office of
Education and the National Broadcasting Co. The program subjects
are selected by the Smithsonian editorial division and the scripts are
written by a professional script writer, employed by the Institution,
from material furnished by Smithsonian experts in the various fields.
10 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

The programs are produced in Radio City, New York, as an N. B. C.
public service feature and go out over the N. B. C. red network.

That the popularity of the program has continued undiminished
is shown by the fact that an official rating service has twice within
the past 2 years placed “The World is Yours” at the top of all non-
commercial programs on all networks. A recent rating of N. B. C.
public service programs by percentage of station program directors
selecting them placed “The World is Yours” sixth on the list, but
most of the five rated above it were programs devoted to discussion
of current events, which are naturally of greatest interest in these
disturbed times.

The list of subjects covered by “The World is Yours” during the
past fiscal year is as follows:?

1940
Mexico; diand of Silver=2) 4004 56.) Bai yale “sa Lee ey hates pee ae a July. 7
John. Deere’ s\Steel Blowrest Sec Fishel ahh bea Re Sie July 14
Primitive, Mariners) 6) 3.0 p). 5 teeth oi) een ee Use| ae ae 1 ihe July 21
fg’ TheresLite om Otherreianetsr. 38 eo gee. eer enone Ue July 28
LI Teh os Anna Se PS ali aM Maer oh | DOR ot) Vi A eae eg Aug. 4
Our'Island "Universe ti. ea hy See, SR ote ye ek a BD ee Aug. 11
From: Liberian, Jjungie.to: Zoo! 2. 262s hE re Se nage ee Aug. 18
Exploring Cliff ,Dwellings.of the: Weste=<45- sejs2e4 tate Fe ee oe Aug. 25
StoryOltheoilver seneenn va. 2 1. i) en bea) Soko itn es eee Sept. 1
The Pall ofa Meteoriten a0 3 Coe at eae eae a eee Sept. 8
Natures Miigrantalee eee oo 2o bh Se Oe a ee ee eee Jo. sept. lS
Reaching thes Upper Airisc3 00. eaeeyee eee ol ate a eee eee Sept. 22
The World’s Most Important Chemical Reaction..____._-_-_-_------ Sept. 29
Prospecting fdr BlackwGold? ¢ 200. 23s 2 a ihe ed ee ps ea Oct: 6
Discovering the Source of the Mississippi____......._.._-._----_----_-_ Oct. 13
With the Clipper Ships to: China®* jo. feo eee eee ana eee Oct. 20
An indian eagueyor Wations oo. 22242 b.. T ea Se eee ee ee Nov. 3
Independence Alle ss - Siete Semen Tas eee ae A a ol a ae mma cl cds va Nov. 10
New: Wonders of Chemistry: O00 ion oi aR ee Nov. 17
‘The; Gand Makes Histonyc i.e sere ee ae re ere) Nov. 30
5OO: Years: of “Printing os -)2 28 Mee bua) 2 Sk Rs Sean ee ee oe ee Dee. 7
Pueblo Indians ‘on ‘the Plainsi)- 2225 8. oe) ey aie eae Dec. 14
Theil Story of the Parachutes}. eee ee es ae Se ee ee Dec. 21
Bonward with iSciences Je 522k 08 8 Le pe een ee Dec. 28
1941
The Dinosaur National Monument and Its Fossils____-___-_--------- Jan. 4
Behind the Scenes at the:Smithsonian=2-4 22224) J222204- 354. Lee ek Jan. ll
HSU gee g:N NG D101 7 40 << Sa ee A Re DN PIR MARDER Apap oe va Be aA et Ea Sal A Jan. 18
The Mlectron: MiGrOsCOPG= 22 eee eee eae aCe ae ee Jan. 25
The Army: Medalof Honor’ ee aa Sa ee Ee ee eee Feb. 1
The Stony of Vitamins hese eo. Us Ta 8 See Sera Seer een mee Feb. 8
Preaties- with ‘the Indias. 220. sae ea Sh eh Jo Mebsyhb
Disseminating Knowledge Throughout the Harth__------------------ Feb. 22

1No broadcasts were given on October 27 and November 24, 1940, and April 26, 1941,
because of important addresses or other commitments by N. B. C. for the usual period
of “The World is Yours.”
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 11

1941
PAPI Yy AiIWN RN TSOPIOS = So oe ae ee St tek Mar. 1
Ae ahrans ONG We ATtsGeNlery = tS eo ee eh Mar. 8
SUMS CH SSPE T=) Fh ap Pe ee, a eee See Mar. 15
CORTESE TE fa Cos CE a RN Sa he el te age alee er Mar. 22
PehayeOenonbies OF peel es Pe a 2 We eee Mar. 29
retain in wow eenpiand =o. 00 oe er es a eh ee Ebest Apr. 5
Bmaisonian, Wicd MuxpeGgilong. 225)... 2 oe ek eo eee ace eed Apr. 12
TE REULLGIUIR TS fe Ry EE 1a ea a en a al repens rE Apr. 19
PRATER CR NOAM peo Y ele Li Merge soe ee Re eas fee eae eee tes May 3
Oe SS Chi TRS DMIS 20s ileal Sale Alcea A LTA yl RE AS D8 i cy ot mg aga ety ba May 10
PREIS Aee OL une NOTSCMGise ose enc hace eons te se eR May 17
Oliver Evans—Early American Engineer_._.-...-.-.--------------- May 24
Pep UE Ringe ADL Geye as eee ek ra SNL EI a GE is See May 31
ISg ATTN ege eure ake etre Wine A es Se a Cialis a le June 7
Five Years of The World Is Yours (anniversary program) -_--_-------- June 14
PEPE ESTOT Glee LIMeR es meta ok Chi te See ae ee ae June 21
DiI GO TuW oe ee See Be ER Oe eee ee ee June 28

The Institution was unable, because of lack of funds to employ
additional personnel, to resume publication of the supplementary
articles, or “listener-aids,” which up to June 30, 1940, contributed
greatly to the educational value of “The World is Yours” programs.
It is hoped that a way will be found to reestablish this part of the
project during the coming year.

WALTER RATHBONE BACON SCHOLARSHIP

A bequest made to the Institution in 1919 in the will of Mrs. Vir-
ginia Purdy Bacon, of New York, provided for the establishment
of a traveling scholarship, to be known as the Walter Rathbone
Bacon scholarship for the study of the fauna of countries other
than the United States of America.

For the past 2 years the Bacon scholarship has been held by Dr.
Hobart M. Smith, whose purpose was the accumulation of specimens
of reptiles and amphibians from Mexico, on the basis of which a
herpetology of Mexico might be compiled and the biotic provinces
of the country more accurately defined.

During the year 1940-41, the some 20,500 specimens of reptiles
and amphibians obtained during the 2 preceding years were sorted
and a portion studied and entered in the permanent collections of
the National Museum. The collection requires study that could not
be completed within the year, and as a result certain groups must
be reserved for study at a later date.

A total of 1,421 specimens of snakes was obtained, representing 170
species and subspecies, of which 23 appear unnamed. These com-
prise about half the species known from Mexico. Nineteen specimens
12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

of three species of crocodilians, all that are known from Mexico,
were obtained. ‘The study of these groups has been completed.

Not all the lizards have been studied yet. Completed genera num-
ber 22, comprising 4,547 specimens of 116 species and subspecies.
Eleven are unnamed. Six lizard genera remain to be studied.

The amphibians are not completed. A preliminary sorting, how-
ever, reveals some 5,173 frogs and toads, of about 110 species; 5,064
specimens of approximately 40 species of salamanders; and 6 speci-
mens of one species of caecilian. Most of these are being studied by
Dr. E. H. Taylor.

The turtles have been turned over to Dr. Leonhard Stejneger for
study.

While most of the data pertaining to this collection are reserved
for a future paper, descriptions of new species and surveys of certain
genera have been prepared for preliminary publication. Seven such
papers have been issued during the present year.

SMITHSONIAN MAIN HALL EXHIBIT

In my last two annual reports I have spoken of the project of
installing in the main hall of the Smithsonian Building a new type of
exhibit intended to serve as a visual index to all Smithsonian activ-
ities. During the 95 years since the founding of the Institution,
its activities have so expanded in scope and the buildings it occupies
have so increased in number that it has been impossible for visitors
to get an adequate idea of what the Smithsonian is and what it does.
The project was brought to completion during the year, and the
new exhibit was formally opened to the public on Monday, January
20, 1941. The Board of Regents of the Institution had a preview
of the exhibit on January 17, when their annual meeting was held
in the main hall.

As stated previously, the entire project has been handled by a
committee consisting of Messrs. C. W. Mitman, chairman, W. F.
Foshag, Herbert Friedmann, F. M. Setzler, and W. P. True, all of
the Institution’s staff. The great hall of the Smithsonian building,
some 150 feet long by 50 feet wide, was first completely redecorated
according to the committee’s recommendation. Then special back-
grounds for the exhibits were designed and constructed to form eight
separate alcoves and four quadrants, the central aisle being left clear
for free circulation of visitors. The eight alcoves present graphi-
cally the work of the Institution in astronomy, geology, biology,
radiation and organisms, physical anthropology, cultural anthropol-
ogy, engineering and industries, and art. The four quadrants, facing
the central area of the hall, contain exhibits on the scope of the
Institution’s work, the National Zoological Park, history, and the
organization and branches of the Institution.
Secretary's Report, 1941

Paltentereer
TAR NTE 9 ween assis x0 benuen

NEW “INDEX EXHIBIT’’ AT THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.
Upper, part of the astronomy exhibit.
Center, part of the geology exhibit.
Lower, part of the biology exhibit.
Secretary's Report, 1941 PLATE 2

SEATVE SVETON eo men pas ce, i

nen

INTEWBIVE FAYEMTIONS cscs certs ve mcmstst comoneroe te: sense rue
= F .

t i
& a
ag
Re

NEW “INDEX EXHIBIT’’ AT THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

Upper, part of the radiation and organisms exhibit.
Center, part of the cultural anthropology exhibit.
Lower, part of the engineering and industries exhibit.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 13

The plan of each of the eight alcoves is the same (see pls. 1 and
2. The name of the subject treated is stated at the top, followed
by a brief definition. Below this, a central theme consisting of a
diorama, working model, or other device illustrates strikingly the
significance of the particular subject. Flanking this on either side
of the alcove are exhibits to show as simply as possible what the
Smithsonian Institution does in each field. The number of objects
shown is kept small, labels are made as short and simple as possible,
and the whole attempt is to make the exhibits interesting and popular
and at the same time instructive.

A valuable adjunct of the new exhibit is a separate room opening
off the main hall in which are exemplified the Institution’s methods
of diffusing knowledge. One feature is a complete bound set of all
Smithsonian publications from 1846 to the present. The books
occupy 138 running feet of shelf space. Placards describe these
publications, as well as the Institution’s educational radio programs,
press releases, International Exchange Service, exhibits, lectures,
correspondence, and library. An important feature of this room is
an information desk where visitors may obtain accurate information
on special phases of the Institution’s work or exhibits.

Visitors to this new exhibit for the last 5 months of the fiscal
year—from February 1 through June 30, 1941—totaled 191,699.
Comparable figures for the preceding year are not available because
the building was closed at that time in preparation for the new
exhibit, but the total number of visitors for the corresponding months
of 1939 was 144,372. The present year therefore shows an increase
of 47,327 visitors, or 32 percent, over 1939.

The committee in charge of the project has been kept in existence
to supervise maintenance of the exhibits and to incorporate changes
from time to time, for the intention is to keep the whole exhibit alive
and up to date. Wide and favorable notice has been given the ex-
hibit by journals and newspapers.

TENTH ARTHUR LECTURE

The late James Arthur, of New York, in 1931 bequeathed to the
Smithsonian Institution a sum of money, part of the income from
which should be used for an annual lecture on the sun.

The tenth annual Arthur lecture was given by Brian O’Brien,
professor of physiological optics at the University of Rochester, under
the title “Biological Effects of Solar Radiation on Higher Animals
and Man,” in the auditorium of the National Museum on the evening
of February 25,1941. The lecture will be published in a forthcoming
Smithsonian Report.
14 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

The nine previous Arthur lectures have been as follows:

1. The Composition of the Sun, by Henry Norris Russell, professor of astronomy
at Princeton University. January 27, 1932.

2. Gravitation in the Solar System, by Ernest William Brown, professor of
mathematics at Yale University. January 25, 1933.

3. How the Sun Warms the Earth, by Charles G. Abbott, Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution. February 26, 1934.

4. The Sun’s Place among the Stars, by Walter S. Adams, director of the Mount
Wilson Observatory. December 18, 1934.

5. Sun Rays and Plant Life, by Earl S. Johnston, assistant director of the
Division of Radiation and Organisms, Smithsonian Institution. February
25, 1936.

6. Discoveries from Eclipse Expeditions, by Samuel Alfred Mitchell, director
of the Leander McCormick Observatory, University of Virginia. February
oi Rye

%. The Sun and the Atmosphere, by Harlan True Stetson, research associate,
Massachusetts Institute of Technology. February 24, 1938.

8. Sun Worship, by Herbert J. Spinden, curator of American Indian Art and
Primitive Cultures, Brooklyn Museums. February 21, 1939.

9. Solar Prominences in Motion, by Robert R. McMath, director of the McMath-
Hulbert Observatory of the University of Michigan. January 16, 1940.

BEQUESTS

Mary Vaux Walcott bequest—Mary Vaux Walcott, widow of the
late Charles D. Walcott, former Secretary of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, died August 22, 1940. Mrs. Walcott had for many years been
deeply interested in the Institution and its work, and during the years
1925 to 1930 her beautiful water-color sketches of North American
wild flowers were published in five sumptuous volumes under the
auspices of the Institution. During her lifetime Mrs. Walcott mani-
fested her interest by numerous valuable gifts, both in the form of
specimens and of money for specific purposes connected with Smith-
sonian researches. In her will she named the Institution residuary
legatee, the relevant portions of that document reading in part as
follows:

I give, devise and bequeath all the rest, residue and remainder of my
estate * * * to the Smithsonian Institution * * * in memory of my
beloved husband, Charles D. Walcott, to be added to and form a part of the
Charles D. and Mary Vaux Walcott Reasearch Fund, established by my husband
in his lifetime, with the express stipulation, however, that the restriction as to
the use of the income of said fund shall not apply to the income from this devise
and bequest.

At the annual meeting of the Board of Regents on January 17,
1941, the following resolutions were adopted :

Resolved, That the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution learns

with profound sorrow of the death on August 22, 1940, of Mrs. Mary Vaux
Walcott, widow of its late Secretary.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 15

The noble character of Mrs. Walcott, her great skill and zeal in depicting
wild flowers, ker personal researches in glacial geology, her deep interest in the
paleontologic researches of Dr. Walcott, and her many gifts, over a long period,
to the Smithsonian Institution are highly appreciated.

Resolved, That this Board learns with profound gratitude of Mrs. Walcott’s
large bequest to the endowment of the Smithsonian Institution in memory of
her late husband.

Further resolved, That these resolutions be spread on the minutes of this
meeting and that a copy of them be sent to Mrs. Walcott’s executors.

The amount of Mrs. Walcott’s bequest was slightly over $400,000.
At the close of the fiscal year, the estate had not been settled.

Julia D. Strong bequest.—In the final accounting of the will of
Julia D. Strong, of Washington, D. C., who died April 12, 1936, the
National Collection of Fine Arts of the Smithsonian Institution, as
alternate beneficiary, received the sum of $10,000. No stipulations
as to the use of the fund were stated in the will.

Florence Brevoort Eickemeyer bequest—The will of the late
Florence Brevoort Eickemeyer, of Yonkers, N. Y., contained the
following provision :

I give and bequeath to the Smithsonian Institution * * * the sum of
$10,000 * * * to use or apply the income thereof, or as much thereof as
may be necessary, in or about the exhibition, preservation and care of my late
husband Rudolf Eickemeyer Jr.’s photographic works and collection, the residue
or surplus of such income, if any, to be applied to the uses and purposes of the
Section of Photography established or maintained by said Institution. My late
husband, Rudolf Hickemeyer, Jr., in and by his last will and testament and
codicil thereto, intended to provide a fund for the exhibition and care of his
photographie works and collection, bequeathed thereby to said Smithsonian
Institution, and his estate being sufficient to provide such fund, I do hereby
make the above bequest to carry out my late husband’s purpose in that regard.

The money thus bequeathed had not been received at the close of
the year.

Alfred Mussinan bequest—The Smithsonian Institution is named
as a residuary legatee of the estate of the late Alfred Mussinan, of
Sumter County, Fla. His will divides his estate into two equal parts,
and upon the death of certain legatees named in the will, the Insti-
tution is to receive five-eighths of the principal sum of one-half of
the estate, “the income therefrom to be used by said institution for
the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.” The amount
of Mr. Mussinan’s estate was estimated by the executor in May 1941
to be approximately $30,000, in addition to real estate, stocks, and
bonds in Germany which it was impossible to evaluate.

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD WORK

In the furtherance of its investigations in many branches of science,
the Smithsonian sent out or cooperated in 19 expeditions, which
16 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

worked not only in many States in the United States, but also in a
number of foreign lands as well.

Paleontological work was carried on by Dr. Charles E. Resser in
investigations of ancient Cambrian rocks; by Dr. C. Lewis Gazin
in Utah and Woming, resulting in the discovery of an almost com-
plete fossil skeleton of the primitive mammal known as an uintathere;
and by Dr. G. Arthur Cooper in Texas and Tennessee where an
abundance of fossil material, much needed in the Museum’s study
collection, was obtained.

Dr. Willian M. Mann, Director of the National Zoological Park,
and Mrs. Mann went to Liberia on an expedition financed by the
Firestone Tire & Rubber Co., and brought back an assortment of live
animals for the Zoo, including a 400-pound hippopotamus, and some
3,000 preserved specimens for the Museum. Dr. Alexander Wetmore
spent a month in Costa Rica studying the birds of that region.
W. L. Brown collected material in the Canadian Rockies for back-
grounds for the Rocky Mountain goat and sheep groups exhibited in
the Museum. Dr. Hobart M. Smith, holder of the Walter Rathbone
Bacon scholarship, assisted by Mrs. Smith, continued his study of
the reptiles and amphibians of Mexico. Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt par-
ticipated in the biological investigations of the king crab of Alaska,
initiated by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service. Capt.
Robert A. Bartlett conducted another expedition to Greenland, and
Mr. and Mrs. Russell Hawkins, Jr., visited the Gulf of California,
both to collect marine material. Austin H. Clark carried on his
observations of the butterflies of Virginia. Mrs. Agnes Chase made
an extensive study of the grasses of Venezuela, bringing back large
collections including 11 species previously unknown.

Dr. T. D. Stewart spent several weeks at the historic Indian village
site on Potomac Creek in Virginia known as Patawomeke, exam-
ining an ossuary that was discovered during the previous field sea-
son. Dr. Waldo R. Wedel conducted archeological investigations in
central Kansas in an effort to locate Coronado’s “Province of Qui-
vira.” David I. Bushnell, Jr., made several trips to the vicinity of
the Peaks of Otter in search of tangible evidence of early man in
Virginia. Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., obtained further informa-
tion on Folsom man, one of the earliest known inhabitants of Amer-
ica, from excavations at the Lindenmeier site in Colorado. Dr.
Julian H. Steward visited British Columbia to record culture changes
among the Carrier Indians; Dr. John P. Harrington made a com-
parative study of the northwestern Indians in Alaska and the south-
western Indians in New Mexico; and Dr. William N. Fenton col-
lected data among the Seneca in New York State on Iroquois masks
and ritualism.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY Li

PUBLICATIONS

The publications of the Smithsonian Institution constitute its
chief means of carrying out one of its primary functions, the “diffu-
sion of knowledge.” From its private funds, the Institution issues
the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, a series containing all
the scientific papers published by the Institution proper; from Gov-
ernment funds are issued the Smithsonian Annual Report (with
general appendix reviewing progress in science), the Bulletins and
Proceedings of the National Museum, the Contributions from the
National Herbarium, the Bulletins of the Bureau of American Eth-
nology, the Annals of the Astrophysical Observatory, and Catalogs
of the National Collection of Fine Arts. The Freer Gallery of Art
pamphlets and the series, Oriental Studies, are supported by Freer
Gallery funds.

All publications of the Institution are issued through the editorial
division, which comprises the central office where publications of
the Institution proper are handled, the office of the editor of the
National Museum, and that of the editor of the Bureau of American
Ethnology. The editorial division also directs the Institution’s
informational activities and its radio work.

The year’s publications totaled 78, of which 48 were issued by the
Institution proper, 25 by the National Museum, 3 by the Bureau of
American Ethnology, 1 by the National Collection of Fine Arts,
and 1 by the Freer Gallery of Art. Information as to titles, authors,
and other details concerning these publications will be found in the
report of the chief of the editorial division, appendix 11. The total
number of publications distributed was 125,837.

Among the outstanding publications of the year may be mentioned
a paper by the Secretary entitled “An Important Weather Element
Hitherto Generally Disregarded,’ wherein are summarized evi-
dences of the dependence of our weather on the variations of solar
radiation; a revised edition of Assistant Secretary Alexander Wet-
more’s “A Systematic Classification for the Birds of the World”;
another volume in the series of life histories of North American
birds by Arthur Cleveland Bent entitled “Life Histories of North
American Cuckoos, Goatsuckers, Hummingbirds, and Their Allies”;
a paper dealing with the very interesting Chicora (Butler County,
Pa.) meteorite, by F. W. Preston, E. P. Henderson, and James R.
Randolph; and part 2 of the monograph entitled “Archeological
Remains in the Whitewater District, Eastern Arizona,” by Frank H.
H. Roberts, Jr.

LIBRARY

The year’s accessions to the Smithsonian library totaled 6,839
volumes, pamphlets, and charts, bringing the holdings at the end of
18 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

the year to 894,655 items. As usual, many gifts were received, among
the largest of which were a collection of 942 scientific books and
journals belonging to the late Frederick E. Fowle of the Smith-
sonian staff and presented by his widow; 622 publications from the
Geophysical Laboratory of the Carnegie Institution of Washington;
and 612 publications from the American Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science. Again during the past year the library’s
exchange work was carried on with great difficulty because of war
conditions abroad. Most of the publications that failed to come
were European and Asiatic. Some of these are being held by the
issuing agencies for transmission after the wars are over, others have
delayed publication, but a few have been discontinued. The library
staff cataloged 6,693 volumes, pamphlets, and charts; prepared and
filed 40,238 catalog and shelf-list cards; made 22,311 periodical
entries; loaned 10,990 publication to members of the Smithsonian
staff; and conducted an interlibrary loan service with 45 libraries
outside the Smithsonian system. Other activities included work on
the union catalog; a large amount of bibliographic assistance to
members of the Smithsonian staff and others; and checking of the
serial holdings in connection with the forthcoming second edition
of the Union List of Serials. The funds allotted to the library per-
mitted it to bind 958 volumes—only one-half of those completed for
binding during the year. The most urgent need, therefore, is for
more adequate funds for binding in order to prevent loss of parts
of volumes that may be very difficult, if not impossible, to replace.
Respectfully submitted.
C. G. Assor, Secretary.
APPENDIX 1
REPORT ON THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

Sm: I have the honor to submit the following report on the condi-
tion and operation of the United States National Museum for the
fiscal year ended June 30, 1941.

Funds provided for the maintenance and operation of the National
Museum for the year totaled $818,305, which was $6,580 more than
for the previous year. The amount was reduced $6,500, however,
by reason of a compulsory administrative reserve.

COLLECTIONS

Building up of the great collections of the Museum continued,
and a total of 1,518 separate accessions, aggregating 326,686 indi-
vidual specimens, was received during the year. Although this was
about 400 fewer separate accessions than last year, the individual
specimens increased by 114,000. Distribution of these additions
among the five departments was as follows: Anthropology, 4,064;
biology, 262,521; geology, 55,818; engineering and industries, 2,688;
and history, 1,595. For the most part these acquisitions were gifts
from individuals or represented expeditions sponsored by the Smith-
sonian Institution. All are listed in detail in the full report on the
Museum, published as a separate document, but the more important
are summarized below. The total number of catalog entries in all
departments is now nearly 1714 million.

Anthropology—titmportant archeological material included a col-
lection of Paleolithic, Neolithic, and Bronze Age implements and
ornaments from Java; over 700 stone artifacts from western New
York; about 450 specimens from an Indian village site in Page
County, Va.; and nearly 1,000 potsherds and shell implements from
burial mounds near Belle Glade, Fla. In ethnology, many objects
were received representing the cultures of the Navaho; Alaskan
Indians and Eskimos; Plains, Pueblo, and Southwestern tribes; the
Iroquois; and others. Collections from peoples outside the Americas
included specimens from Malayan tribes of the Philippines, from the
Grebo of Liberia, and from the natives of Bali. Twenty-nine ce-
ramic specimens, 30 musical instruments, and 47 pieces of period art
and textiles were added. In the division of physical anthropology,
skeletal remains from Peru and from southeastern Alaska and a

19
430577—42——_3
20 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

reconstruction of the newly found remains of the fourth Pithecan-
thropus were the principal acquisitions.

Biology.—Biological specimens, many of great scientific value,
totaled 262,521, a considerable increase over last year, although these
came in fewer individual accessions. The most important mam-
malian accession was a complete skull and both sets of baleen of an
adult humpback whale (Megaptera novae-angliae) and a fetal whale-
bone whale skull from the North Pacific. Other mammals received
included 74 specimens from Liberia; 102 from South Carolina; 85
cavernicolous bats; other bats from Mexico, the Virgin Islands, and
Puerto Rico; 2 fetuses of humpback whales; a baby walrus skeleton;
and other specimens from Indo-China, Ecuador, Korea, Costa Rica,
Bolivia, and Brazil. Of nearly 100 mammals received from the
National Zoological Park, the most important was a gayal (Bos
frontalis) .

Large representations of birds came from Indo-China, Costa Rica,
Brazil, Antarctica, Mexico, and Manchukuo. Field work of the Mu-
seum in South Carolina yielded 1,205 bird skins for the study collec-
tions.

Incorporated in the collections during the year were 4,201 Mexican
reptiles received from the Smithsonian Institution as the major part
of the collections made by Dr. Hobart M. Smith, under the Walter
Rathbone Bacon scholarship, among them being types of many new
forms and representatives of species hitherto not contained in the
Museum. The second installment of Dr. W. M. Mann’s reptilian and
amphibian collections in Liberia consisted of 472 specimens, represent-
ing several new forms and much valuable comparative material from
territory hitherto little known.

Nearly 2,000 Liberian fishes also resulted from the Smithsonian-
Firestone Expedition headed by Dr. Mann, in addition to those acces-
sioned last year. Among other ichthyological specimens received
were 900 fishes from Texas and the Gulf of Mexico, 420 from Alaska,
and 60 sharks from Florida and Texas.

The most important accession in insects was the Nevermann collec-
tion of Costa Rican Coleoptera, comprising about 33,000 specimens
and including much type material. Other important entomological
material came in many miscellaneous lots, the largest being 64,000
insect specimens transferred from the Bureau of Entomology and
Plant Quarantine. A collection of nearly 3,000 beetles from Panama
was donated by Assistant Curator Richard E. Blackwelder, who col-
lected them several years ago.

About 500 marine invertebrates from the west coast of Greenland
came as a result of the Bartlett Greenland Expedition of 1940.
Through Curator Waldo L. Schmitt there was accessioned a large
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 21

collection of marine invertebrates taken in the course of the Alaska
king crab investigations of the Fish and Wildlife Service. From this
same Service there was transferred a lot of nemertean worms collected
by the Albatross and Fish Hawk. Outstanding also was a large col-
lection of mollusks, echinoderms, crustaceans, miscellaneous inverte-
brates, and 182 bottom samples obtained by Russell Hawkins, Jr., on
1939 and 1940 cruises along the west coast of Baja California and in
the Gulf of California. Over 3,000 selected molluscan specimens were
obtained by purchase through the Frances Lea Chamberlain Fund. A
remarkably fine collection of over 3,000 Samoan shells was contributed,
as well as 1,000 land and fresh-water shells from Texas. Séveral inter-
esting lots of echinoderms were added, chiefly from the Antarctic
region, from Greenland, and from the Abrolhos Islands, Western
Australia.

About 25,000 plants from many sources were added to the collections
of the National Herbarium.

Geology—Many choice minerals and gems were acquired through
the Canfield, Roebling, and Chamberlain funds of the Smithsonian
Institution. The finest mineral specimen is an 1,800-carat aqua-
marine crystal from Agua Preta, Brazil, showing the rare berylloid
form. The extensive Diaz collection of Mexican cassiterites and
valuable sets of minerals from Bolivia also are noteworthy. Gems
added included a brilliant cut purple enclase of 46 carats from Cey-
lon, and a greenish-yellow 9-carat enclase from Brazil. Another
important acquisition consisted of 620 Brazilian gem stones trans-
ferred from the United States Treasury Department. The out-
standing addition to the meteorite series was the Sardis, Ga., speci-
men, an altered iron, weighing 1,760 pounds, the fifth largest single
meteorite ever found in the United States. Four meteoritic falls,
all American, were represented in specimens presented by Dr. Stuart
H. Perry, associate in mineralogy. A valuable series of tin ores
resulted from Curator W. F. Foshag’s studies for defense purposes
of the tin resources of Mexico.

Field work by members of the staff yielded the bulk of the in-
vertebrate fossils accessioned: About 8,000 Cambrian brachiopods
and trilobites from the Rocky Mountain region, Missouri, and the
Appalachian Valley; 20,000 post-Cambrian specimens from west
Tennessee and Texas; and 15,000 Devonian fossils from the various
counties in the geologically classic Lower Peninsula of Michigan.
Much valuable type material was contained in other miscellaneous
accessions, mostly gifts, including Upper Cambrian invertebrates
from Texas and southeastern Missouri, Ordovician Bryozoa from
Oklahoma, Upper Triassic ammonites from Nevada, and type fos-
sils from the Kaibab formation of the Grand Canyon. Important
22 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

lots of Foraminifera came from such widely separated regions as
Mexico, Peru, New Zealand, and Arabia. Casts of 256 type specimens
of the fossil shell Zurritella, from the Tertiary rocks of the Pacific
coast, comprised an outstanding addition to the Cenozoic collections.

As a result of paleontological field work in central Utah several
articulated Upper Cretaceous lizard skeletons (Polyglyphanodon)
and fragmentary mammalian jaws and teeth from the Paleocene
were received, in addition to 149 lots of vertebrate fossils collected
from the Bridger Eocene of southwestern Wyoming. Also worthy
of special mention among the new vertebrate material are the greater
part of theskeleton of the primitive mammal Uintatherium, a partial
skeleton of a Palaeosyops, and a perfect skull and jaws of the dog-
like Thinocyon velox. Parts of several fossil whales and porpoises,
from the Miocene Calvert formation of the Chesapeake Bay
country, were acquired.

Engineering and industries—To the section of transportation and
civil engineering came an operating exhibit of the Westinghouse
air brake, and three fine scale models, the Polish motorship Pélsudski,
the Rolls Royce automobile Silver Ghost, and the diesel-engined
trawler Storm.

A unique accession in the section of aeronautics, received as a
transfer from the Navy Department, was a fighter airplane known
as the Curtiss Sparrowhawk, a type developed in 1931-35 as an
auxiliary fighter to the dirigibles Akvon and Macon. Several inter-
esting airplane models were received: The original model of a steam-
engined bombing helicopter designed in Civil War times and scale
models of the Columbia monoplane (1910), the triplane bomber
(1918), the U. S. Army pursuit type P-35, the U. S. Army trainer
type BT-8, and the amphibian SEV-8N.

In mechanical engineering the outstanding accession was an excep-
tional operating model made by Howell M. Winslow of a Reynolds-
Corliss steam engine of about 1900. The section of electrical
engineering and communication received three original Plante stor-
age battery plates and two replicas of the posted plate batteries
made by T. A. Willard in 1881; also the tone arm of a modern
photoelectric phonograph.

One of the most spectacular acquisitions in recent years is the
93-dial display clock made by Louis Zimmer, of Lier, Belgium, for
the Brussels World’s Fair in 1935. It is 14 feet high, tells the stand-
ard time of many places around the world, the tides in various
parts, and a great variety of calendar and astronomical events. The
section of woods and wood technology received the first letter file
made to handle correspondence unfolded and vertical. An important
and generous gift to the division of graphic arts was a collection
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 23

of 200 Currier and Ives prints from a donor, who in addition lent
183 others. There came also as a loan the original camera believed
to have been used around 1836 by Dr. John W. Draper, the eminent
American chemist and physiologist, while a member of the faculty
of Hampden-Sydney College, Richmond, Va.

History—Nearly 1,600 objects of historic and antiquarian interest
were accessioned, including busts, costumes, or mementos of such
outstanding Americans as Abraham Lincoln, Mrs. Andrew Jackson
Donelson, Col. Samuel Simpson, William Jennings Bryan, Henry
B. F. Macfarland, and Brig. Gen. Caleb Cushing. The numismatic
collection was increased by 176 coins and medals, including a series
of United States bronze, nickel, and silver coins struck at the Denver,
Philadelphia, and San Francisco mints in 1914; and the philatelic
collection by 1,310 stamps and other items.

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD WORK

Field exploration by the Museum’s experienced staff and its col-
laborators continues as one of the most important sources for addi-
tions of new materials in the broad fields of anthropology, biology,
and geology. As in previous years this work was financed in the
main through funds provided by the Smithsonian Institution or
through interested friends of the Institution. The specimens
obtained have filled many gaps in the Museum’s series.

Anthropology—During August and September, 1940, Dr. T.
Dale Stewart, associate curator of physical anthropology, continued
excavations at the historic Indian village site known as Patawomeke
on Potomac Creek, in Stafford County, Va., completely exploring
the ossuary discovered last year. The work this season yielded a
number of facts that verify or supplement the meager historical
records pertaining to the burial ceremonies of the Virginia tide-
water Indians. Of the approximately 100 skeletons encountered in
the ossuary, the majority had become disarticulated, or were dis-
articulated before burial. A few, however—approximately a dozen
adults—were observed to be fully articulated. These were found on
the bottom or along the sides of the pit and hence may have been
the first bodies received into the grave. Moreover, all these artic-
ulated skeletons are possibly males and had their arms extended
along their sides as do the bodies shown in John White’s picture of
a death house, which was drawn during his visit to Roanoke Island
in 1585. Also, all these skeletons had their lower legs flexed un-
naturally forward, which would have been a practicable way for
shortening an extended body resting on its back. There is evidence,
on the other hand, that the disarticulated skeletons were exposed

24 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

for a considerable period before burial; in several cases mud dauber
nests were found in the skull or among the bundled bones. This
finding indicates that the period in which these bodies were exposed
in an open death house included at least one warm season.

On February 27, 1941, Dr. Stewart went to Peru in connection
with the program sponsored by the State Department for cultural
cooperation with other American republics. In Lima, through the
kindness of Dr. Julio C. Tello, director of the Museum of Anthro-
pology, Magdalena Vieja, he had the privilege of studying two docu-
mented series of human skeletal remains, one from Paracas and the
other from Malena. These two series are interesting for comparison
because that from Paracas is very early, whereas that from Malena
is late coastal Inca. The Paracas people, although relatively ancient,
were far from being primitive in the cultural sense. Their textiles
are famous and among the finest produced anywhere. While in
Lima Dr. Stewart visited many of the nearby ruins and ancient
Indian sites. From these trips Dr. Stewart brought back a small
collection of the more interesting skeletal remains to supplement
earlier collections.

During the week of March 30 Dr. Stewart represented the Insti-
tution and the National Geographic Society at the Third Assembly
of the Pan American Institute of Geography and History meeting
in Lima. Following the Assembly he visited the Museo Arqueolégico
“Rafael Larco Herrera” at Chiclin, where, through the kindness of
Sr. Rafael Larco Hoyle, he was able to study a documented series
of Mochica and Cupianique skeletons. These remains are from the
oldest cultural periods of the northern coast. From Chiclin Dr.
Stewart went south to Mollendo, and thence by way of Arequipa
to Cuzco. Here, besides visiting some of the famous ruins, he saw
the fine collection of mummies and trephined skulls at the University
of Cuzco and the Instituto Arqueoldgico.

Dr. Waldo R. Wedel, assistant curator in archeology. was in the
field from June 1 to September 16, 1940, continuing the Institution’s
archeological survey of Kansas, begun in 1937. The 1940 explora-
tions were carried on at several locations in Rice and Cowley
Counties. Preliminary excavations show that the sites investigated
mark villages inhabited by semisedentary, partly horticultural In-
dians who did not live in earth lodges. These people made pottery,
wove basketry, had a wide variety of artifacts in stone, bone, horn,
and shell, traded with the Pueblos on the Rio Grande for turquoise,
pottery, and obsidian, and were in contact with white men. Frag-
ments of glaze-paint pottery represent types made on the Rio
Grande between 1525 and 1650, and bits of chain mail suggest a
visit from some of the early Spanish explorers. It is tentatively
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 25

suggested that these remains, widespread in central and southern
Kansas, may be of Wichita origin, and possibly represent some of
the Quivira villages seen by Coronado, Humafia, Bonilla, and Ofate.

During the period from December 5 to 12, 1940, and again in
May 1941, Dr. Wedel made a brief reconnaissance in the Holston
River drainage near Saltville, Va. A number of extremely promis-
‘ng prehistoric village sites and two apparently affiliated burial caves
were visited, and a local collection was studied. No excavations were
undertaken. The cultural materials indicate some relationships with
Middle Mississippi remains in Tennessee and adjacent States, but
pending more extended studies their exact position culturally remains
uncertain,

Walter W. Taylor, Jr., collaborator in anthropology, inaugurated
archeological excavations in the state of Coahuila, Mexico. From
January 1941 to the close of the fiscal year, Mr. Taylor surveyed a
wide area in the various mountain valleys around Cuatro Ciénegas
and excavated several small caves and one large cave. The principal
purpose of this program was to determine the relationship between
the prehistoric cave inhabitants in this northern section of Mexico
and the inhabitants of similar sites in the Pecos River and Big
Bend area of southwestern Texas. A superficial relationship seems
evident from Mr. Taylor’s field reports, but final conclusions must
await a careful comparison of material in the Museum.

Biology.—During October and November Dr. Alexander Wetmore,
Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, visited Costa
Rica as part of the program sponsored by the State Department
for cultural cooperation with the other American republics. He was
received with every courtesy as the guest of the Costa Rican Gov-
ernment, and in San José, the capital city, he worked at the National
Museum and visited and conferred with officials in various branches
as well as with scientists in other services. Following this, accom-
panied by Dr. Juvenal Valerio Rodriguez, director of the National
Museum, and Carlos Aguilar in charge of the zoological collections
in the Museum, he crossed by air to Liberia, the principal city of
Guanacaste, the northwestern province of Costa Rica. From this
base collections of birds were made in the surrounding country. Dr.
Valerio returned to San José, while Mr. Aguilar remained for train-
ing in zoological field work. Guanacaste is devoted mainly to cattle
raising, with small cultivation. Liberia lies on a slightly elevated
plain east of the swampy lowlands bordering the Rio Tempisque.
For more than 2 weeks Dr. Wetmore and Mr. Aguilar were located
at a great hacienda on the southern slopes of the Volcan Rincén de
la Vieja where there was access to heavy rain forest on the mountain.
Collections were obtained for the National Museum in San José as
26 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

well as for our Institution. The several hundred birds that have
come to Washington as a result of this work add measurably to our
series, as our earlier investigations of the birds of Costa Rica did
not cover Guanacaste. On his return north at the end of Novem-
ber Dr. Wetmore had opportunity to spend a day in Habana, Cuba,
where he was received by representatives of the Cuban Government
and conferred with prominent scientists of the country.

From March to May, 1941, Dr. Wetmore visited Colombia in con-
tinuation of the program mentioned for closer personal contact and
cooperation with scientists in our neighbor republics. In Bogota
he was received at the National University, where he worked par-
ticularly in the Instituto de Ciencias Naturales. He also conferred
with scientists who had been in attendance at the Eighth American
Scientific Congress in Washington the year previous, and visited
scientific workers with whom the Smithsonian Institution has been
in contact through correspondence for years. Following this, with
M. A. Carriker, Jr., as assistant, and accompanied by Dr. F. Carlos
Lehmann and his assistant from the Instituto de Ciencias Naturales
and by Lt. Alejandro Rubiano as a representative of the Colombian
Government, Dr. Wetmore set out from Santa Marta on a pro-
longed expedition through the Guajira Peninsula. The party
traveled by truck to Riohacha stopping en route for work in ex-
tensive forest areas near the Rio Ariguani and its tributaries. Here
in 8 days’ time specimens of 100 distinct species of birds were ob-
tained, an indication of the richness of the fauna. In Riohacha the
party obtained another truck and here entered the Guajira proper.
The peninsula in the main is an arid, desert country with extensive
open savannas and broad stony plains, grown in places with heavy
stands of mesquite and cacti that form veritable forests. In the
eastern section there are low mountains with trails along their bases
passable for heavy trucks except during the period of rains. On
the highest range where the trade winds build a cloud cap with con-
sequent more or less regular precipitation in contrast to the desert
below, there is an island of tropical rain forest with the species
usual to such an environment, here isolated by long distances from
other similar areas. Dr. Lehmann and Lieutenant Rubiano com-
pleted their work with the party in April while the others continued
to the forested region mentioned. On the return the middle of May
it was necessary because of disrupted steamer schedules for Dr.
Wetmore to cross by schooner from Puerto Estrella, in the Guajira, to
the Island of Aruba. Here after a 2-day wait he obtained plane
passage to Curacao, and from there sailed for New York. <A stop
en route at La Guaira, Venezuela, gave opportunity to visit Caracas,
where he was guest of honor at a luncheon given by W. H. Phelps
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY aT

to a group of Venezuelan scientists, and had opportunity to visit
the new Museo Nacional and the Sociedad Venezolana de Ciencias
Naturales.

Mr. Carriker, whose expenses for this work in Colombia were
carried by the W. L. Abbott fund of the Smithsonian Institution,
continued in the field in the Guajira until late in June to finish the
investigations. At the end of the fiscal year he was located in the
Sierra Negra in the northern section of the Perijé Mountains, a
region previously unknown to naturalists.

The collecting expeditions by W. M. Perrygo, scientific aid, to
obtain much-needed material for the study of the vertebrate fauna
of the Appalachian region, were continued with good results. Accom-
panied by John S. Webb, of the division of birds, he left for South
Carolina on September 14, 1940, working first along the Catawba
River and in the wooded regions of the Piedmont region and later
collecting in the swamps along the Pee Dee River. The middle of
October he continued southward to Allendale to complete work begun
in the spring months along the Savannah River. Two weeks were
spent in collecting along the Lynches River, a tributary of the Pee
Dee, and the final stay centered around McClellanville for work in
the salt marshes near the Cape Romaine Wildlife Sanctuary. The
expedition returned December 3. This work also was financed
through the W. L. Abbott fund of the Smithsonian.

Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt, curator of marine invertebrates, during
the latter part of 1940 served as biologist and leader of the field party:
organized by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service for the
purpose of investigating the biology of the king crab in Alaska.
He left Seattle on August 28 and on September 12 established head-
quarters at Canoe Bay, off the northwest corner of Pavlof Bay, where
investigations were carried on successfully for 5 weeks. Later on
operations were transferred to Alitak at the western end of Kodiak.
Work at a final base on the north side of Shelikof Strait, east of
Kukak Bay, from November 15 to 20 ended the investigations for
the season, which in addition to observations on the distribution and
biology of the king crab yielded an extensive collection of marine
animals of interest to the Museum.

Clarence R. Shoemaker, assistant curator of marine invertebrates,
in company with T. Kenneth Ellis, undertook a 2-weeks’ collecting
trip for fresh-water amphipods through Virginia and the Carolinas.
The expedition returned with much interesting material to the
Museum, the particular object being to extend the study series of
certain rare species from this region.

The Smithsonian-Firestone Expedition to Liberia under the leader-
ship of Dr. W. M. Mann, Director of the National Zoological Park,
28 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

obtained for the Museum a large amount of zoological and botanical
material, including many novelties, from a region of the world
hitherto poorly represented in our collections. Although started
early in 1940, the expedition did not return until August 7, and is
therefore properly referred to here, as the specimens brought back
were accessioned during the present year. The story of the expedi-
tion has been widely published, and a condensed account with illustra-
tions will be found in the volume Explorations and Field Work of
the Smithsonian Institution in 1940, pp. 13-20.

As in past years, Capt. Robert A. Bartlett in his annual expedi-
tion to Greenland in the schooner Morrissey brought back valuable
additions particularly to the invertebrate collections, made with
equipment supplied by the Museum.

Dr. Hobart M. Smith, under the Walter Rathbone Bacon scholar-
ship, finished his field work in Mexico in August 1940, bringing
back to the Smithsonian Institution splendid collections that in all
comprise more than 20,000 specimens of reptiles and amphibians now
deposited in the Museum. During July and August, 1940, he was able
to study the collection of the late Dr. Alfredo Dugés, which contains
many type specimens of Mexican reptiles and amphibians.

Dr. E. A. Chapin, curator of insects, spent 5 weeks on the island
of Jamaica during April and May, 1941. Arriving there on April
22, he was met at customs by C. B. Lewis, curator of natural history
of the Jamaica Institute, who during the entire period of work
‘assisted In various ways. Special trips arranged by Mr. Lewis in-
cluded a day on Goat Island, 1 on Portland Ridge, 2 at Cuna Cuna
Pass, and a 4-day stay at Cinchona in the Blue Mountains. Except
for 8 days spent in and around Savanna-la-Mar, headquarters was
maintained near Kingston and short trips were made out from that
point. Because of the poor showing made in certain groups in 1987,
it was decided to concentrate on the termite and ant faunas. In
addition to various rare beetles, at least 13 species of termites, mostly
of the type living in hardwood, were found, and at least 3 of them
are additions to the Jamaica list. Other results of the work include
the establishment of very pleasant relations with the Jamaica Insti-
tute and the Government Entomologist’s Office.

The United States Antarctic Service expedition returned from a
year’s stay in the Antarctic with very valuable material consisting
of mammals, birds, and a considerable collection of lower crypto-
gamic plants. The Museum was represented in this work by Herwil
M. Bryant. J. E. Perkins and M. J. Lobell were detailed to the
expedition by the Fish and Wildlife Service of the Department of
the Interior.

Local field work in nearby Maryland and Virginia by various
members of the staff has included investigations of Dr. L. P. Schultz

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 29

on fresh-water fishes. Botanists of the staff gathered material for
a proposed new Flora of the District of Columbia, the object sought
being a thorough knowledge of the Washington-Baltimore region.

Geology—Under a cooperative arrangement with the United
States Geological Survey, Dr. W. F. Foshag, curator of mineralogy
and petrology, accompanied by Carl Fries, of the Geological Survey
staff, made a 3-month survey of the tin resources of Mexico. All
the important mining districts of Mexico included within the states
of Michoacin, Hidalgo, San Luis Potosi, Queretaro, Aguascalientes,
Jalisco, Zacatecas, and Durango were visited and the deposits studied
as to their geology, mineralogy, and commercial potentialities. The
largest potential deposits are the placer sands derived from granite
intrusions in San Luis Potosi. The deposits in the rhyolitic rocks
are, in most cases, small and of little importance.

Dr. C. E. Resser, curator of stratigraphic paleontology, spent 3
months in field work, chiefly in the Rocky Mountains, assisted by
Charles H. Frey, 3d, of Lancaster, Pa. Dr. Resser left Washing-
ton on June 25, making first a brief stop in southwestern Virginia.
His next objective was the Cambrian section in the Ozark Mountains,
where several days’ work enabled him to familiarize himself with
these strata. Only indifferent fossils were found, as most of the
Cambrian rock does not carry fossils. He continued then to examine
Cambrian deposits in Colorado in the Front, Mosquito, and Sawatch
Ranges and the Glenwood Springs Canyon. Ten days in the State
permitted examination of several sections. Dr. T. S. Lovering, of
Ohio State University, who was mapping the region about Gilman,
assisted materially in showing the sections there. At the Grand
Canyon National Park in Arizona Dr. Resser examined new localities
under the guidance of Park Naturalist Edwin McKee during a 3-
day trip to Peach Springs and Meriwitica Canyons, 150 miles west
of Grand Canyon Village. Some fossils were found and physical
measurements made. In the Wasatch Mountains the party checked
on the position of certain faunas and on the stratigraphy, which had
been questioned. Fine collections were made at critical points. At
the Green River Lakes, one of the most beautiful spots in America,
Dr. Resser’s party found a section 850 to 1,000 feet thick, representing
both Middle and Upper Cambrian, carrying a few fossils. Several
sections were studied in Montana, notably on Squaw Creek in the
Gallatin Range, Newland Creek, Little Birch Creek, and Deep Creek
in the Belt Mountains, and several localities near Three Forks, Mont.
Particularly fine material was secured at several of these localities.
Advantage was taken of the new road constituting the northeastern
entrance to the Yellowstone to study the excellent section at Bear-
tooth Butte. Here some good collections were made. On the return
30 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

journey a new section across the Big Horn Mountains was seen
along Shell Creek, and about a week was spent in the Black Hills.
During an earlier trip from May 5 to 15 to southwestern Virginia
and eastern Tennessee Dr. Resser examined outcrops of the belt
west of Clinch Mountain to ascertain the faunal content of the Mary-
ville formation. Fossils were scarce and very difficult to free from
the matrix. A visit to Austinville, Va., furnished some excellent
fossils, and observations confirmed earlier interpretation of the stra-
tigraphy. The exact stratigraphic position of a new brachiopod
related to Nisusia—as yet undescribed—was discovered.

In August 1940 Dr. G. Arthur Cooper, assistant curator of strati-
graphic paleontology, joined Mrs. J. H. Renfro and daughter in
Fort Worth and with the guidance of these expert collectors collected
Pennsylvanian fossils in the region around Jacksboro and Graham
in north-central Texas. An abundance of fine material for the
biological series was obtained. Following 2 weeks in north-central
Texas, Dr. Cooper went to the Glass Mountains in west Texas, where
he spent another 2 weeks collecting limestone containing silicified
specimens. About a ton of blocks was sent back to Washington,
where almost half the material has since been etched with acid,
yielding very beautiful rare fossils that preserve the delicate spines,
and peculiar features of the interior of the animals concerned in a
truly remarkable way. Proceeding to west Tennessee he collected
Silurian and Lower Devonian fossils along the Tennessee River in
localities that soon will be lost through the impounding of water
behind the Gilbertsville, Ky., dam. At places the Silurian in this
part of Tennessee teems with fossils of many kinds and fine col-
lections were obtained, including new forms as well as many others
not previously present in the collections. From there he went east
to Murfreesboro, Tenn., where he joined Dr. Josiah Bridge, of the
United States Geological Survey. They spent 10 days in the Central
Basin of Tennessee collecting the fossils and studying the rocks of
the Stones River (Ordovician) group, as problems of correlation
never satisfactorily solved exist in this area.

As the vertebrate paleontological field exploration under Dr. C.
L. Gazin, assistant curator of vertebrate paleontology, extended into
the present year, but brief mention was made of it in last year’s
report. The expedition, into central Utah and southwestern Wy-
oming, was a continuation of previous investigations. In the Upper
Cretaceous several additional lizard skeletons were collected; and
in the Paleocene a considerable number of fragmentary mammal
specimens. Interesting new forms contribute information to the
known fauna of the Dragon formation. The bulk of the season
was spent in the Bridger formation of the Eocene in southwestern
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 31

Wyoming, where 149 lots of fossil specimens were obtained. A
skeleton of Uintatheriwm complete enough to articulate for exhi-
bition, probably the most complete skeleton of this animal yet dis-
covered, was the outstanding specimen collected. Partial skeletons
of Palaeosyops are also of high importance.

Short trips to the Miocene along Chesapeake Bay for cetacean
remains were made by Dr. Remington Kellogg and other members
of the staff. Many specimens from this unique fauna have been
added to the collections.

MISCELLANEOUS

Visitors—A total of 2,505,871 visitors at the various Museum
buildings was recorded during the year, this being virtually the
same as for the previous year. The high months this year were
August 1940 and April 1941, when 369,942 and 320,594 visitors, re-
spectively, were recorded. The attendance in the four Museum
buildings was as follows: Smithsonian Building (main hall closed
from July 1 to January 19), 212,464; Arts and Industries Building,
1,302,210; Natural History Building, 803,516; Aircraft Building
(closed from March 17 to June 30), 182,112.

Publications and printing—The sum of $23,000 was available
during the fiscal year 1941 for the publication of the annual report,
Bulletins, and Proceedings. Twenty-five publications were issued—
the annual report, 1 Bulletin, 1 volume of Bulletin 100, 1 separate
paper from another volume of Bulletin 100, 1 title page, table of
contents, and index of the Contributions from the United States
National Herbarium, 19 separate Proceedings papers, and 1 title
page, table of contents, and index of a Proceedings volume. Par-
ticularly outstanding were the following: “Life Histories of North
American Cuckoos, Goatsuckers, Hummingbirds, and Their Allies,”
by Arthur Cleveland Bent (Bulletin 176) ; “The Fishes of the Groups
Elasmobranchii, Holocephali, Isospondyli, and Ostariophysi Ob-
tained by the United States Bureau of Fisheries Steamer Albatross
in 1907 to 1910, Chiefly in the Philippine Islands and Adjacent Seas,”
by Henry W. Fowler (Bulletin 100, volume 13); “Further Studies
on the Opalinid Ciliate Infusorians and Their Hosts,” by Maynard
M. Metcalf; “The Cuban Operculate Land Mollusks of the Family
Annulariidae, Exclusive of the Subfamily Chondropominae,” by
Carlos de la Torre and Paul Bartsch; “A Supposed Jellyfish from
the Pre-Cambrian of the Grand Canyon,” by R. S. Bassler; “Notes
on Birds of the Guatemalan Highlands,” by Alexander Wetmore;
and “The Chicora (Butler County, Pa.) Meteorite,” by F. W. Preston,
EK. P. Henderson, and James R. Randolph.
32 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Volumes and separates distributed during the year to libraries,
institutions, and individuals throughout the world aggregated 52,170
copies.

Special exhibits Fourteen special exhibits were held during the
year under the auspices of various educational, scientific, recreational,
and governmental groups. In addition the department of engineer-
ing and industries arranged 17 special displays—8 in graphic arts
and 9 in photography.

CHANGES IN ORGANIZATION AND STAFF

In the department of anthropology, Dr. Joseph E. Weckler, Jr.,
was appointed assistant curator, division of ethnology, on March 1,
1941.

In the department of biology, on the retirement of Gerrit S. Miller,
Jr., curator of the division of mammals, the duties of this office
were, on January 1, 1941, assumed by Dr. Remington Kellogg, ad-
vanced from the position of assistant curator. To the division of
insects Dr. Richard KE. Blackwelder was appointed as assistant
curator on October 1, 1940; to the section of taxidermy Edgar G.
Laybourne was appointed senior scientific aid on March 20, 1941,
and to the division of birds, John S. Webb was appointed scientific
aid on August 1, 1940.

In the department of engineering and industries, to the division
of graphic arts Irwin Lefcourt was appointed scientific aid, on
September 3, 1940.

Other changes in appointment on the staff were as follows: Elisa-
beth P. Hobbs to assistant librarian, on March 16, 1941; Ralph A.
Silbaugh, foreman of laborers, on January 16, 1941; David L. Hubbs
to acting foreman of laborers, on September 1, 1940; Ernest Desantis
to lieutenant of guard, on July 1, 1940; and two principal guards
(sergeants), James C. Clarke, on July 1, 1940, and Bascom F. Gordon,
on March 16, 1941.

Honorary appointments in connection with the National Museum
collections were made by the Smithsonian Institution as follows:
On July 1, 1940, Walter W. Taylor, Jr., as collaborator in the de-
partment of anthropology; on January 1, 1941, Gerrit S. Miller, Jr.,
as associate in the department of biology.

The scientific staff lost the services of Miss Margaret W. Moodey,
by resignation, on May 381, 1941.

Five employees were furloughed indefinitely for military service,
namely: Robert E. Kirk, on October 4, 1940; John J. Queeney, on
August 15, 1940; Charles E. Stousland, on November 27, 1940;
Charles A. Bono, on May 21, 1941, sind George V. Worthington,
on August 21, 1940.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 33

During the year 13 persons were retired, as follows: Through age:
Gerrit S. Miller, Jr., curator, division of mammals, on December 381,
1940, with 40 years 10 months of service; Gertrude L. Woodin, as-
sistant librarian, on January 31, 1941, with 34 years 11 months of
service; Joseph T. Saylor, foreman of laborers, on December 31, 1940,
with 30 years 8 months service; David H. Zirkle, guard, on June
30, 1941, wtih 15 years of service; Hattie L. Henson, charwoman, on
March 31, 1941, with 19 years 6 months of service; and Emma D.
Whitley, charwoman, on March 31, 1941, with 15 years of service.

Through optional retirement: Anne J. B. DePue, telephone oper-
ator, on November 30, 1940, with 40 years 5 months of service; and
Donald MacDonald, guard, on September 30, 1940, with 33 years 9
months of service.

Through disability retirement: Trezzvant Anderson, guard, on
March 31, 1941; Eugene Smith, guard, on June 18, 1941; Anna M.
Bowie, laborer, on March 14, 1941; Charles Davis, laborer, on June 30,
1941, and Lish Myers, laborer, on April 30, 1941.

Through death, the Museum lost during the year two employees
from its active roll, Clayton R. Denmark, engineer, on December 22,
1940, and William G. Shields, guard, on May 31, 1941. From its
list of honorary workers, the Museum lost by death, on January 12,
1941, Charles W. Stiles, associate in zoology, division of marine in-
vertebrates, since April 17, 1894, and on June 4, 1941, David I. Bush-
nell, Jr., who served temporarily from May to June 1918 as archeolo-
gist and. from July 27, 1932, to his death as collaborator
in anthropology.

Respectfully submitted.

AvrexaNnper Wermort, Assistant Secretary.

Dr. C. G. Assort,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 2
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

Sir: I have the honor to submit, on behalf of the Board of Trustees
of the National Gallery of Art, the fourth annual report of the Board
covering its operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1941.

Such report is being made pursuant to the provisions of the act of
March 24, 1937 (50 Stat. 51), as amended by the public resolution of
April 13, 1939 (Pub. Res. No. 9, 76th Cong.). Under this act Con-
gress created, in the Smithsonian Institution, a bureau to be directed
by a board to be known as the “Trustees of the National Gallery of
Art,” charged with the maintenance and administration of the Na-
tional Gallery of Art, appropriated to the Smithsonian Institution
the area bounded by Seventh Street, Constitution Avenue, Fourth
Street, and North Mall Drive (now Madison Drive) Northwest, in the
District of Columbia, as a site for a National Gallery of Art, and
authorized the Smithsonian Institution to permit The A. W. Mellon
Educational and Charitable Trust, a public charitable trust estab-
lished by the late Hon. Andrew W. Mellon, of Pittsburgh, Pa., to
construct thereon a building to be designated the “National Gallery of
Art.” Further, the act authorizes the Board to accept, for the Smith-
sonian Institution, and to hold and administer gifts, bequests, and
devises of money, securities, or other property for the benefit of the
National Gallery of Art; also, under the creating act, the United States
is pledged to provide such funds as may be necessary for the upkeep
of the National Gallery of Art and the administrative expenses and
costs of operation thereof, including the protection and care of the
works of art so that the Gallery shall at all times be properly main-
tained and the works of art exhibited regularly to the genera! public,
free of charge.

COMPLETION AND OCCUPATION OF THE GALLERY BUILDING ~

Formal notice of the completion of the National Gallery of Art
project, calling for the construction of the Gallery building and the
landscaping of the area appropriated for the site of the National
Gallery of Art, in accordance*with plans and specifications approved
by the Commission of Fine Arts, was given by the Trustees of The
A. W. Mellon Educational and Charitable Trust under date of No-
vember 30, 1940, to the Trustees of the National Gallery of Art and
the Smithsonian Institution, and as provided in the trust indenture

34
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 35

dated June 24, 1937, the legal title to the building was deemed forth-
with to be vested in the Smithsonian Institution, of which the National
Gallery of Art is a bureau, and the maintenance and administration
of the building and site became the exclusive and sole obligation of
the Trustees of the National Gallery of Art. A copy of the notice of
completion is attached to this report, as exhibit A (not printed).

The Gallery building was turned over to the Trustees of the Gallery
on December 1, 1940, and following inspection and upon certification
by Eggers and Higgins, successors of John Russell Pope, architect
for the Gallery, as to the final completion of the project, the Trustees
of the Gallery, at a meeting held December 10, 1940, formally accepted
the Gallery project. Copy of the architect’s certifieate is attached
to this report, as exhibit B (not printed). At this meeting the mem-
bers of the Board expressed great satisfaction with the coustruction
of the Gallery building, as finally completed, and their appreciation
of the efforts of the Trustees of The A. W. Mellon Educational and
Charitable Trust, the surviving Trustees being Paul Mellon, Donald
D. Shepard, and David K. E. Bruce, in the erection of a Gallery build-
ing of such monumental character and such outstanding architectural
merit.

The Trustees have been apprised that the total cost of the Gallery,
including approaches and the landscaping of the site, amounted to
$15,035,597.50.

The small nucleus of the Gallery staff, which was housed in offices
furnished by The A. W. Mellon Educational and Charitable Trust,
moved into the building on November 27, 1940, and proceeded with
the work of installation of furnishings and equipment. By Decem-
ber 1, 1940, the nuclear staff, consisting of curatorial and clerical
employees, mechanical, guard, and cleaning force, had been organ-
ized sufficiently to take over the administration and maintenance
of the Gallery building by the Trustees.

During the first days of January 1941, the works of art in the
Mellon Collection were moved into the building, and during January,
February, and March the works of art in the Kress Collection were
received from New York.

Installation of the works of art in the two collections in the gal-
leries prepared for them was undertaken immediately upon their
receipt in the new building, and was completed the first week of
March.

DEDICATION CEREMONIES AND OPENING OF
THE GALLERY TO THE PUBLIC

On the evening of March 17, 1941, 8,822 invited guests attended
the opening ceremonies. Included among the invited guests were
the members of the Cabinet, Senate, and House of Representatives,

430577—42—4
36 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Government officials, the diplomatic corps, artists, art critics, heads
of educational institutions, persons generally interested in art, and
other distinguished guests.

The ceremonies, a half-hour program, with Chief Justice Charles
Evans Hughes as the presiding officer, began at 10 o’clock, with an
invocation by the Reverend ZeBarney Thorne Phillips, Chaplain of
the Senate. Following a brief talk by the Chief Justice on the
object and purposes of the Gallery project, Paul Mellon, son of the
late Andrew W. Mellon, the donor of the Gallery, on behalf of his
father and the Trustees of the Mellon Trust, presented the Gallery
and the Melion Collection to the Nation. Samuel H. Kress then
presented the Kress Collection of Italian paintings to the Gallery.
The President of the United States accepted the Gallery and the
Mellon and Kress Collections on behalf of the people of the United
States. A copy of the President’s address, and that of Chief Justice
Hughes, are attached to this report, as exhibit C (not printed). The
ceremonies closed with the National Anthem, led by the United
States Marine Band. During the early part of the evening, there
was a preview of the Gallery collections. Orchestras played in the
garden courts, decorated with the famous Widener collection of
acacias, which had been given to the Nation for the joint use of the
Gallery and the United States Botanic Garden, and tropical plants.

On the following day, March 18, 1941, the Gallery was opened to
the public and was viewed by large crowds. In accordance with
the decision of the Board of Trustees, the Gallery building is open
every day in the year, except Christmas and New Year’s day. The
hours are 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. on week days and 2 p. m. to 5 p. m. on
Sundays.

ORGANIZATION AND STAFF

The statutory members of the Board are the Chief Justice of the
United States, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury,
and the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, ex officio, and five
general trustees. The general trustees, serving during the fiscal year
ended June 30, 1941, were David K. E. Bruce, Duncan Phillips,
Ferdinand Lammot Belin, Joseph E. Widener, and Samuel H. Kress.
In May 1941 the general trustees elected Ferdinand Lammot Belin,
whose term of office would expire on July 1, 1941, to succeed himself
as a general trustee, to serve as such until July 1, 1951. At the
meeting of the Board held on June 20, 1941, the resignation of Chief
Justice Charles Evans Hughes was accepted by the Trustees with
great regret, to take effect July 1, 1941, and in doing so the Board
adopted the following resolutions:

Whereas the Honorable Charles Evans Hughes has resigned as Chief Justice
of the United States and has consequently tendered his resignation as Chairman
of the Board of Trustees of the National Gallery of Art, effective July 1, 1941;

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 37

And whereas the Board of Trustees has learned of his resignation with
profound regret;

Therefore, be it resolved, That the members of the Board of Trustees record
their sense of the loss which the Gallery has sustained in being deprived of the
services of Chief Justice Hughes;

And be it also resolved, That the Board hereby expresses its grateful apprecia-
tion for the devotion with which he has carried out his duties as Chairman,
and for the wisdom and unfailing courtesy with which he has guided the affairs
of the National Gallery during the critical years of its formative period;

And be it further resolved, That the Board wishes to express to him its high
regard and best wishes that he may enjoy many years of health and happiness
after his long career of distinguished public service to his country.

Pursuant to the provision of the act of March 24, 1937, the newly
appointed Chief Justice of the United States, the Honorable Harlan
F. Stone, who succeeds Chief Justice Hughes, will serve as an ex
officio trustee of the Gallery.

The Board at its annual meeting held February 10, 1941, reelected
David K. E. Bruce, President, and Ferdinand Lammot Belin was
reelected Vice President of the Board to serve for the ensuing year.
The executive officers who continued in office were Donald D. Shepard,
Secretary-Treasurer and General Counsel; David E. Finley, Director ;
Harry A. McBride, Administrator; John Walker, Chief Curator ; and
Macgill James, Assistant Director. Other officers of the Gallery con-
tinuing in office were Charles Seymour, Jr., curator of sculpture;
George T. Heckert, assistant to the administrator; and Sterling P.
Eagleton, chief engineer and building superintendent. During the
year Charles Zinsner was appointed assistant treasurer and the fol-
lowing honorary officers were appointed by the Board: Alexander
R. Reed, building consultant; Alfred Geiffert, Jr., consultant land-
scape architect; and William A. Frederick, consultant horticulturist.

The three standing committees of the Board, provided for in the
bylaws, as constituted at the annual meeting of the Board, held
February 10, 1941, were:

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

Chief Justice of the United States, Charles Evans Hughes.
The Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, Dr. C. G. Abbot.
David K. E. Bruce.

Ferdinand Lammot Belin.

Duncan Phillips.

FINANCE COMMITTEE

The Secretary of the Treasury, Henry Morgenthau, Jr.
The Secretary of State, Cordell Hull.

David K. E. Bruce.

Ferdinand Lammot Belin.

Samuel H. Kress.
38 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

ACQUISITIONS COMMITTEE

David K. E. Bruce.
Duncan Phillips.

Joseph H. Widener.
Ferdinand Lammot Belin.
David E. Finley.

Other standing committees appointed by the Board during the
year: A committee to make recommendations as to the acceptance
or rejection of gifts of property other than works of art, monies,
and securities; a committee on public relations; and a committee on
the building.

During the first half of the year all of the civil service positions
for the Gallery staff had been classified and by March 1, 1941, prac-
tically all of the initial staff of the Gallery, including the curatorial,
clerical, custodial, and maintenance personnel had been employed.
On June 30, 1941, 229 civil service employees were on the Gallery
staff. Among such employees were the chief docent, the librarian,
and the registrar.

The cataloging of the works of art was completed so that it was
possible to issue the first catalog of the National Gallery by March
17, 1941, the date of the opening.

The guard force was organized to assure not only efficiency in
the protection of the works of art and of the building and grounds,
but also to assure a high quality of service to the public.

APPROPRIATIONS

For salaries and expenses, for the upkeep and operation of the
National Gallery of Art, the protection and care of the works of art
therein, and all administrative expenses incident thereto, as author-
ized by the act of March 24, 1987 (50 Stat. 51), as amended by the
public resolution of April 13, 1939 (Pub. Res. No. 9, 76th Cong.),
there was appropriated for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1942, the
sum of $533,300. Of the $300,000 appropriated by Congress for
the period July 1, 1940, to June 30, 1941 (54 Stat. 187), $298,543.14
was expended or encumbered, in the following detailed amounts, for
personal services, printing and binding, and supplies and equipment,
leaving an unencumbered appropriation of $1,456.86. This appropri-
ation was based, of course, upon part-year operation and expendi-
tures were made therefrom as follows:

EXPENDITURES AND ENCUMBRANCES

POTSOM AM SCM VLCC S a ee ae I 171, 786. 18
Printing fand sbindingse0e2 ss pee eee eee 7, 352. 51
Suppliesandcquipment 32 eee 119, 404. 45

POLAT 2 San a ee ee eee $298, 543. 14
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 39
ATTENDANCE

The total attendance from March 17 to June 30, the end of the
fiscal year, was 798,156, an average of 7,529 persons per day. The
greatest number of visitors in any one day was 24,745 on March 238,
1941.

A booklet of general information on the Gallery, containing a check
list of paintings and sculpture and floor plans, supplied from Gov-
ernment funds, has been found of great assistance to the visitors to
the Gallery. There is ne charge for this booklet and a copy is
given to visitors who request one.

PUBLICATIONS FUND

Through the Publications Fund it was possible to have ready for
the opening of the Gallery, not only a catalog, but also a complete
Book of Illustrations of all the works of art in the collections of the
National Gallery; color reproductions; and postcards, both in color
and in black and white. These publications are on sale at moderate
cost in the Information Rooms.

ACQUISITIONS

GIFTS OF PRINTS

On March 13, 1941, the Board of Trustees accepted from Miss
Ellen T. Bullard and three anonymous donors a number of important
prints; and again on June 20, 1941, the Board accepted a number of
additional important prints from one of the anonymous donors who
nad previously made a gift of prints to the Gallery, all of which are
listed in exhibit D (not printed). Also on June 20, 1941, the Board
accepted as a gift from Lessing Rosenwald of Jenkintown, Pa., a
collection of important engravings, etchings, and woodcuts, which
are listed in exhibit D (not printed).

GIFTS OF PAINTINGS

On February 10, 1941, the Board of Trustees accepted from Mrs.
Felix M. Warburg the gift of two valuable paintings:
Triptych attributed to the School of Pietro Lorenzetti
“The Preaching of Savonarola,” by Domenico Morone
as a memorial to her husband, the late Felix M. Warburg. The
paintings have been received and will be exhibited with the Perma-
nent Collection.
On June 20, 1941, the Board of Trustees accepted from Duncan
Phillips, a trustee of the Gallery, the gift of an important painting
40 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

by Honoré Daumier, entitled “Advice to a Young Artist,” for ex-
hibition with the Permanent Collection. Also on June 20, 1941, the
Board accepted from Mrs. David K. E. Bruce the gift of a portrait of
her father, the late Andrew W. Mellon, by Oswald Birley, which has
been hung over the mantel in the Founder’s Room. ,

During the year other offers of gifts of works of art were received
but were not accepted because, in the opinion of the Board, they were
not considered to be desirable acquisitions for the Permanent Collec-
tion as contemplated by section 5 of the act of March 24, 1987 (50
Stat. 51).

OTHER GIFTS

During the year there were also gifts to the Gallery of furnishings,
equipment, materials and supplies, ornamental trees and plants, books
and publications, from the Trustees of The A. W. Mellon Educational
and Charitable Trust and others.

SALE OR EXCHANGE OF WORKS OF ART

During the year no works of art belonging to the Gallery were sold
or exchanged.

LOANS OF WORKS OF ART TO THE GALLERY

During the year the following works of art were received on loan:
An anonymous loan:

20 Rembrandt prints—listed on the attached exhibit D (not printed).
From Dr. Horace Binney, of Milton, Mass. :
A portrait of his ancestor, the Honorable Horace Binney, by Gilbert Stuart.

From Chester Dale, of New York, the following paintings of the
American School:

Artist Subject

John Smibert______ Portrait of Oxenbridge Thacher of Milton.
Thomas Sully___-_-. The Sicard David Children—Julia, Ferdinand, and Stephen.
Jeremiah Theus___- Portrait of a Woman in Red Dress.
John Neagle_______ Portrait of John Rush.
Thomas Sully_____. Portrait of Mrs. William Griffin.
Si heb Morses2= Portrait of Mrs. Henry John Auchmuty.

Doz eis aie Portrait of a Lady.

From Samuel H. Kress and the Samuel H. Kress Foundation:
43 paintings and 22 pieces of sculpture, listed in exhibit D (not printed).
From The A. W. Mellon Educational and Charitable Trust:

187 paintings, many of which were formerly in the Clarke Collection, for an
indefinite period to be held for study, exhibition, or use as may be provided by

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 41

the acquisitions committee. (See exhibit D, not printed.) The following paint-
ings from the collection have been placed on exhibition as loans:

Artist Subject
RRGDCTE MEK Cele oe Mie tee as ree 2 OE eee ee Williamina Moore.
Gilbert Stuart] 22 5 ee eee ee Richard Yates.
DD Yo Nee ah ha Pal ale EN Te et DEA A i aa George Washington
Tf 0S Ss fe TN va ES ee Sac George Pollock.
Ue) eB art ees eh Sura a NR NS Se Joseph Anthony.
TOHnp VW OllastoNes= 2222 2s et bee SS oe Mary Walton Morris.
From Duncan Phillips, a trustee of the Gallery:
Artist Subject
COLON (0 rth Re a ee te aaa The Dairy Farm.
Sta aa a VEY ue RE Oe ae el aA aE Pv eee The Rocks at Ornans.

From John Cooper Wiley:

Russian icon of the thirteenth century, for study and exhibition in the collec-
tion if considered desirable.

LOAN OF WORKS OF ART BY THE GALLERY

During the year no works of art belonging to the Gallery were
placed on loan.

RESTORATION AND REPAIRS TO WORKS OF ART

During the year, as authorized by the Board and with the approval
of the Director and the Chief Curator, Stephen Pichetto, consult-
ant restorer to the Gallery, has undertaken such work of restoration
and repair of paintings and sculpture in the collection as has been
found to be necessary.

Prior to the opening of the Gallery to the public, the work was
done at Mr. Pichetto’s studio in New York, and all works of art
have been returned in excellent condition. Since March 17, 1941,
such ‘work has been carried on in the restorer’s rooms at the
Gallery.

CURATORIAL DEPARTMENT

The curatorial work during the first part of the year consisted
in installing the National Gallery collections and completing the
work on the catalog. The catalog was issued at the opening of the
Gallery, and contains brief biographies of all the artists, descriptions
of the works of art, and notes indicating the date or approximate
date of the paintings and sculpture with such factual information as
may be of interest to the student. A book of illustrations of the
paintings and sculpture in the National Gallery was also issued under
the supervision of the curatorial staff.

During the year 619 works of art were submitted to the acquisi-
tions committee with recommendations as to the acceptability for
42 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

the collection of the National Gallery; 16 visits were made to private
collections by various members of the staff in connection with offers
of gift or loan; expert opinion on 61 works of art was given verbally
to various members of the public; and 101 letters were written to
persons asking for historical data or other information regarding
works of art in their possession.

The curatorial staff also supervised the arrangement of temporary
exhibitions held by the Gallery and assisted in the work of the
Educational Department.

EDUCATIONAL PROGRAM

The docent staff has been organized so that there are at least two
public gallery tours every day and two auditorium lectures every
week. This program of instruction for the public has been found
to meet a definite need. During the period from March 18 to June
30, 1941, 11,324 persons came to the Gallery as members of special
groups or organizations desiring special guidance by members of
the docent staff. Many of these were school and college groups,
including both instructors and students, from practically every State
in the Union.

Two thousand eight hundred and eighty-two individuals have
been conducted through the Gallery by members of the docent staff
in special gallery tours, available to the general public. Two thou-
sand four hundred and eighty individuals have attended auditorium
lectures on the collection presented twice a week by members of the
docent staff, beginning April 8, 1941.

In addition, members of the docent staff have conducted private
and group conferences for 288 teachers and other individuals inter-
ested in and learning about the Gallery and the collection.

LIBRARY

Books and catalogs to the number of 162 were presented to the
Gallery; 196 publications were acquired through exchange; and 51
books were purchased.

PHOTOGRAPHIC DEPARTMENT

Since February 16, 1941, 6,356 prints have been made by the
photographic laboratory. Many were used in connection with the
opening of the Gallery on March 17, 1941. Others are on file in the
library, where they are for sale and for the use of the Gallery staff.
Lantern slides made for use in connection with free public lectures
in the Gallery numbered 341.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 43
EXHIBITIONS

From May 15 to June 5, 1941, an exhibition was held in the central
gallery on the ground floor, of 200 American water colors selected
by John Marin, Charles Burchfield, Buk Ulreich, and Eliot O’Hara
from a National Competition for the Carville, La., Marine Hospital,
held by the Section of Fine Arts, Federal Works Agency, Public
Buildings Administration. This was the first loan exhibition held at
the Gallery and proved a popular one both with the public and with
the critics.

MEMORIAL TABLET

At the annual meeting of the Board, on February 10, 1941, the
Board authorized the erection of a memorial tablet to the late
Andrew W. Mellon, with an inscription in the wording appearing
immediately below, under a bas-relief portrait of Mr. Mellon to be
done in marble:

ANDREW WILLIAM MELLON

1855-1937

He gave the Building, with
his Collection, for the founding
of this National Gallery of Art.

For the whole earth is the sepulchre of
famous men; and their story is not graven
only on stone over their native earth, but
lives on far away, without visible symbol,
woven into the stuff of other men’s lives.

This tablet was installed, prior to the opening of the Gallery, be-
tween the then two free standing pillars in the lobby, facing the
Constitution Avenue entrance of the Gallery. The bas-relief portrait
was executed by Jo Davidson. The cost of the work was contributed
by The A. W. Mellion Educational and Charitable Trust.

COMMEMORATIVE TABLET ON THE ERECTION OF THE BUILDING

Also prior to the opening of the Gallery, the Board authorized,
and there was installed in the building, a bronze tablet recording
the history of the erection of the building, with the names of the
donor and others who rendered valuable aid toward the completion
of the Gallery project.

MEMORIAL PANELS TO BENEFACTORS OF THE NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

At the annual meeting of the Board, held February 10, 1941, the
Board set aside the four marble panels on the east and west walls
44 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

of the Constitution Avenue entrance lobby for the names of impor-
tant donors to the Gallery, and arranged for the carving at the top
of one of the panels the words, “Principal Benefactors of the
National Gallery of Art,” and beneath, the names “Andrew William
Mellon” and “Samuel Henry Kress.” The Board further authorized
having such names carved in future as may be authorized by it. The
carving authorized by the Board was completed before the opening
of the Gallery.

AUDIT OF PRIVATE FUNDS OF THE GALLERY

An audit has been made of the private funds of the National
Gallery of Art for the year ended June 30, 1941, by Price, Water-
house & Co., a nationally known firm of public accountants, and the
certificate of that company on its examination of the accounting
records maintained for such funds has been submitted to the Gal-
lery. The financial statement referred to above is attached to this
report, as exhibit E (not printed).

Respectfully submitted.

F. L. Bexrn, Vice President.

Dr. C. G. Axzor,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

APPENDIX 3
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS

Sm: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activ-
ities of the National Collection of Fine Arts for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1941:

Two bequests were received, namely, $5,000 from the Cornelia Liv-
ingston Pell Estate of New York, and $10,000 from the Julia D.
Strong Estate of Washington, D. C.

Several proffered gifts of etchings, miniatures, and paintings have
been deposited here to be passed upon by the Smithsonian Art
Commission in December 1941.

Eight special exhibitions were held in the foyer involving the
installation of over 900 specimens. Hight special Graphic Arts
exhibits were shown in the lobby because of alterations in the
Smithsonian Building.

Three paintings were restored for the Comptroller of the Currency,
Treasury Department: “Portrait of Charles G. Dawes,” by Zorn,
“Portrait of Henry W. Cannon,” by T. W. Wood, and “Portrait
of John Jay Knox,” by Eastman Johnson.

Illustrated lectures were delivered by Mr. Tolman, the Acting
Director, before the American Association of University Women
on January 380, 1941, and before a group of young Italian art lovers
at the Ambassador Hotel on February 19, 1941.

APPROPRIATIONS

For the administration of the National Collection of Fine Arts
by the Smithsonian Institution, including compensation of necessary
employees, purchase of books of reference and periodicals, traveling
expenses, uniforms for guards, and necessary incidental expenses,
$41,715 was appropriated, of which $32,006.84 was expended for the
care and maintenance of the Freer Gallery of Art, a unit of the
National Collection of Fine Arts, and $1,585 for the salary for 11
months of one clerk in the Smithsonian Institution. The balance
of $8,123.16 was spent for the care and upkeep of the National Col-
lection of Fine Arts, nearly all of this sum being required for the
payment of salaries, traveling expenses, books, periodicals, and
necessary disbursements for the care of the collection.

45
46 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

THE SMITHSONIAN ART COMMISSION

The twentieth annual meeting of the Smithsonian Art Commis.
sion was held on December 3, 1940. The members met at 10:30 in
the Natural History Building, where, as the advisory committee on
the acceptance of works of art which had been submitted during
the year, they accepted the following :

“Sunny Slopes,” by Gardner Symons (1863-1930). Gift of Mrs. Louis Betts,
formerly Mrs. Gardner Symons.

“Portrait of George Fuller (1822-1884),” and “Self Portrait,” by William
Baxter Closson (1848-1926). Gift of Mrs. William Baxter Closson.

“Portrait of Dr. William H. Holmes (1846—-1933),” by Nicholas R. Brewer
(1857- ). Gift of Mrs. Nicholas Webster, daughter of DeLancey Gill.

After a visit to the National Gallery of Art building, then almost
completed, the members assembled in the regents’ room in the
Smithsonian Building for the further proceedings, the meeting being
called to order by the Chairman, Mr. Borie, at 12:30.

The members present were: Charles L. Borie, Jr., chairman; Frank
Jewett Mather, Jr., vice chairman; Dr. Charles G. Abbot (ex officio),
secretary; and Louis Ayres, Gifford Beal, Gilmore D. Clarke, David
EK. Finley, James E. Fraser, Frederick P. Keppel, John E. Lodge,
Paul Manship, Edward W. Redfield, and Mahonri M. Young.
Ruel P. Tolman, curator of the division of graphic arts in the United
States National Museum and acting director of the National Col-
lection of Fine Arts, was also present.

The following resolutions on the death of Mr. McClellan were
submitted and adopted:

Whereas, the Smithsonian Art Commission has learned of the death on
November 30, 1940, of Col. George B. McClellan, a member of this Commission
since 1931; therefore be it

Resolved, That the Commission desires to record its sincere sorrow at the
loss of Mr. McClellan, who as a man and a collector had the respect of the
entire Commission. His advice and suggestions were always timely and valu-
able, and as a friend he will be deeply missed.

Resolved, That these resolutions be spread upon the records of the Com-
mission, and that the Secretary of the Commission be requested to convey this
action to the family of Mr. McClellan with an expression of our deepest sympathy
in their bereavement.

A set of rules for the National Portrait Gallery, prepared by Mr.
McClellan, chairman of the executive committee, was submitted.
Professor Mather offered an amendment to rule 3 which was accepted.
By motion, the Commission adopted the entire set of rules as
amended, subject to any later modifications that may be made. They
read:

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 47

SUGGESTED RULES FOR THE ADMISSION OF PORTRAITS TO THE NATIONAL PORTRAIT
GALLERY PREDICATED ON THOSE OF THE BRITISH NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY

1. Admission of a portrait to the Gallery shall be based primarily on the
celebrity of its subject rather than on its artistic merit. Such celebrity shall
have been acquired from the subject’s contribution to the history or development
of the United States regardless of his or her opinions, words, or deeds.

2. No portrait of any living person shall be admitted to the Gallery unless
such portrait is that of one of a group of persons at least a majority of whom
are dead.

3. No portrait of any person dead less than 20 years shall be admitted to
the Gallery except by unanimous vote by individual ballot of those present at
a meeting of the Commission.

4. No gift or bequest shall be accepted or portrait purchased except by a
three-fourths vote of the members present at the meeting of the Commission.

The Commission recommended to the Board of Regents the re-
election of John E. Lodge, David E. Finley, Edward W. Redfield,
and Paul Manship.

The following officers were reelected for the ensuing year: Charles
L. Borie, Jr., chairman; Frank Jewett Mather, Jr., vice chairman,
and Dr. Charles G. Abbot, secretary.

The following were elected members of the executive committee
for the ensuing year: Herbert Adams, Gilmore D. Clarke, John E.
Lodge. Charles L. Borie, Jr., as chairman of the Commission, and
Dr. Charles G. Abbot, as secretary of the Commission, are ex-officic
members of the executive committee.

The chairman stated that as the competition for the plans for
the Smithsonian Gallery of Art had come to an end and no funds
had been obtained for further work on the project, there was nothing
to report.

Mr. Clarke and the Secretary also addressed the Commission in
regard to the activities connected with the recent competition for
the plans for the Gallery, but no action was taken, although the
members expressed the feeling that the Commission was ready to take
active steps whenever funds were available to advance the project.

THE CATHERINE WALDEN MYER FUND

Three miniatures were acquired from. the fund established through
the bequest of the late Catherine Walden Myer, as follows:

22. “Portrait of a Young Man,” by Moses B. Russell; from Miss Alice G.
Rogers, Old Lyme, Conn.

23. “Le Chevalier Ed. van Cockelberghe de Dulzele of Belgium,” by an
unknown artist; from Samuel M. Crockett, Lynn, Mass.

24. “Antoinette Bates,’ by Thomas Sully; from Mrs. Eva Wilson Chadbourne.
Washington, D. C.
48 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

LOANS ACCEPTED

Two oil paintings, “My Mother” and “The Dawn,” by E. Hodgson
Smart, were lent by the artist.

Three pastels, “The Cliffs Aflame,” “Portrait (Patsy),” and “Sun-
shine and Pine Needles,” and seven oil paintings, “Looking Far
Out,” “The Woodland Way,” “The Butterfly Dance,” “Joyous Child-
hood,” “The Red Barn,” “Peonies,” and “Springtime,” by William
Baxter Closson, were lent by the artist’s widow.

LOANS TO OTHER MUSEUMS AND ORGANIZATIONS

The following five paintings were lent to the Carnegie Institute,
Pittsburgh, Pa., for a Survey of American Painting from October
24 through December 15, 1940: “Sunset, Navarro Ridge, California
Coast,” by Ralph A. Blakelock; “Cliffs of the Upper Colorado
River, Wyoming Territory,” by Thomas Moran; “Moonlight,” by
Albert P. Ryder; “Fired On,” by Frederic Remington, and “Visit
of Nicodemus to Christ,” by John La Farge. (Returned January
7, 1941.)

Two paintings, “The Cup of Death,” by Elihu Vedder, and
“Christ Before Pilate,” by Walter Beck, were lent to the Howard
University Gallery of Art, Washington, D. C., to be included in an
exhibition of Christian Art in connection with the twenty-fourth
annual convocation of the School of Religion from November 12 to
December 28, 1940. (Returned January 9, 1941.)

One painting, “Sheepyard—Moonlight,” by Horatio Walker, was
lent to The Art Gallery of Toronto, Canada, for an exhibition of two
Canadian painters, Horatio Walker and Tom Thomson. The paint-
ing was also shown in the National Gallery of Canada at Ottawa
and the Art Association at Montreal. (Returned April 28, 1941.)

WITHDRAWALS BY OWNERS

Two portraits in pastel, by James Sharples (c.1751-1811), of Gen.
James Miles Hughes (1756-1802), original member of the Society
of the Cincinnati, and Mrs. James Miles Hughes, his wife, were
withdrawn by the owner, Mme. Florian Vurpillot, on November 5,
1940.

Marble bust of Samuel Gompers (1856-1924), by Moses W. Dykaar
(1884-1933), was withdrawn by the owner, The American Federation
of Labor, to be exhibited at the Department of Labor, on November
15, 1940.

An oil painting, “My Mother,” by E. Hodgson Smart, was with-
drawn by the owner, Mr. Smart, on November 30, 1940.

A pastel, “Sunshine and Pine Needles,” by William Baxter Closson
(1848-1926), was withdrawn by the owner, Mrs. William Baxter

|

1
|

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 49

Closson, and presented to Mr. and Mrs. H. D. Drake, Washington,
D. C., on May 5, 1941.

An oil painting, “The Butterfly Dance,” by William Baxter Clos-
son (1848-1926), was withdrawn by the owner, Mrs. William Baxter
Closson, and presented to Miss Elizabeth Peet, Washington, D. C., on
May 5, 1941.

LOANS RETURNED

An oil painting, “Portrait of Mary Hopkinson (wife of Dr. John
Morgan),” by Benjamin West, lent to the Masterpieces of Art
Exhibition at the New York World’s Fair, 1940, was returned
September 17, 1940.

A bronze statue of Lincoln, by Augustus Saint Gaudens, lent with
the consent of the owners, the estate of Mrs. John Hay, to the New
York World’s Fair for exhibition in the Illinois Building, was
returned November 14, 1940.

THE NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS REFERENCE LIBRARY

A total of 180 publications, including 146 acquired by purchase
and 5 by transfer, were accessioned during the year.

THE HENRY WARD RANGER FUND

The following two paintings, purchased by the council of the
National Academy of Design from the fund provided by the Henry
Ward Ranger bequest, were recalled for action on the part of the
Smithsonian Art Commission, in accordance with the provision in
the Ranger bequest. The Smithsonian Art Commission decided not
to accept the paintings and they were returned to become the absolute
property of the museums to which they were originally assigned.

“The Offering,” by Charles W. Hawthorne, N. A. (1872-1930), assigned to
the Cleveland Museum of Art, Cleveland, Ohio, June 12, 1931.

“Gleam on Hilltops,” by Gardner Symons, N. A. (1863-1930), assigned io the
Montclair Art Association, Montclair, N. J., June 2, 1922.

SPECIAL EXHIBITIONS

The following exhibitions were held:

October 8 to 25, 1940.—Special exhibition of 48 pastels, drawings,
and lithographs by Lily E. Smulders.

November 1 to 24, 1940—The Sixth Annual Metropolitan State
Art Contest, 1940, under the auspices of the Department of Fine
Arts of the District of Columbia Federation of Women’s Clubs.
There were 289 exhibits consisting of paintings, sculpture, and prints
by 158 artists.

December 1, 1940, to January 1, 1941.—Special exhibition of the
work of William Baxter Closson (1848-1926) consisting of 94 oils,
50 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

40 pastels, 21 water colors, 112 wood engravings, intaglio and relief
prints by the Closson method with tools and necessary materials,
and also medals which had been awarded to him.

January 8 to 29, 1941.—Special exhibition by the National Society
of Pastelists. There were 111 pastels by 17 artists.

February 1 to 26, 1941.—Special exhibition of 22 water colors
and 21 pastels by Ethel H. Hagen.

May 15 to 19, 1941.—Special exhibition of 42 paintings by Alejan-
dro Pardinas under the patronage of His Excellency the Cuban
Ambassador.

June 2 to 15, 1941.—Special exhibition of 39 caricatures by Antonio
Sotomayor under the patronage of His Excellency the Bolivian
Minister.

June 3 to 30, 1941.—Special memorial exhibition of 17 color prints
and 50 black and white prints by Bertha E. Jaques (1863-1941).

PUBLICATIONS

ToLMAN, R. P. Report on the National Collection of Fine Arts for the year
ended June 30, 1940. Appendix 3, Report of the Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution for the year ended June 380, 1940, pp. 38-42.

Caratog of American and European paintings in the Gellatly Collection, 20
pp., 11 pls. 1940.

Lopgt, J. E. Report on the Freer Gallery of Art for the year ended June 30,
1940. Appendix 4, Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution
for the year ended June 30, 1940, pp. 43-48.

Respectfully submitted.
R. P. Totman, Acting Director.
Dr. C. G. Assor,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 4
REPORT ON THE FREER GALLERY OF ART

Sir: I have the honor to submit the twenty-first annual report on the
Freer Gallery of Art for the year ended June 30, 1941.

THE COLLECTIONS

Additions to the collections by purchase are as follows:

40.11.
a-b.

40.23.

41.1.

41.6.

41.8.

BRONZE

Chinese, late Shang dynasty, twelfth century B. C. A ceremonial cov-
ered vessel of the type yu. Outside, fairly even patination in shades
of gray green with flecks of cuprite; inside, cuprite, azurite, and
malachite with areas of original metal; little incrustation; cast in-
scription of one character. 0.361 x 0.269 over all.

Chinese, late Chou dynasty, sixth-third century B. C. A quadruped,
its surface almost entirely covered with linear and countersunk
naturalistic and decorative designs. Smooth, gray-green patina with
scattered incrustations of green and blue. Vent in the belly. 0.115 x
0.182 over all. (Illustrated.)

Chinese, late Chou dynasty, fourth century B. C., or earlier. From
Chang-sha. A mirror, patinated in shades of gray with slight incrusta-
tions of malachite and rust on the obverse; five long-necked birds in
linear relief against a background of cur] and feather design on the
reverse. Diameter: 0.164. (Illustrated.)

Chinese, late Chou dynasty, fifth-fourth century B. C. A garment
hook. Sheathed with silver, gilded and ornamented with inlaid tur-
quoise and other stones; engraved designs showing the silver on the
back; malachite incrustations. Carved wood stand. Length: 0.221.

Chinese, Shang dynasty, fourteenth-twelfth century B. C. A ceremonial
vessel of the type tui (or chiu). Gray-green patination with scattered
spots of green inside and out; malachite and azurite incrustations on
the bottom. Cast inscription of two characters. 0.140 x 0.211 over all.

JADE

Chinese, early Chou dynasty or earlier, twelfth century B. C. A cere-
monial blade of mottled gray-green and gray-white nephrite. 0.266 x
0.103 over all.

51
44057 7—42——5
52

41.4,

41.5,

40.16.

40.19.

40.17.
40.21.
40.12-
40.13.
12.
13.
40.14—
40.15.
14.
15.
40.18.

40.20.

41.2.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941
JADE AND BRONZE

Chinese, Shang dynasty, twelfth century B. ©. A ceremonial imple-
ment: the blade of mottled gray-brown and white nephrite mounted
in bronze closely inlaid with turquoise; socket for vertical shafting ;
seattered malachite incrustations. Length: 0.213.

Chinese, Shang dynasty, twelfth century B. ©. A ceremonial weapon
of the type ko: the blade of mottled white nephrite, the tang of
bronze ornamented with turquoise inlay; malachite incrustations.
0.418 x 0.223 over all.

MANUSCRIPTS

Arabic (Persia), thirteenth-fourteenth century. A book bound in
tooled brown leather (repaired): Juz’ XVII of the Qur’dn. Text in
thulth script on 144 paper leaves, three lines toa page, with interlinear
‘Persian translation in naskhi script. Illuminated pages, chapter
headings and marginal ornaments. 0.277 x 0.178 (single leaf).
(Illustrated. )

Arabic (Persia?), fourteenth century. An illuminated frontispiece
from an unidentified book. Naskhi script in white on a gold ground;
floral scrolls in gold on dark blue and light green; gold borders.
Paper: 0.393 x 0.290; illumination: 0.276 x 0.214.

PAINTING

Indian, Mughal-Rajput, seventeenth centry. A woman _ standing.
In color and gold on paper. 0.127 x 0.063.

Indian, Rajput (Deccan), early seventeenth century. A woman receiv-
ing travelers at the door of a house. In opaque color (somewhat
worn) on paper. 0.122 x 0.222.

Persian, Mongol (ll-Khin) period, early fourteenth century. Two
additional illustrations belonging to our Shahndmah ms. 30.1, painted
in colors, silver (darkened), black and gold on paper.

Siyawush attended by Rustam receiving the homage of Garsiwaz.
0.095 x 0.115.

Bizhan in bonds before Afrasiyab. 0.092 x 0.115.

Persian, Mongol (Il-Khan) period, early 14th century. Two illus-
trations from a Shahndmah, painted in colors, gold and black on
paper.

Piran presents young Khusraw to Afrasiyfib. 0.044 x 0.083.

Prisoners of war brought before Shah Kawi. 0.055 x 0.121.

Persian, sixteenth-seventeenth century. A group of dervishes. Line
drawing in black, red, and blue inks; lightly tinted. 0.163 x 0.100.

Persian, Timurid, fifteenth century. An illustration on a leaf from a
Shahnaémah: Shih Kawis and Kai Khusraw approach the sacred
fire. Painted in colors and gold on paper. 0.095 x 0.160.

PORCELAIN AND POTTERY
Chinese, K‘ang Msi period, seventeenth-eighteenth century. A porce-

lain flask, covered with a luminous, pale green glaze. Date mark
in blue enamel under the foot. Height, 0.210.
Secretary's Report, 1941.—Appendix 4 PLATE 3

40.22

Sn ee

ee ee a

en

40.16

SOME RECENT ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTION OF THE FREER GALLERY OF ART.
Secretary's Report, 1941.—Appendix 4 PLATE 4

41.1

40.23

SOME RECENT ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTION OF THE FREER GALLERY OF ART

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 53

41.7. Chinese, Sung dynasty. Incense burner. Soft paste pottery covered
with a glossy, celadon blue glaze. 0.095 x 0.110 over all.

40.22. Persian, Kishan, early fourteenth century. Bowl, of a soft sandy
body ; the decoration painted in gold luster on a white ground.
0.083 x 0.200. (Illustrated.)

The work of the curatorial staff has been devoted to the study and
recording of the new acquisitions listed above, and to other Arabic,
Armenian, Chinese, East Indian, Japanese, Persian, and Syrian art
objects and manuscripts either already in the collection or submitted
for purchase. Other Chinese, Japanese, Arabic, Persian, European,
and American objects were sent or brought to the Director by their
owners for information as to identity, provenance, quality, date, or
inscriptions. In all, 693 objects and 180 photographs of objects were
so submitted, and written or oral reports upon them were made to
the institutions or private owners requesting this service. Written
translations of 24 inscriptions in oriental languages were made upon
request, several bibliographies compiled, articles and reviews written,
and several Gallery publications revised.

Kighty-four changes were made in exhibition as follows:
(Chinese pronze and jade= ie 22 8
CHINE SO 52 CC a ee ee ee ee
Whinesesmarbles 222 ols ees os ae BS

OHIMESE ULI GAT eee ee en ee I eS ee eee
OTE TTV SETH GU Ty ae a a ee

Somhuy

Repairs, etc., to the collection were as follows:

PTET EC OMES TILT) Gin eee ee ee ee es ae
@hinese.panel spalnting ses see a ee
Chinese escrolls Dain bil Onsen ae a ee ee ee ee ee ees
IRCLSIN TIA DOULCEY ee een ls 2 SR ED ee ee
Mans blueprints#mountede esse tye Pehibe)_ 2) aera eee eee

wn mo ore

=

ATTENDANCE

The Gallery has been open to the public every day from 9 until
4:30 o’clock, with the exception of Mondays, Christmas Day, and
New Year’s Day.

The total attendance of visitors coming in at the main entrance
was 111,656. One hundred and twenty-eight other visitors on Mon-
days make the grand total 111,784. The total attendance for week
days, exclusive of Mondays, was 79,246; Sundays 32,410. The aver-
age week-day attendance was 305; the average Sunday attendance,
623. The highest monthly attendance was, as usual, in April, with
14,280 visitors; the lowest in January, with 5,901.
54 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

There were 1,369 visitors to the main office during the year. The
purposes of their visits were as follows:

Hor general information=222 2) eee eee ee eee 186
To: see: .objects°in: storage: 202) woe ee BES oe ee 370
Rar? Eastern ‘paintings22 22222. ss Se eee ete 50
Near Hastern=paintingssand) manuscripts?) 3322 eee 19
East Indian paintings and manuscripts__-_-___ CAN SULA Sa lee Se a 3
American) paintings 23 2a 2k oe ee ee ee ee 60
Wiligtlent prints) se ee eee en a ae ha ee LN 7
American’; potten yee wee tele ae ae ee eee 5
Oriental pottery, jade, bronzes, and sculpture_______-_-___-______ 133
Syrian, Arabicvandshryptians lasses sso eee eee 11
By Zan itin ©) 20D ij OC ts ee ae ae a a ee eee Ue an Se 4
Washington Manuscript se. ese ees Se ee Se ee 78
Tol'read in the: brary’. oo eae ee eee ee ae ee eee 172
To make tracings and sketches from library books__--_----_~_ asonely OER Se 6
To see, the! DulLdine andsinstallationa= sees = see nee eee 3
To obtain permission to photograph or sketech_~-_---____________--_-__ By
TOMS Ub UTE OL CCUS HOT SX ANE TN UE) Oa ae ee 173
To. See-membershof the: stati 23 2s a ee eee 376
To) see the exhibition galleries on) Mondays222*2s"s ssa eee eee 49
To examine or purchase photographs=—=22s")2=)2=))222.2 292

LECTURES AND DOCENT SERVICE

A 6 weeks’ lecture course in Chinese and Japanese art was given
by A. G. Wenley in the Far Eastern Institute held at the Harvard
University Summer School of 1940 under the auspices of the Ameri-
can Council of Learned Societies.

At the Freer Gallery 6 illustrated lectures were given in the audi-
torium (total attendance, 98); 6 study groups were held in a study
room (total attendance, 80) ; and 10 groups were given docent service
in exhibition galleries (total attendance, 269). The total number
of persons receiving instruction at their own request was 447.

PERSONNEL

February 18, 1941, William R. B. Acker returned from Holland,
having taken his Ph. D. cwm laude in Chinese at the University of
Leyden.

September 3, 1940, Oliver W. Puckett reported for duty as watch-
man.

June 30, 1941, David H. Zirkle, watchman, who had been at the

Gallery for 16 years, was retired with a record of the most faithful
and efficient service.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 55

October 10, 1940-June 18, 1941, Grace T. Whitney worked inter-
mittently at the Gallery on the translation of Persian texts.

October 12, 1940, Elizabeth Hill, librarian, was married to Wilson
R. Maltby, a physicist in the Naval Ordnance Laboratory at the
U.S. Navy Yard.

Respectfully submitted.

J. E. Lover, Director.
Dr. C. G. Axsor,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 5
REPORT ON THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

Sm: I have the honor to submit the following report on the field
researches, office work, and other operations of the Bureau of Ameri-
can Ethnology during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1941, conducted
in accordance with the act of Congress of April 18, 1940, which
provides “* * * for continuing ethnological researches among the
American Indians and the natives of Hawaii and the excavation and
preservation of archeologic remains. * * *”

SYSTEMATIC RESEARCHES

M. W. Stirling, Chief of the Bureau, left Washington on Decem-
ber 29 to continue his archeological excavations in southern Mexico.
Intensive excavations were begun at the site of Cerro de las Mesas
on the Rio Blanco in the state of Veracruz, this site having been
visited the preceding season. In addition, another expedition was
made to the site of Izapa in the southwestern part of the state of
Chiapas. As in the 2 preceding years, the work was undertaken in
cooperation with the National Geographic Society. Dr. Philip
Drucker again accompanied Mr. Stirling as assistant archeologist.

At Cerro de las Mesas 20 carved stone monuments were unearthed
and photographed, several mounds were cross-sectioned, and a num-
ber of stratigraphic trenches dug on various sections of the site.
The stratigraphic work proved unusually successful and extends the
cultural column for this part of Veracruz to a much later date than
did the excavations at Tres Zapotes. Two initial series dates were
deciphered at Cerro de las Mesas, one being in the 1st katun, the other
in the 4th katun, of baktun 9. Another stone monument at this site
was of considerable interest because of its similarity to the famous
Tuxtla statuette. Large quantities of jade were found including one
cache containing 782 specimens.

At Izapa a large number of stelae, most of them with altars, were
excavated and photographed. This site is important because of its
location, which makes it an interesting link between the west coast
of Guatemala and the isthmian region of southern Mexico.

At the conclusion of the work at Cerro de las Mesas at the end
of April, the collections were brought to Mexico City where Dr.
Drucker remained to work with them.

56

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 57

During the year Dr. John R. Swanton, ethnologist, employed most
of his time in completing an extensive report on the Indians of the
Southeast, upon which work had been done during several past
years, and which covers about 1,500 typewritten pages. This is now
ready for final copy and editing.

The bulletin entitled “Source Material on the Ethnology and His-
tory of the Caddo Indians,” upon which he was at work last year
is now in galley proof. It will cover about 350 printed pages. A
brief contribution by Dr. Swanton entitled “The Quipu and Peruvian
Civilization” has been accepted for publication in a forthcoming
bulletin of anthropological papers and is now in the hands of the
printer.

Early in the year the bulletin prepared by Dr. Swanton entitled
“Linguistic Material from the Tribes of Southern Texas and North-
eastern Mexico,” was completed and distributed. It contains all of
the fragments of the Coahuiltecan, Karankawan, and Tamaulipecan
tongues known to be in existence, and covers 145 pages.

Considerable time has also been devoted by Dr. Swanton to answer-
ing letters, including particularly extension of advice regarding the
placing of markers along the route pursued by Hernando de Soto
and work for the United States Board on Geographical Names.

At the beginning of the fiscal year Dr. John P. Harrington, eth-
nologist, was engaged in working over Navaho materials and those
of the closely related Tlingit language of Alaska. Recent field
studies had proved that something like 200 words of Navaho and
Tlingit are almost the same despite the 2,000-mile separation of the
two languages. Sometimes the same word was found to be applied
to two very different organisms; for instance, what is crab apple in
the north is cactus in the south (spininess being the trait which these
two plants evidently have in common), and jack pine in the north
was found to be juniper in the south.

Tlingit was copiously recorded in southeastern Alaska, and the
Ugalenz language, related to the Tlingit and to the Navaho, was
discovered and studied. The Ugalenz formerly occupied 350 miles
of southeastern Alaska coast, from Prince William Sound in the
west to Latuya Bay in the east.

The origin of the name Sitka, the old Russian capital of Alaska,
was discovered. The name means “On the oceanward side of Bara-
nov Island.” Shee is the name of Baranov Island, and Sitka is
situated on its oceanward side.

Leaving in August for Gallup, N. Mex., Dr. Harrington worked
on many parts of the Navaho Reservation, finding a surprising uni-
formity in dialect. This uniformity must have arisen from a jumb-
ling together of earlier Navaho dialects when the Navahos were in
58 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

captivity in eastern New Mexico in 1867 and 1868. During this
captivity, dialects were evidently jostled together, and resettlement
by the United States Government further dislocated them.

Field work during the latter part of the summer was done with
more than 10 of the leading Navaho interpreters. In a tribe of more
than 45,000 population, there are many educated speakers, including
university graduates, and with them were explored special features
of the language which could not have been obtained from the tongues
of poor and uneducated tribes without much greater expenditure of
time.

The Navaho language was found to have only 4 vowels and 34
consonants, making it a true consonantal language. The sounds of
Navaho were found to be almost identical with those of the other
languages of the Southwest, for instance, with those of the neighbor-
ing Tewa language. Also many words were found to be the same as
in Tewa. Navaho was found to have, for practical purposes, a
high and a low tone, and a falling and rising tone only on long
vowels and diphthongs. One of the most peculiar developments
to be found in any language is the hardening in Navaho of almost
any consonant by placing a sound of German ch after it if it is
voiceless, and of open g (gh) after it if it is voiced. There are also
traces of a hardening of | to n, and the lke.

Returning to Washington late in the fall, Dr. Harrington continued
his study of the Navaho, until it now constitutes a finished manuscript
of more than 1,200 pages. Throughout the work there has been a
constant revelation that Navaho and related languages are not as
unlike other American Indian languages as has been thought by early
vocabulary makers and classifiers.

At the beginning of the fiscal year, July 1, 1940, Dr. Frank H. H.
Roberts, Jr., was engaged in a continuation of excavations at the Lin-
denmeier site, a former Folsom camping ground, in northern Color-
ado. From August 1 to 31 he was on leave and during that period, in
accord with the Smithsonian Institution’s policy of cooperation with
other scientific organizations, directed the excavation program of the
advanced students at the University of New Mexico’s Chaco Canyon
Research Station.

From Chaco Canyon, N. Mex., Dr. Roberts went to Boulder City,
Nev., to inspect a large cave located in the lower end of the Grand
Canyon of the Colorado River at the upper reaches of Lake Mead.
The trip to the cave was made by motorboat from Pierce’s Ferry in
company with officials of the National Park Service’s Boulder Dam
Recreational Area. Rampart Cave is situated in the south wall of
the canyon at the top of a steep talus 600 feet above the present water
level. It is of unusual interest because of its extensive deposits of
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 59

sloth remains and of the bones from large creatures that preyed on
the sloth, and the possibility that it may provide evidence of human
contemporaneity with such extinct animal forms in that area. Plans
and methods for a program of excavation were discussed and various
suggestions were made concerning the advisability of providing an
exhibit in situ for visitors to the Boulder Dam Recreational Area.

From Boulder Dam, Dr. Roberts returned to the Lindenmeier site
where he continued his investigations until the end of September when
the project was brought to a close. During the six seasons of inten-
sive exploration of this Folsom site and the adjacent area much new
and valuable information on the subject of early occupation of North
America was obtained. From the large series of specimens collected
it will be possible to draw comprehensive conclusions relative to the
material culture and economic status of the aboriginal peoples inhabit-
ing that portion of the country during the closing days of the last Ice
Age, and in general to broaden the knowledge on early stages in New
World history.

Dr. Roberts returned to Washington in October. He spent the
autumn and winter months working on the material from the Linden-
meier site, preparing the manuscript for his report on the investiga-
tions there, in writing short articles for publication in various scien-
tific journals, in identifying numerous archeological specimens sent in
from all parts of the country by interested amateurs, and in furnishing
information on many phases of New World archeology. Plans and
preparations were made for an expedition to the Coclé region in the
province of Penonome, Panama, but, because of the last-minute devel-
opment of an insuperable combination of adverse circumstances, the
proposed investigations had to be abandoned.

On May 15, 1941, Dr. Roberts went to Bedford, Va., to initiate exca-
vations at the Mons site near the Peaks of Otter where the late D. I.
Bushnell, Jr., had found artifacts suggestive of a much earlier aborig-
inal occupation of the area than previously had been supposed. Con-
struction work on the Blue Ridge Parkway had destroyed much of the
site, but a series of test trenches dug in various undisturbed remnants
established the fact that it had once been an Indian camping place,
possibly a village site of late protohistoric times. However, there was
no evidence of its having been used by older groups comparable to the
early hunting peoples of the western plains.

On the completion of the work at the Mons site, Dr. Roberts returned
to Washington and on June 11 left for San Jon, N. Mex. Camp was
established on the rim of the Staked Plains 1014 miles south of that
town and excavations were started at a site where material suggestive
of another phase of early man in North America, the so-called Yuma,
has been found. The location is in a shallow Hake that appears to
60 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

have been an old, filled-in lake bed. Heavy erosion in recent years
started a series of ravines and gullies and exposed extensive deposits
of bones. Stone implements found near some of these outcroppings
indicate the possibility that many of the creatures were killed by
aboriginal hunters and that an association of man-made objects and
bones from extinct species of animals can be established. Bison,
camel, and mammoth bones, as well as those from smaller and as yet
unidentified mammals, occur in the site. Material in the fill in the
old lake bed probably can be correlated with other geologic phenomena
of established age. Hence, the determination of contemporaneity be-
tween the artifacts, animal remains, and lake deposits would constitute
an important addition to the evidence on early occupation in the New
World. There is also a possibility that the site may contribute infor-
mation on the subject of relationships between some of the different
older cultural remains. At the close of the fiscal year Dr. Roberts and
his party were well started on the problem of the San Jon site.

The beginning of the fiscal year found Dr. Julian H. Steward,
anthropoligist, in British Columbia completing researches on abo-
riginal Carrier Indian ethnography and on ecological aspects of
recent changes in Carrier socio-economic culture at Fort St. James and
neighboring villages. While here a collection was made of more than
100 Carrier specimens of material culture, and of more than 50 ethno-
botanical specimens. At this time several pit-lodge sites were ex-
amined. From here Dr. Steward proceeded to Alaska, and then by
plane from Ketchikan to an island off the coast where he investigated
a burial site reported by Commander F. A. Zeusler, of the Coast Guard,
and Ranger Lloyd Bransford, of the United States Forest Service.
Accompanied by the latter, he procured specimens of several skeletons,
fragments of carved burial boxes and other materials, and a mummified
body in excellent preservation. The body was dressed in buckskin,
wrapped in a cedar mat, and deposited ina cedar box. All specimens
were brought back by plane to Ketchikan and shipped to the Smith-
sonian Institution. From Alaska Dr. Steward went to Berkeley,
Calif., to hold consultations on the Handbook of South American In-
dians, which is being prepared for the Smithsonian Institution.
From there he proceeded to Albuquerque and Chaco Canyon, N. Mex.,
for further consultations and to attend the Coronado Quatrocenten-
nial and the Chaco conference, finally arriving in Washington late in
August.

The remainder of the year was devoted mainly to editorial and or-
ganizational work on the Handbook of South American Indians, and
work on the project was actually initiated, $6,000 having been made
available for this purpose by special appropriation for cooperation
with the American republics through the Department of State’s Inter-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 61

departmental Committee. The collaboration of 33 contributors, each
a specialist in some phase of South American anthropology, was ar-
ranged. Work accomplished during the year included completion of
manuscripts by Dr. Robert H. Lowie and Dr. Alfred Métraux totaling
more than 150,000 words; completion of a new base map drawn from
the American Geographical Society’s 1: 1,000,000 sheets, and of four
new maps showing respectively the vegetation, climates, physical fea-
tures, and topography of South America; compilation of a preliminary
bibliography of near!y 2,000 items; substantial progress on many other
manuscripts; and integration of the Handbook plan with research
activities of many other institutions in different countries. Arrange-
ment was made to engage the services of Dr. Métraux on full-time
basis as assistant editor in the fiscal year 1941-42. The services of a
secretary were had for the Handbook during three months of 1941.

During the fall Dr. Steward acted as chairman of the Program
Committee of the American Anthropological Association, arranging
the program for the Christmas meetings in Philadelphia. He also
served on the Committee on Latin American Anthropology of the
National Research Council and accepted membership on the Scientific
Advisory Committee of the Pan American Trade Committee.

The following scientific papers were published: Archeological Re-
connaissance of Southern Utah, Bur. Amer. Ethnol. Bull. 128, pp.
275-356; Nevada Shoshone, in Univ. California Culture Element Dis-
tributions; several short papers on the Carrier Indians; a description
of the Handbook of South American Indians for the Boletin Biblio-
grafico de Antropologia Americana. An article was prepared for
American Antiquity on The Direct Historic Approach to Archeology.

During the fiscal year Dr. Henry B. Collins, Jr., ethnologist, con-
tinued with the study and description of archeological collections from
prehistoric and protohistoric Eskimo village sites in the vicinity of
Bering Strait. Material was also assembled for a paper on the origin
and antiquity of the Eskimo race and culture in relation to the larger
question of the original entry of man into America.

At the request of the Peabody Museum of American Archaeology
and Ethnology of Harvard University, Dr. Collins made two trips to
Cambridge to assist in the identification and selection of materials for
the new Eskimo exhibit being planned by Donald Scott, director of the
Museum, and his assistant, Frederick G. Pleasants.

Dr. Collins also served as collaborator and technical adviser for
Erpi Classroom Films, Inc., in connection with production of a motion-
picture record of Eskimo life on Nunivak Island, Alaska, to be made
by Amos Burg, explorer and photographer. The film, designed for
use in the elementary schools, will provide an authentic picture of the
62 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

daily life and activities of the Nunivagmiut, who have retained more
of their native culture than any other coastal-group Eskimo in Alaska.

During July 1940 Dr. William N. Fenton, associate anthropologist,
was engaged in field work among the Senecas of Allegany Reserva-
tion, N. Y. While here he delivered the St. Lawrence University
series of lectures at the Allegany School of Natural History. The
lectures on the Iroquoian Peoples of the Northeast covered prehis-
toric cultures of the area, the adjustment of the Iroquois to their
environment, their society and government, and their religious sys-
tem. At the Six Nations Reserve on Grand River, Ontario, Canada,
August 9 to September 1, the yearly cycle of ceremonies that are
currently celebrated at the Onondaga Longhouse were outlined by
Simeon Gibson and the principal speeches that constitute the bulk
of the annual Midwinter Festival were taken in Onondaga text and
translated. This study is an extension of previous investigations
of Seneca ceremonies which Dr. Fenton has published, and it adds
new material on the nature of village bands and their removals,
the function of moieties, the nature of residence after marriage, and
the sororate which was practiced, at least by the Lower Cayugas.
Further assistance was rendered by Deputy Chief Hardy Gibson
with Hewitt’s manuscript on the Requickening Address for installing
chiefs in the Iroquois League, which Dr. Fenton is editing for pub-
lication.

Returning from the field September 15 with 300 photographic
negatives, largely of masks studied at museums in New York and
Ontario together with a series of their manufacture and use in
Troquois fraternities, much time elapsed assembling pictures and
notes and arranging them for study.

A special paper on The Place of the Iroquois in the Prehistory of
America was presented before the Anthropological Society of Wash-
ington; and Dr. Fenton also served as technical adviser for An
Indian League of Nations, which was broadcast. October 27 on
“The World is Yours” radio program.

Work on two new research projects aimed at clearing up prob-
lems previously outlined was begun during the year. While serving
as consultant to the Pennsylvania Historical Commission on arche-
ological matters, Dr. Fenton contacted local historians who are col-
laborating in special phases of a study of Cornplanter’s Senecas on
the upper Allegheny River; and it is planned to publish their find-
ings together with Quaker Mission Journals from 1798 which describe
Indian life and events attending Handsome Lake’s revelations. In
quest of original sources, Dr. Fenton searched the Records of the
Yearly Meeting of Friends of Philadelphia, and visited the libraries
of Haverford and Swarthmore Colleges. In this project he has
had the active help of M. E. Deardorff of Warren, Pa., and C. E.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 63

Congdon of Salamanca, N. Y., who have located and transcribed
other documentary sources.

Iroquois music has long deserved serious study, and with the devel-
opment of modern electric sound-recording apparatus, record making
in the field has become practicable. When the Division of Music
in the Library of Congress furnished the necessary blanks and
apparatus for Dr. Fenton’s trip to the Six Nations Midwinter Fes-
tival, January 10 to February 17, 1941, Dr. Fenton undertook the
task of making the recordings, first at Ohsweken, Ontario, and later
at Quaker Ridge, N. Y. Sixty-two double-face records were made
of samples of social and religious dance songs, and complete runs of
several shamanistic song cycles and the Adoption Rite of the Tutelo
were taken. Informants gave complete texts for all the recordings,
and these, as rewritten after returning to Washington, should prove
helpful to the transcriber. For this purpose the Recording Labora-
tory is furnishing a duplicate set. Because musicologists have ex-
pressed interest in the recordings, several were selected for a proposed
Album of Iroquois Music, which the Library contemplates publishing ;
and in return for the fine cooperation of the Recording Laboratory
and the Division of Music, Dr. Fenton delivered a lecture, Music in
Iroquois Religion and Society, illustrated with slides and records,
as the first of a series by the Archive of American Folk-song. It
was repeated for the Society of Pennsylvania Archaeology at its
annual meeting.

In addition a series of brief informal excursions were made to
Allegany regarding place names and to explore the area that may
be flooded by the proposed Allegheny Reservoir, and to Tonawanda
to collect song texts of the Medicine Society.

Besides a number of book reviews in scientific and historical jour-
nals, Dr. Fenton published two papers in Bureau of American Eth-
nology Bulletin 128—Iroquois Suicide: A Study in the Stability of
a Culture Pattern, and Tonawanda Longhouse Ceremonies: Ninety
Years After Lewis Henry Morgan—and an article, Museum and
Field Studies of Iroquois Masks and Ritualism, which appeared in
the Explorations and Field-work of the Smithsonian Institution in
1940. Dr. Fenton prepared for publication in the Annual Report
of the Smithsonian Institution for 1940, a paper entitled “Masked
Medicine Societies of the Iroquois.”

SPECIAL RESEARCHES

Miss Frances Densmore, a collaborator of the Bureau, continued
her study of Indian music by collecting additional songs, transcribing
these and songs previously recorded, and preparing material for pub-
lication. In August 1940 a trip was made to Wisconsin Dells, Wis.,
64. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

to interview a group of visiting Zui Indians. Songs were obtained
from Falling Star, an Indian born in Zufi, who had lived in the
pueblo most of his life and taken part in the dances. His father
also was a singer and dancer. Falling Star recorded 17 songs, 15
of which were transcribed and submitted to the Bureau. These are
chiefly songs of lay-participants in the Rain Dance and the songs
connected with grinding corn for household use.

Additional data on the peyote cult among the Winnebago were
obtained from a former informant and incorporated in the manuscript
on that tribe.

In October Miss Densmore went to Washington for consultation
on manuscripts awaiting publication. During the winter she tran-
scribed records of 71 Seminole songs, completing the transcriptions
of recordings made in that tribe during the seasons of 1931, 1932, and
1933. It is expected that the book on Seminole music, containing
245 songs, will be completed in the near future.

A paper on A Search for Songs Among the Chitimacha Indians
in Louisiana, submitted in 1933, was rewritten, amplified, and pre-
pared for publication. The Chitimacha is the only tribe visited by
Miss Densmore in which all the songs have been forgotten. Musical
customs were remembered, and several legends were related in which
songs were formerly sung.

In May 1941 Miss Densmore read a paper on The Native Art of
the Chippewa before the Central States Branch of the American
Anthropological Association at the Annual meeting held in
Minneapolis.

At the close of the fiscal year Miss Densmore was in Nebraska, her
special interest being a search for songs that were recorded phono-
graphically by Miss Alice C. Fletcher in the decade prior to 1893
and published in that year by the Peabody Museum of American
Archaeology and Ethnology. If Indians can be found who remem-
ber these songs, they will be recorded again. A comparison of the
two recordings will show the degree of accuracy with which the
songs have been transmitted, and will be important to the subject
of Indian music.

The entire collection of recordings of Indian songs submitted to
the Bureau by Miss Densmore has been transferred to the National
Archives for permanent preservation. These recordings were made
and submitted during the period from 1907 to 1940, all having been
cataloged and transcribed in musical notation. Many hundreds of
other recordings have been made, studied, and retained by Miss
Densmore but not transcribed. Recordings submitted after 1940
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 65

have been cataloged in sequence with the former collection. Thirty-
five tribes are represented in the collection of 2,237 recordings, in addi-
tion to a group of songs recorded in British Columbia in which the
tribes are not designated.

EDITORIAL WORK AND PUBLICATIONS

The editorial work of the Bureau has continued during the year
under the immediate direction of the editor, M. Helen Palmer. There
were issued three bulletins, as follows:

Bulletin 126. Archeological remains in the Whitewater District, eastern
Arizona. Part II. Artifacts and burials, by Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr. With
appendix, Skeletal remains from the Whitewater District, eastern Arizona,
by T. D. Stewart. xi+170 pp., 57 pls., 44 figs.

Bulletin 127. Linguistic material from the tribes of southern Texas and
northeastern Mexico, by John R. Swanton. v-+145 pp.

Bulletin 128, Anthropological papers, numbers 13-18. xii+368 pp., 52 pls.,
77 figs.:

No. 13. The mining of gems and ornamental stones by American Indians,
by Sydney H. Ball.

No. 14. Iroquois suicide: A study in the stability of a culture pattern,
by William N. Fenton.

No. 15. Tonawanda Longhouse ceremonies: Ninety years after Lewis Henry
Morgan, by William N. Fenton.

No. 16. The Quichua-speaking Indians of the Province of Imbabura
(Ecuador) and their anthopometrie relations with the living
populations of the Andean area, by John Gillin.

No. 17. Art processes in birchbark of the River Desert Algonquin, a circum-
boreal trait, by Frank G. Speck.

No. 18. Archeological reconnaissance of southern Utah, by Julian H.
Steward.

The following bulletins were in press at the close of the fiscal year:

Bulletin 129. An archeological survey of Pickwick Basin in the adjacent
portions of the States of Alabama, Mississippi, and Tennessee, by William S.
Webb and David L. De Jarnette. With additions by Walter P. Jones, J. P. E.
Morrison, Marshall T. Newman and Charles E. Snow, and William G. Haag.

Bulletin 130. Archeological investigations at Buena Vista Lake, Kern County,
California, by Waldo R. Wedel. With appendix, Skeletal remains from Buena
Vista sites, California, by T. Dale Stewart.

Bulletin 131. Peachtree Mound and village site, Cherokee County, North
Carolina, by Frank M. Setzler and Jesse D. Jennings. With appendix, Skeletal
remains from the Peachtree Site, North Carolina, by T. Dale Stewart.

Bulletin 132. Source material on the history and ethnology of the Caddo
Indians, by John R. Swanton.

Bulletin 183. Anthropological papers, numbers 19-26:

No. 19. A search for songs among the Chitimacha Indians in Louisiana,
by Frances Densmore.

No. 20. Archeological survey on the northern Northwest Coast, by Philip
Drucker.
66 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

No. 21. Some notes on a few sites in Beaufort County, South Carolina, by
Regina Flannery.

No. 22. An analysis and interpretation of the ceramic remains from two
sites near Beaufort, South Carolina, by James B. Griffin.

No. 23. The eastern Cherokees, by William Harlen Gilbert, Jr.

No. 24. Aconite poison whaling in Asia and America: An Aleutian transfer
to the New World, by Robert F. Heizer.

No. 25. The Carrier Indians of the Buckley River: Their social and relig-
ious life, by Diamond Jenness.

No. 26. The Quipu and Peruvian civilization, by John R. Swanton.

Bulletin 134. Native tribes of eastern Bolivia and western Matto Grosso, by
Alfred Métraux.

Publications distributed totaled 11,882.
LIBRARY

There has been no change in the library staff during the fiscal year.
Accessions during the fiscal year totaled 378.

The library staff has relabeled and reshelved 5,137 books. The sec-
tions of general ethnology and non-American material, and linguis-
tics have now been entirely reclassified and reshelved. Library of
Congress printed cards, so far as they are available, have been
ordered for practically all of this material, when not already in the
catalog. Part of the work of typing these cards and filing in the
catalog has been completed and will be finished in a month or two.

The sorting of foreign periodicals and society transactions has
been completed and all material not in the library field has been
put aside for appropriate disposal. A temporary shelf list has been
made for this material and it is hoped that this section will be
reclassified and reshelved by the first of the year. The checking lists
for the second edition of the Union List of Serials were marked with
our holdings and returned.

The sorting of the pamphlet collection has been completed and
more than half have been classified and shelved. Library of Con-
gress cards where available have been ordered. In the future the
library will have no separate pamphlet collection. All pamphlets
that are kept will be classified and shelved with the books. Work
has also been done on Congressional documents and some of this
material is now! classified and reshelved. Government documents
from the War and Interior Departments, publications of the Chero-
kee and Choctaw nations, and of various special boards and com-
missions have been sorted and classified and all Library of Congress
cards available ordered.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 67

ILLUSTRATIONS

Following is a summary of work accomplished during the fiscal
year by Edwin G. Cassedy, illustrator:

JOUR Del Lae AU DEAS) ee a a ar sy ee er eae Oe Ee eS 602
Siipple sara wines sew ee eS ee 3
VRUUSLAE Co Depth 0 SA a ae EY SN SEE OD Dk OS ee ER 4
JS EY aS hie ed SSO eR EO rece A ae on Re eye See teas Bees Bs Py 22
Cera Speer Ee Se 2 A ee 6
PIA ES TASS DLE Cs meek veld ter ie ee 95
Photosraphs; retouched 2222s a ee Ee ee 14
Meter na, |] ODS ae Sek Le eRe sane inl aks 114
VT rcnrsu Mey sasha ta eg ee a a a A SA Sk Ee SE 2
INeont Ves! retouch eG H. eae nis Sete ret) rae wy eee oe oe ee 5

SARS RCT a Se NN I NS ee ee La re ep Cea ee et 867

The month of December 1940 and the first half of January 1941
were devoted to work on the new Index Exhibit in the Smithsonian
main hall.

COLLECTIONS

Collections transferred by the Bureau of American Ethnology to

the Department of Anthropology, United States National Museum,

during the fiscal year were as follows:

Accession

No.

124,559. Portions of a child’s skull and skeleton collected near Kissimmee, Fla.,
and sent in by L. R. Farmer.

157,350. Skeletal and cultural remains from burial sites on Pennock Island and
Dall Island, southeastern Alaska, collected during the summer of
1940 by Dr. Julian H. Steward. (36 specimens.)

157,796. Collection of 94 ethnological specimens from the Carrier Indians,
obtained by Dr. Julian H. Steward in the region of Fort St. James,
British Columbia, in 1940.

157,965. Collection of ethnological objects purchased among the Iroquois Indians
during the past summer by Dr. William N. Fenton. (3 specimens.)

158,151. Collection of carved wooden masks and musical instruments collected
by the late J. N. B. Hewitt among the Iroquois Indians of the Six
Nations Reserve, Grand River, Ontario, Canada. (27 specimens.)

158,498. Two unfinished wooden masks made by Tom Harris, an Onondaga Indian
of the Six Nations Reserve, Grand River, Ontario, Canada, and
collected in August 1940 by Dr. William N. Fenton.

160,243. Archeological specimens from a sand burial mound on Lemon Bay, near
Englewood, Sarasota Co., Fla. (25 specimens.)

160,244. Archeological specimens from various mounds in the vicinity of Parrish,
on Little Manatee River, Manatee Co., Fla. (61 specimens.)

160,249. Archeological and skeletal material from a refuse and burial mound
1% miles west of Belle Glade, in Palm Beach Co., Fla. (988 archeo-
logical specimens. The skeletal material in this accession has not
been counted this year, but the figures will be included in some future
annual report.)

430577—42——_6
68 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

MISCELLANEOUS

During the course of the year information was furnished by mem-
bers of the Bureau staff in reply to numerous inquiries concerning
the North American Indians, both past and present, and the Mexican
peoples of the prehistoric and early historic periods. Various
specimens sent to the Bureau were identified and data on them
furnished for their owners.

Personnel.—Mrs. Frances S. Nichols, editorial assistant, retired on
August 31, 1940; Miss Anna M. Link served as editorial assistant
from September 1, 1940, to April 30, 1941, when she resigned to
accept a position in the library of the United States National Mu-
seum; Miss Nancy A. Link was appointed on June 1, 1941, to fill
this vacancy. Miss Florence G. Schwindler was appointed on Jan-
uary 6, 1941, as stenographer in connection with the preparation of
the Handbook of South American Indians; she resigned on April 21,
1941, to accept a position in the War Department.

Respectfully submitted.

M. W. Srimurne, Chief.

Dr. C. G. Apso,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 6
REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the ac-
tivities of the International Exchange Service during the fiscal year
ended June 30, 1941:

The appropriation allowed by Congress was $44,880, the same
amount as for the previous year. There was also received by trans-
fer from the Department of State $500 from an appropriation made
by Congress to that Department for cooperation with the American
republics. This amount was allotted to the Exchange Service for
mailing packages of publications to the Argentine Republic and
Brazil, so that they would reach their destinations without the delay
which occurs when shipments are made through exchange bureaus.
To all other South and Central American countries, with one excep-
tion, exchanges are transmitted by mail under governmental frank.
From repayments there was collected $3,036.53, making the total
available resources $48,416.53.

The number of packages received for transmission during the year
was 576,282, a decrease of 63,062. The weight was 388,649 pounds, a
decrease of 138,896 pounds.

The following table gives the number and weight of packages sent
and received through the service:

Packages Weight

Sent Received Sent Received

from fr
abroad abroad abroad abroad

Ne Oe ee ee ee

Pounds | Pounds

United States parliamentary documents sent abroad_____-_____ 349; 021s eee eee ISG S7iga|aeoee ee
Publications received in return for parliamentary documents___}_____-___- 1 abt tga eee 4, 549
United States departmental documents sent abroad___-_______- 1037062) essen DOF Okay | eee ae ae a
Publications received in return for departmental documents___-|--.-------] 3,044 |_-_-_____- 093
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications sent abroad _- O2F 196" neo eee WWGESO fe | Save ae ee
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications received from
abroad for distribution in the United States___..._-...---._--|---------- rf G15 Visa) owes bees 24, 662
SROLS een Asuna enn eee es Lee re see See ee ese eee oe 644, 769 31, 513 353, 345 35, 304

Grand fotal. 22 eee ea ea cae ee ae et 576, 282 388, 649

The packages referred to in the above table as sent abroad were
forwarded partly in boxes by freight to exchange bureaus for dis-

69
70 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

tribution and partly by mail directly to their destinations. The
number of boxes shipped was 965, a decrease from the preceding
year of 929. Of these boxes, 419 were for depositories of full sets of
United States governmental documents and the contents of the re-
mainder were for depositories of partial sets and for distribution to
various establishments and individuals. The number of mail
packages was 117,700.

As stated last year, when a decrease in the work of the office was
reported, the falling off in the amount of material handled is due
to the interruption of the interchange of publications between the
United States and many countries owing to the foreign wars. Ship-
ments to nearly all the European countries, as well as to China and
places bordering on the Mediterranean, have been suspended tem-
porarily. Through special efforts, however, it has been possible dur-
ing the latter part of the year to forward large consignments to
Sweden and Switzerland. Transmissions were made to Finland
and the Soviet Republic almost to the end of the fiscal year, but
when those countries became involved in the European war, further
shipments to them were suspended. One large consignment was for-
warded to Spain during the year and several others were sent to
Portugal. Owing to the conditions abroad, however, the Institution
cannot follow any regular schedule in the sending of boxes to those
two countries. With the exception of one or two short suspensions,
there has been no interruption to the transmission of shipments to
and from Great Britain, although, owing to the shortage of cargo
space, it has not been possible to dispatch consignments as promptly
as before the war.

The British Museum and the London School of Economics and
Political Science, both depositories of United States governmental
documents, have requested that no further consignments be for-
warded to them until the close of the war, because of the possibility
of destruction of the material through the bombings of London.
The Edinburgh Public Library and the St. Andrews University also
have asked that publications for them be stored until the cessation
of hostilities. No other requests for the withholding of transmissions
have been made by British establishments.

The very large number of packages for shipment abroad that are
being held here awaiting the cessation of the war has over-
taxed the space in the Exchange rooms to such an extent that it has
been necessary to construct a storage shed in the grounds in the
rear of the Smithsonian Building for storing the books. The struc-
ture is made of corrugated iron and is substantially built. When
the emergency is over, the shed will be used for the storage of empty
packing boxes.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 71

Since the outbreak of the European war in September 1939, so
far as reported to the Institution, five consignments of exchanges
have been lost, the details of which are given below:

Five boxes forwarded to Denmark in December 1939 were destroyed on the
dock in Bergen by fire caused by airplane bombardment.

Five boxes sent to France in April 1940 were destroyed by fire at the Havre
railroad station.

Eleven boxes forwarded to England in November 1940 were lost at sea.

Thirteen boxes sent to Germany in August 1939 were lost at Havre after
the consignment was disembarked.

One box, while in the warehouse of the Smithsonian agents in London await-
ing shipment to the Institution, was destroyed in January 1941 by fire caused by
airplane bombardment.

FOREIGN DEPOSITORIES OF GOVERNMENTAL DOCUMENTS

On account of conditions in Europe due to the war, several deposi-
tories have been removed from the list of those receiving full and par-
tial sets of United States governmental documents. This has resulted
in reducing the number of those publications now received from a
total of 104 to 92—55 full and 37 partial sets.

The depository of the partial set in Haiti has been changed from
the Department of Foreign Affairs to the National Library. The Hon-
duran Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been added to the partial-set
list.

A complete list of the depositories is given below:

DEPOSITORIES OF FULL SETS

ARGENTINA: Direccién de Investigaciones, Archivo y Propaganda, Ministerio de
Relaciones Exteriores y Culto, Buenos Aires.

AUSTRALIA: Commonwealth Parliament and National Library, Canberra.
New SoutH WatEs: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Parliamentary Library, Brisbane.

SouTH AUSTRALIA: Parliamentary Library, Adelaide.

TASMANIA: Parliamentary Library, Hobart.

Victoria: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.

BE.teiuM : Bibliothéque Royale, Bruxelles.

Brazi.: Instituto Nacional do Livro, Rio de Janeiro.

CANADA: Library of Parliament, Ottawa.

MANIToBA: Provincial Library, Winnipeg.
Ontario: Legislative Library, Toronto.
QuEBEO: Library of the Legislature of the Province of Quebec.

CHILE: Biblioteca Nacional, Santiago.

CHINA: Bureau of International Exchange, Ministry of Education, Chungking.

CoLoMBIA: Biblioteca Nacional, Bogota.

Costa Rica: Oficina de Depdésito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, San

José.
CusA: Ministerio de Estado, Direccién de Relaciones Culturales, Habana.
CZECHOSLOVAKIA: Bibliothéque de l’Assemblée Nationale, Prague.
72 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

DENMARK: Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen.
Eeyrt: Bureau des Publications, Ministére des Finances, Cairo.
Estonia: Riigiraamatukogu (State Library), Tallinn.
FINLAND: Parliamentary Library, Helsinki.
FRANCE: Bibliothéque Nationale, Paris.
GERMANY: Reichstauschstelle im Reichsministerium fiir Wissenschaft, Erzie-
hung und Volksbildung, Berlin, N. W. 7.
Prussia: Preussische Staatsbibliothek, Berlin, N. W. 7.
GREAT BRITAIN:
ENGLAND: British Museum, London.
Lonpon: London School of Economics and Political Science. (Depository
of the London County Council.)
Hungary: Library, Hungarian House of Delegates, Budapest.
Inp1A: Imperial Library, Calcutta.
{RELAND: National Library of Ireland, Dublin.
IrAty: Ministero dell’Educazione Nazionale, Rome.
JAPAN: Imperial Library of Japan, Tokyo.
LATVIA: Bibliothéque d’Etat, Riga.
LEAGUE oF NATIoNS: Library of the League of Nations, Geneva, Switzerland.
Mexico: Direcci6n General de Informacién, Mexico, D. F.
NETHERLANDS: Royal Library, The Hague.
NEw ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.
NoRkTHERBN IRELAND: H. M. Stationery Office, Belfast.
Norway: Universitets-Bibliothek, Oslo. (Depository of the Government of
Norway.)
Prru: Seccién de Propaganda y Publicaciones, Ministerio de Relaciones Ex-
teriores, Lima.
PoLAND: Bibliothéque Nationale, Warsaw.
PortuGcaL: Bibliotheca Nacional, Lisbon.
RuMANIA: Academia Romana, Bucharest.
Spain: Cambio Internacional de Publicaciones, Avenida de Calvo Sotelo 20,
Madrid.
SwEDEN: Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm.
SWITZERLAND: Bibliothéque Centrale Fédérale, Berne.
TURKEY: Department of Printing and Engraving, Ministry of Hducation,
Istanbul.
UnIon oF SoutH ArricA: State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal.
Union oF Sovier Socratist REPuBLICS: All-Union Lenin Library, Moscow 115.
UKRAINE: Ukrainian Society for Cultural Relations with Foreign Countries,
Kiev.
Uruauay: Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Montevideo.
VENEZUELA : Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.
YUGOSLAVIA : Ministére de l’Education, Belgrade.

DEPOSITORIES OF PARTIAL SETS

AFGHANISTAN: Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Publications Department, Kabul.
Bortv1A: Biblioteca del H. Congreso Nacional, La Paz.
BRAZIL:
Minas GerArEs: Directoria Geral de Estatistica em Minas, Bello Horizonte.
Rio pp JANEIRO: Bibliotheca da Assemblea Legislativa do Estado, Nictheroy.
BriTIsH GUIANA: Government Secretary’s Office, Georgetown, Demerara.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 73

CANADA:
ALBERTA: Provincial Library, Edmonton.
BritIsH COLUMBIA: Provincial Library, Victoria.
New Brunswick: Legislative Library, Fredericton.
Nova Scorra: Provincial Secretary of Nova Scotia, Halifax.
PRINCE EpWARD ISLAND: Legislative and Public Library, Charlottetown.
SASKATOHEWAN: Legislative Library, Regina.
Cryton: Chief Secretary’s Office (Record Department of the Library), Colombo.
CurInA: National Library of Peiping.
DoMINICAN REPUBLIC: Biblioteca del Senado, Ciudad Trujillo.
Ecuapor: Biblioteca Nacional, Quito.
GUATEMALA: Biblioteca Nacional, Guatemala.
Hart1: Bibliothéque Nationale. Port-au-Prince.
HONDURAS:
Biblioteca y Archivo Nacionales, Tegucigalpa.
Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Tegucigalpa.
IcetAND: National Library, Reykjavik.
INDIA:
BrneGat: Secretary, Bengal Legislative Council Department, Council House,
Calcutta.
BIHAR AND ORISSA: Revenue Department, Patna.
BomBay: Undersecretary to the Government of Bombay, General Depart-
ment, Bombay.
BurMa: Secretary to the Government of Burma, Education Department,
Rangoon.
PunsaB: Chief Secretary to the Government of the Punjab, Lahore.
UNITED PROVINCES OF AGRA AND OUDH: University of Allahabad, Allahabad.
JAMAICA: Colonial Secretary, Kingston.
Liser1A: Department of State, Monrovia.
Matta: Minister for the Treasury, Valletta.
NEWFOUNDLAND: Department of Home Affairs, St. John’s.
NicAraqua :Ministerio de Relaciones Pxteriores, Managua.
PANAMA: Secretaria de Relaciones Exteriores, Panama.
ParaAcuay: Secretario de la Presidencia de la Reptblica, Asuncién.
SAtvapor: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador.
Straits SETTLEMENTS: Colonial Secretary, Singapore.
THAILAND: Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok.
VATICAN Crtry: Biblioteca Apostolica Vaticana, Vatican City, Italy.

INTERPARLIAMENTARY EXCHANGE OF THE OFFICIAL JOURNAL

On account of conditions arising from the war, the sending of the
Congressional Record and the Federal Register has been discontinued
to certain countries. Haiti has been added to the list as a recipient.
The number of copies of the Record and the Register now sent abroad
is 78, having been reduced from 104. A list of the present depositories
is given below:

DEPOSITORIES OF CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
ARGENTINA :
Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Buenos Aires.
Cémara de Diputados, Oficina de Informacién Parlamentaria, Buenos Aires.

Boletin Oficial de la Republica Argentina, Ministerio de Justicia e Instrucci6n
PfGblica, Buenos Aires.
74 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

AUSTRALIA :
Library of the Commonwealth Parliament, Canberra.
NEw SoutH Wates: Library of Parliament of New South Wales, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Chief Secretary’s Office, Brisbane.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Library of Parliament of Western Australia, Perth.
BRAZIL:
Bibliotheca do Congresso Nacional, Rio de Janeiro.
AMAZONAS: Archivo, Bibliotheca e Imprensa Publica, Manos.
BAutrA: Governador do Estado da Bahia, Sao Salvador.
Esprriro Santo: Presidencia do Estado do Espirito Santo, Victoria.
Rio GRANDE po SuL: “A Federacio,” Porto Alegre.
Sao Paulo: Diario Official do Estado de Sio Paulo, Sao Paulo.
SERGIPE: Bibliotheca Publica do Estado de Sergipe, Aracaju.
British Honpuras: Colonial Secretary, Belize.
CANADA:
Clerk of the Senate, Houses of Parliament, Ottawa.
Library of Parliament, Ottawa.
CusA: Biblioteca del Capitolio, Habana.
EGYPT:
Chambre des Députés, Cairo.
Sénat, Cairo.
GIBRALTAR: Gibraltar Garrison Library Committee, Gibraltar.
GREAT Briratin: Library of the Foreign Office, London.
GUATEMALA: Biblioteca de la Asamblea Legislativa, Guatemala.
Hair: Bibliothéque Nationale, Port-au-Prince.
HONDURAS: Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Tegucigalpa.
Hunesary: A Magyar orszaggyiilés kényvtard, Budapest.
InpIA: Legislative Department, Simla.
INDOCHINA : Gouverneur Général de l’Indochine, Hanoi.
IrAn: Library of the Iranian Parliament, Téhéran.
Iraq: Chamber of Deputies, Baghdad.
TrtsH FREE STATE: Dail Eireann, Dublin.
LEAGUE oF NATIONS: Library of the League of Nations, Geneva, Switzerland.
LEBANON: Ministére des Finances de la République Libanaise, Service du Ma-
tériel, Beirut.
LiperiIA: Department of State, Monrovia.
Mexico: Direccién General de Informaci6n, Mexico, D. F.
AGUASCALIENTES: Gobernador del Estado de Aguascalientes, Aguascalientes.
CAMPEOCHE: Gobernador del Estado de Campeche, Campeche.
CHIAPAS: Gobernador del Estado de Chiapas, Tuxtla Gutierrez.
CHIHUAHUA: Gobernador del Estado de Chihuahua, Chihuahua.
CoaHuItaA: Peridéddico Oficial del Estado de Coahuila, Palacio de Gobierno,
Saltillo.
Cortima: Gobernador del Estado de Colima, Colima.
DurAnco: Gobernador Constitucional del Estado de Durango, Durango.
GuaNAgsuATO: Secretaria General de Gobierno del Estado, Guanajuato.
GuERRERO: Gobernador del Hstado ce Guerrero, Chilpancingo.
JALISCO: Biblioteca del Estado, Guadalajara.
LoweEg CALIFORNIA: Gobernador del Distrito Norte, Mexicali.
México: Gaceta del Gobierno, Toluca.
MicHoacAn: Secretaria General de Gobierno del Estado de Michoacan,
Morelia.
Moretos: Palacio de Gobierno, Cuernavaca.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 75

Mextco—Continued.

Nayakir: Gobernador de Nayarit, epic.

Nuevo LE6N: Biblioteca del Estado, Monterrey.

Oaxaca: Periéddico Oficial, Palacio de Gobierno, Oaxaca.

PuEsLA: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Puebla.

QuEréTaRO: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Seccién de Archivo, Querétaro.

San Luts Potosi: Congreso del Estado, San Luis Potosi.

SmuvaLoa: Gobernador del Estado de Sinaloa, Culiacdn.

Sonokza: Gobernador del Estado de Sonora, Hermosillo.

Tapasco: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Seccién 3a, Ramo de Prensa,

Villahermosa.

TAMAULIPAS: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Victoria.

TLAxcALA: Secretaria de Gobierno del Estado, Tlaxcala.

VeRAckuz: Gobernador del Estado de Veracruz, Departamento de Gober-

naci6n y Justicia, Jalapa.

YucaTAN: Gobernador del Estado de Yucatan, Mérida, Yucatan.
NETHERLANDS INDIES: Volksraad von Nederlundsch-Indié, Batavia, Java.
New ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.

Peru: Cimara de Diputados, Lima.
RUMANIA:

Bibliothéque de la Chambre des Députés, Bucharest.

Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Bucharest.

SWITZERLAND : Bibliothéque de l’Assemblée Fédérale Suisse, Berne.

BrEgn: Staatskanzlei des Kantons Bern.

Sr. GALLEN: Staatskanzlei des Kantons St. Gallen.

SCHAFFHAUSEN: Staatskanzlei des Kantons Schaffhausen.

ZiRicH: Staatskanzlei des Kantons Ziirich.

Turkey: Turkish Grand National Assembly, Ankara.
UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA:

Library of Parliament, Cape Town, Cape of Good Hope.

State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal.

Urueuay: Diario Oficial, Calle Florida 1178, Montevideo.
VENEZUELA: Biblioteca del Congreso, Caracas.
VATICAN Clty: Biblioteca Apostolica Vaticana, Vatican City, Italy.

FOREIGN EXCHANGE AGENCIES

The bureaus or agencies to which consignments are forwarded in
boxes by freight are given below. To all countries not appearing in
the list, packages are sent directly to their destinations by mail.

LIST OF AGENCIES

ALGERIA, via France.

ANGOLA, via Portugal.

AUSTRIA, via Germany.

AZORES, via Portugal.

Bretcium: Service Belge des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Royale de
Belgique, Bruxelles.

CaNARy ISLANDS, via Spain.

CHINA: Bureau of International Exchange, Ministry of Education, Chungking.

CZECHOSLOVAKIA: Service des Echanges Internationaux, Biblioth@éque de
Assemblée Nationale, Prague 1-79.

DENMARK: Service Danois des Echanges Internationaux, Kongelige Danske
Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen V.
76 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Ea@ypt: Government Press, Publications Office, Bulag, Cairo.

Fintanp: Delegation of the Scientific Societies of Finland, Kasirngatan 24,
Helsinki.

France: Service Francais des Echanges Internationaux, 110 Rue de Grenelle,
Paris.

GERMANY: Amerika-Institut, Universititstrasse 8, Berlin, N. W. 7.

GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND: Wheldon & Wesley, 721 North Circular Road,
Willesden, London, NW. 2.

Hungary: Hungarian Libraries Board, Ferenciektere 5, Budapest, IV.

Inp1A: Superintendent of Government Printing and Stationery, Bombay.

Iraty: Ufficio degli Scambi Internazionali, Ministero dell’Educazione Nazionale,
Rome.

JAPAN: International Exchange Service, Imperial Library of Japan, Uyeno
Park, Tokyo.

Latvia: Service des Hchanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque d’Etat de Lettonie,
Riga.

LUXEMBOURG, via Belgium.

MADAGASCAR, via France.

MAnpetrA, via Portugal.

MozAMBIQUE, via Portugal.

NETHERLANDS: International Exchange Bureau of the Netherlands, Royal Li-
brary, The Hague.

New SoutH WaAtsEs: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.

New ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.

Norway: Service Norvégien des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque de
l'Université Royale, Oslo.

PALESTINE: Jewish National and University Library, Jerusalem.

PoLaNnD: Service Polonais des Hchanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Nationale,
Warsaw.

PorTuGAL: Seceiio de Trocas Internacionaes, Bibliotheca Nacional, Lisbon.

QUEENSLAND: Bureau of Exchanges of International Publications, Chief Secre-
tary’s Office, Brisbane.

RuMANIA: Ministére de la Propagande Nationale, Service des Echanges Inter-
nationaux, Bucharest.

SourH AvusTRALIA: South Australian Government Exchanges Bureau, Govern-
ment Printing and Stationery Office, Adelaide.

Spain: Junta de Intercambio y Adquisici6n de Libros y Revistas para Bibliotecas
Piblicas, Ministerio de Educaci6n Nacional, Avenida Calvo Sotelo, 20, Madrid.

Swepen: Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm.

SwITZERLAND: Service Suisse des Kchanges Internationaux, Biblioth@que Cen-
trale Fédérale, Berne.

TASMANIA: Secretary to the Premier, Hobart.

TuRKEY: Ministry of Education, Department of Printing and Engraving,
Istanbul.

Union or Soutu ArricA: Government Printing and Stationery Office, Capetown,
Cape of Good Hope.

Union oF Sovrer Socrarist ReEpustics: International Book Exchange Depart-
ment, Society for Cultural Relations with Foreign Countries, Moscow, 56.

Victor1A : Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.

YuaostavraA: Section des Echanges Internationaux, Ministére des Affaires
Kitrangéres, Belgrade.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY iy

After the expiration of the year’s extension granted Frank E.
Gass, he was retired from the Government service February 28, 1941.
However, having been appointed correspondence clerk on the Smith-
sonian private roll, effective March 1, he is continuing to carry on
his work in the Exchange office.

Respectfully submitted.

C. W. SHommaxrer, Chief Clerk.

Dr. C. G. Axssor,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 7
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Sm: I have the honor to submit the following report on the oper-
ations of the National Zoological Park for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1941:

The regular appropriation made by Congress was $239,910, all of
which was expended with the exception of $2,440 which represents
savings from lapses in the filling of vacant positions.

PERSONNEL

An important personnel change was the appointment on June
2, 1941, of Carter H. Anthony, D. V. M., as veterinarian. He came
to the Zoo from the University of Arkansas, where he was engaged
in animal disease research work. This is the first time in the
history of the Zoo that a full-time position of this character has
been filled. It is expected that this will result in a more careful
dietary supervision, as well as much better medical and surgical
attendance on the animals. Also closer cooperation can be given
the various Government departments, as well as outsiders, in any
experiments and studies in which the facilities of the Zoo are used.

A much larger turnover in the force than in prior years has been
occasioned by men accepting positions in work connected with the
National Defense program. Included in this was the recall to active
service of William J. Grant, senior operating engineer, a member
of the Naval Reserve.

IMPROVEMENTS

The closing of the W. P. A. project at the Zoo on August 6, 1940,
prevented improvements that had been contemplated for the year.
The regular force is hardly sufficient to maintain routine repairs, and
therefore few improvements were begun.

The series of four waterfowl ponds was completed, and birds
transferred there on July 29, 1940. This now makes one of the
most attractive outdoor exhibits in the Zoo. It is especially so
when viewed from the terrace of the new restaurant.

The reptile pit on the south side of the reptile house was com-
pleted by adding a small waterfall at one corner.

78
Secretary's Report, 1941.—Appendix 7 PLATE 5

1. DINING ROOM, NEW RESTAURANT, NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK.

2. BIRDS IN THE REFRIGERATED CAGE, NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK.

The five birds are those received from Antarctic Service Expedition, 1941. The three large penguins
right foreground, are emperors; the one to the left is a gentoo penguin: rear center, a kelp gull.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 79

The old waterfowl pond near the creek was filled in with earth
and crushed rock, though no grading was done. Some planting was
done in that area. It is planned to utilize this space for parking of
cars and also to make part of it available for picnicking.

Work was begun on remodeling the west side of the antelope build-
ing, and at the close of the year it was about two-thirds completed.
A cage is being constructed to house the pair of reticulated giraffe.
This will give them a cage with a higher ceiling as well as a larger
outdoor enclosure.

The restaurant constructed by the P. W. A. under an allotment
of $90,000 was completed in the fall of 1940. It is of the Virginia
tavern type of stone construction. The main dining room is beauti-
fully decorated with murals of carved lacquered linoleum, executed
and mounted by Domenico Mortellito. This, with the outside ter-
races overlooking the new waterfowl ponds, has proved to be a
popular luncheon and dining place for the public. The new con-
cessionaire, L. G. Leech, opened the restaurant for business on
March 29, 1941.

The area about the new restaurant was landscaped with evergreens
and other trees and shrubs. An azalea garden of about 300 plants was
laid out on the hillside west of the restaurant. This will greatly
add to the beauty of the surroundings, especially when the plants
are in bloom. In addition, about 200 wild azaleas, more than 100
dogwoods, and about 40 redbuds, as well as other trees and shrubs,
were planted about the grounds.

It is with pleasure that we take this opportunity to thank C. A.
Logan, of the Beltsville Agriculture Center, for the more than 350
trees and shrubs that were obtained from their C. C. C. nursery.
These included shade trees, flowering plants and shrubs, fruit- and
nut-bearing types, and others suitable for ornamental purposes.

NEEDS OF THE ZOO

Proper buildings continue to be the chief need of the Zoo. Struc-
tures most urgently needed which would complete its development
are a new building to house antelope, deer, wild hogs, and kanga-
roos; one for monkeys; and one for carnivores to replace the present
building, which is no longer suitable for the exhibition of these
animals,

Since the closing of the W. P. A. project, and with the increase
of exhibition areas, the existing personnel is inadequate to maintain
the grounds in a presentable condition. It is therefore important
that the maintenance personnel be increased by at least 10 men.
80 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

VISITORS FOR THE YEAR

A record of the attendance for the year shows an increase of a
little more than 300,000 visitors over the figures for last year. This
is due in part to the increase in population in the city.

CLD Te a ee PD We AGO NOEL IRE) ov tb Fay eae Se 95, 800
ARCS sie ere eee ZAGH OU Mia RCH cease ene eek eee 171, 700
September! 22 ee SID LOOOP TA pris ew ae ean Aa ee 265, 000
October 2 2 ti" here ee meets 166;200) ‘Mary Eee wo Ory eae ee 19 277, 800
INovembersn2 4.202 he eae .._ 169,900 June_-_-------~------______- — 280, 100
DMecemberesas oe 20 wk es oe os 134, 700 Oe
RUIN es te es as 115, 600 STN Gg ees a es Ca a 2, 430, 300

The attendance of organizations, mainly classes of students, of
which there is definite record, was 48,050, from 876 different schools
or groups in 20 States and the District of Columbia. This is the
largest number of such groups ever recorded. A complete listing
by States follows:

Number | Number Number | Number
of of (9) of

State State
persons parties persons | parties

Gonnecticutss222 ese Ske 413 TOWING WICLsey ss ee coe teeters eee 2, 365 33
Dolswares fess i eee 526 12) |New, VOrk-o. io 2 2c Pee 964 23
District of Columbia_--_------ 8,115 14911 Nortni@aroling= seen 1, 457 39
Georeiar i eee se ee 516 TSW OHIO SE 5 oe ae ee 1, 256 33
MOISE ees ae 38 i Pennsylvania es sseee meee 10, 304 201
Tndianass 2s eae oe 31 19] sSouthi@arcling yes. e2ss- ees 1, 474 38
Kontucky2 2222 Ske tk stem 128 4°||"Tennesseete 22 eae. Bees 135 4
IV Sine 5 cess ie a eee 100 QiioVirginig eA eee 7, 563 139
Marylandits. 22.es ote fe 3 9, 708 1BON | Wiest virginia So) ee eee 2, 309 38
Massachusetts___.------------ 152 3

INCH ga ne rt se eee 22 875 9

New Hampshire____..-._----- 121 2 Totalicc . sete 48, 050 876

About 3 o’clock every afternoon, a census is made of the cars
parked on the Zoo grounds. During the year 56,185 were so listed,
representing every State in the Union, as well as Alaska, Canada,
Canal Zone, Cuba, Hawaii, Mexico, and the Philippine Islands.

Since the total number is merely a record of those actually parked
at one time, it is not of value as showing a total attendance, but is of
importance as indicating the percentage of attendance by States,
Territories, and countries. The record for the year on this basis
shows the District of Columbia automobiles comprised 38 percent;
Maryland, slightly more than 24 percent; Virginia, 16 percent; Penn-
sylvania, 4 percent; and the remaining cars were from other States,
Territories, and countries.

This is the first year that the cars were counted on Sundays and
holidays. In previous years, the record showed that a little more
than 50 percent of the cars were from outside the District. This
year it is 62 percent, which substantiates our estimate of previous
years that adding Sundays and: holidays to the count would show
at least 60 percent from outside the District.

REPORT OF THE) SECRETARY 81
ACCESSIONS
FIELD WORK

SMITHSONIAN-FIRESTONE EXPEDITION

A partial account of this expedition was given in the 1940 annual
report of the Director of the National Zoological Park.

Through funds donated to the Smithsonian Institution by the
Firestone Tire & Rubber Co., of Akron, Ohio, a party was sent to
Liberia, West Africa, for the purpose of collecting specimens for
the National Zoological Park. The party consisted of the Director,
Mrs. Mann, Ralph Norris, and Roy J. Jennier. They sailed on the
American-West African Line on February 17, 1940, for Monrovia.

A preliminary shipment of animals collected was made from Li-
beria to Boston in the care of Roy J. Jennier, who arrived at that
port on May 17, 1940. A list of these animals can be found in the
1940 annual report. The remaining members of the expedition ar-
rived in Norfolk, Va., on August 6, 1940, with 100 specimens, several
of which were species new to the history of the collection. We
again wish to express our sincerest appreciation to the members of
the Firestone staff, both in Liberia and here, for the aid and
hospitality given the expedition.

A list of the live animals which arrived in Norfolk on August 6
follows:

SMITHSONIAN-FIRESTONE EXPEDITION

Scientific name Common name Number
OiVerchia Cuwwcl iG oe African ¢livets = 222 ee ee 2
Genera pOcn aise = ie eS 2 Dark genet == a. ese eee 2
Nandinia binotata__--—.__ === __ ETI Cane Da LM Cy Cleese ne 1
Galerella melanura_-_.~--_-_--___-___ Dwart civetoact set iin See 1
RPerodicticus pottosoc 22 swt st Potto pao 2 8 es Ss os lee 1
Cercocebus torquatus lunulatus_______- White-crowned mangabey__-______ 1
CABLRED YEN TIQE LY RR AA SS ARR A SR al EC PAM 2 Ae ye eT aaa 6
eITINIEEAT AD) ee Pirie ne oe eae ee 1
TERT TIAES FYUY TO 5 Tih se SI ah GS 3 ipa ‘Baboon ts 2. Se een nett CR eevee il
Buzerus erythropus lacustris_________- African ground squirrel__________ 2
Melliwora capensis____._--_-_--_ ___-_- Rated tee set ot Rien veal 2s Ee 1
Cricetomys gambianus liberiae________. Liberian giant pouched rat________ 2
Choeropsis liberiensis___.__________.____ Rigmy. hippopotamus. — 2
Atherura africand.______-_-__________- West African brush-tailed porcupine 1
Hyemoschus aquaticus________________ Chevro tain St Sareea ee eee eee 4
Oephalophis niger __ 2 Black }duikeru® 2. es es 8

Cephalophus nigrifrons______________-. Black-fronted duiker__..___..______ 3
82 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

SMITHSONIAN-FIRESTONE EXPEDITION—continued

Scientific name Common name Number
Crossarchus obscurws.—-_=_-____-=_-=_ Marsh? civetste 2 So 28 eas ae 1
Psittacus ertthacus 22 2222 Se African jeray, parrot=2222 22s ose ee 2
Agapornis pullaria_.2_ 222 2 Red-faced lovebird_-----_____--___ 19
Ceratogymna. elata___________-____-_--. Yellow-casqued hornbill__-__----__ 1
Stephanoaetus coronatus____-_--------. Crowned hawk-eagle____---______- 2
Gypohieraxr angolensis________-_------- Wish-eating,vultures22222 == ee 1
Kaupifalco monogrammicus___------~- Northern lizard-buzzard___________ 1
Accipiter tachiro macroscelides_______-~ West African goshawk____----____ 1
Bilis NAStCOTni ste = ee Oe ee binoceros) viperses=- ea 3
Bitig. gavonicg 222 es eA eee Gaboon). viper=222 222 235 See eee 2
Naja spices ser ie ea re ca ee Cobrac2. so. eee Sie 2
Pythonsevdeg sa eee ee West African python—_--.-________ 2
Varanus niloticues 25) eee Nile ‘monitor=2 2) ae 4
TAIN CT OUALS SP se ere ee Le West African tree frog___________- 11
FTO OCCUDUL GUS ae ee, West African bullfrog--_____-____ 4
Osteolaemus tetraspis___._—---_- ~-_--_ Broad-nosed crocodile-____________ 1
Crocodylus cataphractus__________---- Narrow-nosed crocodile___________ 1
ANUEY SUCT OSG 2a ne ee Se ee West African back-hinged tortoise 7
Pelvusios cenbianuss == ee Tart Goes si oe ele 1

A summary of the specimens received from the expedition,
including those in both shipments, follows:

Class ‘ Species Individuals
DN ear ya ry ai Se EN lp AL ea 23 48
DBT 6 (Spee as te Ue SENN ey et NON EE UME CAE Ly Nea 15 42
Y= 0] 1 KEYS RBS iO ete Rh Sts a Re Al eT SR See a at 20 76
sNGaa'y O00 aN 0 ee a eS a VC ay CL ey Set 2 15
UM UB Vass Rigg 2 ie eh ca ied Se cal 1 14
TT eee ere a ee es 61 195
GIFTS

Pleasant contacts made by two previous expeditions have resulted
in the receipt as gifts of a number of desirable specimens.

From the Firestone Plantation in Liberia, through George Sey-
bold, manager, and Dr. Fuszek, Director General of Public Health
of Liberia, the Zoo received a pigmy hippo, a western chimpanzee,
a leopard, 2 rhinoceros vipers, a green mamba, a crowned hawk-
eagle, and a porcupine. These resulted from associations made dur-
ing the Smithsonian-Firestone expedition of 1940.

Through contacts made by Malcolm Davis, Zoo staff member of
the Antarctic expedition of 1940, an interesting lot of birds was
received, including 3 emperor penguins, 4 Gentoo penguins, 2 kelp
gulls, and a giant fulmar. These birds were collected through the
cooperation of Richard Black, Dr. Paul Siple, Jack Perkins, Roger
Hawthorne, and others of the expedition, and brought to the States
by Herwil Bryant, Jr., whose painstaking care on the trip saved
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY : 83

all the specimens. Other outstanding gifts include a pair of black
bear cubs from Newbold Noyes, Washington, D. C., an ocelot each
from Maj. C. V. Haynes, Langley Field, Va., and N. M. Rhodes,
U. S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md., and a trio of tahr goats
from the New York Zoological Park. E. A. McIlhenny, of Avery
Island, La., has continued his generosity by sending a number of
waterfowl, greatly adding to the exhibition value of the new water-
fowl ponds. A complete list of donors and their gifts follows.

DONORS AND THEIR GIFTS

Mrs. Robert Adams, Washington, D. C., 2 opossums.

Mrs. Reed Alexander, Washington, D. C., Virginia rail.

Richard Archbold, American Museum of Natural History, New York, 2 ring-
tails or cacomistles.

S. D. Ashford, Washington, D, C., opossum.

Mrs, J. K. Atherton, Hyattsville, Md., double yellow-head parrot.

Judith Atkinson, Washington, D. C., white rabbit.

Vernon Bailey, Washington, D. C., 5 antelope squirrels, 2 eastern chipmunks,
mountain wood rat.

Robert Ball, Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Herbert Barber, National Museum, Washington, D. C., mink.

Dr. T. Barbour, Museum of Comparative Zoology, Cambridge, Mass., 3 Florida
king snakes, 2 chicken snakes, garter snake, glass snake or legless lizard,
horn snake.

Mrs. Bemar, Bradbury, Md., 5 opossums.

J. B. Berry, Washington, D. C., red fox.

Howard Blanchard, Arlington, Va., 5 horned lizards.

Mrs. Blumenberg, Washington, D. C., common pigeon.

Warren Bowman, Washington, D. C., milk snake.

Miss Wilma Bradford, Washington, D. C., 2 cottontail rabbits.

David S. Brown, Washington, D. C., Florida diamond-backed rattlesnake.

Mrs. R. Brown, Washington, D. C., robin.

J. Brylawski, Washington, D. C., great horned owl.

Mrs. J. S. Burdette, Kensington, Md., double yellow-head parrot.

W. W. Campbell, Riverdale, Md., barred owl.

Patricia Chambers, Washington, D. C., white rabbit.

Mrs. Cipriano, Washington, D. C., angora rabbit.

Charles Clark, District Training School, Laurel, Md., 2 red-tailed hawks.

Mrs. M. O. Clarke, Chevy Chase, Md., red-tailed hawk.

Mrs. H. Clements, Washington, D. C., white-eyed parrot.

Elias Cohen, Washington, D. C. (through J. N. Hamlet), copperhead snake.

H. James Cole, Bethesda, Md., 4 green tree frogs, hog-nosed snake, 2 garter
snakes, 6 common tree frogs.

Martin S. Cooper, Arlington, Va., ring-necked pheasant.

Mrs. B. J. Costello, Arlington, Va., 2 alligators.

R. E. Crouch, Washington, D. C., oppossum.

Mrs. E. C. Davis, Washington, D. C., 20 guinea pigs, rabbit.

Harry Day, Hyattsville, Md., king snake, 11 painted turtles, 9 spotted turtles,
Snapping turtle, 2 musk turtles.

W. M. DeNeane, Washington, D. C., common iguana.

Benjamin C. Dooley, National Zoological Park, red-breasted merganser.

430577—_42——7
84 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Charles Hast, National Museum, Washington, D. C., pilot snake, fox snake.

Robert Ellis, Washington, D. C., king rail.

Mrs. M. J. Fadgen, Baltimore, Md., troupial.

Dr. Ferguson, Washington, D. C., eastern cardinal.

Albert A. Fields, Washington, D. C., rough-secaled green snake.

Firestone Plantation, Harbel, Liberia, pigmy hippopotamus, western chimpan-
zee, leopard, 2 rhinoceros vipers, green mamba.

Firestone Tire & Rubber Co., Akron, Ohio, Hast African porcupine, crowned
hawk-eagle.

Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior, Beltsville, Md., 12 Canada
geese.

Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior, Washington, D. C., 8 black
ducks.

Fish and Wildlife Service, Mattamuskeet Refuge, New Holland, N. C., pintail
duck.

Fish and Wildlife Service, Sacramento National Wild Life Refuge, Sacramento,
Calif., 10 cackling geese.

Fish and Wildlife Service, Seney Northwest Refuge, Germfask, Mich., 2 blue-
winged teal.

Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior, Wichita Mountains, Wild-
life Refuge, Cache, Okla., American elk.

Fish and Wildlife Service, through H. A. Bailey, Pungo, Va., 3 whistling swans.

Fish and Wildlife Service, through John N. Hamlet, Washington, D. C., Mlorida
diamond-back rattlesnake, pigmy rattlesnake, chicken snake, pine snake,
coachwhip snake, 2 pilot snakes, 2 eastern porcupines.

Fish and Wildlife Service, through John M. Hopkins, Waycross, Ga., bald eagle.

Fish and Wildlife Service through William Hopkins, McBee, 8. C., for Caro-
lina Sandhills Refuge, wood duck.

Fish and Wildlife Service, through George Mushbach, National Bison Range,
Moise, Mont., bald eagle.

Fish and Wildlife Service, through Sam A. Walker, Manteo, S. C., 2 blue-winged
teal, 6 American coots.

Ralph Fisher, Hyattsville, Md., opossum.

W. M. Fitch, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Wiley Ford, Washington, D. C., 3 guinea pigs.

L. V. Friedlei, Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Mrs. J. Friedman, Washington, D .C., screech owl.

William Gee, Washington, D. C., barred owl.

J. Gott, Washington, D. C., least bittern.

Norman Gramam, Suitland, Md., great blue heron.

W. B. Greenwood, Washington, D. C., 2 western rattlesnakes.

Martha Hall, Glen Dale Sanatorium, Glen Dale, Md.,. Pekin duck.

John N. Hamlet, Washington, D. C., tayra.

Major C. V. Haynes, Langley Field, Va., ocelot.

Helen H. Haynes, Washington, D. C., Pekin thrush.

A. M. Hazel, Washington, D. C., barrel owl.

Dr. A. Henry, Washington, D. C., weasel.

Mrs. F. W. Hill, Washington, D. C., blue jay.

G. A. Holland, Texas, 4 Texas rattlesnakes.

Miss Hopkins, Washington, D. C., mourning dove.

Miss G. B. Hudson, Washington, D. C., painted turtle.

N. Hynson, Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Mr. Jacobsen, Arlington, Va., 3 peafowl.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 85

Mr. and Mrs, C. M. James, Landover, Md., horned owl, 2 valley quail, bobwhite.

G. H. Jelinek, Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph M. Joel, Washington, D. C., ferret.

A. L. Johns, Washington, D. C., painted turtle.

Sgt. D. Jones, Police Department, Rockville, Md., black widow spider.

John Paul Jones, Washington, D. C., opossum.

Dr. Howard A. Kelly, Baltimore, Md., 2 marmosets.

William Kennedy, Washington, D. C., sparrow hawk.

Cc. S. Kimball, Washington, D. C., Virginia rail.

Mrs. H. Kingsland, “Blackstable,” Aiken, S. C., 2 barred owls.

Mrs. Krast, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Mrs. H. W. Lambert, Washington, D. C., 2 painted turtles.

Brady D. Large, Washington, D. C., ring-necked pheasant.

George Leonard, Washington, D. C., alligator.

O. M. Locke, New Braunfels, Tex., 52 horned lizards.

Mr. Lovell, Washington, D. C., large brown bat.

Mrs. A. N. Lukacs, Washington, D. C., skunk.

Ernest Lupton, Washington, D. C., black-crowned night heron.

Mrs. J. A. Lyon, Washington, D. C., 2 Arkansas goldfinch, painted bunting.

Mrs. J. A. Mandley, Washington, D. C., white-throated capuchin.

Mrs. L. O. Manley, Chevy Chase, Md., ferret.

J. P. Marshall, Alexandria, Va., great blue heron.

Mrs. J. J. Marvel, Takoma Park, Md., Cuban parrot.

Edward Matteossion, Bethesda, Md., weasel.

Sgt. J. McAuliffe, Bethesda, Md., barred owl.

B. McClellen, Washington, D. C., barred owl.

Henry J. McDermott, Takoma Park, Md., 2 canaries.

R. A. McGee, Washington, D. C., opossum.

BH. A. McIlhenny, Avery Island, La., 15 pintails, 3 green-winged teal, 4 canvasback
ducks, 7 lesser scaup, 5 coots, 24 blue-winged teal, 3 Florida gallinule, 6 blue
geese, 2 lesser snow geese, 3 hybrid ducks (greenhead and black mallard),
ring-necked duck.

Evan McLaughlin, Washington, D. C., ring-necked snake.

Dr. H. R. Mills, Tampa, Fla., bald eagle.

Vernon Mills, Fallon, Nev., 7 soft-haired ground squirrels.

Mrs. R. T. Minahan, Baltimore, Md., common marmoset.

Miss V. Moore, Washington, D. C., great white heron.

G. Myers, Stanford University, Palo Alto, Calif., 833 California newts.

National Institute of Health, through Dr. J. Oliphant, 2 golden hamsters.

J. A. Nettle, Washington, D. C., screech owl.

New York Zoological Park, 3 tahr goats.

Newbold Noyes, Evening Star, Washington, D. C., 2 black bears,

James O’Hagen, Washington, D. C., woodchuck or ground hog.

Mrs. H. A. Ourand, Takoma Park, Md., red-shouldered hawk.

Logan Owens, Jr., Washington, D. C., coot.

Miss Nancy Pelty, Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Dr. Elmo Peters, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Capt. S. Picking, Coco Sola, Canal Zone, Panama, 2 Galapagos tortoises.

John A. Plugge, Chevy Chase, Md., snapping turtle.

Mrs. Virginia Poore, Mount Rainier, Md., white-throated capuchin.

Mrs. Edward Portner, Washington, D. C., 4 skunks,

Mrs. Pratt, Washington, D. C., turtle.

Miss G. V. Rainey, Takoma Park, Md., alligator.
86 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Mildred Reed, Washington, D. C., water snake.

Mrs. James Reeks, Washington, D. C., 4 snapping turtles.

Mrs. Rehbein, Washington, D. C., weasel.

N. M. Rhodes, Dispensary Bldg., U. S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md., ocelot.

Dr. Waldo Schmitt, National Museum, Washington, D. C., 2 James Island
snakes, South Seymour Island snake.

Mrs. Scott, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Mrs. Lizzie Shelby, Washington, D. C., 4 pine snakes.

Mrs. Sherry, Washington, D. C., 2 common rabbits.

Robert Shore, Washington, D. C., red fox.

Mr. and Mrs. Phillip Shorts, Lander, Wyo., Philippine monkey.

Robert Shosteck, Washington, D. C., fence lizard, snapping turtle.

C. L. Sibley, Wallingford, Conn., 3 bantam chickens.

Orville S. Simpson, Washington, D. C., tovi paroquet.

B. Sisson, Washington, D. C., 2 Pekin ducks.

Mrs. R. Sizemore, Mount Rainier, Md., 2 Muscovy ducks.

Donald Skinker and William Wohlfarth, Washington, D. C., 3 garter snakes

Joy Eloise Smith, Washington, D. C., 2 Pekin ducks.

R. Smith, Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Smithsonian-Firestone Expedition to Liberia—see field work.

Soldiers’ Home, Washington, D. C., red-shouldered hawk.

W. H. Sterling, West Falls Church, Va., black widow spider.

Louis Stone, Washington, D. C., mole snake.

Rex Sullivan, Hudson, N. C., smooth green snake.

Miss L. C. Tait, Washington, D. C., zebra finch.

Clifton Taylor, Hyattsville, Md., snapping turtle, king or chain snake.

Robert Thulman, Chevy Chase, Md., white king pigeon.

Patricia and Terry Townsend, Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Miss J. Tendrik, Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Tropical Fruit Shop, Washington, D. C., opossum.

Dr. W. G. Trow, Warrenton, Va., barred owl.

U. S. Antarctic Service, Washington, D. C., 3 emperor penguins, 4 Gentoo
penguins, 2 kelp gulls, giant fulmar.

J. W. Urban, Arlington, Va., society finch, zebra finch.

Albert Valeer, Washington, D. C., 3 common rabbits.

Guillermo Valenzuela, Matagalpa, Nicaragua, Nicaraguan titi monkey.

Ernest P. Walker, National Zoological Park, Washington, D. C., 5 ornate
turtles, bull snake.

Washington National Airport, Dispensary Building, ring-billed gull.

Mrs. Way, Washington, D. C., 3 alligators.

Mrs. Lena White, Harpers Ferry, W. Va., double yellow-head parrot.

Karl Weissman, Kew Gardens, Long Island, N. Y., brown capuchin.

Mrs. Martin Welch, Seat Pleasant, Md., opossum.

Jess Williams, Washington, D. C., barred owl.

Lanier Williams, Washington, D. C., water snake, milk snake.

Shirley Ann Williams, Washington, D. C., sparrow hawk.

Miss Katherine A. Zehrfeld, Washington, D. C., alligator.

BIRTHS

There were 70 mammals born, 49 birds hatched, and 14 reptiles
born or hatched during the year.

OO
J

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

MAMMALS
Scientific name Common nume Number
AM MOnGOUs) LEjUM Se ee ES FA OUG OG eta ne ee ee eee 3
AGLUSITTUUITGATUS =. oe se Douroucouli or owl monkey__---- 2
PAinga@isis 2 is een SUe Loot Te AxIS eer) He See Sees Sees Pe 2
ESEROSDEOLS ON ee eo ee a INMETICAT SD IS eee 3
IS OSHANACUG Se eS ee YA2) 1) | SS NN le ete 1
CN EIEUS RELIG OO} eee ate eh ae Bingo Sash ee ee eee 3}
Cants lupus nubilus——___—__-___-.-_— = Pl SitS WO) ies se ee reer 4
COMISUPUUS Sean e a e Texas, Ped wolf. - ots ee 9
CerEUSRELO DRUG os a Heropeansred.deer=- =. al
Chaeropsis liberiensis__._______-----. Piemy hippopotamus) = 1
Cricetus cricetus subsp_____---_-_- o Golden® hamster. =) ae ee ee 9
POMC ROU a a ee re ee A allow Geer: 2a eee ee eee 4
Mendrolagus. mustusa a2 ===. Dreetkangaroos.. 2 eee i
Dolichotis magellanica__.__-----------. Patagonian Chvy2 es eee 3
THA) Ce aS eee ee ee ee Jaen ant sek 2 eee 2
LETT AUN ET ES SS a ee ee ogee 7 sta SF eB hh I el Se) i
Leontocebus rosalia____-___-_._...--_- — Lion-headed or golden marmoset_-_ 2
PUI ECRLCE ITEM LCL GUE ee ee Hhesus monkey oe eee ee i
Macaca nemestrina_____------------~ Pig-tailed macaque 2.) 224 esse il
MY OCUSLOT: COUMU se AS es 2 Coypuly or nutriawe sos eee 3
Oncifelisl GeO T0Yt = Geottroyis, Cat 2... ese ee 1
PCLOATUSLOTEVICEDS =. = a SS Lesser flying phalanger_____-_--_- 6
TERUG OC UDC RI a A Sap ee BlackoTraccoon = eee 5
ALL CS ALU Sa eke = Te Redifoxsu= 2s eee 2
BIRDS
Branta canadensis. = —-—-—-- = -_-+ @anadaligooses ae s= ee 16
GALE ONOL0a XG. TUOT di Hiybridtibige == ee aan ee ee at
Limnocoraz flavirostra__------------- PAPrican, Diackaeral oe eee 4
Nycticorar nycticorar naevius__-__-_- Black-crowned night heron____-_—- 16
PAGORCHISIOUUS =e Bluey peatowle22 = eee 12
REPTILES

Crotalus adamanteus__-__ = == = Florida diamond-backed  rattle-

SHAKE a3 es eee 14
EXCHANGES

There were not a great number of specimens received during the
year through the medium of exchange. Ennio Arrigutti, Buenos
Aires, Argentina, continued his shipments of desirable South Ameri-
can animals. The New York Zoological Park sent a purple-crested
plantain eater. A pair of green Japanese pheasants was received
from the Miami Rare Bird Farm, Miami, Fla. Several shipments
of reptiles have again been received from C. W. Kern, Tujunga, Calif.

PURCHASES

The more important specimens acquired by purchase were a harpy
eagle and a pair of South American bush dogs, three naked-throated
88 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

bell birds, a pair of raccoon dogs, a pair of Chinese badgers and a
pair of Peruvian viscachas. Also purchased during the year were
a pair each of vicunas and llamas. This completed our exhibit of
all the American representatives of the camel family.

REMOVALS
DEATHS

A most serious loss during the year was the number of birds,
mostly parrots, which died as the result of an epidemic of psittacosis
in the bird house. A number of birds suspected of having the dis-
ease were put to death. The entire building was closed, on advice
of the Department of Health, District of Columbia, for about 3
months. The parrot room is still closed to the public. It is believed
that the situation is now well on the way to being cleared. Other
losses included several chevrotain, and an East African leopard, the
jast of the lot received in 1926 from the Smithsonian-Chrysler expedi-
tion. A brown hyena which had been in the collection since 1928
died during the year. As in the past, all specimens of scientific value
that died during the year were sent to the National Museum.

SPECIES NEW TO THE HISTORY OF THH COLLECTION

MAMMALS

Scientific name Common name
Cephatophusimiger=2 222 et ee eee Black duiker.
Cephalophus nigriffons2 eee Black-fronted duiker.
Euxerus erythropus lacustris.___ --_-___-------- African ground squirrel.
Galereliamelonungs eee eee Dwartf civet.
Genetiainoensise 2s so ohes a ae Dark genet.
LOGidiiny- Cis COCCI a ee Peruvian viscacha.
Meles meles leptorhynchus______------------~-.- Chinese badger.
IN ULAUOVILOC OE rac eae ye African palm civet.

BIRDS
‘BUteO DOCCULOCRTOUS a en Red-backed buzzard.
Gallirexr porphyreolophus______-__-----__--_---. Purple-crested plantain eater.
Gypohieraz angolensis=== = eee Fish-eating vulture.
LOTUS COMNACAIILS Beene ee Te ee ees Kelp gull.
Macronectes giganteus== 2 eee Giant fulmar.
Pygoscelis papuds Se ee Ae ees Gentoo penguin.
REPTILES

ANIDY SiON OS Gis es ee Eo West African back-hinged

tortoise.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 89

Statement of accessions

: Mam- Rep- | Amphib-| yp. Arach-
How acquired aan Birds tiles ians Fishes Ge Total
ETOSGH COG Le ae oo Shee eet AS se Deen 80 207 165 10 10 3 475
Bormiorihatched 222) ee ea 70 49 pA Ts ph aes er Lara BE pec GN at 133
Received in exchange-____........_______- 16 40 39 QAR ee eS ane SE 129
PRU rchasod eee sie kwe Fee a e's 13 57 16 2 BONES ree ast 138
Omid posites tem el ee ren ee aE a eee 18 FY lah SE) emcee emt | (te lee (Ee ee 52
Received from Smithsonian-Firestone
Expedition to Liberia____..___________- 41 31 23 UB Ee ia | eerie es Sea 110
Received from Antarctic Expedition_____|_______- 1) Pee ae el apes Hine iad in ashe ER 10
ROA see sees vee see ee aa LL ie 238 428 257 61 60 3 1, 047
Summary

JE EESEDSTT STEPS TT 1g Pt a EAD © 2220 A AND 2, 550
ACCCSSIONSSOUTING ENC VOaT tee Bee em er hee ON 1, 047
Total ‘animals in; collection during year. io 2- 2 a ee 3, 597

Removal from collection by death, exchange, and return of animals on
LEDOS UG yatta ste eg ee ee ok ee a Ale (
PECOUGELION SUNG! SO: loa siessee eS Te el ne 2, 380

Status of collection

. Individ- Individ-

Class Species cae Class Species ainis
rsriimsls en ne 8 221 POL, | ETISE CUS 2 ree Eee aia en A 1 26
13h tito pe OS ee eee eee 327 ORO} sIVOlITISKs sae eee se ee 1 5
Reptiles: ese so knees 124 459)|| Orustaceans sae see ae ese cee 1 3
Amphibians 22:22) 226. el 23 79 a
Wishes! ser ee cose Sc esa ses 30 144 Total sens fee eee ene 730 2 380
IATACHTNGS teen ees ees 2 3

A list of the animals in the collection follows:

ANIMALS IN THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK, JUNE 30, 1941

MAMMALS
MARSUPIALIA
Didelphidae:
Didelphis virginiana______----_____-. Opossum] ssl ae eee +
Dasyuridae:
Sarcophilus ursinug_.—--.-__=----_-- Tasmanign devilasas2 Ses eee 1
Phalangeridae:
evaurus) brevicepse 2 ee eee Lesser flying phalanger____________ 9
Trichosurus vulpecula__.___________- Vulpine opossums 2e24 asa 1
Macropodidae:
Dendrolagus inustus______-_._--_--- Tree kangarooL sa. eee ee 3
Dendrolagus inustus finschi________- Finsches tree kangaroo____________ 3
Dendrolagus ursinus X D. inustus_.__ Hybrid tree kangaroo_____________ 1
Phascolomyidae:

Vombatula ursina__________.__-____.. Flinders Island wombat___________ 2
90 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

CHIROPTERA
Vespertilionidae:
Hpiesicus fuscus. 2 eee large Drown) Datleosse eee ee
CARNIVORA
Felidae:
Acinony» jubatus___-______---_-____. CO) Vas Ps oben ry eRatat haha ansaid Sv
Pelis* Chass 2 sss 2 a eee Jungle (eat seas oe kash sO
Felis concolor puma___——- ===. Patagonian) pumaee ssn ane ae
Y cf AI Py Ak 7 RRS SRE LENT onto ela RS Tp Dao) Ones epithe, Bes epte L, Gtt) hi once iil g
E VARNA Te Se Se eee
HOWE OE ram sectecn sean R are (we JOQUaT ee ae eee
elias) par dahss 2225. ee ees Ocelotiis See 2 Ss ee SE eee
Felig par dies ee Le EE ee leopard by Mie eet Uenhenae oe
Black Indian leopard_----_____----
Pee ttgrin de ee Margayieea2 Eh oh Bae mee
CUES NEU GT IS eae AIL A Been ee Bengal tigers s2 ue hw eae eee ee
Felis tigris tongipilis_______----___-_- Siberian’tiger2-22) 22220 Sie tae
Felis tigris sondaicus.—--—2- =e Sumatran, tizersaose eee ee
LAND OAC Yt 2a ee Ses eB Batley’) liymici. 22 te 2
TEAPIU  G UT US ae aaa ss 1 eth iad hitb. cl sae a ee ee
TAINO Wit ee ek re ee De ed Bobeat aa See eae Se ee
INCOLELiSUNCOULOSC= see ee Cloudedilecopard2=== ae
Oncifelis gcofroyt ee Geoliroy:s: Cato == ee eee
Profeiis temminckhi==2— ee Goldenicatsov2oe4s 2 eee ee
Viverridae:
Arctictis binturong_-<2_-_-------+---- Binturong 2.022 ee eee
Civettictis civetta___---_- a C1 ete ee ie ns ee
Galerella melanura___-------------- Dwart! (civet: 232-4 eee
Moschothera megaspila___-------~--- IB URMESBICIVC tae ee eee
Nandimia binotata____----__--_-____ AT rican) palm iCiyetee oe ss aa ea
Paradorurus hermaphrodyius______-. Small-toothed palm civet_____------
Hyaenidae:
Crocuta crocuta germinans____------ Hast African spotted hyena__------
Canidae:
Canis ilatpanse es Pete a a Sees Coyote ee Uae Eee ae
Canis latrans X domestica___------~- Coyote and dog hybrid___________ aad
Canis lupus lycaon___-______-__-_--- Timber’ wolfe 2453 22 See ee
Canis lupus nubdilus_-__________-__-- AW OLB Soe a Se
OC ONAS EYAL] Se a ea ee wee Texas red) wolf. 22-3 see ee
Chrysocyon juvctiaes] 2 see Maned! wolfta2: 20 hen oie aay saa
Cuon javanicus sumatrensis_____--~- Sumatran wild dog_.__.-_________
DUStCY ONS aoa es eke eS a South American fox__.____________
Dusicyon Spee ee SouthAmerican) foxe=0 sss eee
Urocyon cinereoargenteus___________. Gorany, Loe ae see a ae ee
Vielpes: fulvasaco ne Te Rea fOxs l so eke ae ee se
Procyonidae:
INGSUGiINONICC 208 2 ae ee Coatimundine 2222 eee
POLOSSAOUS I Ae Pinte Nok tae Need inka jou ee ee a
RACCOONS: sane he Le ee
PrOCYON' LOTOT Sea ae Ee Raccoon) (albino) 222
Black raccoon]. ek aa
Bassariscidae :

Bassariscus astutus_____________-~_- Ring-tail or cacomistle___________--
,
|

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

Mustelidae:
Arctonya: collarisos2 See se ee Se Hogi badger=25 eee ee
VAR AOUpluUtole aa. oa Soe. sent Water civet sec. 2e 2 Nees okie oe
Charronia flavigula henricii____-_-~-~ Asiaticwmarten 226328.) eee eee
Galictis barbara barbara______------- White tayras =. 2 a ea es
GLCTISE SD. ase ee er ee eed Brown. tayral 2s ee ee
Grison- allamangdtis fee es a ron! 2) Le ee eee
Grisonella. huronag__-=-—- 252+ +=. Grison! 2202 2 ee ee
CIT OMLUSCUR et ae See Be SEs hes ok ee 7 Wolverines... 22" seten- dred Se aay
Lutra canadensis vaga__--------~-~~- Hlorida otter... 22 Seta eee
NICICS TN CLES! an a Pk eS ee bet Huropean badger -- = ee
Mellivora. capensis_____2=- = ------= Ratelo soe ee ee
Menhitis nigra=s =. = eess eee Sun ki le a es
Micraonya teptonyr.2.—---_---__-_- Small-clawed otter_____-_.--------
Mustela eversmanni____--_—.-----+-. Werret 2 ye Se ele ae
Mustela noveboracensis____---------- Weasels tos eee ae
Mustela vison vison___-------------- Minka so A
Ursidae:

Huarctos americanus_______-_-_--~-_- American black bear_--.._=--—--=~
Euarctos emmonsii________-_-=-_~--- Glacier bear. 222.22 eee
Helarctos malayanus__—_-__-_-----_—- Malayiorsunbear os]. a ewe
Thalarctos maritimus_ == = Polar bears es ee past
Thalarctos maritimus X Ursus midden-

CEC Ta fe ae at EE) Hybridt bears 2. 22 eae
WSUS ORCLOS2 soa = SI rep Saher std European brown bear_____-_----- ae
(SERED (1 eS oe a Se tee ee Alaska Peninsula bear_2—--_ === ==
Ursus middendorfi____________-___-- Kodiak brown bear_______------_--
WP SUSEOLLCNSIS 2 a oe ee Sitka brown pedrese sae me
LIMSUshtntOClANU Se 2 2 =e eee Himalayan bears se ae ee

PINNIPEDIA
Otariidae:
Zalophus californianus______-_------- Californiayseaslion=2-—- = ee
Phocidae:
PROCUMMCnaNGit=— =) 88s Pacific harbor seala2 ae
PRIMATES
Lemuridae:
Nyecticebus coucang___-—_=--_- —_-_-_= Slowloris.- 2 los see a
IPCrOUICliCUSEUNOtLOW 22 ee POtto: 2 = = eee
Callitrichidae:
Onlnthric jacchus_—-——- 2 Common marmoset=.———
Leontocebus rosaltia______-~--_~------ Lion-headed or golden marmoset___
MACON OFOCNIOIG= = 52 8 ab ce Black-tailed marmoset_--------~~_
Oedipomidas oedipus__________-__--_- Pinche tamaring 222222225 2s eee
Saimiridae:
(SURED OES Dee eee an Nicaraguan titi monkey__-------~__
Cebidae:
AOLUS WVU OCIS == 2 oe Douroucouli or owl monkey__-_-_--
OPTED Ci [1 aS ee ee ee ees Brown capuchin== 22 eee
WEUUSNCODUCINIUNS 488 White-throated capuchin_________-_-
COUT ST CULCWUS 2. 2k a Weeping capuching= ==
HEN TES Cy Ce a Se ee eS Pee Gray \capuchina 2s ee ee

Pithecia, monacha_________-_-______- Saki monkey.
92 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Cercopithecidae:
Cercocebus fuliginosus________------ Sooty: mangabey ==22= See 19
Cercopithecus aethiops aethiops_____- Grivet -monkey_ 2:2 =— oe ee al
Cercopithecus aethiops sabaeus____-~ Green enenon seh eee %
Cercopithecus diana___.—-----~-_-_-- Diana -monkey22222 SS 1
Cercopithecus neglectus_______------. De) Brazza's; cucnon= eee 1
Cercopithecus petaurista______----- _. Lesser white-nosed guenon_________ 1
Cercopithecus roloway__-----------~- Roloway/monkey= 2 Ee il
Brythrocebus patas_--=___2— === == Patasmmonkey-2.22202 eee 2
Macaca: fuscata2222 2 eee Japanese: monkeys. 222 2 se ea ese 2
Macaca-lastotis=. == ee ee Chinese macaque___.._---__--____- 2
MACACG MNO Games Javan: molkey=_ ee eee 9
Macaca: mulatigwi = a ee Rhesus) monkey2222—-2 oe eee 4
Macaca nemestrina 2s Pig-tailed macaque.._—--.—_~—-=—-— 6
Mackca stlenuss= ee eee Wanderoo monkey------~--_-_~-__ il
Macaca stnices 2s Se eee Toque or bonnet monkey___________ 3
MaAGUSHINGUUSE =e. a eh eee Moor monkey 22.2224 se eee 5
Mandrillus leucophaeus____-_------- Drills ce oe ee if
Mandrnillus spring Se Mand rill) 22:2 ee 3
IPGpio | COMOALUS == 22 5 ee Oe Chacma=. 2222 eee Gee ee 1
PANO DAD One Je aes Saas REED West African baboon___-_-________ il
'PADlONSp ae ee le Sd Oe West African baboon_-_________-__ 1
Presbytis senex nestor___________~__. Western purple-faced monkey_____- 2
Hylobatidae:
Hylovates.aglisseeaa. Se ee Sumatran)<gibbons—-2= ee 1
Hylobates tar piteatus-— == Black-capped gibbon_-----2=s"2s= 1
Symphalangus syndactylus__________. Slamang. gibbon! SRD
Pongidae:
PONTSOtY RNS Aas eee Debs Chimpanzee 2222522 oe eee eee eee 4
POR SAtYTUSs VEN e eae Western chimpanzee______________ 1
PONGO (GUC E a ee Ee Se Sumatran oraneutan= see ae 2
(PORGO.DYUGMACUS 2 ea aa Bornean orangutan_-_._._____-___- 1
RODENTIA
Sciuridae:
Ammospermophilus leucurus_______-- Antelope: squirrel]==- 2 a
Citeliusemnolliss = ee eee Soft-haired ground squirre]_______~ A
Cynomys ludovicianus______-_______- Prairie) Gog: 2522 Se Oey 16
Glaucomys(.olans= = eee Miying squirrel]. s ee eee 1
Marmota monag.= =. eae ee Woodchuck or ground hog___-_____ 3
Sciurus finlaysoni__________________. Lesser white squirrel_____________ 2
IS CULGUB GI C7 ate ee Southern fox squirrel________-____ 3
Toamiasistriatys eee eee Hastern= chipmunk] =a itl 2B
Tamiasciurus hudsonicus_________-_- Red’ squirrelic.-2 bre Ceaaaue a
Heteromyidae:
Dinodomys desertt= == ae Mesertekanearoo) rate 1
Dipodomys merriami_______________- Merriam kangaroo rat-_-----~-- Jabcry na
Jaculidae:
SACULUSHACUIILS aise SEARS ele ee Hey ptiany Jerboa eee 1
Castoridae:

Oastor.canadensis= Sa Beaver 22 eae eee 1

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

Cricetidae:
Cricetus cricetus subsp_____--__---~- Goldenshamsters==3
Cricetomys gambianus______-___-__-- Gambia: pouched rafe=--—= ==
Neotoma floridana atiwateri______-_- Round-tailed wood rat---_-----~--
OndatarAvelnieg 2 e e Blacker mis karat se ae
Peromyscus californicus_____-___-_-. Long-tailed mouses=—2--
Peromyscus leucopus.2.--~ = -e White-footed mouse___-__-------~-
Peromyscus leucopus noveboracensis_. Northern white-footed mouse_-----
Peromyscus maniculatus____-------- White-footed mouse_--_-------__
Peromyscus maniculatus osgoodi____- Black-eared deer mouse_------~-- a
Peromyscus polionotus polionotus__.__ Old-field mouse_-------------_----
Muridae:
Rattus norvegicus (albino) ~._----___ White: rat. 2.2. eee
Hystricidae:
Acanthion brachyurum_____--------- Malay porcupine. 2s ee
ALETULUS -G{TICON Gia 3s oe oe West African brush-tailed porcu-
PiNne@ eo oe ee eee
HayetreD Galegid—= 22 22. Sess ee East African porcupine_____-__-_-
PE RECUIUS: SUING. GC a= Se Sa Brush-tailed porcupine___-________
Erethizontidae:
Coendow prehensilis.-2. = -- = =. Prehensile-tailed porcupine___----~-
Hrithizon dorsatwm_.__-=—~—---.—=~- Hastern porcupine ee
Erithizon epizanthum___-----------. Western porcupine ==
Myocastoridae:
MajOCASLOT (COU DU == ee INDRA a eee eee
Capromyidae:
Capromys pilorides._...-2=-=---._._ Mutig 22 oS ele
Cuniculidae:
Cuniculus paca virgatus______-__--_- Central American paca-—__-.--_____
Dasyproctidae:
Dasyprocta croconota prymnolopha__ Agouti__-----------_-----_-~---~- i
Chinchillidae:
TAgdIUnNy VisCaccia—_ = Peruvian. vyiscach@==)4=--2—=-=—==
Caviidae:
Cavin porcelius.. Domestic guinea pig-_-______-----_
Conta DOr cele a ee Domestic guinea pig (angora
breed) 2202 ee ites
Dolichotis magellanica____________-- Patagonian cavy=—- =) see
Pediolagus salinicola__._____-____-~~-. Dwarf, CaVvy-=2.2-- se eee
LAGOMORPHA
Leporidae:
Oryctolagus cuniculus______________. Domesticsrabbite= eee
ARTIODACTYLA
Bovidae:
Ammotragus lervia___.----_-__--__ =. Aoudad 22 222-22 e ee Ce ee
Anod) depressicornis_____ = -. 2 ATI OR eee ee nae eo
SAU GSMO UTES ee = ot Jie Lee a ee Gaur 2222 ee ee a
PRRs r pio cis tbody 5 diated eo bison a3. se woe"
Albino bison ese ee eet
PERO SERIALS ae ee Sy VAS () | Cae nen MEE ae AE Pes eS eS
94 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Bovidae—Continued.
Cephalophus ngersa22 2 eee Dutker.-.c22 5. Sie ou ee ae 2
Cephalophus nigrifrons_______----_-- Black-fronted duiker______________ 3
Connochaetes. gniz222- = eee Wihite-tailedtenut 22 eee ee 2
Hemitragus jemlahicus____----_----. Tah 22 3h eee 4
Oryx beisa annecitens_______________ Lbean /beisavoryx2 ese 2
Ovis europacussicl et eet Mouflon 2222 eno, Se 2
Poephagus grumniens___-__--__--~-~--. DG: pet eaeh oe 9 hy an LE A At 6
Pseudois nanura2a2 eh ees Bharal or blue sheep____----_----_ 5
Syncenoscajier a2 Se eee ee African? buitalon ss oes eee 2
Taunowagus oye eee Bland! S222 hee eee 3
Cervidae:
AUS 4 BUS oo ns iy BS | EY, Asis) deers 2oc 6s AP Se vole Suis 9
Cervus canadensis.___---. Wapiti 2 23 Seeks ee eee 3
Cervus duvauceliteca =e Barasinghay deers eos 2s eee 2
Cervus*elapniise) 2 Die ae European red deer____-___________ 14
a ne Sormemateeelcr men) TAN Brow etal Owed Ceres eee 11
ae pe AL wae pee White fallow ideer. 2255 Sea 14:
Muntiacus muntjak_____-.---_---__-- Rib-faced or barking deer____--__-~ 1
Mumntiacus. sinensis. 2 ee, Chinese rib-faced deer__________-__ 1
Odocoileus costaricensis_______-____-- CostatRicant deer ata tee 1
Odocoileus virginianus___-__-_-----~- Virginiadeers. ee eee eee 3
SUCHIN D DOT Sea ea Sas ee Japanese, deers es ee ees 2
Tragulidae:
TrAGululs 4OUGNIGUS= 2 eee Javan.mouseideer = a ee 1
Giraffidae:
Giraffa camelopardalis______________ Nubiangiratte so See ea 4
Gurajaencticuat Reticulated vgiraftes2 22 eens 2
Camelidae:
Camelus bactrianus__-__ BaActrian) (camel ee see 3
NG Guan 2a ee blameless eee 2
On GeRUONOCUS ae ee Guanaco se eee 2
OMG POCOSHs ke 2S RECS Li sO AI pa Cases sas Ae eee 2
WAGUGTIONUICUO Tae ee VicUn at. {eee 2
Tayassuidae:
IPCCURIMONGULATUS a ee Collared: peccaty2-2--22822 22 3
TAYAsSi DeCOTi as aes ee an eee White-lipped peccary__-___-----__- 1
Suidae:
Babirnussa ehurus— eee Babirussae t.ho .2... PA Neha nee |e 3
Phacochoerus aethiopicus massaicus_. Hast African wart hog__------_--- 1
SUS SCTOl Cane ee ea ee leer Huropeanswildspoarss=— =e At
Hippopotamidae:
Choeropsis iberiensis___-_____-__-__ Pigmy hippopotamus__-_--------__ 5
Hippopotamus amphibius______---__- Eippopotamus==2= === eee 2
PERISSODACTYLA
Equidae:
HI QUUS OV EU eae eee Grévy's zebra eee 1
Hawus grevyi-asinus_ 22 Aepra-ass hybrid 222s eee eee 1
Haws grevyi-caballus—_____-_______- Zebra-horse hy brid=22 1
FH QUUS TILA ee AES ee ee Asiatic wild ass or kiang__---_---_ 2
Hquus przewalskit_ i= == Mongolian wild horse__-__-_------ 3
Hquus quagga chapmani__-_______-_-. Chapman's) zZebrase---- 7

Quirs2e0r gi see ete Nina ee Mountainezepriesa = aa 1

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

Tapiridae:
Acrocotiawnititeas.. =o 22-8 Asiatic, tapire.s26.~ 22 no
Tapiretla bairdit_____=-__----.=++_-. Central American tapir______--_-_
Ramis LETvestr rs ea ee ee South American tapir_________----
Rhinocerotidae:
DCCTOR AULCOTNAS ose ae A Re Black ‘rhinoceros ===)
Rhimoceros wnicornis____--------~-~ Great Indian one-horned rhinoceros_
PROBOSCIDEA
Elephantidae:
Hlephas sumatranus______-__-_--_--- Sumatran elephant") ===
Lozodonta africana ozryotis_________ ‘African elephant. 22s eee
EDENTATA
Choloepodidae:
Choloepus didactylus_.__._._____-_.---- ‘Two-toed ‘sloth eee
Dasypodidae:
Chaetophractus villosus___-__------- Hairy armadillo= eee
Dasypus novemcinctus_____--------- Nine-banded armadillo_______--__-_
BIRDS
STRUTHIONIFORMES
Struthionidae:
Nitto Camels ee South: African’ ostrich===
BHEIFORMES
Rheidae:
Eo a ee i Common rhea or nanda_ 4 ee
White rhea 2 tn eanic ee co ae ee
CASUARIIFORMES
Casuariidae:
Casuarius bennetit____._.....=~—~=-=. Bennett's; cassowary--- =
COSIOIIS Ss 2 eae kn CASSOWALY 2. = ae ee
Casuarius unappendiculatus_________ Single-wattled cassowary_---------
Dromiceiidae:
Dromiceius novaehollandiae_____---_ Common: emuss=) 222 >* 22S eae
SPHENISCIFORMES
Spheniscidae:
Apitenouytes forstert_______—-__---- == Himperor penguine ee
PY GOSCOUS DANUG. =) = Gentoo Pens Win sass ee ee
Spheniscus demersus___-__---------- Jackass penguin’ 02. ee
TINAMIFORMES
Tinamidae:
Oalonezus elegans.—— 22 Les ese, Grested! tinamous22 3-42
Notiniwra maculosas2—= === Spotted tanamouss = es ee
PELECANIFORMES
Pelecanidae:
Pelecanus californicus______.______-. California brown pelican__-_------
Pelecanus conspicillatus____________- Australian: pelicans a2. 2 ene

Pelecanus erythrorhynchos__----_--~ American white pelican____-___--__
96

Pelecanidae—Continued.
Pelecanus erythrorhynchosXP. occi-
dentalis = whee Ee a ae
Pelecanus occidentalis____________-=
Pelecanus onocrotalus__________--~--
PeElecanus: 1 OSEUS Fae ee eee
Sulidae:
IM OVUSTDOSSONU See ae eee 2 ee
Phalacrocracidae:
Phalacrocorar auritus albociliatus___

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

American white and brown pelican
Brown pelicana-=2-222 2s
Huropean (pelicans. ee ou
Rose-colored pelican_______-----_-

Gannett ht ee SiS ee

Haralloncormorante eee

Phalacrocoraz auritus floridanus____ Florida cormorant__----------~----
Anhingidae:
ANTANOGNONNING Gio eee PATTI 9 Ae eed eat
Fregatidae:
COCCHI CL Seen eS ee ee = Wesser frigates ping 2s
CICONITFORMES
Ardeidae:
AT EEG TOTO CAG Goes sites tes nana eee ge Great blue heron2 22 ee eee
AT CCGLOCCIAENL ALS ee eae ee Great white heron__-_____________
Notophoyx novaehollandiae______-__. White-faced heronl=222-2225" "==
Nycticorag nycticorage naevius______- Black-crowned night heron___-----
Cochleariidae:
Cochlearius cochlearius__.___-_____-. Boatbills heron) 22 ee
Ciconiidae :
DiSsOurd, €piscopuss=— =) a ae Woolly-necked stork________-__--_
EHphippiorhynchus senegalensis___--_-. Saddle-billed stork____________---_
TDLSNCIN EN EUS 2H SS SAS TEESE Malayastork2:2 222 2 ule ee
Leptoptilus crumeniferus__________~- Marabou tas ieee oh eee
TLCRtODELUS GID US ae Un Gi antaaa eta ee ee
Leptoptilus javanicus__-____________ Messer aqiutante 22 es
Mycterta americana________________- Wood ibiss 2s ee ee
Threskiornithidae:
AF I Of en ete ee ee ree tncsi nua Roseatenspoonpill eases eae
ALO UG a EN ES tT Wihitey piss 2 sees sein sree eee
Guara altaxXG. rubra 2, Hybrid ibis (searlet and white) -—-
UGH ONAL ea ATEN NOMEN Searlet ibis_____ KA a Meg ns Pa gee dled 2
Threskiornis aethiopica-______-__-___ Sacredijibise 22.22 ere eee aa
Threskiornis melanocephala______-__ Black-hesdedribisw aa
Threskiornis spinicollis_____________. Straw-neckedibis2 ae ees
Phoenicopteridae:
Phoenicopterus chilensis_____._-__-__. Chileanmiilaming ona ss sane eee
PROCELLARIIFORMES
Procellaridae:
Macronectes giganteus______________ Giant? falmarvs eee eee
ANSERIFORMES
Anhimidae:
Chaunaicristita 22 ae eee Crested) screamer2222 = eee
Anatidae:
ALG BOTS area re 2 en TN Wood) duckac2.ucst aaa gubre.s eee
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 97

Anatidae—Continued.
Alopochen aegyptiacus_____---_----- Higyptian. goose 1
ANUS OLOSINONSIS= =~ oo So ae ee Brazilian tealo_ 2 eee 2
ANRASIGOMESACE = ae eS ee Pekin® duck=24-2 3 Se eee 27
Anas platyrhynchos_==.-----_----__- Mallard | duck] = se Ri IS
ANS - TU DTADCS == = set Le ie ee ee Black or dusty mallard_____---_- ie
ANSON ALOU TONS ae Ae ee American white-fronted goose__---- 3
Anser cinereus domestica_____-_-~-~-. Toulouse /:00se_== = ee 1
Anserinas semipalmata_____----~~--. Australian pied goose_--__--------- 2
Braid svennicla = = Se ee, Brant... 3) jee eee il
Branita canadensis__________-_--__-- Canada! £00se_ ee 20
Branta canadensis minima___--~-~-~- Cackling: goose-_-=- 3. SSS 10
Branta canadensis occidentalis_____- White-cheeked goose_-------------- 15
Catrina moschaia______--------_---- Muscovy. duck2_.2 22s 8
Casarca variegata__._______-__-__--- Paradise. duckii22232 342) See il
Cereopsis novaehollandiae______---~- Cereopsis or Cape Barren goose__--- ib
CRG Elam iCUes = eek 2 ek ei Snow. go0se. 25-22 Sse eee 7
Chenjoaerulescens. 5-2 es bese Blue: co0ses. 2223s oe Ae 8
Olenopis atrata see Se ee hee Black: swan2.2-22 2 ee eee -£
Chloephaga leucoptera___-_---------. Magellan ‘goose:_.-_ 22 eee ak
Chloephaga poliocephala______------~ Ashy-headed upland goose_--_----- 2
OCoscoroba coscoroba__—__—-+_----_-- Coseoroba22 02: Ue eat sae ee 2
Cygnopsis cygnoides_______--------- Chinese, .goose.-222 Ss ee 3
Cygnus columbianus___--~---~------~- Whistling swan. eee 5
Cygnus melancoriphus___-_----~----- Black-necked swan_-_-_-------_--- 2
OMOTAUS OLO Tas a SS Mute vSwan2 2) eee 2
DL TUL ACCU es ae a Pinta 6a ee 8
Dalarspinicwidas 2-2. Chileans pinta 1
Dendrocygna arborea_____---------- Black-billed tree duck-----------~ 3
Dendrocygna autumnalis_____------- Black-bellied tree duck_----------- 2
Dendrocygna viduata______-------~-- White-faced tree duck_--__-------- 4
Mareca americana___-—--=---_-_--_- Balipate: = ee ee 1
LUTE AAT 11S, ee ea Ticeser Sea 0p ee 2
Marila COUGTHS =~ 2S es Ring-necked duck==— ee 1
Nettion carolinense_______------__--- Green-winged teal_________----_- ee alt
STL | eee teapot EA is SEIS SS, Hybrid duck= 2 =e eee a!
Nyroca valisineria____.._-___._+_--—- Canvasback duck==> 2
Plectropterus gambensis__._____------ Spur-winged> soosea_—- 2
Querquedula discors_________-----_-. Biue-wineedteale 13
FALCONIFORMES
Cathartidae:

Aegypius monachus______-_--------- Cinereous: yulture=22 ee alt
Oagtharlesnqurg.se ee ae Turkey (vulture. ee 3
Cathartes auraXCoragyps atratus___. Black vulture and turkey vulture

hy brid.22 2 eee eee 1
Coragynssatr aig: eee eee Black. vuolture2 === ee eee 1
Gymnogyps californianus______---~-- California» condor==- => 2
Gypohierazr angolensis___.______-___-. Fish-eating vulture_____--_--__--_- 1
Guns rienpelli seus sees ie! Ruppell’s. vulfuret 2S eee 1
Kaupifalco monogrammicus___—----~-~-. Northern lizard-buzzard_______---- ik
Sarcoramphus papa——~_—-~---~-_--- King valture.2. 265. 1
orgostrachelotus 2. se ee. African eared vulture________----- aL

VAC OT Y DRM Ses Base oe ee South American condor____-------- 3
98 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Sagittariidae:
Sagittarius serpentarius_____-___----- Secretary bird 2220s-2s eS

Accipitridae:
Accipiter tachiro macroscelides_____- West African goshawk_--__-__----
IBULeONOOTeals cae es Se eee Red-tailed hawk 22224 2)228ts 208
Buteovinedtus sae ee ee eee Red-shouldered hawk__-------~----
Buteo melanoleucus___-__----------- South American buzzard eagle__----
Buteo poecilochrous__-___----------_- Red-backed buzzard_----_---__-----
Buteo swainsoni_____----_--_-_-_-_- Swalnson’s hawkl
Haliaeetus lewcocephalus______-__---- Bald: eagle. 2/2 tee eto
Hatasturindis_=_ eee Brahminy kite. eee
Harpta happy 2 eee Harpy caglesie2eu. sua hae Sess
Hypomorphnus urubitinga__--------- Brazilianviedgle==_ sea eee
Milwago chimango___--------------- Chimango! 228 2 ae ee ae La
Milvus migrans parasitus________-_-. Yellow-biledzkite =
Pandion haliaetus carolinensis______-~ Osprey or fish hawk___------------
Parabuteo wnicincius____.22- += 3-—. One-banded hawk 2-223 ee2s-===
Stephanoaetus coronatus______--_---. Crowned hawk-eagle___----------_
Uroaciusaid Ee Wedge-tailed eagle_-____-_----__----

Falconidae:
Cerchneis sparverius______-________- Sparrow: hawka22 Seis eee
Cerchneis sparverius cinnamominus__ Chilean sparrow hawk___-_-------~-
Daptrius americanus____------_—---- Garanchowiel 2.5 Auer rk eens
Polyjborus cheriwvay__ -- Avdubon’s), caracara= eee
Polyborus plancus_2-—- 22 South American caracara_--------~

GALLIFORMES

Cracidae:
Crazi fasciolata=- 2 eae Crested curassow_-...----.----——-
Cran rubra see ee Panama curassowe--—-—--— ===
Orage sciaten 222 ee eS Sclater’s curassow—-----_---------
DDRII EP A jek a ae a ape eee A Razor-billed curassow__-----------
Penclope sp 228 2 ae es ee eS Guan 22S ee eee

Phasianidae:
Alectoris org cet ee eee Chukar partridge =
ATOUSIONUS ATU US se eee Argus pheasant=-— ee
Chrysolophus amherstiae_____------- Lady Amherst’s’ pheasant___----_--
Chrysolophus pictus—_—-=- = Golden pheasant=-==— eee
Colinus virginianus_______-__---_---- Bobwhites 222022 ine eee
COMUNE COMTI Sa Migratory, quail =e
Eexcalfactoria chinensis__________-__- Blue-breasted button quail_________
Galusigaiiisuses eee he ee eee Jungle fowls 222s) See Ce eee
Galustiajayeti EEE Ceylonese jungle fowl__-__--_--_---
Gallus: spss. 2 220 Se a eee Bantam fowl] 22) 2) ee ees
Gallusispi cote ek ee ATraucanian efoywil == = eee eens
Gallus sp.x Numida galeata_____--~-. Chicken and guinea fowl hybrid__-_
Gennaeus lineaius=- eS Eineated” pheasant=230==
Gennaeus nycithemerus_______------- Silver. pheasants22225 ee eee
Hierophasis swinhoti__-_-__---------. Swinhoe’s pheasant____-_--_--__--
Lophophorus impeyanus_____-------- Himalayan impeyan pheasant__--~--
Lophortyx californica vallicola_____-. Valley, quailicierieseenc se eee
DLophura Tubrap ee Malayan fire-back pheasant________
IPQUO) ChiSthlUs aa ee ee us Peafowl.. ==. Seen eee
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 99

Phasianidae—Continued.

Pavomuticws 22252 Sees eae Green peafowl2=— Sasa = ease al
. Ring-necked pheasant__-___--~~--- al
Phasianus torquatus———-----------—- ae ring-necked pheasant_____--~ Z
Phasianus torquatus formosanus____- Formosan ring-necked pheasant-_-__ 1
Phasianus torquatus (var.)---------- Melanistic mutant  ring-necked
pheasant. =: 2 Se ee Sees 3
Phasianus versicoloria22. 22a Green Japanese pheasant___-__----_ 4
Polyplectron napoleonis___-_-----_-- Palawan peacock pheasant___---~- 1
Syrmaticus reevesi.-——-->.------~-- =. Reeves’ spheasant:\=¢20. ss -2eo il
Numididae:
Acryllium vulturinum___------------ Vulturine guinea fowl__----------- il
INAUNSG CESS = = = teu bey aarti se Guineatfowlsicc ust see. sees 4
GERUIFORMES
Gruidae:
Anthropoides paradisea___----------. paradise: cranes ==) === 2
Aninronoides: Virgo Demoiselle'crane. = eee 7
Balearica pavonina___--__--_------—- West African crowned crane__----~- 3
Balearica regulorum gibbericeps____-. Hast African crowned crane___---- 1
Fulica americana..=--.--~.--~-~_-_- Americany;coot.-—-- oe se eee 10
Grus canadensis canadensis___-_--_-~- Littles brown! cranes. 22 ee 1
Gris leucauchena2 2 2 sears ee tk White-naped crane___----__----~-- 1
Grusvleucogenanuse s.r see Siberianweranes ==. 2-2 ees 2
Rallidae:
Gallinula chloropus cachinnans___-_~ Herida gallinvies=2= = ses aaa 4
Gallinula chloropus orientalis____-_-_-- Sumatran gallinule___________----- 2
Limnocoraz flavirostra______-------- APricaniplacksrail ==) sae see 10
Porphyrio poliocephalus______------_- Gray-headed porphyrio_-_-----_--~- 2
Eurypygidae:
PUT DUTO CUS = ts iri 24 tee Sun*bittern]2 =) Sie eee 1
Cariamidae:
Cariama cristata_.__..--._=----_-- Cariama) onseriama sas) == ae 2
CHARADRIIFORMES
Haematopodidae:
Haematopus ostralegus____.____---~-- European oyster catcher_---------- 2
Charadriidae:
Belonopterus chilensis________-----~-- Chilean lapwittg.2..-\-225 504 2
Scolopacidae:
Philomachus pugnar____-_----~~---- PRED ee ee te a a eae 1
Laridae:
OTUS) ONG CNtatuss = =e or Herring ules ees See ee 1
Larus delawarensis____.—_______--—_- Ring-billed ecules 1
Larus donvnicanus._.=---===—-==---. Kelpreull-e een eee ee eens 2
arus giucescens_ 2... Glaucous-winged gull______----___- 1
Larus novaehollandiae______-__-_-_- Silver‘ (gull 8 See ae 16
COLUMBIFORMES
Columbidae:
OOMUMUIANOWNE 22 a= Triangular-spotted pigeon__-___-_-- 1
Columba livia (domestic) _------_-~-- Archangelupizconss esse. aaa none rf
Columba livia (domestic) ------_----- Wan-tailed'spigeonss= 25528) il
Columba maculosa____-_---------- ==) Spot-winged = pigeon asses 1

430577—_42——_8
100 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Columbidae—Continued.
Columba palumbus______-_—__--_----. Wood {pigeons 223 os asia as 1
Duca Gene Sees Re a ee Green imperial pigeon_____________ 1
Gourajeristata ts eee eee Sclater’s crowned pigeon________-__ al
Gouna woictoriag Sasa 2 Sena Victoria crowned pigeon___--______ 1
Lamprotreron jambu_________---_-_. Pink-headed fruit pigeon__-________ 1
heptotila ritfacilasa = eee SCAM PUSEo nH Ne eee Nee ee 1
Muscadivores paulina____----------- Celebian imperial pigeon___________ al
Streptopelia chinensig_______---—_--- Asiatic collared dove______--__-__- 3
Streptopelia chinensis ceylonensis___._ Lace-necked or aSh dove________-__ 6
Streptopelia semitorquata__________-. African red-eyed dove_____________ 1
PUTTS FU S OT UU ees ea ea END Turtledove‘ 22 seee he ises eee q
Tympanistria tympanisiria fraseri_._.tTambourine pigeon_______________ 2
Zenaidd auriculata-———-—- = 2- South American mourning dove____ 11
Zenaidura macroura_______________— Mourning doy. easa ee anes 3
PSITTACIFORMES
Psittacidae:
Agapornis pullariq 22a eee ae Red-fa ced olovebirds=s22e2 =a awesns 12
AGG \G1GT CUNO eee eee nee Yellow and blue macaw__-__-__-_~_ 3
Ana cCRlOvOnteg@ = tea eee ebay Red and blue macaw____--_-_--___ 1
ARG MOCO! 20s soviet d eet Ree Red, blue, and yellow macaw__--__ 2
ATG MONI Ade. een eae Pliger’s .MaACawee sae eae 1
Ara: militaria. 2 ees eee ee Mexican green macaw__------_---- al
Aart SS OVEN Cee ean ee ee ee aS Ns Sad Severe) macawe- 22222 i 6 eae 1
AT AUNOGEUODS aa ee eee ree Cubaniconure! ee eee eee il
Calyptorhynchus magnificus________~ Bankstan:icockatoos22_ 22s es 1
Coracopsis| nigra_- ts aa eee Lesser_vasa parrots 20e 2 eee 1
Cyanopsitiacus spizvi. Spix’s) Maca wasens Shae eae 2
Domicella flavopalliata_______-__---_ Red! Jory.) 2.4 ee ee 3
HICLECHUS MECLOTAlis=n as eee Helectus parrotess22 22a aaa aa 2
Holophus roseicapillus____________-_. Roseate cockatoo== 22 ea 2
Hupsittula canicularis__.__--—---___-- Petz; paroquet2222342 eee al
GH GLOC UO ae ee ee ce Wihite, cockatoo2 aoe tae ae wae 2
KakatoesQulentta == 22 oo a eee Large sulphur-crested cockatoo____- 3
LOATH OG NEVONN AN eae oe Leadbeater’s cockatoo_____________ 1
Kakatoe moluccensis____________-__- Great red-crested cockatoo____-___- 1
KOKGtOCH SUDO ie a ee ee Lesser sulphur-crested cockatoo______ 5
Kakatoe tenwirostris____.________-__~ Slender-billed cockatoo_______-_--- 1
GOvtusedOmicell ase eee Rajah ory 22 = 2 he ee 2
LOUVUSRO OU IULS ee ee DOTY oe I Aen Ene 2
Melopsittacus undulatus_____-_------- Grassiparakeet22- 20 seeen Sa 6
Microglossus aterrimus___-_-------~- Great black cockatoo__________-_-— 1
Myopsitta monachus____-__-----_---~-~ Quaker paroguere eee 1
Nandayus nanday______=-_-—__-__-_- INanday. paroqueteee see eee 1
NESTOR NOLAN S Saas aaa eee Coes Re ap pase A et i el, 2
Nymphicas hollandicus__.______+___- Cockatiel ive Pare aaa as eee 1
Pionites ranthomera________________ Amazonian Caigues =e 2
Psittacula eupatria________-_-____-— Red-shouldered paroquet__-_------ 4
Psittaculaskrameni2.- 2 ee Kramer's) paroquet==—— 4
Psittacula longicauda______________-. Long-tailed paroquet____-_-_------- 2
PP SULTOCUS CT ULILACWS 2a = eee ee ATTIcan ray parrote se 2
Tanygnathus muelleri_____-_-__------- Mueller parrots ee ee es 1

Trichoglossus cyanogrammus___——-~—-. Green-naped, lory22222- 2 sees 1

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

CUCULIFORMES
Cuculidae:
Centropus) sinensiguses sees eee Sumatran coucall 2) a ers
Eudynamis scolopaceus_____--------- 1X02) Neen en Renee ICE Num Ue a
Gallirex porphyreolophus__-_-_-----~- Purple-crested plantain eater_--___
STRIGIFORMES
Tytonidae:
Tyto atta pratincola.22-==-—-~-==.—= American barniowle= = 222 2222s
Strigidae:
BU0O UT GUMANUS i ee ee Great horned) owl 2322-2— 22822222
Mein ar Kelp. a Soe Malay fishowlas22
OUTS: CO ee RG eae eee ee Screceh (owliese s) see so eee
SirtT VDOT: DONIC. eS ee eS. Barred vowlo2 2 2 ere wee Se
CAPRIMULGIFORMES
Podargidae:
Podargus) strigoides=_.-2=—--— > Se Dawny  tropmouthi 32. eee
CORACIIFORMES
Alcedinidae:
VOCCLONGIG AS eee eee Kookarburrge eet Satceee wage eae
Hateyon pyrrhopygius_—_-_-- == =* Red-backed kingfisher____.___-______
TU GIOYONYSONCTUS Hs oe he Se Saered) kingtisher=220 2 #222 ee
Momotidae:
IMOMOTULS: LESSONS a ee INN Koha 00) ee ee ee
Bucerotidae:
Buceros rhinoceros. =e Rhinoceros hornbill__-_-_________--
Bucorvus abyssinicus_—________-____. Abyssinian ground hornbill____--~-~-
Ceraiogumng Clad. 222 tee Yellow-casqued hornbill___-__-__-_
Dichoceros bicornis___________-____- Concave casque hornbill_____-__--_
PICIFORMES
Ramphastidae:
Ramphastos carimatus__.__________--. Sulphur-breasted toucan__-__------
Ramphastos piscivorus_________--___ Noco. TOUCAN A282 <a eT
PASSERIFORMES
Cotingidae:
IPFOONIGSSNULOICOlliga ee ee ee Naked-throated bell bird_________-
Rupicolarunicolas. 2222 os ee Cock of the-rock.i== 2. 2 eee
Corvidae:
Calociitasformosa 28222 eee Mexican magpie jay__-------------
CASSQChinensts ac a ee Ghinese::cissal se 2 Png ees POE
COnCUSRUUOUS Bee fe 2S ith —~ White-breasted crow------------~--
Corvus brachyrhynchos__------------ AMericani+ ClO Wee eee
CORPUSTOOTHID 222 sed A OE ElO0ded ero We 2 Se Se
Ooneusicornonoid esses 2 ee ee AUStralian CLO yy eee ey
Corviusceryptoleucis =) ee eee White-necked rayen_______----____
Copnviusinsolens=— == 2s Vie ess Indian= cro wees eae Cele ees
Cyanocitta cristata___________---~--. Blue ipaiy 2 ae A e el O De SSE
Cyanocoras chrysops22 ee (Wirra cay iia yee ee Bair) |
Cyanocorar cyanopogon___---------- Whitemaped” Jay 0) om htt ie

Cyanocorag mystacalis______----_--- Moustachedtjayses nee er
102 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Corvidae—Continued.
Gymmorhina hypoleuca__________- ~~ White-backed piping crow-----___- 3
Pied nutiauii zn a es ae eee Yellow-billed magpie_______--___-_- 1
Pica piew hudsoniae—-—- = ee American magpie== 3228s) oes 1
Urocissa! occipitaliga so Red-billed blue magpie__-__-__-_-- 1
Paradiseidae:
Ailuroedus crassirostris_____________ Australian icatbird #22225)" sae il
Epimachus fastuosus___-_________. -- Sickle-billed bird of paradise_--__-~ i
Ptilonorhynchus violaceus___________ Satin’ bowerbird=]=] 2s il
Seleucides nigers2--- 22 =- = 12-wired bird of paradise______---- 1
Granornis 1ubrgs 22 eee ee Red bird of paradise_..________-_- 1
Pycnonotidae:
Otocompsa jocosus__.___._______-____- Red-eared: bulbul-=2— ea 1
Pycnonotus anadlig22a 2s es Yellow-vented bulbul_____________- »
Pycnonotus bindentatus__________--- Orange-spotted bulbul____-_---____ 2
UDI GUL <CiSpOt tae oe iRed-throated bulbule = ae 1
Trachycomus zeylonicus_____________ Yellow-crowned bulbul________--_- i
Turdidae:
M ESTA TOTO CNELCUIIS a as ae ees ee Silver-eared mesia_.__.__________-_ 1
Mimocichla rubripes_________-_____-. Western red-legged thrush___--__-~_ 3
TUT OUS GUY Cre es eee ee ae Bonaparte’s) thrush=s22222225=.—=— 1
TULdUs TU pCeniiies ee ee AT Ente LOD La see = ee ee 3
Laniidae:
CAVES OTS 1S eee Teita fiscal shrike== 2252 222 eee 1
Sturnidae:
Cosmopsaris regius_________--______. Splendidistarting2se ase meses 2
Creatopnora cinerets | Wattled)starling-=22222=. 2a 1
Galeopsar salvadoni= @rested (starlings 222020 ss eee 1
GTOCULG TEU GL08 ae eee Southern) hillGmynahes 222 sae 1
Molothrus bonariensis______-__--_-~- Shiny (cowbirds2222 2a. eae 1
Tis Gepip pia a= ee ae ee eee Militarystanling= sss sss 11
Ploceidae:
Coliuspasservandense. se Red-necked whydah__________--___ 1
Diatropura procne__ Giant. why dah] eee 4
MAUNA U0] Oe White-headed munia____-___-_____ 12
Mina noe ee Black-throated munia-__-____----_ it
MUN gcoryevoorg= 2 ae eee Java Gi parrow.2=— 2 eee 25
White Java sparrow_-_---_-----_- al
Munia punctulatus______------------ Rice bird or nutmeg finch__----__-_ 5
Ploceus 0AYG! 22 eee Baya weavers 22s see vere 5
Ploceus intermedius—_--—-- == Black-cheeked weaver___--------- 2
Ploceus rubiginosus__-- Chestnut-breasted weaver_—------~ 2
Poephila acuticauda_________-_-___-_. ong-tailed: inchs = eae eee 1
Quelea sanguinirostris intermedia____ Southern masked weaver finch_---~ 8
Steganura paradisea_________-____-- Paradise: whydah=222 6
Taeniopygia castanotis________--_--- Zebra’ finch? 22 2 eee 2
Icteridae:
Agelaius assimilis__________________. Cuban red-winged blackbird________ 3
Gymnomystax mexicanus______-----. Giant oriole he eee pe
TCLOT US ICLETUS = ne ee ree Troupial <. 220 22 lees eae 4
NOHODSOTCUTCCUS= == ee eee Chilean! blackbird#22222—— ase =e 2h 8

Xanthocephalus canthocephalus_____. Yellow-headed blackbird_.___--~-- DiS

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 103

Fringillidae:
Amandawvea amandava____----------- Strawberry finches Si eee 27
Coryphospingus cucullatus___._-_----- Red-crested finchi2 4222's ao eeee 2
Cyanocompsa argentina___--_------~~ Argentine blue grosbeak__--------~- 2
SUC RUC == ee ee Diuea: finch S22 — ee ee 2
Lophospingus pusillus____-__-_------~- Black-crested finch______-_--__----- 4
Melopyrrha nigra... 2+. 2 5L Guban: bullfinch=-- =a 1
Paroaria cucullata__-——__-__----_-_- Brazilian: cardinal= = esse a ay
TE CRSCTANALUOIR a Painted bunting==— <2 = ae il
Pheucticus tibialis___.+-_-___-=+_+= Yellow grosbeak_---------- Aeeehel 1
Phryotlus fruticeti.__._ 2 S22 Mourning finch..+* isoh sees 16
Phrygilus. gait. eee ee St Gay’s gray-headed finch__-------_- isi
Serinus canartus—_______-___.—___~-.- Canary = Seis es 22 rent ie ree 1
ICUS VCO ME= = 2 a ee Mysto finch). 2 ee al
IORUS MANO = lesser;yellow finch 6
Spinus psalinigg == - Arkansas) goldfinch==22=== === 1
Spinus uropygialis_______-___--_-----. Chilean) Siskin 22s 255: 3.crss ts ee 3
Sporophila aurita___--_.-___-__----- Hiek’s seed-eater=— =... == 4 2
Sporophila gutturalis________-------. Yellow-bellied seed-eater____--_--- 2
Tiros olwvace@a2 2. fo. ae. Mexican grassquit==-2 = ae 1
Uroloncha leucogastroides______-_-_- Society) inch 1
Volatinia jacarint_________-________. Blue-biack grassquit.._.--= -— 2 1
Zonoirichia capensi3___._---__--—-~- == AGHIN GOO 235 4 Sed 2 3
REPTILES
Crocodylidae: LORICATA
Alligator mississipiensis_____________ Alligator 2+ 22- =~ = 3282 Ae ase 38
FALE LUOY SUN CTUS Se aaa Pe eh Chinese alligator: —- == 3
Caman tatirostris_—-—--—-=-~ ===. Broad-snouted caiman _____-_____-_ a
Caiman: SClerops. 32s St Spectacled caiman_-___-__________ 3
CEOCOCUULS CCUTUG = ta 8 fa ee a American, crocodile>-_= 3s if
Crocodylus cataphractus____.________. Narrow-nosed crocodile____________ 1
Crocodylus niloticus___..___.._.__._.—.. AtricaAn Crocod!] Cs== === =e il
Crocodylus patustris__._ “oad! CLOCcOGi eae ae ee 2
OTOCORYULS *POTOSUS 2 = ee Salt-water crocodile__.____________ 1
Osteolaemus tetraspis_______________ Broad-nosed crocodile______--_____ 2
Agamidae: SQUAMATA
Physignathus lesueurii______________ Lesueur’s water dragon______--____ 1
Gekkonidae:
GECLUBSUCCKON en aetna en eee GECKO HS ess a ee a 4
Iguanidae:
Anolis CArOoUNnensis. 2 = ee Walse; chameleon = 82 == saa ees 25
PAULO LES RECHT S ULES oe ates ee etree ee Giant anolisge= 27 ofa eee ee a 1
PUFA AOU MUD ee ete ee et ee Redang sa ea ee ee 1
Phrynosoma cornutum_____-_______-. Forned), Vizard 2222 sees ais ee 25
SGU ONULLUS YOUCSUS Ee Chuck wall ae: sss e ee ee eee 2
Sceloporus undulatus_______________. Hence Jizard 2 sae ie = ae eee ee aL
Anguidae:
Onissniris puss OO European glass snake________-____ 1
Ophisaurus ventraligs________________ Glass OSnake ss =a eres eis alee 3
Helodermatidae:
Heloderma horridum_______________- Mexican beaded lizard________ eA ITS

Heloderma suspectum_______________ Gilat MONS Gere ees ree oe oe a 6
104

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Teiidae:
Tupinambis nigropunctatus______---- Teou lizard. 2 = sus. Saeki
Tupinambis rufescens_____-__-_------ Red teu’ lizard=2e2seo Skee eee
Tupimambis teguicin_-_._----~=------— Yellow tegul lizards===s ===. —=

Scincidae:
Egernia cunninghami__------------- Cunningham's) skink===2 32s —-
TANQUG, NAQrOluteta eee Mottled’ lizardis2=2222s0 22a
Tihiqua scincoides2 2 ee Blue-tongued lizard-__-__-__--_----_

Varanidae:
Varanus komodoensis___-_------------ Komodo.dragonse=- =. =e ee
Varanus niloticus_____-___----------- African monitor = see ee
Vananus salvatornes 222 eee Sumatran .monitor. =

OPHIDIA

Boidae:
BOG COO near aie Sennen ee Tee Cook’s' tree boataao" ee cee
Constrictor constrictor_________---_-_-. Boa’ constrictor eee
EPUCrates CONCHTIS= fanaa eee, Rainbow, DOd ee eee eee
EI piCrates Crassus 22a s see eee Sallanrantaice: Se ee
Hpicrates Strigius =o eae Haitian (pogo s ee ee
IYCROT TOULTALS ae ee Indian rock pythons ee
PE OVU TCG UGS eee a ee een Ballk python 2-2 ees 2 eee
PYtTRON TeCvUCUIaitUS eS ee eee Regal pythons eee ees
PER ORY SCO CC nn ae mira sie Se etre Africanyrock pyunone === ees
Tropidophis melanurus___-_--------- Cuban boas! 222 eee

Colubridae:
Acrochordus javanicus___________.__. HDlephant-trunk snake_-__-------__
Coluber, constrictor eee Biack snakes.Us Sa es eee
Cyclagras*o(90s EE Cobra-de-Paraguay_----------_----
Diadophis punctatus____.__-----_---_ Ring-necked snake___-__----------
DrOMiCUus ACT. Sdlissae ses eee James Island snake__----__-__-_--
Dromicusssp see ee South Seymour Island snake__---_--_
Drymarchon corais couperi____------ Indigo; snakes. 32 eee
TYING OTT ee Corn snake_----------------------

Night: snakes 2 eee eee
TORGG NOG ORO 1 ES ae ee ee ieee snake—---~----—------------
White pilot snakes eee

Elphe quadrivitiata________-_____4_- Ghickentsnak eee aeenn eee
Heterodon contortiri¢- = Hog-nosed snake 22-222 ee
Lampropeltis getulus floridana____-_- Mlorida king snake___--_--_----2-—
Lampropeltis getulus getulus_______-. Kingorchain) snakes=) 3.22
Lampropeltis triangulwm______------ IVT 1 KG ese cee eae Ee
Leimadophis poecilogyrus___________- South American green snake_____-_-
AO DTS TOT Sere a ee ne cr South American brown snake__-_--
Inopeltis vernalis.________-_-__-.--_-- Smooth green snake_-_.----------
INGENLD A CUCLOD LON esata eee Wiaterisn ake se ee lees eee
BARA ROI BUS] Oa ese ee oe at al lee eM Water snake. t.02 boo eee
Pituophis catenifer__.__.____________-. Western bull snake__-__________---_
Thamnophis ordinoides_____________- California garter snake____-_------
Thamnophis sirtalis concinnus______-~ Pacific garter snake_______--------
Thamnophis sirtalis sirtalis_________- Garter ‘snakes! 22u0 ieee ee

Elapidae:
NGG ONTUGCAUI Ty ea SS eee ete Kine cobra. 2 =.= eee
Naja tripudians sumatrana_________- Sumatran: black-hooded cobra------

ING] Sp a 2 eS African black cobra___---_--------
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 105

Crotalidae:
Agkistrodon mokasen_____~_------_- Copperhead. snake=—-22e ese eek 2
Agkistrodon piscivorus______-___---_- Watermoceasin= 20s ae al
Crotalus adamanteus_______-______-. Florida diamond-backed rattle-
snake). 220225 2 Be See sie hee 4
Crotatus<cenastesy se is soe kee? Sidewinder rattlesnake__-________-_ a
Crotalus cinereousu 2-220 ete Texas rattlesnake= 2252s es 6
Orotalue: homidus2 2s as = oi reas eee Banded. rattlesnakes2-=2 ees 2
Sistrurus miliarius_____________-___. Pigmy. rattlesnakes) 22st see 1
Viperidae:
ERLLeRO LUONICO a 2 Ye eee Gaboonm viper!2=. = 32 eee 2
Bilis nasicornis. 2 2255 Je ee IVHINOCELOS)-Viperos = a 1
TESTUDINATA
Chelydidae:
Batrachemys nasiuta____.__ -—-___-__=_ South American side-necked turtle-__ 3
Chelodina longicollis__________---__- Australian snake-necked turtle____ 2
Chelyssimopridtac—- 202 ee ees Matamata’ turtle] 2s. 1
FETQIGR DUS y SD eee 8 ee ee te South American snake-necked turtle. 4
Hydromedusa tectifera____________-- South American snake-necked turtle. 16
Platysternidae:
Platemys platycephala____._____-__-- Miat-headed turtles ee 1
Platysternum megacephalum___-----~- Large-headed Chinese turtle________ al
Pelomedusidae:
Pelomedusa galeata___-____________- Common African water tortoise____. 2
Podocnenis expanses = — South American river tortoise_____ 1
Kinosternidae:
RANGSTCHIVON Spa = ae Sees, Se ee Central American musk turtle_____ 1
Kinosternon subrubrum____--------~ Muske turtles 2: ooe2 ee oe ees 2
Chelydridae:
Chelydra serpentina___.__.-...-____-. Snapping turtles 2es asses 8
Macrochelys temminckii_______-----~- Alligator snapping turtle__________ 1
Testudinidae:
Oheysemys: picta =~ se Paintedturtlet22s 22 ae 13
Clemmiys guitatas. 22. Spotted: turtle: 2 te ees 6
Clemmys insculpta____._._..____._.~- Woodstortoise=see cess ae meee 3
Clemmys muhlenbergii______________ Muhlenberg’s tortoise______________ 1
Cyclemys amboinensis______-_______-_- Kouravkura Dox turcles= =e 6
Deirochelys reticularia___________-—_ Chicken) (torioises 2 eae ae al
Himiys) blandingt== Blanding: saturtles= = eee eee 1
Gopherus polyphemus_____-_---___-_ Gopher: turtles 2222 eee 1
Graptemys geographica_________-__-. Geographic turtlesss== =) eee al
RGNADU SCT OS Coa ee ea West African back-hinged tortoise_. 4
Malaclemmys centrata______________. Diamond-back terrapin____________ 9
Pseudemys concinna___________-___-. COO Cer ase 8 EE Re ra 4
Pseudemys decussata_______________- Haihian) LeLrap in see ae 1
Pseudemys dorbignyi_______________. DOrpiony Si curt eee ee ee 3
Pseudemys elegans Cumberland terrapin______________ 8
Pseudemys floridana_______________ =) HMlOrid a wtenrapinee= sons ene ee 2
Pseudemys malonei___- 2.) Wresh=Wwatermeu nt) Ome ee eet ned 2
ESCURCMYS (OTNAL a Ornate nturilee aay eee 2
Pseudemys rubriventris_____________. Red-hellied sturtles 22s aes 1
Pseudemys rugosus_________________. @uban-sterrapina. ieee see Ses 1

Terrapene carolina... Box tortoisese 2 ee eee 15
106 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Testudinidae—Continued.

Terrapené ornata 22-82 eas eee Ornate) box: turtless22222-=25 222228

Testudochilensisica2.- hes eee eS ee ee ee ea ee

Testudo dentioulatan cece ee et a ee ee eee eee

Testudo elegans—--=—-— 2 Star‘tortoiset.-< 2-220 Sh ee ae

Testudo emys22 hese Ae ee eee Sumatran land tortoise________-___

Testudo ephippium. 255222232 —222=2 Dunean Island tortoise_-_-__--_-_-_

Testudo hoodensis_._-_---__---_=--=-. Hood Island tortoise______---_-_---

Testudotornient 2s tease ee eee Soft-shelled land tortoise_______--_-

MESTUGOROLCING 22 ee ee Albemarle Island tortoise_______-__
Trionychidae:

Amyda) fenvoe 222 ees eee ee Soft-shelled turtle___-_._____-_-__-~-

Amyda triunguis__.___~_-=__--_-___. West African soft-shelled turtle____

Trionyx cartilagineus_______-_------ Asiatic soft-shelled turtle___.__-----_

AMPHIBIA
CAUDATA

Salamandridae:

Triturus pyrrhogaster______________- Red-bellied Japanese newt____-_---

PVG US COTO SIS eee ale California newt. 22222202 eee

Triturus viridescens_____- -- = Common) NeWit2e sos eee

TAG UT US | UULO ONLS =e ae we Salamander ae ae oe
Ambystomidae:

Ambystoma maculatum____________-. Spotted salamander_____-_-_____--_

Megalobatrachus japonicus______-_~-. Giant salamander.
Amphiumidae:

Amphiuma means___-------------~-- Blind eel or Congo snake____--_--_

Amphiuma tridactylum______--_---_- Blind eel or Congo snake_____-_-___-

SALIENTIA

Discoglossidae:

Bombing bombing 2 as Mire-bellied: toads] 2-22 eee
Dendrobatidae:

ATCLODUS SD eles o 22 os Soe ae ena Spotted) atelopuss=22

Dendrobates auwratus_--- ATYOW-DOISO) (frog ase eee eee
Bufonidae:

BUfO QMETICONUSS eo = eae ee ane Common American toad_____-------

BULO CMDUSUS Ss 2 sa ae ee ee ae ee Sapoide concha! +2222) = = eee

BULO MATIN s oe ee ae ee ee Marine t0a@ ae. ets es ee

Bufo peltocephalus_________-_----_-_-.- Cubanelant toad 2222222 ee
Ceratophrydae:

Ceratophrys ornata__________-_-____- Horned frog! 22 se eee

Ceratophrys varius__._____-________. Horned frogs 222 eee ee
Hylidae:

LYON COCTULEE ee ce oe ee ae Australian tree frog_________-__---

LET ULR VET SUCOLO 1s ae ee eee Common) tree:frogs eee
Pipidae:

Pipa GMenicana es. 22 ee Surinam toa doves a a
Ranidae:

Rana catesbiana__---__----_=_______ American bullfrog== eee

Rana clamitans-_-—-___—_ Green frogeie 2 a ee eee

RONG OCCipiULClis= ae West African bullfrog__________--_
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 107

FISHES
Ase MOTUO TANS MOCO LU GME oe ee ee ee Jain pee Nee elie 3
Botia macracanthus__________________. Clownwloach=22.22 2 2 2
Carnegiella strigata.. a Sirinped hatchet ish2== 4
Corydoras melamistius —-__-.__-__-.... ATMOTed: Catish 2a eae 5
Epalzeorhynchus talopterus______-____. Black’sharks 2023 Sess be eee eae aa
ERETIU A PU TLAILSIVAL SAU TULLA TLC OLE AUS ere ca 1
Hyphessobrycon innesi______-___--___- Neon tetra fish 2222 es 16
Kryptopterus bicirrhus___._______-__--- Glase\cathish? == 2-22 2 ee ees +
MGEDISTESITEUICULAIUeK is ee Guppy ee a ee 25
Lepidosiren paradozva_____----_------- South American lungfish_____-____-~ 3
Henorinus [GSsciatdaa_ es ee eopard fish2s 2225-25 ee eae 1
Monocirrhus polyacanthus________-_--- Meet, shi S—es os oe eee eee 1
NUL SEOTIVIEST CAVONIUEUS eee ees or SL oe ae ee ee eee 4
DMEIETEOELGINIUG NOL OUNAEUS ree Or A Ee a A de eee ee 2
CLAISTORLOMLUR TER ULUNCOUTAUS = betes ak a Be ee ee 2)
PU OLITAEG SE OTIUALS Spo te ie oe sPk es cy he eh el a ee 2
Pantodon, buchholzt._.—.--_.-.-.—__.~~- Butterfly. fish s= = 222) 2s ee 2
Platypoecilus maculatus_____---------- Goldplatics= 2252. See 10
PACCOSLOMUUS SD a Cee ere ee ae Ae Window! cleaner2222 See 4
TERE CLUE TG Ure Se a ae |e es ei 2 eae ea ee 3
Piterophyltiwm. scalare_.._----.-—-=-=-—-. JANI PE) AS Hy he Fe) eke ds oe a 4
EIST SELELEN SUNT (ya ee ee ee ee ath eS es Se 1
Puntius partipentazona______--------~ iRed-finned pay Dee 3
Rasbora heteramorpha________-.______- TRASDOnR =e eae ee ee 8
Serrasaimus ternetzt_._______-_-.-___. Piranha or cannibal fish_____-___- 1
Tanichthys albonubes____.____-___--_- White Cloud Mountain fish____--__- 20
LUDA EY Ee ne a Mouth-breeding fish__________-___- 3
Trichogaster leeri_______- gst ett Bee ae S-SpOL SOuramd oo) 2 ee 3
mapnophorus helleri._______-_________-. Syword-taili soe ees 8s ee ae il
soe en ee es E51 a GIN L Oy TIS Pe ee ee ee ee ae ae
ARACHNIDS
aM PCO ISpae =o ott tee Param Glas eta ee ek ae 2
Latrodectus mactans__-.-____..-_....._ Black widow spider______-_------- il
INSECTS
OE CS ae ee Giant Acockroach=.- sa") 2 26
MOLLUSKS
Benatina variegata__-____..____-____. Ginanitiland snails 20 oe 5
CRUSTACEANS
Woenobiia clypeatus_____._____________ and Hermit. craps sae eae 3

Respectfully submitted.

W. M. Mann, Director.
Dr. C. G. Axzgor,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 8
REPORT ON THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Sm: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activities
of the Astrophysical Observatory for the fiscal year ended June 30,
1941:

WORK AT WASHINGTON

Messrs. Aldrich and Hoover, with assistance of computers Mrs. A. M.
Bond, Miss L. Simpson, and Miss N. M. McCandlish, prepared in
manuscript the immense table of daily solar-constant observations
from 1923 to 1939. The table contains all individual observations
in detail for the three stations, Montezuma, Table Mountain, and
Mount St. Katherine. A single day sometimes involves in itself alone
a subtable of 10 lines, 10 columns wide. Every solar-constant deter-
mination was scrutinized in detail from the original records before
entry into the great table, and in very many instances recomputed to
check discordant results. Mean values giving the most probable result
of each day at each station were computed, and all were plotted on an
extended scale. This plot made up a roll about 15 inches wide and
200 feet long.

In this form every day’s values were scrutinized by C. G. Abbot, and
discordances noted. As one result of his work in preparation of a
paper entitled “An Important Weather Element Hitherto Generally
Disregarded,”? Dr. Abbot had been strongly impressed by the fact
that the solar variation is several times greater in percentage for blue-
violet rays than for total radiation. This led him to investigate
whether on discordant days the shorter wave length parts of the
energy spectrum of the sun, as computed for outside our atmosphere,
were also discordant. It proved that in many cases they were not,
showing that errors had been made in other than the spectral parts of
the determinations. Hence, the entire great table was gone through, ,
and for all discordant days the blue-violet extra-atmospheric spectrum \
was reduced to comparable units by bringing all days to equality in)
the infrared region, where solar variation is nearly nil. Nearly ai
hundred pages of newly computed manuscript tables were required
to set forth this information. |

With this new information available, Dr. Abbot in many casess
marked “improved preferred” daily ines on the great chart for oner

1 Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 101, No. 1, 1941. |
108
t
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 109

or more of the stations, as dictated by the blue-violet spectrum. He
then took the general mean for each day, not only of the untreated
results, taking into account only the grades assigned by Messrs. Ald-
rich and Hoover for the separate stations, but also an “improved pre-
ferred” mean for perhaps one-fourth of all the days. These new
means were the results preferred after considering the blue-violet spec-
trum. Both of these daily means were entered in the great table, so
that when it is published, readers may use either the preferred general
mean or the “improved preferred” general mean, as they please.

As the great table was thus being finished in manuscript, it was being
typewritten by Miss M. A. Neill in preparation for the printer. By
the end of the fiscal year it was almost finished for publication. In
the meantime the rest of the manuscript for volume 6 of the Annals
had been finished as far as possible by Dr. Abbot and typed by Miss
Neill. But some changes and additions will be made after the inspec-
tion of the great table is completed. There appears every reason to
hope that the entire manuscript of volume 6, including the great table
and its subsidiaries, tables of 10-day and monthly means, will be in
the printer’s hands before New Year’s Day.

The study of the great table led Dr. Abbot to reconsider whether
the sun’s variation might not be more effectively followed by observa-
tions limited to the blue-violet region of spectrum. He was at length
able to devise a method which appears promising, and which has been
introduced just at the end of the fiscal year at all three field stations.
In brief, the method contemplates inserting in front of the spectro-
bolometer slit a glass filter which restricts the radiation to the desired
blue-violet region. An exactly similar glass filter is inserted before
the aperture of the pyrheliometer. Knowing from the usual solar-
constant work of the day the atmospheric transmission coefficients for
blue-violet rays, it is possible to compute the extra-atmospheric energy
spectrum of the restricted blue-violet spectrum given by the screened
spectrobolometer. A comparison of the blue-violet energy spectra at
the station and as computed for outside the atmosphere gives a factor
to multiply the screened pyrheliometer reading to what it would be
outside the atmosphere.

In this way we restrict the observations to the most variable part
of the observed solar spectrum, and avoid those spectral regions where
ozone, water vapor, and extreme short and long wave lengths introduce
great errors. We greatly hope that this new method will yield more
reliable daily indications of the solar variation.

The necessary instrumental changes for introducing the new method
were done by A. Kramer. He has also prepared special apparatus
for solar distillation of sea water after Dr. Abbot’s design, and many
other required small jobs for the Observatory.
110 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Dr. H. Arctowski continued his meteorological investigations re-
lating to the effects of solar variation on atmospheric barometric
pressure and temperature. His studies led to researches on the
upper air. By courtesy of the Chief of the United States Weather
Bureau a long series of daily nocturnal radio-meteorograph records
were procured. Dr. Arctowski did very extensive computations and
graphical representations with these data. At the end of about 18
months of strenuous investigation he prepared a paper illustrated by
many plots and much tabular matter which will be found of source
value hereafter. This paper will soon issue under a Roebling grant.
Dr. Arctowski finds the important influence of solar variation on
weather plainly obvious, but the manner of its operation extremely
complex. He regards this first paper as merely introductory, and
sees a great field for future investigation.

FIELD STATIONS

As far as possible daily determinations of the solar constant of
radiation were made at three field stations, Montezuma, Chile,
Table Mountain, Calif., and Tyrone, N. Mex. A commodious rein-
forced concrete dwelling house was erected at Montezuma under
H. B. Freeman’s direction.

PERSONNEL

L. A. Fillmen, for many years instrument maker in the Division
of Radiation and Organisms under private support at the Smith-
sonian Institution, was transferred to the Astrophysical Observatory
Government roll.

SUMMARY

The immense task of preparing the solar-constant work of the
past 20 years for final publication was practically finished. A new
method of following solar variation was devised and installed at
all field stations. An extensive research on the effects of solar vari-
ation by Dr. H. Arctowski approached publication. Dr. Abbot pub- |
lished a paper entitled “An Important Weather Element Hitherto —
Generally Disregarded,” in which many proofs of solar variation —
were assembled, and the effects of it on weather were shown, to- —
gether with preliminary attempts at 3- to 5-year weather forecasts |
and verifications. These ambitious forecasts, while not as success- |
ful as was hoped, are promising.

Respectfully submitted.

C. G. Axszor, Director.

THE SECRETARY,

Smithsonian Institution.

APPENDIX 9

REPORT ON THE DIVISION OF RADIATION AND
ORGANISMS

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report on the
activities of the Division of Radiation and Organisms during the
year ended June 30, 1941:

The operations of the Division have been financially supported by
funds of the Smithsonian Institution and in part by a grant from
the Research Corporation of New York.

For several months during the past year actual work in the
laboratories was suspended during the construction of a new sewer
system and the preparation and actual work of electrical rewiring
throughout the building. Also three of the laboratories and the
machine shop were repainted.

Considerable time has been given by members of the division in
the planning and construction of an exhibit now on display as part
of the “Index Exhibit” in the Main Hall of the Smithsonian Building.
A detailed description of this exhibit appears in the July 1941
number of the Scientific Monthly.

INFLUENCE OF RADIATION ON RESPIRATION

Following the preliminary experiments and improvement in tech-
nique as reported last year on the project dealing with the genesis
of chlorophyll and the beginning of photosynthesis, many data have
been obtained on the respiration of etiolated barley seedlings. This
information is highly desirable because of its bearing upon photo-
synthesis as measured by the gaseous exchange method. Further-
more, a comprehensive review of the literature on respiration as
affected by radiation is being completed and will soon be made
available.

The rate of respiration (carbon dioxide evolution) of etiolated
barley seedlings (i. e., seedlings grown in complete darkness and
devoid of chlorophyll) increases following illumination, whether
measured in dark or in light. Under favorable conditions this rise
amounts to as much as 20 percent of the previous dark rate and is
maintained for at least 7 hours after the light exposure.

192
112 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

The maximal effect of illumination for a 30-minute period occurs
at a fairly low intensity (60 foot-candles or less). The magnitude
of the effect produced by 60 foot-candles of light increases with
the time of illumination up to an exposure period of about 20 min-
utes and remains constant with longer light periods. These results
are graphically illustrated in figure 1.

In many of these studies it was observed that the rate of respira-
tion was not as constant as one would desire during the periods
prior to irradiation. It was thought that perhaps the metabolic
reactions of the seedling were affected in transferring them from
the germination conditions to those of the respiration chamber. A

PIRCESAT MARL Ase

60 300 600 1200 1800 2400 30900

INTENSITY(FG) OF ILLUMINATION (30 MIN)

PERCENT INCREASE

50 100 200 300 400 soo

Ficurp 1.—Hffect of illumination on respiration of etiolated barley seedlings. Percentage
increase in rate of respiration is plotted against intensity of illumination in upper
graph and against duration of exposure in lower graph.

number of changes were made in the germination conditions and
in the preliminary treatment of the experimental plants in the
respiration chamber. After many experiments of this nature it
appears that the rate of respiration either increases or decreases
continuously for a period of time following exposures of the seed-
lings to low or high carbon dioxide concentrations respectively. For
example, figure 2 shows the relative rates of respiration for succes-
sive half-hour periods following a conditioning period of 5 percent
carbon dioxide.

From data of this type it would appear that conditions of car-
bon dioxide storage or depletion develop in the plant tissue depend-
ing upon the concentration of this gas surrounding the plants. In
subsequent periods, when the respiration is measured there is an
increase or decrease in the rate of CO, excretion (i. e., in the apparent
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 113

rate of respiration) until a state of equilibrium with the new environ-
ment is attained. If this phenomenon is of widespread occurrence
in green plants as well, it must be of considerable importance also
in experiments in which rates of photosynthesis are measured.
Considerable time has been spent during the late winter and spring
in improving the performance of the spectrograph used in measuring
carbon dioxide, for very short periods. A 15-cc. volume absorp-

CONDITIONED
NN
5% CO>
FOR
/7.5 HRS.

d
9

.
N
R
N
&

Aw
9

CO, FREE
AIR

9

SEA AQAQ\ _ DNV wn

9

RAHA, WW

co)

SW ,, GKKA_AAN

RMB YVQA\ AM
EE F7F*EF.FFBL.

9

®
©
ds
=

Ficurp 2.—Effect of previous CO2 environmental conditions on succeeding rates of respira-
tion of etiolated barley seedlings.

tion cell providing a 15-cm. optical path was made in the shop and
installed on the instrument. The spectrograph case was lagged
with 4 inches of rock wool and the whole room thermostated to
maintain a temperature of 830° C. These features have improved the
speed-sensitivity and stability of the set-up very materially. The
assembly has been used recently in measuring the solubility of CO,
in water at very low concentrations where a marked departure from
Henry’s Law was discovered. Further experiments on this are
in progress and will be published soon along with a detailed descrip-
tion of the spectrographic method of CO, measurement.
114 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941
INFLUENCE OF LIGHT IN EARLY GROWTH OF GRASS SEEDLINGS

Further study of the spectral effectiveness of radiation for the
growth inhibition of the oats mesocotyl has indicated that the maxi-
mum response occurs at 6600 A. It is highly suggestive that both
chlorophyll a and a pigment as yet unidentified which has been found
in dark-grown oats seedlings exhibit an absorption band at this
position.

A comparative study has been undertaken of some other species
of grasses that have been reported in the literature as having meso-
cotyls insensitive to light. All of those so far investigated have
been found to be suppressed by light although the intensities required
are much greater than in the case of Avena.

Since the growth of the oats mesocotyl is decreased, even in dark-
ness, by higher temperatures it is of interest to compare the effects
of temperature and of radiation. The high temperature inhibition
appears to differ fundamentally from the light inhibition inasmuch as
the growth of other organs of the seedling, notably the roots, is also
greatly suppressed in the former case. Some preliminary experi-
ments have indicated that in certain varieties of rice, on the other
hand, mesocotyl growth is greater at higher temperatures.

INFLUENCE OF CULTURAL CONDITIONS ON THE GROWTH OF ALGAE

The influence of culture conditions on the photosynthetic behavior
of the alga Chlorelia pyrenoidosa has been subjected to further
investigation. The growth cycle of this organism has been studied in
relation to light intensity, carbon dioxide concentration, and the
composition of the nutrient solution. This work is far from com-
plete but has suggested certain changes in the composition of the
nutrient solution and in the design of the apparatus. Equipment
is being constructed for the continuous culture of algae in order
to obtain completely reproducible quantities of biological material
for irradiation experiments.

Experiments were also conducted to ascertain suitable light condi-
tions and culture media for optimum growth of the alga Haema-
tococcus pluvialis in preparation for research on the comparative
effects of short wave lengths of the ultraviolet on the green pigment,
chlorophyll, and the red pigment, haematochrome, in algae.

As a result of inquiries regarding the use of algae in industry
and because of its importance to producers of kelp, Irish moss, agar,
and alginic acid in the defense program, a paper is being prepared
containing the latest statistics and information about the economic
uses of algae.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 5

PERSONNEL

No changes have occurred in the status of the Division’s per-
sonnel during the past year. Dr. Jack E. Myers has continued his
work with algae and on photosynthesis under his National Research
Fellowship grant.

PAPERS PRESENTED AT MEETINGS

Photosynthesis and fluorescence. Presented by E. D. McAlister at the Marine
Biological Station, Pacifie Grove, Calif., and at Stanford University, Palo
Alto, Calif., in August 1940.

Quantum efficiency of photosynthesis from fluorescence measurements. Pre-
sented by E. D. McAlister before the Physics Colloquium, George Washington
University, Washington, D. C., on October 28, 1940.

Fluorescence and photosynthesis. Presented by EH. D. McAlister before the
Philosophical Society of Washington, D. C., on October 26, 1940.

The efficiency of photosynthesis in relation to fluorescence. Presented by
E. D. McAlister before the Botanical Society of America, Philadelphia, Pa.,
December 30, 1940.

Inhibition of first internode of Avena sativa by radiation. Presented by
Robert L. Weintraub before the American Society of Plant Physiologists, Phil-
adelphia, Pa., December 30, 1940.

Influence of light on the respiration of etiolated barley seedlings. Pre-
sented by Earl S. Johnston and Robert L. Weintraub before the American
Society of Plant Physiologists, Philadelphia, Pa., December 30, 1940.

Culture conditions for Chlorella in relation to its photosynthetic behavior.
Presented by Jack Myers before the American Society of Plant Physiologists,
Philadelphia, Pa., December 30, 1940.

Photosynthesis in past ages. Presented by E. D. McAlister before the
Paleontological Society of Washington in April 1941.

PUBLICATIONS

CHASE, FLorENcE Meter. Increased stimulation of the Alga Stichococcus
bacillaris by successive exposures to short wave lengths of the ultraviolet.
Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 99, No. 17, pp. 1-16, 1941.

McAttster, EH. D., and Myers, Jack. The time course of photosynthesis and
fluorescence observed simultaneously. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 99, No. 6,
pp. 1-87, 1940.

McAttster, BH. D., and Myers, Jack. Time course of photosynthesis and
fluorescence. Science, vol. 92, No. 2385, pp. 241-2438, 1940.

McAttster, E. D., MaTHeson, G. L., and SwEENEY, W. J. A large recording
spectrograph for the infrared to 15. Rev. Scientific Instr., vol. 12, No. 6, pp.
314-319, 1941.

Meter, FLORENCE BE. Plankton in the water supply. Ann. Rep. Smithsonian
Inst. for 1939, pp. 393-412, 1940.

WEINTRAUB, Rogert L. Plant-tissue cultures. Ann. Rep. Smithsonian Inst.
for 1940, pp. 357-368, 1941.

Respectfully submitted.
Earu 8. Jounston, Assistant Director.
Dr. C. G. AxBsor,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
430577—42-—9
APPENDIX 10
REPORT ON THE LIBRARY

Sm: I have the honor to submit the following report on the
activities of the Smithsonian library for the fiscal year ended June
30, 1941:

THE LIBRARY

The library, or library system, of the Smithsonian is made up
of 10 major and 35 minor units. The former consist of the main
library of the Institution, which since 1866 has been in the Library
of Congress and is known as the Smithsonian Deposit; the libraries
of the United States National Museum, Bureau of American Eth-
nology, Astrophysical Observatory, Freer Gallery of Art, National
Collection of Fine Arts, National Zoological Park, Division of Radi-
ation and Organisms; the Langley Aeronautical Library—deposited
in 1980 in the Division of Aeronautics at the Library of Congress—
and the Smithsonian office library. The minor units are the sec-
tional libraries of the National Museum. Although the collections
in these 45 libraries are on many subjects, they have to do chiefly
with the matters of special moment to the Institution and its branches,
namely, the natural and physical sciences and technology and the fine
arts. They are particularly strong in their files of standard mono-
graphs and serials and of the reports, proceedings, and transactions
of the learned institutions and societies of the world.

Cooperating with the Smithsonian library system, but independent
of it, is the library of the National Gallery of Art, which, during
the year just closed took its first steps, under a competent staff, to
meet the reference needs of the Gallery personnel and of others
outside. The libraries of the Institution welcome the opportunity to
further, in every way possible, the interests of this new friendly
neighbor.

PERSON NEL

The year brought an unusually large number of changes in the
staff. Among these were the following: The retirement, on account
of age, of Miss Gertrude L. Woodin, after long and valuable service
as assistant librarian; the promotion of Miss Elisabeth P. Hobbs,

116
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY LiF

junior librarian, to succeed her, and the transfer of Miss Anna
Moore Link from the editorial office in the Bureau of American
Ethnology to the vacancy thus created; the advancement of Miss
Nancy Alice Link to the position of editorial assistant in the Bureau;
the resignation of Mrs. Dorothy E. Goodrich, under library assistant,
and the selection of Miss Elizabeth Gordon Moseley as her successor.
The position of minor library assistant was reclassified to that of
junior clerk-typist and filled by the appointment of Miss Elizabeth
Harriet Link. Charles McDowell served part of the year as assist-
ant messenger. The temporary employees were Mrs. Georgeanna
H. Morrill, library assistant, Mrs. Elizabeth C. Bendure, assistant
clerk-stenographer, Miss Anna May Light, junior clerk-stenographer,
Mrs. Marie Boborykine, special library assistant, and Arthur W.
Gambrell, assistant messenger.

EXCHANGE OF PUBLICATIONS

The exchange work of the library was again carried on with the
greatest difficulty, owing to abnormal world conditions. The pack-
ages received through the International Exchange Service were only
515—fewer by 814 even than those of the year before, when there had
been a similar decrease from the normal number; the packages that
came by mail were 17,038, or 3,283 fewer than came the previous
year. Most of the publications that failed to come were, of course,
European and Asiatic. Fortunately, some of these are being held
by the issuing agencies, to be sent to the library as soon as the wars
are over; others have merely delayed publication; but a few have
been discontinued. Altogether the influence of the disturbed condi-
tions that prevailed was far from favorable to the increase and
diffusion of knowledge by means of the exchange of learned
publications.

There were received, however, a number of rather large sendings,
notably from the Clube Zoologico do Brasil, Sao Paulo; Bataviaasch
Genootschap van Kunsten en Wetenschaffen, Batavia; Royal Swedish
Academy of Letters, Stockholm; Royal Society of Edinburgh, Edin-
burgh; Royal Society of Tasmania, Hobart; and Wellington Accli-
matisation Society, Wellington.

Dissertations came from only 4 universities, 2 of which are in
a neutral European country—Basel and Ziirich; and 2 in the United
States—Johns Hopkins and Pennsylvania. These totaled 452—quite
a contrast to the 5,190 received in 1939 from 34 foreign institutions
and 3 American. Of the 452 dissertations 261 were assigned to the
Smithsonian Deposit, and the rest, being on medical subjects, were
turned over, as usual, to the library of the Surgeon General.
118 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Most of the 2,316 letters written by the staff pertained to the
exchange interests of the library. They naturally showed a de-
crease from 1940, as did the new exchanges arranged for. There
were 284 of the latter, however, nearly all of which were on behalf
of the Smithsonian Deposit and the libraries of the National Museum,
National Collection of Fine Arts, and Astrophysical Observatory.
Although the number of want cards handled—795—was smaller by
87 than the year before, the publications obtained, both by special
correspondence and by search among the recently organized and listed
duplicates in the west stacks of the Institution, were 8,824, or 1,278
more than in 1940. The result of this successful effort was that a
great many gaps—some of long standing—were filled in several of
the Smithsonian libraries. In addition to these publications, which
were assigned to the regular sets, others to the number of 6,112 were
selected from the duplicate material and put in reserve for use in
the future. Among these were many foreign items—not a few of
them rare—closely related to the work of the Institution and its
branches. Thus again did the surplus collection in the west stacks
prove of no little value to the library system. And it bids fair to
prove so for years to come, as this rich store of material is made
increasingly available through listing and through checking against
the needs of the various libraries.

From time to time, too, during the year files of serials, long and
short, not wanted by the libraries were exchanged for publications
that otherwise would have had to be purchased. This plan of ex-
changing duplicates for other publications essential to the Institu-
tion was adopted by the library some years ago and has met with
much success. It has added to the collections many valuable items
and has placed a considerable number in other research institutions
where, instead of standing useless on the Smithsonian shelves, they
have contributed their part toward the advancement of knowledge.
The year just closed brought to the library, under this special ex-
change plan, a goodly number of important monographs and serials
that could not be obtained by regular exchange. Among them were
such works as Drawings in the Fogg Museum of Art, vols. I-III, by
Agnes Mongan and Paul J. Sachs; The Material Basis of Evolution,
by Richard Goldschmidt; The Ferns and Fern Allies of Wisconsin,
by R. M. Tryon, Jr., N. C. Fassett, D. W. Dunlop, and M. E. Diemer;
and Nomenclator Zoologicus, in 4 volumes, edited by Sheffield A.
Neave.

In connection with both its regular and its special exchange
activities, the library continued its effort, in cooperation with
the offices of publications, to replenish the depleted stock of Smith-
sonian publications by encouraging the return of material from
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 119

libraries throughout the country in which it was not needed. It
also continued to act as a clearing-house, thus sending out again
much of this material to institutions that were waiting for it. The
libraries of more than 25 museums, colleges, and universities eagerly
shared in this give and take effort, which was to the advantage of
all participants, but chiefly of the Smithsonian library, for by this
means it was able not only to make many of the publications of the
Institution more widely available to readers and investigators, but
to increase in no small measure the supply of such publications—some
of which had long been out of print—that could be used for future
exchanges.
GIFTS

Many gifts came to the library during the year. Among these
were 622 publications from the Geophysical Laboratory of the Car-
negie Institution of Washington; 612 from the American Association
for the Advancement of Science; 72 from the American Association of
Museums; 66 from the Public Library of the District of Columbia;
42 from the National Institute of Health; and 94 from the recently
discontinued Bureau of the International Catalogue of Scientific
Literature. Among them, too, were a large number of publications
from the Honorable Usher L. Burdick, Member of Congress from
North Dakota, from the late Mrs. Charles D. Walcott—always a
generous friend of the library—and from the Secretary and Assistant
Secretary and other members of the Smithsonian staff. The largest
gift, however, came from Mrs. Frederick E. Fowle—that of 942 sci-
entific books and journals which had belonged to her husband, the
late research assistant of the Astrophysical Observatory.

Other gifts were Hiroshige, by Yoné Noguchi, from the Japanese
Embassy; The Herbarist, Nos. 1-7 (1935-1941), from Mrs. Foster
Stearns; Chinese Jade Carvings of the Sixteenth to the Nineteenth
Century in the Collection of Mrs. Georg Vetlesen—an illustrated
descriptive record compiled by Stanley Charles Nott, volume III,
from Mrs. Georg Vetlesen; A Catalogue of Rare Chinese Jade Carv-
ings (2 copies), compiled by Stanley Charles Nott, from the com-
piler; Two Early Portraits of George Washington Painted by
Charles Willson Peale, by John Hill Morgan, from the Princeton
University Press; Bird Reserves, by E. C. Arnold, from the author;
Moss Flora of North America North of Mexico, volume II, part 4,
by Dr. A. J. Grout, from the author; The Young Mill-Wrights &
Miller’s Guide (1807), by Oliver Evans, from Edna E. Switzer;
Charles Goodyear—Connecticut Yankee and Rubber Pioneer—A Bi-
ography, by P. W. Barker, from Godfrey L. Cabot, Inc.; The Shorter
120 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Scientific Papers of Lee Barker Walton, with an Introduction by
Herbert Osborn, edited by George P. Faust, from the editor; Genus
Labordia, Hawaiian Euphorbiaceae, Labiatae and Compositae, by
Dr. Earl Edward Sherff, from the author; Seventh Report of the
Chester County Cabinet of Natural Science (1834), from Dr. Rob-
ert B. Gordon; Barbed Fencing, by Charles G. Washburn—a type-
written copy of an original in the possession of the donor, Reginald
Washburn, who had the copy made especially for the Smithsonian
Institution; Atlanta City Directory, 1940, from the Carnegie Library,
Atlanta; Men and Volts, by John Winthrop Hammond, from the
General Electric Company; The Cranial Bowl, by Dr. William G.
Sutherland, from the author; Military Medals and Insignia of the
United States, by J. McDowell Morgan, from the author; The
Stapelieae, in 3 volumes, by Alain White and Boyd L. Sloane, from
Alain White; The Old Bay Line, by Alexander Crosby Brown, from
the Mariners’ Museum, Newport News; By Their Works, by H.
Phelps Clawson, from the Buffalo Museum of Science; and Flora of
Indiana, by Charles C. Deam, from the Indiana Department of
Conservation.

SOME STATISTICS

The accessions to the libraries were as follows:

pare ApprOn

Library Volumes Dhict Total hanuines

charts une 30,

1941

Astrophysical OPServatOry.22=) 22 eee ee ee ees DA ee 173 138 311 10, 156
Bureswof/ American Mthnolory sess oe ee ee ee S78 Weecesa ee 378 1 33, 140
Freer Gallery: of Art oe ea ae ae 398 66 464 16, 225
Langley, Aeron aticals sso kee eee ee ne ae 32 20 52 3, 550
National Renan Of Wine sats 278 cree ero haere 240 157 397 7, 689
National MiSeumi ssa es oe ee See Ri OD 1,979 942 2, 921 219, 760
National Zoological Parked 80225 SESE es LO ay a ae 36 34 70 3, 916
RadiationandyOrzanicms eee eee oe poe ee eee ee ea 67 2 69 596
Smithsonian Deposit, Library of Congress____._-___________- 1, 350 758 2, 108 568, 662
Bmithsonianofice: 22s os boeetrel ee eens oer 65 4 69 30, 961
ST bell cies ae SNe Siar eh IE oN We i eas cee GN 4,718 2, 121 6, 839 894, 655

1 From this total have been omitted a large collection of pamphlets hitherto included in the holdings
reported for the library of the Bureau of American Ethnology, and quite a number of other publications
recently removed from the library as not being closely related to the work of the Bureau.

The staff cataloged 6,693 volumes, pamphlets, and charts; prepared
and filed 40,238 catalog and shelf-list cards; made 22,311 periodical
entries; loaned 10,990 publications to the members of the Institu-
tion and its bureaus; and conducted an interlibrary loan service
with 45 libraries outside the Smithsonian system. They rendered
more reference and bibliographical assistance than ever before, in
response to requests in person, by telephone, and by mail, from the
staff of the Smithsonian, other Government employees, visitors,

i

———
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 12]

and correspondents far and near—requests often involving hours
of search not only at the Institution but at the Library of Congress
and elsewhere. They kept the index of Smithsonian publications up
to date, and made considerable progress with the index of Smith-
sonian explorations begun the previous year, and some with that of
exchange relations. Their work on the union catalog may be sum-
marized as follows:

MnlimecmcatalOped ses 2 oS eC L aot eh ee de ee ee 2, 472
Panniers and Chares Catalogeds— 2) See Se Se ee a ee 1, 947
INEwise bial een Eris In MG ee ties. eee aay eles eae ee ed ee ee ee 178
Typed cards, added to, catalog, and shelf list_-—— =~ 3, 880
Library of Congress cards added to catalog and shelf list_______-_-____--- 13, 662

OTHER ACTIVITIES

As has already been suggested, one of the main activities of the
staff, apart from their routine duties, was that of making lists of
the longer runs of surplus items in the west stacks and checking
them against the needs of the Smithsonian libraries. Another task
was that of bringing nearly to completion the checking of the serial
holdings of several of the libraries, to be included in the forthcoming
second edition of the Union List of Serials. When this work is
finished, it will have involved the examination of the records of more
than 7,000 sets of serial publications, not including, of course, the
thousands in the Smithsonian Deposit and the Langley Aeronautical
Library, which, as they are housed in the Library of Congress, are
reported by that Library. Still another task was selecting consign-
ments of duplicates for exchange, especially with such universities
as Brown, Columbia, Harvard, Pennsylvania, Princeton, and Yale.
And another was preparing the exhibition set of Smithsonian pub-
lications—by completing it and having many of its volumes bound—
for transfer to the shelves provided for it as an outstanding part
of the exhibit of Smithsonian interests in the “Diffusion of Knowl-
edge” room at the Institution. And, finally, among other tasks were
the following: Sending a large number of foreign documents, which
had come to light in course of checking the surplus material, to the
Library of Congress; sorting 2,500 or more reprints by subject and
assigning them to the appropriate sectional libraries of the National
Museum; carrying forward the inventorying of the technological
library, with revision of its catalog and shelf list, and the rearranging
of the office library; and continuing, with excellent results, the work
of reorganizing the library of the Bureau of American Ethnology.

BINDING

Again, lack of funds seriously limited the libraries in meeting their
binding needs. This was true in respect both to the thousands of
122 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

older serial volumes still standing unbound on the shelves and to
hundreds of new ones added the last fiscal year. As it was, the
library of the National Museum sent to the bindery 800 volumes; that
of the Astrophysical Observatory, 50; of the National Collection of
Fine Arts, 59; of the Freer Gallery of Art, 38; and of the National
Zoological Park, 11—a total of 958, only about one-half the number
of volumes completed during the year by these libraries.

NEEDS

First among the needs, then, is adequate funds for binding, to the end
that the publications—some of them almost priceless now, in the light
of the destruction that is taking place abroad—may be safeguarded
for the permanent use of the Institution.

Another need, which has become acute, is that of more shelf room
for the collections, especially those of the National Museum library.
Unless this can soon be provided, it may be necessary to resort to the
unfortunate measure of placing some of the less-used files in dead
storage.

And, finally, five new positions should be established, for the follow-
ing: An assistant librarian, to take charge of the acquisition depart-
ment; a junior librarian and a library assistant to strengthen the
under-staffed preparation department, especially the catalog division;
a junior typist, to relieve the catalogers of much clerical routine; a
messenger, to serve primarily the libraries of the Institution proper.

Respectfully submitted.
WiuiaM L. Corsin, Librarian.
Dr. C. G. Aszor,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 11

REPORT ON PUBLICATIONS

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the publi-
cations of the Smithsonian Institution and the Government branches
under its administrative charge during the year ended June 30, 1941:

The Institution published during the year 16 papers in the Smith-
sonian Miscellaneous Collections series, and title page and table of
contents of volume 98; 1 annual report and pamphlet copies of 27
articles in the report appendix; and 8 special publications.

The United States National Museum issued 1 annual report; 19
Proceedings papers, and title page, table of contents, and index of
volume 86; 1 Bulletin, and 1 volume and 1 part of a volume of Bul-
letin 100; and title page, table of contents, and index of volume 26
of Contributions from the United States National Herbarium.

The National Collection of Fine Arts issued 1 catalog, and the
Freer Gallery of Art, 1 pamphlet.

The Bureau of American Ethnology issued 1 annual report and 3
bulletins.

Of the publications there were distributed 125,837 copies,) which
included 66 volumes and separates of the Smithsonian Contributions
to Knowledge, 32,031 volumes and separates of the Smithsonian Mis-
cellaneous Collections, 24,022 volumes and separates of the Smith-
sonian annual reports, 5,243 Smithsonian special publications, 52,170
volumes and separates of the National Museum publications, 11,882
publications of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 9 publications of
the National Collection of Fine Arts, 3 publications of the Freer
Gallery of Art, 16 reports on the Harriman Alaska Expedition, 12
Annals of the Astrophysical Observatory, and 383 reports of the
American Historical Association.

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS

There were issued title page and table of contents of volume 98,
and 15 papers of volume 99 and 1 paper of volume 101, making 16
papers in all, as follows:

VOLUME 98

Title page and table of contents. (Publ. 3590.)

1This does not include the Brief Guide to the Smithsonian Institution, the catalog of the
National Collection of Fine Arts, or the pamphlet of the Freer Gallery of Art.

123
124 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

VOLUME 99

No. 6. The time course of photosynthesis and fluorescence observed simul-
taneously, by EH. D. McAlister and Jack Myers. 37 pp., 16 figs. (Publ. 3591.)
August 28, 1940.

No. 7. A systematic classification for the birds of the world, by Alexander
Wetmore. 11 pp. (Publ. 3592.) October 10, 1940.

No. 9. Recent Foraminifera from Old Providence Island collected on the
Presidential Cruise of 1938, by Joseph A. Cushman. 14 pp., 2 pls. (Publ. 3594.)
January 24, 1941.

No. 10. Coelenterates collected on the Presidental Cruise of 1938, by Elisabeth
Deichmann. 17 pp., 1 pl., 4 figs. (Publ. 3595.) January 27, 1941.

No. 11. A new cephalopod mollusk from the Presidential Cruise of 1938, by
Helen C. Stuart. 6 pp., 2 figs. (Publ. 3596.) February 4, 1941.

No. 12. Acarina collected on the Presidential Cruise of 1938, by G. W.
Wharton. 8 pp., 4 figs. (Publ. 3597.) January 29, 1941.

No. 13. Euphausiacea and Mysidacea collected on the Presidential Cruise
of 1938, by W. M. Tattersall. 7 pp., 2 figs. (Publ. 8598.) January 31, 1941.

No. 14. The male genitalia of Hymenoptera, by R. E. Snodgrass. 86 pp., 33
pls., 6 figs. (Publ. 3599.) January 14, 1941.

No. 15. Evidence of early Indian occupancy near the Peaks of Otter, Bedford
County, Virginia, by David I. Bushnell, Jr. 14 pp., 5 pls., 4 figs. (Publ. 3601.)
December 23, 1940.

No. 16. New fossil lizards from the Upper Cretaceous of Utah, by Charles
W. Gilmore. 3 pp., 2 figs. (Publ. 3602.) December 9, 1940.

No. 17. Increased stimulation of the alga Stichococcus bacillaris by suc-
cessive exposures to short wave lengths of the ultraviolet, by Florence Meier
Chase. 16 pp., 2 pls., 3 figs. (Publ. 3603.) January 10, 1941.

No. 18. Two new races of passerine birds from Thailand, by H. G. Deignan.
4 pp. (Publ. 8605.) December 11, 1940.

No. 19. Notes on Mexican snakes of the genus Geophis, by Hobart M. Smith.
6 pp. (Publ. 3629.) February 19, 1941.

No. 20. Further notes on Mexican snakes of the genus Salvadora, by Hobart
M. Smith. 12 pp., 7 figs. (Publ. 3630.) February 21, 1941.

No. 21. A new shipworm from Panama, by Paul Bartsch. 2 pp., 1 pl. (Publ.
3632.) March 31, 1941.

VOLUME 101

No. 1. An important weather element hitherto generally disregarded, by
O. G. Abbot. 34 pp., 11 figs. (Publ. 3637.) May 27, 1941.

SMITHSONIAN ANNUAL REPORTS

Report for 1939.—The complete volume of the Annual Report of
the Board of Regents for 1939 was received from the Public Printer
in October 1940.

Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution show-

ing the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the year
ended June 30, 1939. xiii+567 pp., 139 pls., 58 figs. (Publ. 3555.)
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 125

The appendix contained the following papers:

Is there life in other worlds? by H. Spencer Jones, F. R. S.

Use of solar energy for heating water, by F. A. Brooks,

The fringe of the sun: nebulium and coronium, by C. G. James.

Our knowledge of atomic nuclei, by G. P. Harnwell, Ph. D.

Spectroscopy in industry, by George R. Harrison, Ph. D.

Physical science in the crime-detection laboratory, by J. Edgar Hoover.

Physical interpretation of the weather, by Edgar W. Woolard.

Hurricanes into New England: meteorology of the storm of September 21,
1938, by Charles F. Brooks.

Humanity in geological perspective, by Herbert L. Hawkins, D. Sc.,
F. R. 8., F. G. 8.

Geologie exhibits in the National Zoological Park, by R. S. Bassler.

The structure of the earth as revealed by seismology, by Hrnest A. Hodgson.

Our petroleum supply, by Hugh D. Miser.

Biologic balance on the farm, by W. L. McAtee.

On the frontier of British Guiana and Brazil, by Capt. H. Carington
Smith, R. BE.

The sea bird as an individual: results of ringing experiments, by R. M.
Lockley.

Birds and the wind, by Neil T. McMillan.

Bookworms, by E. A. Back.

The problem of conserving rare native plants, by M. L. Fernald, D. C. L.,
D. Se.

Plankton in the water supply, by Florence BE. Meier.

Trichinosis in swine and its relationship to public health, by Benjamin
Schwartz.

Closing the gap at Tepe Gawra, by H. A. Speiser.

Sun worship, by Herbert J. Spinden.

The use of soapstone by the Indians of the eastern United States, by
David I. Bushnell, Jr.

The modern growth of the totem pole on the northwest coast, by Marius
Barbeau.

Historic American highways, by Albert ©. Rose.

Modern trends in air transport, by W. F. Durand.

The story of the Time Capsule, by G. Edward Pendray.

Report for 1940.—The report of the Secretary, which included
the financial report of the executive committee of the Board of
Regents, and which will form part of the annual report of the Board
of Regents to Congress, was issued in January 1941.

Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution and financial report
of the executive committee of the Board of Regents for the year ended June
30, 1940. ix+115 pp., 4 pls.

The report volume, containing the general appendix, was in press
at the close of the year.

SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS

Brief guide to the Smithsonian Institution (fourth edition). 80 pp., 74 figs.
(Publ. BL.) July 1, 1940.

The Smithsonian Institution, by C. G. Abbot. 25 pp., 13 pls., (Publ. 3604.)
January 18, 1941.
126 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Explorations and field work of the Smithsonian Institution in 1940. 100 pp.,
100 halftone figs. (Publ. 3631.) April 3, 1941.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

The editorial work of the National Museum has continued during
the year under the immediate direction of the editor, Paul H. Oehser.
There were issued 1 annual report; title page, table of contents, and
index of volume 86 of the Proceedings, and 19 separate Proceedings
papers from volumes 87, 88, 89, and 90; 1 Bulletin, and 1 volume
and 1 part of a volume of Bulletin 100; and title page, table of
contents, and index of volume 26 of Contributions from the United
States National Herbarium, as follows:

MUSEUM REPORT

Report on the progress and condition of the United States National Museum
for the year ended June 30, 1940. iii+118 pp. January 1941.

PROCEEDINGS ; VOLUME 86
Title page, table of contents, and index. Pp. i-ix, 598-626. July 22, 1940.

VOLUME 87

No. 3077. Further studies on the opalinid ciliate infusorians and their hosts,
by Maynard M. Metcalf. Pp. 465-634, figs. 21-157. October 29, 1940.

VOLUME 88

No. 3090. Seven new species and one new genus of hydroids, mostly from
the Atlantic Ocean, by C. McLean Fraser. Pp. 575-580, pls. 32, 33. September
13, 1940.

VOLUME 89

No. 3098. Two new anuran amphibians from Mexico, by Edward H. Taylor.
Pp. 43-47, pls. 1-3. August 13, 1940.

No. 3094. The West American Haliotis, by Paul Bartsch. Pp. 49-58, pls.
6-8. August 15, 1940.

No. 3095. Revision of the secarabaeid beetles of the phyllophagan subgenus
Listrochelus of the United States, with discussion of related subgenera, by Law-
rence W. Saylor. Pp. 59-130, figs. 1-18. November 15, 1940.

No. 3096. The Cuban operculate land mollusks of the family Annulariidae,
exclusive of the subfamily Chondropominae, by Carlos de la Torre and Paul
Bartsch. Pp. 131-885, i-x, pls. 9-57. April 2, 1941.

No. 3097. Seven new crayfishes of the genus Cambarus from Florida, with
notes on other species, by Horton H. Hobbs, Jr. Pp. 387-423, figs. 14-22.
November 23, 1940.

No. 3098. Echinoderms from Greenland collected by Capt. Robert A. Bart-
lett, by Austin H. Clark. Pp. 425-433, pls. 58, 59. February 27, 1941.

No. 3099. A revision of the keyhole urchins (Wellita), by Hubert Lyman
Clark. Pp. 485-444, pls. 60-62. December 12, 1940.

No. 3100. Hurhoptodes, a remarkable new genus of Philippine cryptorhynchine
weevils, by Elwood C. Zimmerman. Pp. 445-448, fig. 23. November 1, 1940.

No. 3101. The polyclad flatworms of the Atlantic coast of the United States
and Canada, by Libbie H. Hyman. Pp. 449-495, figs. 24-31. February 27, 1941.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 127

No. 3102. New species of heterocerous moths in the United States National
Museum, by William Schaus. Pp. 497-511. March 6, 1941.

No. 3103. Dinotocrinus, a new fossil inadunate crinoid genus, by Edwin Kirk.
Pp. 518-517, pl. 68. February 28, 1941.

No. 3104. A supposed jellyfish from the pre-Cambrian of the Grand Canyon,
by R. S. Bassler. Pp. 519-522, pl. 64. February 27, 1941.

No. 3105. Notes on birds of the Guatemalan highlands, by Alexander Wetmore.
Pp. 523-581. March 26, 1941.

VOLUME 90

No. 3106. New fishes of the family Callionymidae, mostly Philippine, obtained
by the United States Bureau of Fisheries Steamer Albatross, by Henry W.
Fowler. Pp. 1-381, figs. 1-16. April 8, 1941.

No. 3108. Synopsis of the tachinid flies of the genus TYachionmyia, with
descriptions of new species, by Ray T. Webber. Pp. 287-804, fig. 17. June 30,
1941.

No. 3111. The Chicora (Butler County, Pa.) meteorite, by F. W. Preston, BE. P.
Henderson, and James R. Randolph. Pp. 387-416, pls. 54-59, fig. 19. June
17, 1941.

No. 3114. A new genus of sea stars (Plazaster) from Japan, with a note of
the genus Parasterina, by Walter K. Fisher. Pp. 447-456, pls. 66-70. June
18, 1941.

BULLETINS

No. 100, volume 13. The fishes of the groups Elasmobranchii, Holocephali,
Isospondyli, and Ostariophysi obtained by the United States Bureau of Fisheries
Steamer Albatross in 1907 to 1910, chiefly in the Philippine Islands and adjacent
seas, by Henry W. Fowler. x + 879 pp., 30 figs. March 10, 1941.

No. 100, volume 14, part 1. Report on the Echinoidea collected by the United
States Fisheries Steamer Albatross during the Philippine Expedition, 1907-

1910. Part 2: The Hchinothuridae, Saleniidae, Arbaciidae, Aspidodiadematidae,

Micropygidae, Diadematidae, Pedinidae, Temnopleuridae, Toxopneustidae, and
Echinometridae, by Theodor Mortensen. Pp. i-iv, 1-52, pl. 1, figs. 1-3. July
25, 1940.

No. 176. Life histories of North American cuckoos, goatsuckers, hummingbirds,
and their allies, by Arthur Cleveland Bent. viii + 506 pp., 73 pls. July 20,
1940.

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE U. S. NATIONAL HERBARIUM: VOLUME 26
Title page, table of contents, and index. Pp. i-xii, 531-554. March 6, 1941.
PUBLICATIONS OF THE NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS

Catalog of American and European paintings in the Gellatly Collection, com-
piled by R. P. Tolman. 20 pp., 11 pls. 1940.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE FREER GALLERY OF ART

The Freer Gallery of Art of the Smithsonian Institution. 8 pp., 1 pl., 2 figs.
1940.
128 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941
PUBLICATIONS OF THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

The editorial work of the Bureau has continued under the immediate
direction of the editor, M. Helen Palmer. During the year the follow-
ing Bulletins were issued :

Bulletin 126. Archeological remains in the Whitewater District, eastern Ari-
zona. Part II. Artifacts and burials, by Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr. With
appendix, Skeletal remains from the Whitewater District, eastern Arizona, by
T. D. Stewart. xi-+170 pp., 57 pls., 44 figs.

Bulletin 127. Linguistic material from the tribes of southern Texas and north-
eastern Mexico, by John R. Swanton. v-+145 pp.

Bulletin 128. Anthropological Papers, Nos. 13-18. No. 13, The mining of gems
and ornamental stones by American Indians, by Sydney H. Ball. No. 14, Iroquois
suicide: A study in the stability of a culture pattern, by William N. Fenton. No.
15, Tonawanda Longhouse ceremonies: Ninety years after Lewis Henry Morgan, .
by William N. Fenton. No. 16, The Quichua-speaking Indians of the Province of
Imbabura (Ecuador) and their anthropometric relations with the living popula-
tions of the Andean area, by John Gillin. No. 17, Art processes in birchbark of
the River Desert Algonquin, a circumboreal trait, by Frank G. Speck. No. 18, Ar-
cheological reconnaissance of southern Utah, by Julian H. Steward. xii+368
pp., 52 pls., 77 figs.

REPORT OF THE AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION

The annual reports of the American Historical Association are
transmitted by the Association to the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution and are communicated by him to Congress, as provided by
the act of incorporation of the Association.

During the year there was issued the Annual Report for 1936, volume
2 (Writings on American History). At the close of the year the
following were in press: Report for 1936, volume 3 (“Instructions of
the British foreign secretaries to their envoys in the United States,
1791-1812”) ; Report for 1937, volume 2 (Writings on American His-
tory, 1937-1938) ; Report for 1989, volume 1 (Proceedings) ; Report
for 1940.

REPORT OF THE NATIONAL SOCIETY, DAUGHTERS OF THE AMERICAN
REVOLUTION

The manuscript of the Forty-third Annual Report of the National
Society, Daughters of the American Revolution, was transmitted to
Congress, in accordance with law, December 9, 1940.

ALLOTMENTS FOR PRINTING

The congressional allotments for the printing of the Smithsonian
Annual Reports to Congress and the various publications of the Gov-
ernment bureaus under the administration of the Institution were
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 129

virtually used up at the close of the year. The appropriation for the
coming year ending June 30, 1942, totals $88,500, allotted as follows:

Smithsonianyemstitntion 2a 2 eee ee ee $16, 000
INA tion ali MbuSenne eke oe ile a eh ee 43, 000
Bbureaw ofeamerican wthnology2" 9) = eee 17, 480
National Collection: of WwinevArte= 2-2 =o ee 500
International! sixchangess cvs eee ee le ee 200
Nattonall:Zoolorical, Park: siete Ee ee ee 200
Agtrophysical’; Observatoryo2 e222 ee ae eae 500
AmericanGeristorical) Agsociation==== 22 22 ea See ee 10, 620

OCA a= ee ee ee oe 88, 500

Respectfully submitted.

Dr. C. G. Assor,

W. P. True, Chief, Editorial Division.

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF
THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITH-
SONIAN INSTITUTION

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1941

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

Your executive committee respectfully submits the following
report in relation to the funds of the Smithsonian Institution, to-
gether with a statement of the appropriations by Congress for the
Government bureaus in the administrative charge of the Institution.

SMITHSONIAN ENDOWMENT FUND

The original bequest of James Smithson was £104,960 8s. 6d.—
$508,318.46. Refunds of money expended in prosecution of the
claim, freights, insurance, etc., together with payment into the
fund of the sum of £5,015, which had been withheld during the
lifetime of Madame de la Batut, brought the fund to the amount
of $550,000.

Since the original bequest the Institution has received gifts from
various sources chiefly in the years prior to 1893, the income
from which may be used for the general work of the Institution.

To these gifts has been added capital from savings on income,
gain from sale of securities, ete., and they now stand on the
books of the Institution as follows:

Avery, Robert S. and Lydia T., bequest fund___-_-__-________ $51, 445. 64
Endowment fund, from gifts, income, ete____________-__-___ 258, 328. 92
Habel Drs; bequest fundeis. os eee eee 500. 00
Hachenberg, George P. and Caroline, bequest fund__________ 4, 044. 06
HamiltonaJames) bequest fund? Eee 2, 905. 94
Henny, Carolines bequest; fund ===) 2 eee 1, 216. 20
Hodgkins;) Thomas) Gy tund="2 = 22 eee Bee OT 146, 392. 62
J Ez e755 OCH a 64D a G ape RIAL tg SES tN A RL es EUR SP ee ee 728, 867. 62
Rhees) William’, Jones; bequest fund 22 eee 1, 065. 72
Santord)|George HH: memorial funds ee 1, 995. 18
Witherspoon, Thomas A., memorial fund__-----__----_--_-_-- 129, 774. 35
Special: find i ee Be ee ee ee et ee 1, 400. 00

Total endowment for general work of the Institution__-~- 1, 327, 936. 25

The Institution holds also a number of endowment gifts, the
income of each being restricted to specific use. These are invested
and stand on the books of the Institution as follows:

Abbott, William L., fund, bequest to the Institution____________ $1038, 969. 99
Arthur, James, fund, income for investigations and study of the

SUN TANG PICCEUTE VOM Ele SUT ee ee 40, 217, 77
Bacon, Virginia Purdy, fund, for a traveling scholarship to in-

vestigate fauna of countries other than the United States____ 50, 381. 96

130
REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
Baird, Lucy H., fund, for creating a memorial to Secretary

Barstow, Frederic D., fund, for purchase of animals for the
VSO COY Cy Kerri PN 2g We) es ee Re en mM tery UR
Canfield Collection fund, for increase and care of the Canfield
COUECHONMOLGMINerALS! 2% eek so RS
Casey, Thomas L., fund, for maintenance of the Casey collection
and promotion of researches relating to Coleoptera___________
Chamberlain, Francis Lea, fund, for increase and promotion of
Isaac Lea collection of gems and mollusks_____-___________ Lea
Hillyer, Virgil, fund, for increase and care of Virgil Hillyer col-
lectionwor MehtingeODICCtR ss Mak oe tae ee ee a
Hitcheock, Dr. Albert S., Library fund, for care of Hitchcock
PASEO SOLO PLCs) velal PAT Yess es Lee ity ee
Hodgkins fund, specific, for increase and diffusion of more exact
knowledge in regard to nature and properties of atmospheric

Hughes, Bruce, fund, to found Hughes alcove_________________-
Myer, Catherine Walden, fund, for purchase of first-class works
of art for the use of, and benefit of, the National Gallery

Pell, Cornelia Livingston, fund, for maintenance of Alfred Duane
Pel BeONeCetiOrt see Seas | NESE Ts APES Ey is See
Poore, Lucy T. and George W., fund, for general use of the
Institution when principal amounts to the sum of $250,000___-
Reid, Addison T., fund, for founding chair in biology in memory
OReASH eT Duns! ose oe Ls o a see eae eee ee
Roebling fund, for care, improvement, and increase of Roebling
CONECHOMAOLHMINeTAlS at 2 Eft k TAC SS AEE eek oe ees
Rollins, Miriam and William, fund, for investigations in physics
OPED! | CUES TH SY ne eee ee ee eee eee ee
Smithsonian employees retirement fund_--__-__-___--_______-_-
Springer, Frank, fund, for care, ete. of Springer collection
NGM DE ALY §2 == Seo = eee ee ee ae eee nae es
Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, research fund, for develop-
ment of geological and paleontological studies and publishing
ESO Te SPemm EEN TCO) Boe ce See 2 Ee
Younger, Helen Walcott, fund, held in trust_.-.---.-—.---+_____
Zerbee, Frances Brincklé, fund, for endowment of aquaria______
Special research fund, gift, in the form of real estate___________

Total endowment for specific purposes other than Freer
endowmenties 2 ivaw Se suls we ayhe eo Res 2 Sse ee eats

131

$16, 296. 07
764. 93

38, 461, 71
9, 223. 59
28, 318. 52
6, 609. 11
1, 375. 68
100, 000. 00
18, 248. 71
19, 062. 41
2, 427. 09
81, 367. 65
30, 134. 19
121, 359. 54

99, 963. 23
11, 651. 48

18, 033. 47

11, 635. 83
50, 112. 50

765. 33
20, 946. 00

881, 326. 76

The above funds amount to a total of $2,209,263.01, and are carried

in the following investment accounts of the Institution:

U. S. Treasury deposit account, drawing 6 percent interest_______
Consolidated investment fund (income in table below) -----_____
EMPSHES.. RECCIAL TNS ne

$1, 000, 000. 00
1, 093, 301. 51

115, 961. 50

430577—_42——-10

2, 209, 263. 01
132 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

CONSOLIDATED FUND

Statement of principal and income for the last 10 years

Fiscal year Capital Income eer Fiscal year Capital Income hehe eh
10820 se ees $712, 156. 86 | $26, 142. 21 PCPA | MATER Y Aare we es $738, 858. 54 | $33, 819. 43 4. 57
LOSa fae 764, 077. 67 28, 185. 11 8768"11 1988 sae 867, 528. 50 34, 679. 64 4.00
NO S4 iS Sse 754, 570, 84 26, 650. 32 3. 66 19392 Abs 902, 801. 27 30, 710. 53 3. 40
TOSb et a ee 706, 765. 68 26, 808. 86 3. 79 1940 reese 1, 081, 249, 25 38, 673. 29 3. 47
198622272 ee 723, 795. 46 26, 836. 61 3.71 OAT e Shee ew 1, 093, 301. 51 41, 167. 38 3. 76

FREER GALLERY OF ART FUND

Early in 1906, by deed of gift, Charles L. Freer, of Detroit, gave
to the Institution his collection of Chinese and other Oriental objects
of art, as well as paintings, etchings, and other works of art by
Whistler, Thayer, Dewing, and other artists. Later he also gave
funds for the construction of a building to house the collection, and
finally in his will, probated November 6, 1919, he provided stock
and securities to the estimated value of $1,958,591.42 as an endow-
ment fund for the operation of the gallery. From the above date
to the present time these funds have been increased by stock divi-
dends, savings of income, etc., to a total of $6,030,586.91. In view
of the importance and special nature of the gift and the requirements
of the testator in respect to it, all Freer funds are kept separate
from the other funds of the Institution, and the accounting in
respect to them is stated separately.

The invested funds of the Freer bequest are classified as follows:

Cours and eroundsrfunde 2 ee ys re is et dn eke $675, 573. 37
Courtiandyerounds maintenance: Lum clevesce em ee ae 169, 656. 83
Curator hum eye ts tere eine oe ie osha Es AG phe ee 687, 507. 68
Residuary legacy __-_____ SUG ee Bee y REN LHe nae LY Wea eT eT NCE 4, 497, 849. 03
NG) 2 Lean ee a ROD PP IR AAT Bc Bet) Yolo pe ep 6, 030, 586. 91
SUMMARY
Invested endowment for general purposes_____-________________ —— $1, 327, 936. 25
Invested endowment for specific purposes other than Freer endow-
TYLON G est is CRON LN el a en DL ar al htt ca a ex 881, 326. 76
Total invested endowment other than Freer endowment— 2, 209, 263. 01
Freer invested endowment for specific purposes_________________ 6, 080, 586. 91
Total invested endowment for all purposes____________--_ 8, 239, 849. 92

CLASSIFICATION OF INVESTMENTS

Deposited in the U. S. Treasury at 6 percent per annum, as
authorized in the United States Revised Statutes, sec. 5591__ $1, 000, 000. 00

REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 133

Investments other than Freer endowment (cost or market value
at date acquired) :

Bonds (30 different groups) —-~--..------------ $467, 455. 26
Stocks: (41 :different groups) =-——=2.-— =. 663, 791. 62
Real estate and first-mortgage notes______-_-_ 71, 249. 00
WUninvested seapitale 2 ee een 6, 767. 13

$1, 209, 263. 01

Total investments other than Freer endowment___-------- 2, 209, 263. 01
Investments of Freer endowment (cost or market value at date
acquired) :

Bonds (48 different groups) —~---------------- $2, 433, 088. 10
Stocks: (57 different groups))=22 2. 22222 = 3, 584, 772. 34
Real estate first-mortgage notes__-__________ 9, 000. 00
lninvested) capital 2222) aae sss ee 3, 726. 47
6, 030, 586. 91
Motaluinvestments 2222 Se ee 8, 239, 849. 92

OASH BALANCES, RECEIPTS, AND DISBURSEMENTS DURING THE FISCAL YEAR =
@ashupalance’on «hand dune, o0, 1940-2 22 ae $391, 308. 66

Receipts:

Cash income from various sources for general

Work or the institutions. See $90, 769. 51
Cash gifts and contributions expendable for

special scientific objects (not to be invested) 43, 063. 26
Cash gifts for special scientific work (to be

TET VES LCC) oe eno enti = wink NS SNL) SN eS 20, 713. 17
Cash income from endowments for specific use

other than Freer endowment and from miscel-

laneous sources (including refund of temporary

UCL VILTACES)) see a as oe eS 59, 800. 43
Cash received as royalties from Smithsonian
Scientific ‘Series22o: = St se tes eee — 28, 404.41
Cash capital from sale, call of securities, ete.
(to> bevreinyested:) 23 ee eS eee 157, 121. 07
Total receipts other than Freer endowment______________ 394, 871. 85
Cash income from Freer endowment___--_--_ 233, 079. 22
Cash capital from sale, call of securities, ete.
(Gorbe™ reinvested) 222~- 22 Ss Sees Ste ee 1, 059, 382. 29
Total receipts from Freer endownment____------------___ 1, 292, 411. 51
SNCS at) erences ny rn Ot eee ER ee ee Sn ee ee 2, 078, 592. 02

1This statement does not include Government appropriations under the administrative
charge of the Institution.
134 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Disbursements :
From funds for general work of the Institu-
tion:
Buildings—care, repairs, and alterations__ $2, 852. 33
Hurmiture andetixtures sss ae ee ee 182. 43
General administration 7_____________-___ 34, 184. 52
1 p10) 92) a onal A ari iee Ae OSE ae eI ae 2, 129. 85
Publications (comprising preparation,
printing, and distribution) —--_.. a ae ee ot 20, 378. 94
Researches and explorations__-__---_______ 28, 720. 74
—~—----- --- $88, 448. 81
From funds for specific use, other than Freer
Endowment:
Investments made from gifts, from gain
from sale, ete., of securities and from
SAVINGS On INCOMe= Sasa. eee 26, 774. 50
Other expenditures, consisting largely of
research work, travel, increase, and care
of special collections, ete., from income
of endowment funds, and from cash gifts
for specific use (including temporary ad-
SVELTA CES) yee ae ec ae seer ee 90, 389. 94
Reinvestment of cash capital from sale, call
Of “securities: ett est ee ae 154, 188. 09
Cost of handling securities, fee of invest-
ment counsel, and accrued interest on
bonds\spurchased 2, 090. 48
—————_. 273, 243. 01
From I'reer Endowment:
Operating expenses of the gallery, salaries,
field’ expenses, et@=25 222422 ee 43, 399. 19
Purchase of art objects2:222 8.) eee eee 96, 719. 64
Investments made from gain from sale,
GUE MOL HSOCUTT TTS a Sa eae a att a 15, 976. 19
Reinvestment of cash capital from sale,
call of securities, ete-U2s222 sees 1, 047, 577. 09
Cost of handling securities, fee of invest-
ment counsel, and accrued interest on
bonds: purchased 22s ae ee eee 20, 986. 95
1, 224, 659. 06
Gashisbalance) June 30) 194 ee eee 497, 141. 14
uf b0) Fl) Ypereet ere Pe PmN Penang ree nh WERE Pesala nents gis Oe ea Ue CO ruth ns oes a 2, 078, 592. 02

2 This includes salary of the Secretary and certain others.

Included in the foregoing are expenditures for researches in pure
science, publications, explorations, care, increase, and study of col-
lections, etc., as follows:

Expenditures from general funds of the Institution:
PUD lication tei Bee Oe ee ee ae ee $20, 378. 94

Researches and explorations___________________ 235 620504
44, 099. 68
REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 135

Expenditures from funds devoted to specific purposes:

Researches and’ explorations=—--—---_--- "3 $60, 879. 90
Care, increase, and study of special collections____ 4,836.80
LEAH OY BU LEG) KOS OS I Ae oe ea pe ee 470: OO
$71, 187. 60
4 OY Wace I ea dea te Aa eT hi al aa Slee ate ALP LM care 115, 287. 28

The practice of depositing on time in local trust companies and
banks such revenues as may be spared temporarily has been continued
during the past year, and interest on these deposits has amounted to
$715.42.

The Institution gratefuliy acknowledges gifts or bequests from the
following:

Mrs. W. W. Daly, for Smithsonian endowment fund.

Friends of Dr. Albert S. Hitchcock, for the Hitchcock Agrostological
Library.

Cornelia L. Pell, for the Pell Collection.

Research Corporation, further contributions for research in radiation.

John A. Roebling, further contributions for research in radiation.

H. Nelson Slater, for investigations in connection with early cotton ma-
chinery.

Julia D. Strong, for National Collection of Fine Arts.

Mrs. Mary Vaux Walcott, for purchase of certain specimens.

All payments are made by check, signed by the Secretary of the
Institution on the Treasurer of the United States, and all revenues
are deposited to the credit of the same account. In many instances
deposits are placed in bank for convenience of collection and later
are withdrawn in round amounts and deposited in the Treasury.

The foregoing report relates only to the private funds of the
Institution.

The following annual appropriations were made by Congress for
the Government bureaus under the administrative charge of the
Smithsonian Institution for the fiscal year 1941:

Beemer expenses =<. fab 02 oe bo ee a ae $386, 260. 00
(This combines under one heading the appropriations heretofore
made for Salaries and Expenses, International Exchanges,
American Ethnology, Astrophysical Observatory, and Na-
tional Collection of Fine Arts of the Smithsonian Institution

and for Maintenance and Operation of the United States
National Museum. )

PLOSeLV ATION OL CONCCHONS oe ao ne ee 627, 470. 00
mene eM mavel itl tein ge ee ahd ae eh dee 73, 000. 00
NiaironaleZooloricaly Parkas sue ee free a i ey OO eer at 239, 910. 00
Cooperation with the American Republics (transfer to the Smith-

LIL ATM OMPE TLS CUCU CLO MN ee oot thee oe Ni ene Nt Tee S/o See PE 22 Oj) 28, 500. 00

BIE 2 (lee 2 EA en ey ER REP Foe, A EEE 1, 355,140. 00
136 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

The report of the audit of the Smithsonian private funds is printed
below:

SEPTEMBER 8, 1941.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE, BoARD OF REGENTS,
Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C.

Srmrs: Pursuant to agreement we have audited the accounts of the Smith-
sonian Institution for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1941, and certify the balance
of cash on hand, including Petty Cash Fund, June 30, 1941, to be $499,041.14.

We have verified the record of receipts and disbursements maintained by
the Institution and the agreement of the book balances with the bank balances.

We have examined all the securitites in the custody of the Institution and in
the custody of the banks and found them to agree with the book records.

We have compared the stated income of such securities with the receipts
of record and found them in agreement therewith.

We have examined all vouchers covering disbursements for account of the
Institution during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1941, together with the au-
thority therefor, and have compared them with the Institution’s record of
expenditures and found them to agree.

We have examined and verified the accounts of the Institution with each trust
fund.

We found the books of account and records well and accurately kept and
the securities conveniently filed and securely cared for.

All information requested by your auditors was promptly and courteously
furnished.

We certify the Balance Sheet, in our opinion, correctly presents the financial
condition of the Institution as at June 30, 1941.

Respectfully submitted,

WruiAmM L. YArerr,
Certified Public Accountant.

Respectfully submitted.
Freper1io A. DrLAno,
VANNEVAR BusH,
Executive Committee.
GENERAL APPENDIX

TO THE

SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1941

137
OS Ne tad es,
foe, TE ea

0

Woe |
a
et

TDR

4
ADVERTISEMENT

The object of the Generat AppeNnprx to the Annual Report of the
Smithsonian Institution is to furnish brief accounts of scientific dis-
covery in particular directions; reports of investigations made by
collaborators of the Institution; and memoirs of a general character
or on special topics that are of interest or value to the numerous
correspondents of the Institution.

It has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution from a very early date to enrich the annual
report required of them by law with memoirs illustrating the more
remarkable and important developments in physical and biological
discovery, as well as showing the general character of the operations
of the Institution; and, during the greater part of its history, this
purpose has been carried out largely by the publication of such papers
as would possess an interest to all attracted by scientific progress.

In 1880, induced in part by the discontinuance of an annual sum-
mary of progress which for 30 years previously had been issued by
well-known private publishing firms, the secretary had a series of
abstracts prepared by competent collaborators, showing concisely the
prominent features of recent scientific progress in astronomy, geology,
meteorology, physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zoology, and
anthropology. This latter plan was continued, though not altogether
satisfactorily, down to and including the year 1888.

In the report for 1889 a return was made to the earlier method of
presenting a miscellaneous selection of papers (some of them original)
embracing a considerable range of scientific investigation and discus-
sion. This method has been continued in the present report for 1941.

139
WHAT LIES BETWEEN THE STARS?

By WALTER S. ADAMS

Carnegie Institution of Washington, Mount Wilson Observatory, Pasadena, Calif.

[With 4 plates]

We are accustomed to think of the material upon which the astron-
omer works as consisting mainly of the sun and its planetary system,
occasional comets, and the vast array of stars and nebulae which dot
our skies at night. In other words the astronomer is largely con-
cerned with matter in a sufficiently condensed form either to radiate
light like the hot sun and stars or to reflect light like the cool planets
and satellites. In recent years, however, new information has obliged
us to consider more seriously what lies between the stars, and it is
this subject which I should like to discuss briefly with you this
evening.

In the first place it is interesting to realize how much space there
really is in our stellar universe and how little of it is actually occu-
pied by the stars. If this room represented an average portion of
space and we let a floating speck of dust represent a star, we could
not allow another speck within the room to represent another star
because no matter where we put it the two would be too near each
other. The star nearest to the sun is about 25 million million miles
away. Another way of realizing how much of space is compar-
atively empty is through its average density. If we put together
everything we can observe directly, such as the stars and nebulae,
in the general neighborhood of our sun, and divide the total by the
volume of the space in which it lies, we find for each cubic inch 1
grain of matter divided by 1 followed by 22 ciphers. At the center
of our galaxy the density is probably 10 times greater. These values
may perhaps be in error by a factor of 10 but we need not feel the
deep concern of the individual who thought the lecturer gave 1
billion instead of 10 billion years for the possible life of our sun
and was enormously relieved when he discovered his error.

1 Alexander F. Morrison Lecture. Reprinted by permission from Publications of the
Astronomical Society of the Pacific, vol. 538, No. 312, April 1941.

141
142 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

If, at the turn of the century, a layman or even an astronomer
had been asked what lies in the vast spaces between the stars he
would probably have answered, “Little or nothing.” There might
be an occasional wandering mass of cold rock like an asteroid or a
meteorite or specks of dust such as produce our “shooting stars”
when they strike the earth’s atmosphere; but in general, space was
considered as essentially empty, with practically all the material in
our galaxy condensed into the stars.

About 1900 several observations raised serious questions regarding
the supposed emptiness of space. The most important of these were
Barnard’s photographs of the Milky Way which showed great lanes
and holelike structures in the huge clouds of stars which compose
this shining ring of light. To interpret these as real vacancies where
no stars exist was the natural impulse, but gradually observations
accumulated which made it impossible to retain this view. The
“holes” were too sharply bounded and in many cases were associated
with visible cloudlike luminosity which veiled the region. Moreover
the presence of numerous long “tunnels” among the stars pointing
toward the earth seemed altogether improbable. The final evidence
was afforded by the photographs made at the Lick Observatory of
the outer universes of stars, the extragalactic nebulae, many of which
showed definite streaks of absorbing material crossing the main body
of the nebula. The apparent vacancies were due to the presence of
dark clouds of cosmic dust which absorb and scatter the light from
the stars behind, either obliterating them completely or leaving
them comparatively faint and inconspicuous.

These cosmic clouds are composed of very finely divided particles
of dust and are often of enormous extent, especially in the region
of the Milky Way. When their thickness is great they blot out the
stars behind them, and when thin they redden the starlight passing
through them just as dust or smoke in the earth’s atmosphere red-
dens sunlight, especially near sunrise or sunset when the path through
the dust is long. The importance of these cosmic clouds in astron-
omy is very great: they affect the brightness and color of every star
whose light passes through them, and calculations of the distances
of remote stars, the size of our universe, and the quantity of matter
within it are all profoundly influenced by the absorption and scatter-
ing of light in interstellar space.

I shall not dwell longer on this most interesting question of dust
clouds in space since many of you heard Dr. Seares give a lecture on
this subject a few months ago on the occasion of the award to him
of the Bruce Medal of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific. To
those of you who may not have heard him I can recommend a
reading of his admirable presentation of the whole subject in the
WHAT LIES BETWEEN THE STARS—ADAMS 143

Publications of the Society.2, Modern observations with blue and
red color filters show the remarkable degree to which the presence
of such obscuring clouds modifies the appearance of great areas of
the sky, especially in the region of the southern Milky Way, and
illustrate the use made by astronomers of the power of red light to
penetrate cosmic dust.

We now know at least three forms of solid matter in interstellar
space. There are probably dark stars, that is, stars with temperatures
so low that they give out little or no visible light. If we knew
where to look we might be able to detect some of them with sensitive
heat-measuring devices—which will measure the heat given out by a
candle at a distance of many miles—but as it is we can only infer
their existence. We know that in the descending scale of stellar
temperature we find cooler and cooler stars until finally we observe
objects which give out only a faint red light. It seems reasonable
to assume that there may be many others with still lower temperatures
which have become invisible and are gradually approaching the con-
dition of cold bodies like our planets or asteroids. They are probably
small stars which have gone through the successive temperature stages
of stellar development at a rather rapid rate.

In addition to these occasional dark stars there are in the spaces
between the visible stars great numbers of smaller masses of matter,
“chunks” as Dr. Hubble has called them, such as now and then fall
upon the earth in the form of meteorites. They are cold bodies with
the chill of the depths of space upon them, commonly ranging in
mass from a few pounds to a few tons.

Finally and most important, we have the dust of space, often
gathered into huge cosmic clouds which weaken or even blot out the
stars behind them and give us much of the variegated pattern of the
Milky Way.

There is, however, another form in which we find matter existing
in space, matter not in the solid state but in the form of gas, consist-
ing of molecules, atoms, and even portions of atoms, the tiny elec-
trons of the physicist. Much of our knowledge of this subject is
of very recent date, and because it is new and because it is certain
to affect our views of the conditions in interstellar space I should
like to discuss it in a simple way this evening.

This brings us at once to a consideration of a few elementary facts
about the spectrum, for it is from the spectrum that we gain essen-
tially all our knowledge of matter in the gaseous state. As you all
know, white light is a mixture of several primary colors and the
eye combines them into an impression which we call white. The

? Publ. Astron. Soc. Pacific, vol. 52, p. 80, 1940.
144 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

spectrum is simply a map of the colors spread out into a band begin-
ning with violet at one end and passing through blue, green, and
yellow into red at the other. It can be produced in several dif-
ferent ways, the simplest of which is by a triangular piece of glass
called a prism. When white light passes through a prism the violet
part of the light is bent a certain amount when it comes out, the
green a little less, and the red still less. The final result is a con-
tinuous band of color extending from violet to red. You have all
seen flashes of such a spectrum when sunlight falls upon a cut-glass
bow] or the edge of a beveled mirror.

Now the important fact is that any chemical element, when heated
to the point where it vaporizes and gives out light, gives it in a
pattern of colored bright lines which is unique for each element
and defines it absolutely. Some patterns are comparatively simple,
while others are exceedingly complex. For example, sodium has
relatively few lines in its spectrum and nearly all the light which
sodium vapor emits is concentrated in two strong lines of orange
color. These are so dominant that they define the color of a sodium
lamp completely, as you all know who have ridden through the
yellow glare of the street lights now in such common use. Similarly
neon gas has its strongest lines in the red portion of the spectrum
and hence neon signs are red to the eye, while mercury light with
an exceedingly strong green line in its spectrum is predominantly
green in color. On the other hand the vapor of iron produced in an
electric arc has an extraordinarily rich spectrum consisting of some
2,000 lines distributed throughout all the colors of the spectrum. In
the absence of predominant lines of one color, luminous iron gas
appears nearly white to the eye.

One other fact should be remembered before we pass to our
immediate astronomical applications of the spectrum. A hot, solid
body or one consisting of dense gases gives out a spectrum which is a
continuous band of color, not one of bright lines. When the light from
such a body, a star for example, passes through a gas of somewhat
lower temperature the gas will absorb light of just the color of its
characteristic lines, and we shall have a pattern of absorption or
dark lines. For example, when the light from the filament of an
ordinary incandescent lamp is passed through a slightly cooler tube
of sodium vapor we see the two strong yellow lines of sodium as dark
lines on the yellow background of light given by the filament.

In astronomy we have almost a precise analogy to the filament and
tube of sodium vapor. The body of the sun or of a star corresponds
to the filament and gives out a continuous band of color, while the
gaseous atmosphere corresponds to the sodium tube and produces the
absorption lines. The principal difference is that the atmosphere of

—

WHAT LIES BETWEEN THE STARS—ADAMS 145

a star like our sun contains not only sodium but a great variety of
other elements and so we get not only sodium lines but an immense
number of other lines as well—such as those of hydrogen, calcium,
iron, and some 60 other elements.

It is hardly necessary to say that the spectra of the elements, these
characteristic patterns of bright lines which define them uniquely
and individually, have been studied with extraordinary care by physi-
cists and astronomers alike for many years. Maps have been made,
the intensities of the lines measured, and their positions determined
with an almost uncanny degree of precision. Asa result astronomers
know almost every element which enters into the composition of the
sun and even the most distant stars, merely through comparison of
the positions and intensities of the dark lines produced in their at-
mospheres with the well-recognized bright lines of terrestrial
elements.

One other point should be considered. When we observe a star, its
light comes to us through the earth’s atmosphere which is itself com-
posed of various gases. These gases are cold and because they are
cold remain in the form of molecules. Intense heat will break up
molecules into atoms, and in the atmospheres of the hotter stars we
find only the lines due to atoms. Molecules, however, can also emit
and absorb light and give spectrum lines arranged in characteristic
patterns, the principal difference from those produced by atoms being
that molecules usually give an enormous number of closely packed
lines arranged in the form of bands. Asa result when we observe the
spectrum of a star we find superposed upon it the bands of gases
such as oxygen, water vapor, and carbon dioxide in the atmosphere
of the earth. These bands lie mainly in the red and infared portion
of the spectrum.

About 40 years ago two very narrow sharp lines were observed in
the violet part of the spectrum of a star in the constellation of Orion.
They were at once identified with well-known lines of calcium, but
their positions did not vary periodically as did those of the lines from
the star, and it was clear that they were not of stellar origin. They
were called provisionally “stationary” lines, and Sir Arthur Edding-
ton suggested the bold hypothesis that they originated in the absorp-
tion of the atoms of calcium gas in interstellar space. Some 20 years
later two more such lines were discovered at the Lick Observatory in
the yellow portion of the spectrum. These are due to sodium and
are the characteristic lines to which we have already referred. In
1936, observations with a spectroscope on the 100-inch telescope at
Mount Wilson led to the discovery of several additional lines, a few
of which were identified as due to titanium and potassium. By this
time the interstellar origin of all such lines had been fully established,
146 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

and through the work of Struve, of the Yerkes Observatory, the in-
tensities of the calcium lines were being used as a measure of the
distances of the stars in which they were observed. The greater the
distance of the star, the greater the amount of interstellar gas through
which its light passes, and the stronger the lines. Several broad hazy
lines, apparently originating from interstellar gases but differing
greatly in appearance from the normal sharp lines, had also been
discovered by Merrill at Mount Wilson.

Until recent months, accordingly, the situation was that the gases
of calcium, sodium, titanium, and potassium had been identified in
interstellar space but that the origin of several fairly conspicuous
lines still remained unknown. The identified lines all arise from the
atoms of the elements, and naturally astronomers searched for identi-
fications of the remaining lines in the atomic spectra of other ele-
ments. ‘This led to no success, however. The possibility was then
considered whether the unidentified lines could arise from molecules
instead of atoms. As I have already said, under ordinary conditions,
molecules of compounds produce bands consisting of hundreds or
even thousands of closely packed lines as contrasted with the simpler
spectrum of relatively few lines arising from the atom. Under the
conditions of interstellar space, however, with extraordinarily low
densities and temperatures, the molecular spectrum might well be
simplified and even reduced to a few observable lines. The suggestion
that the broad diffuse lines observed by Merrill might have a molecu-
lar origin was put forward by several investigators, and in the
specific case of one of the sharp lines discovered at Mount Wilson a
tentative identification with a line of the common hydrocarbon gas
CH was offered by Swings and Rosenfeld. An identification resting
upon a single line, however, necessarily remained somewhat doubtful.

The next step was taken by McKellar at the Dominion Astro-
physical Observatory. Applying to molecular spectra the principles
derived from a study of some of the identified atomic lines, he was
able to predict the positions of several additional lines for each
molecular spectrum. Thus if the single relatively prominent line
tentatively assigned to CH were correctly identified, there should be
at least three other fainter lines present in another region of the
spectrum. Similarly McKellar could predict the positions of certain
lines of the familiar cyanogen gas CN.

Hence the final solution of the question came back to the observer.
Since the predicted lines were faint and narrow, it was clear that
photographic plates of high contrast and fine grain must be used and
that exposure times would be long. Fortunately a bright star was
available, Zeta Ophiuchi, lying near the southern Milky Way. The
100-inch telescope and a spectroscope 114 inches long were used with

WHAT LIES BETWEEN THE STARS—ADAMS 147

exposure times of about 4 hours. The results were conslusive. The
predicted lines of hydrocarbon gas CH all appeared in their correct
positions with their calculated intensities. In the case of cyanogen
gas CN, the evidence is based upon fewer lines but is equally strong.
Hence the existence of the gases CH and CN in interstellar space
may be regarded as practically certain.

After this brief description of how these discoveries were made, a
few comments upon the meaning of the results may be of interest.
In the first place, we have learned that several of the common ele-
ments exist in space in the form of atoms; sodium, calcium, potas-
sium, and titanium have been identified, and it is very probable that
many if not all of the others could be recognized if only conditions
were favorable for the appearance of their spectra. Then we have
very recently found that two common gases, or at least two slightly
modified common gases, are present, cyanogen and hydrocarbon gas.
This is the first discovery of molecules in interstellar space. That
hydrogen, the most abundant element of all in the universe, has not
been discovered directly is due to the fact that the lines which it
could show under the conditions present in space are in an inaccessi-
ble part of the spectrum, and, like the lines of many other important
elements, are cut off by the ozone in the earth’s atmosphere, which in
the words of Russell “lies like a black pall upon the dreams of the
astrophysicist.” However, we do find hydrogen combined with
carbon in hydrocarbon gas and thus have ample evidence for its
presence.

Although the lines of hydrocarbon gas are well marked and at
least one of them is fairly conspicuous, it is the enormous length of
the path of light from the stars rather than the density of the gas
which provides enough absorbing molecules. The actual density is
extraordinarily low. In a cubic mile of space there are probably
only a very few thousand molecules; and when we remember that the
diameter of a molecule is less than one ten-millionth of an inch it is
easy to see that very little of the space is occupied. But if the path
is long enough, a good many molecules will be encountered by the
light from a distant star, and observable absorption lines will result.
The same reasoning holds true for lines originating from atoms such
as sodium and calcium. Dunham estimates that there is one sodium
atom in about 25 cubic yards of space, and yet in the spectra of very
distant stars the interstellar sodium lines are conspicuous.

A calculation by Russell of the average density of interstellar gas
in general gives a value of about 2 preceded by 24 ciphers of the
density of water. So great are the distances, however, that in the
volume of space whose radius is equal to that of the nearest fixed
star, the mass of the interstellar gas amounts to about one-fourth
4305774211
148 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

the mass of the sun. So if we consider the huge dimensions of our
galaxy, the amount of matter contributed by interstellar gases is by
no means negligible.

An interesting and somewhat amusing subject is that of the tem-
perature of these gases in space. We are accustomed to dwell upon
the intense cold of outer space far removed from the heat of any
nearby star and we are quite right in doing so. A thermometer placed
in interstellar space would show a temperature of about 3° above
absolute zero on the Centigrade scale or about 455° below zero on the
usual Fahrenheit scale. But this is by no means the temperature of
the atoms or molecules of a highly diffuse gas. In such a gas the |
effect of the radiation of a star which falls upon an atom is to drive
out electrons, or, to use a technical word, to ionize it. It is the same —
process which happens when light falls upon a photoelectric cell:
electrons are driven out and the energy of these electrons when ampli-
fied rings a burglar alarm or opens a garage door. The electrons in
space have a temperature depending upon the mean energy with |
which they are driven out of the atom, and when they collide with the |
atom they raise its temperature. Thus the atoms and molecules of
gas are lifted to a high temperature estimated at some 10,000° to
20,000° on the Fahrenheit scale. The interesting feature about the
process, as Eddington has shown, is that it depends upon the quality
and not the quantity of the radiation, so that the temperature of a
gas far in space will be just as high as if it were near a star. The
rate of production of electrons will be slower but the temperature will |
not be affected. So we may say that we have two kinds of tempera- _
ture in space, one of space itself as registered by a thermometer, and
a very different one for the gases, which through their remarkable |
structure are able to build up and maintain a temperature of thou-
sands of degrees in spite of the bitter cold of the medium which |
surrounds ee /

There is one other interesting characteristic of the molecules and _
atoms in our interstellar gases. Under ordinary conditions such as
in a physical laboratory they are in a wild state of excitement, flying i
about rapidly, colliding with one another and knocking off and
picking up electrons in a fraction of a millionth of a second. In the '
extremely rarefied conditions of gas in space, however, the situation |
is quite different. Collisions are extremely rare and the atoms and|
molecules can remain for weeks and perhaps even months in the least”
excited state which the state of their being will allow them to have..
To use a homely comparison, if we touch a sleeping cat the cat!
responds with a a twitch of an ear or a leg which represents the least |
possible disturbance to its equilibrium. So the lazy molecules of!
space when disturbed by a ray of light or heat from a star seek to

WHAT LIES BETWEEN THE STARS—ADAMS 149

move as little as possible from their condition of rest and the spec-
trum lines which we observe are those due to transitions of this sort.
This is the reason why the complicated spectrum of a gas like cyano-
gen, consisting of hundreds of closely packed lines, is reduced to a
meager three or four lines when observed in interstellar space.
These are the only lines which the molecule in its lowest state of
energy can absorb.

In this brief outline we have discussed the gaseous material of
space, how it is studied, and what we know about its composition,
temperature, and density. We have seen that three of the most im-
portant elements which enter into the composition of the universe,
hydrogen, nitrogen, and carbon, are present in the form of compounds,
and that others as yet unidentified are represented by spectral lines in
the interstellar gases. If in most of our considerations we have had
our ciphers on the left-hand side of the significant figures instead of
the right, it is because we have been dealing with atoms and molecules
instead of stars and universes. Even so, such is the volume of space
that the mass of the dust and gas which lies between the stars may
well exceed by several fold all the matter actually visible with our
greatest telescopes.
ht

y ud tt doe
iyesh bat kp popBincagtsent
a Bymean Qi oe re kiode ae

as

baie ee oe

Pea

he E-
wit vib Bi vib

Se

i

is
ie

ae

ay it: a ppneorehan,

Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Adams PLATE 1

Red

FIELD OF NGC 6553.

Photographed by Baade in blue and in red light. The exposure times were so chosen that an unobscured
field of normal color would have appeared similar on the two photographs. Clouds of cosmic dust be-
tween_us and the stars scatter and absorb the blue light much more than the red.
Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Adams PLATE 2

4000 5000 ‘6000 7000
| | | | | ]

CONTINUOUS

HYDROGEN

CALCIUM SODIUM

Ca H H Na =H

STELLAR

OXYGEN |

1. DIAGRAM SHOWING THE ORIGIN OF THE CONTINUOUS SPECTRUM AND VARIOUS
TYPES OF ABSORPTION LINES IN STELLAR SPECTRA

Hs He
a — | |
K H

4232.6 4300.3

3874.6 3886.4 3890.2

2. STELLAR SPECTRA SHOWING ABSORPTION LINES DUE TO INTERSTELLAR GASES.

a,55 Cygni. H and K lines due to interstellar ionized calcium, and diffuse lines due to stellar elements.

bh, € Ophiuchi. Interstellar lines \ 4232, unidentified, and A 4300, hydrocarbon gas (CH)

e.Onhiuchi. Interstellar lines of CH, \ 3886 and \ 3890; also A 3874.6 and a trace of A 3874.0, both cyanogen
(CN).
“(V8EE “SVZE WW) WO INVLIL
GAaZINO!| GNvV (ZOEE XY) WNIGOS IWYLNAN OL ANG SANIT YVIISLSYSLNI DNIMOHS ‘SINOINO 7X AO WNYLOAdS LAIOIAVYLIN AO NOILYOdU

bzove £20Ce

N

€ 3ALV1d swepy—'|p6| ‘Wodeay uetuosyytwg
“SOIJIOOTOA JUSIOYIP APYSIS YIM SULAOU SBS WUNIJO[Bd JO Spnofa ayeirdes 0} onp Atqeqoid o1e S}UeTOdULOD aU, L,

avo1luny X dO WNYLO3dS NI (HM GNV H) WNID1VD GAaZINO| AO SSNIDT YVITISLSYALN| 3AISNOd

vy ALV1d swiepy— |p6| ‘oday uetuosyzTUIS
ARTIFICIAL CONVERTERS OF SOLAR ENERGY ?

By H. C. Horre.

Massachusetts Institute of Technology

A study of the literature on solar energy utilization has convinced
me of the existence of an unalterable tradition among speakers and
writers on the subject. One must always begin such a discussion by
expressing the earth’s reception of solar energy in units no one has
thought before to use, the more startling the better. In keeping
with this tradition, I shall mention a few old figures and add my
own. The earth and its atmosphere intercept the equivalent in
energy of 21 billion tons of coal per hour; 6 million tons per second;
the equivalent in 3 minutes of the annual American energy consump-
tion of about 1 billion tons; energy at a rate sufficient each year to
melt a layer of ice 114 feet thick; on an acre at noon the equivalent
of the discharge of a healthy stream from a garden hose spouting
fuel oil instead of water.

Having made the conventional beginning, let me add what many
of you know: that figures such as these are almost irrelevant to the
problem of practical utilization of solar energy. They have attracted
uncounted crank inventors who have approached the problem with
little more mental equipment than a rosy optimism. Now, an in-
formed pessimism is sometimes the healthiest mood in which to
approach an engineering problem; and I want to use a little space in
an endeavor to put you in that mood. Consider a solar power plant
utilizing 1 acre of land, and operating on the principle of conversion
of solar energy to heat in steam used to run an engine. There is
incident at noon, normal to the sun’s rays and outside the earth’s
atmosphere, 7,400 horsepower of solar energy. On a clear day, of
this quantity about 5,000 horsepower arrives at the earth. Allowing
for the efficiency of collection of the sunlight as heat in the working
fluid to be used in the engine, the quantity drops to about 3,300 horse-
power. Utilizing the highest achieved efficiency of conversion of
solar heat to useful power (results of Dr. Abbot’s experiments), the

1 Presented before the symposium on Solar Energy, Harvard Chapter, Spring, 1940. Re-
printed by permission from Sigma Xi Quarterly, vol. 29, No. 1, April 1941.

151
152 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

horsepower output drops to 490. ‘These calculations have so far all
been on the assumption of normal incidence of the sun on the collector
systems. To achieve this the collector must be mounted to turn with
the sun and must be far enough from its neighbor not to shade the
latter in morning or afternoon. Introducing a ground-coverage fac-
tor of one-third to allow for this, the output is cut to 163 horsepower.
But this figure applies only to the hours when the sun shines with
full intensity. Converting to a 24-hour basis of operation on clear
days in summer in Arizona, the output drops to 83; or in winter to
46 horsepower; or for the year to 68 horsepower. Passing on to the
average year of New York weather, the output is down to 30 horse-
power. Even if one stops at a reasonably attainable value of 50
horsepower in Arizona, that figure is one one-hundred-and-fiftieth
of the original 7,400 horsepower.

For rough orientation as to the meaning of these figures, suppose
the possibility of a 50-horsepower steady output from an acre in
Arizona be accepted. ‘To evaluate this power, let it be assumed that
electric power can be produced in a large modern steam plant at a
cost of 0.6 cents per kw.-hr., or $53 a kilowatt year, making the out-
put of our 1 acre worth $1,900 per year. In the absence of knowledge
of labor costs, maintenance, etc., one can only guess the capital value
of such an output. Capitalization at 15 percent is almost certainly
overoptimistic, and even that yields but $18,000 to spend on the en-
tire plant, or about $2.60 per square yard. Since the ground coverage
is but one-third, $8 are available to build each square yard of re-
flectors, mounts, and accessories. The result is one so often encoun-
tered in engineering projects: indecisive. It may be possible to build
a plant for such an amount; much more exact knowledge of perform-
ance and costs is necessary than was at hand in making the above
rough estimate. What I have particularly wanted to emphasize by
this preliminary consideration is perfectly obvious to the engineer,
namely, that solar power is not there just for the taking!

However, this preview has at least indicated that solar power is
not completely outside the realm of economic feasibility. It is worth-
while, then, to examine in more detail the problem of use of solar
energy by conversion to heat, a problem which has commanded the
attention of engineers for three-quarters of a century.

First, a moment on some elementary principles of heat transmis-
sion. If a black metal plate is exposed to the sun, and cooling water
is run under the plate fast enough to keep the plate from rising
appreciably above the surrounding air temperature, substantially all
the energy of the sun’s rays intercepted by the plate shows up as
energy in the water; the efficiency of collection of heat is nearly 100
percent, but the value of the heat is low because of its low tempera-
CONVERTERS OF SOLAR ENERGY—HOTTEL 153

ture level. If the water enters 50° F. above the surrounding air
temperature and flows through fast enough hardly to rise in tem-
perature, there is the same interception and absorption of solar
energy by the plate; but now much of it is used in keeping the plate
up to temperature; it is lost to the surroundings by radiation and
convection, and very little of the absorbed energy appears in the
water stream. To improve the efficiency the losses must be cut down.
There are several ways. The back side of the plate may be insulated,
since it never sees the sun. Or a plate of glass may be placed over
the metal plate and parallel to it, with an inch or so of air space
between. Then the plate receives and absorbs almost as much sun-
light as before—the glass transmits about 90 percent—but the losses
from the metal to the outer atmosphere are reduced: the convection
loss because of the imposed stagnation of the air, and the radiation
loss because glass, though transparent to the sun’s rays, is opaque
to the long-wave infrared radiation emitted by the hot metal plate.
Variations of this idea include the use of several glass plates and of
glass vacuum chambers. Another method of cutting down losses is
to reduce the area at which losses occur relative to the area of the
interceptor of the energy to be collected. This may be done by
choosing the most favorable orientation of the plate, that is, normal
to the sun’s rays, or by use of a concentrating device, such as a mirror,
which intercepts rays covering a large area and brings them to a
focus on an object of much smaller area where the heat loss is
consequently correspondingly small despite the high temperature.

From this discussion there emerges a threefold basis of classifica-
tion of solar energy collectors: (1) By nature of orientation of the
collector (whether and how completely it follows the sun), (2) by
amount of concentration achieved by mirrors, (3) by amount and type
of insulation of the receiver surface. It is perfectly obvious that
many of the early inventors and engineers in this field were familiar
with these principles in a general way.

One might now ask, “With all this work, have not the possibilities
of energy production by conversion to heat been so thoroughly studied
as to yield a definite answer?” Unfortunately, no. Qualitative
familiarity with the principles involved, these men had certainly ; but
with the exception of the work of Dr. Abbot, their experiments and
records indicate inadequate quantitative knowledge of the problem.
As an exemple, consider the simplest possible collector, the flat plate
insulated with several air-spaced glass layers. Willsie’s work at
Needles in 1909 indicated the possibilities of this simplest of solar
plants, but it left unanswered the question of merit relative to the
much more efficient—and more expensive—plant of Abbot, and did
not yield data permitting the design of such a plant for any given
154 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

climate. Among the projects at M. I. T. made possible by Dr. God-
frey Cabot’s endowment for research on utilization of solar energy
is one having as its first objective the determination of the perform-
ance characteristics of solar energy collectors of different types, the
performance, of course, being correlated with records of incident
solar energy so as to permit calculations of expected performance
in any locality where sunlight records are available. The first and
so far the only type of collector studied has been the flat plate, which
will now be considered briefly.

Since each additional layer of glass and air cuts down the losses
from such a plate, it is apparent that with glass having perfect
transmission one could build a collector which, without any focusing
or concentrating device, would still collect efficiently at a very high
temperature level. But the best glass is not perfect. It doesn’t ab-
sorb much solar energy when one picks the right glass—and there is
ample evidence that early experimenters were too casual in their choice
of glass in that respect—but there is a reflection loss of about 4 per-
cent at each surface. Consequently, as glass plates are added the
point is ultimately reached where the reduction in heat loss from the
metal plate is more than offset by the reduction in intensity of in-
cident radiation due to reflection losses. The optimum number of
plates to use will be less the more intense the sunlight, more the
colder the weather and the higher the temperature of collection of
heat.

The controlling part played by reflection losses in the design of
flat-plate collectors having been brought out, the desirability of a low
reflecting glass was discussed with Professor Hardy, of our Physics
Department. The result was the invention by Drs. Turner and Cart-
wright of a method of processing glass to give it a permanent sur-
face of reflectivity approaching zero at one point in the spectrum.
The process has already demonstrated its importance in a great many
uses ranging from spectacle lenses through bomb sights to high-speed
cameras and the solar-corona camera which was described in the first
article of this series. Here is an excellent example of a need in one
field stimulating research, the results of which have many applica-
tions in other fields. The special glass has not yet been used for an
experimental solar-energy collector, but calculations indicate that
its use should make possible the attainment of temperatures up to
800° I. without any mirrors or lenses or so-called concentrating
devices.

Another problem of flat-plate collectors is that of optimum tilt.
Obviously they are too cheap a type of collector system to warrant
being mounted to follow the sun, but they may profitably be tilted
permanently toward the Equator. A little consideration will in-
dicate that the optimum tilt depends very definitely on the use to
CONVERTERS OF SOLAR ENERGY—-HOTTEL 155

which the collected heat is to be put. If the objective is the max-
imum collection during the entire year, tilting should favor the sum-
mer season. If, on the other hand, the objective is to supply heat for
a load which varies throughout the year, the tilt should be chosen to
favor that part of the year in which the load is highest.

As to the use of such collectors, it has already been indicated that
one must find first just what they cando. But speculation is permissi-
ble. One might visualize a large artificial lake with sloped sides
formed by throwing up an earthen ring around a surface-scraped cen-
ter, the bottom and sloping sides being surfaced with asphalt. Float-
ing on this lake, which is, say, 20 to 40 feet deep, is an enormous raft
covering it completely. On the raft is a layer of insulation, then a sys-
tem of flat-plate collectors. Forced circulation of lake water through
the collectors whenever they attain a temperature above the reser-
voir will produce a large body of hot water available for continuous
operation of a power plant. The working fluid in the engine might
be low-pressure steam or, to cut down engine size, a fluid which
boils at lower temperatures. It is not possible to state at this time
whether such an idea has possibilities.

Another less ambitious use of flat-plate collectors might be that of
house heating in relatively cold but sunny climates, or summer air
conditioning. Some preliminary figures may indicate the prospects
in this direction. Consider house heating in New England, and
take as a basis the furnishing of one therm of heat throughout the
heating season—100,000 B. t. u.: the heat obtained by burning 1
gallon of fuel oil with normal efficiency of combustion. If 1 square
foot of flat-plate receiver covered with three plates of glass and
tilted 40° southward is operated in connection with 114 cubic feet
of water in a well-insulated tank, and the water is pumped from
the tank to the receiver and back whenever the receiver is hotter
than the tank, the combination will supply all but 15 percent of the
100,000 B. t. u. required during the season; the 15 percent has to be
supplied as auxiliary heat in December, January, and February.
The value of the heat saved is the cost of 0.85 gallons of fuel oil, or
about 6 cents. Capitalizing this at 6 percent gives only $1 available
to be spent on the roof collector and tank. This is plainly not enough,
but the answer is interesting because we have not determined the
optimum number of glass plates, or tilt, or ratio of roof to tank
area, or considered the possibility of some day having treated glass of
lower reflectivity. More particularly, the idea looks interesting for
localities where the ratio of winter to summer sunshine is somewhat
more favorable than in Boston, and the winter heating requirements
somewhat lower. According to a recent publication of Dr. Abbot’s,
Dr. F. G. Cottrell has proposed a somewhat similar storage system
in which sand is to be used instead of water. Whether the ad-
156 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

vantages of low-cost installation and ability to store heat at a higher
temperature would be offset by the disadvantage of lower efficiency
of collection is a point requiring study.

Whether the use of flat-plate collectors together with a storage
system is economically possible for house heating or air conditioning
in certain areas of the earth, whether other types of collector will
prove cheaper for these uses or for power generation, whether power
generation from solar heat demands the development of a new
heat-engine cycle, and whether power generation by any process
dependent on direct conversion of sunlight into heat with consequent
unavoidable losses due to the degradation of energy is sound—these
are questions which it is hoped this program will help to answer.
Regardless of the result, the present considerable and increasing
importance of solar heat for hot water in certain parts of this coun-
try indicates the need for a comprehensive study of the factors
involved in the design of collectors.

Now to come to a second project, related to the one just dis-
cussed. Conventional heat-power plants are characterized by a cost
of power production depending enormously on the capacity of the
plant; and we have seen that solar power does not now look very
attractive when compared to large-scale operation of steam plants.
If, on the other hand, it were possible to operate small solar plants
with an efficiency comparable to large ones, the comparison with
fuel-fired plants might lead to some very different conclusions.
So far as the collectors of the sunlight are concerned there is little
indication that the cost should be other than proportional to the
amount of collector area. If then it were possible to devise an
engine with moderate efficiency even in small units, one might have
something worthwhile. The second project is, in effect, a study
of a type of engine which may have just such desired characteristics.
When two dissimilar conducting materials are joined to form a
loop and the two junctions are kept at different temperatures, heat
flows into the loop at the hot junction, a portion of its energy is
converted to electrical energy and the rest flows out of the cold
junction as heat. The phenomenon involved here has itself long
been known; many investigators have been led to speculate upon it
as a possibility for large-scale thermoelectric power production, but
then to dismiss it as unimportant because the effect is small. Of the
early experiments in this field, the best yielded an over-all efficiency
of conversion of energy from gas to electricity of only 0.6 percent.
Consequently, until recently, the: sole use of the phenomenon has been
in the measurement of temperature.

In trying to better these results, one naturally asks, first, the ques-
tion “What property must a metal or alloy have besides high thermo-
electric power if it is to be of interest for heat-power generation?”
CONVERTERS OF SOLAR ENERGY—HOTTEL 157

Plainly, the material should have a low thermal conductivity to
minimize the loss of heat flowing from the hot to the cold junction.
Moreover, the electrical conductivity should be as high as possible
in order not to dissipate an excessive amount of electrical energy
as heat within the “engine.” The ratio of the two quantities, thermal
conductivity to electrical conductivity, is known as the Wiedemann-
Franz ratio; and it has just been shown that this ratio should be
as low as possible. A correlation of data from the literature and a
consideration of theoretical limitations indicate a sort of conspiracy
on the part of Nature to prevent the finding of any material with
a Wiedemann-Franz ratio less than a certain minimum value. A
study of the properties of zinc-antimony alloys indicates that the
thermoelectric power is a maximum for an alloy containing 36 per-
cent zinc, but that, owing to the extremely abnormal value of the
Wiedemann-Franz ratio in this alloy, there is an advantage in use
of an alloy containing 48 percent zinc, since the thermoelectric power
of such an alloy is almost as good as the best, and the Wiedemann-
Franz ratio is very much more favorable.

An “engine” consisting of an alloy of zinc and antimony contain-
ing 48 percent zine against the alloy copel has been found to produce
a 5 percent useful conversion of heat to electrical power in the
external circuit, when the temperature difference of the hot and cold
junctions of the system is maintained at 400° C. To the layman
this may not sound very imposing, but it is to be remembered that
25-percent efficiency is attained only in the best of modern steam
power plants and that 5 percent would not be considered bad for a
small engine. Moreover, it is to be remembered that a great many
alloys and compounds exist, the thermoelectric properties of which
are unknown, that it is not inconceivable that further study of the
problem may produce a material increase in efficiency in this kind
of an engine. With such an idea in mind, there has been initiated
at M. I. T. a program of study of the thermoelectric properties of
various compounds and alloys. The work is in too early a stage to
justify consideration at the present time.

So far in this discussion only the so-called heat engine has been
considered as a means of conversion of solar enregy to useful power.
The term, to an engineer, means a device which receives energy as
heat at a certain temperature, converts part of that energy to useful
power and throws away the rest to a so-called heat sink at a second
lower temperature. That this discussion was concerned in the first
instance with the use of steam in the engine and in the second in-
stance with the use of a thermocouple for conversion to power is
immaterial; in each case the first step has been the conversion of
solar energy to heat. Now, there is available to the scientist and
engineer a powerful tool, known as the second law of thermodynam-
158 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

ics, that permits him to appraise the possibilities of the heat engine;
and it tells him, for example, that the enormous reservoir of heat
which the earth’s atmosphere constitutes is not available for use in a
heat engine. This same second law of thermodynamics states that,
in the act of collecting sunlight and converting it to heat at a lower
temperature level, a degradation of solar energy has occurred; the
energy has been made less available for conversion to power even
though none of it has been lost; and no process—no matter how
clever the inventor—can restore the energy to a form as intrinsically
useful as when it arrived here as solar energy just before its conver-
sion to heat.

In consequence of this important limitation on what can be ex-
pected so long as one’s interest is restricted to heat engines, it is
appropriate to consider other means of conversion of solar energy to
power which do not involve as a first step the collection of the energy
as heat, but which instead make use of the special nature of the
energy as it arrives. Solar energy reaching the earth consists of a
jumbled mass of radiations of wave lengths varying from the short
ultraviolet through the visible spectrum and out into the infrared,
roughly one-third of the total energy lying in the visible spectrum.
The radiation might be likened, if the analogy is not pushed too far,
to a shower of bullets—unit quantities of energy, known as quanta,
each of a particular wave length. The quanta of shortest wave
lengths have the greatest unit energy content; and almost two-thirds
of the total energy consists of relatively impotent quanta in the
infrared. If, instead of pouring all these quanta into the funnel of
a heat engine, they are given a chance to show their individuality,
what are their specialties? One, of particular interest to us at pres-
ent, is the phenomenon of photoelectricity, the ability of light quanta
of certain wave lengths to knock electrons out of atoms or atomic
lattices in crystals and produce an electric current.

Many of you have encountered this phenomenon in using that type
of camera exposure meter which indicates on a dial the intensity of
illumination. Light is there being converted into electrical energy
which is in turn used to make the galvanometer needle move. The
light-sensitive unit of such a device is one of two kinds, each referred
to as a blocking-layer photocell. The copper oxide cell is typical; it
consists of a massive plate of copper which has been oxidized on one
face and then etched, to produce thereby a layer grading from
cuprous oxide through all proportions of oxygen down to pure cop-
per. The cuprous oxide surface is covered with a thin film of an-
other metal, so thin as to be transparent to light quanta. There is
thus produced a sandwich in which the outer layers are metal and
the inside layers consist of material graded in character in a direc-
tion normal to the surface. If a quantum of visible light strikes
CONVERTERS OF SOLAR ENERGY—HOTTEL 159

the thin metal cover of the cuprous oxide, it passes through that and
through the cuprous oxide layer, penetrating to some point in the
structure where the composition lies between that of cuprous oxide
and copper (the so-called blocking layer) ; and there the quantum—
the bullet of energy—succeeds in knocking out an electron from the
crystal lattice. The electron, being liberated in territory where the
view depends on which way it looks, finds, in general, that the going
is easier when it migrates toward the copper rather than through the
cuprous oxide to the other metal film. This preferential movement
of the electrons in one direction constitutes an electric current.

How important is this phenomenon for power generation from
sunlight? Tests on copper oxide photocells indicate that of the
visible light quanta falling on such a cell only about 5 percent suc-
ceed in causing an electron to show up in the external electric circuit,
that, furthermore, the voltage efficiency of the system is only about
10 percent, with a consequent over-all efficiency of conversion of
luminous energy to power of one-half of 1 percent. Preliminary
calculations indicate that a tenfold increase in this efficiency would
make copper oxide cells interesting for solar power production; and
there is no present reason to believe such an accomplishment im-
possible. It is not easy, however, for the physicist doesn’t really
know just what goes on in the blocking layer of the photocell.
Clearly the problem is one which demands a fundamental study com-
pletely divorced from any present considerations of a practical nature.
Such a project has been initiated in our Electrical Engineering Depart-
ment in connection with a broad program of study of insulators and
semiconductors—the cuprous oxide of our photocell is such—from the
atomphysical viewpoint. The problem is really one of studying the
laws of motion of electrons in semiconductors; the effect of crystal
versus amorphous structure; of crystal structures in which there is
strong ionic binding, such as sodium chloride versus crystal struc-
tures in which the bonding is atomic, as in sulfur; the effect of tem-
perature on conduction and break-down in insulators; the effect of
an excess of one of the components of a crystalline compound present
in the crystal. When the nature of the migration of electrons in
semiconductors is better understood, when their interaction with the
lattice structure is able to be formulated quantitatively, then one can
attack with some hope of success the difficult barrier-layer photocell
problem. Whether such an attack succeeds or not, the knowledge
acquired in the course of the problem is certain to be of enormous
value in a field of great practical importance, insulation research.

I come now to the last of the M. I. T. solar-energy projects, one
which like the previous one depends on the special properties of
sunlight rather than its over-all energy content. Dr. Thimann
160 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

pointed out in his contribution ? our complete dependence on the proc-
ess known as photosynthesis: the use by green plants of solar energy
in the visible spectrum to produce carbohydrates out of carbon doxide
and water. He also emphasized the extreme complexity of the proc-
ess—the fact that no one has been able to extract the essential
chlorophyll and carotenoids from a plant leaf and make the reaction
go in atest tube. By some process, which we have hardly begun to
understand, the leaf structure succeeds in capturing the energy of
sunlight and transferring it to the reaction: carbon dioxide+
water=carbohydrate+oxygen, a reaction absorbing 112 kilocal-
ories per gram atom of carbon. But to store solar energy chemically
one does not have to carry out the same reaction that nature does;
any chemical reaction which absorbs energy and produces a fuellike
product capable of later combustion to return the energy for use at
the proper time would be acceptable. Chemical industry has often
succeeded in competing with nature in the production of a material
of desired characteristics, not by attempting a complete imitation of
nature, but by focusing attention on those properties of the natural
material important to its use and imitating them with a synthetic
product, perhaps chemically quite different from nature’s product.

In the photochemical field, then, a combination of sensitizers and
catalysts might be attempted that would allow us to perform some
relatively simple energy-storing reaction such as the decomposition
of water. A major problem would be to provide suitable inter-
mediate steps in the process in order that the relatively small energy
quanta, which constitute visible light, could be used in stepwise fash-
ion such as nature apparently uses them in the photosynthetic ap-
paratus of green plants. The photochemical system would probably
have one of the characteristics of the photochemical system of the
plant, namly heterogeneity. But the heterogeneity might be accom-
plished not by constructing some sort of imitation leaf, but rather,
for example, by a colloidal solution.

Another approach to the problem is possible. We may renounce
the production of metastable products or mixtures with a high con-
tent of chemical energy—fuels or explosives—and turn our attention
to the utilization of the energy of the unstable intermediate products
obtained in almost every photochemical reaction. Among the ways
of utilizing these products is to convert their high energy content
into electrical energy. A reaction must be found in which passage
from the unstable to the stable state can be made to proceed as an
electrode reaction in a galvanic cell. Examples of this kind are
oxidation-reduction reactions in electrolytes. The properties of such
a reaction, carried out in what is known as a photogalvanic cell, are

?Thimann, Kenneth V., The action of light on organisms. Sigma Xi Quart., vol. 29,
No. 1, pp. 23-35, April 1941.
CONVERTERS OF SOLAR ENERGY—HOTTEL 161

being studied at the Institute. The system chosen consists of an or-
ganic dye, thionine, and ferrous iron in the form, for example, of a
ferrous sulfate solution. The two components form in the solution
a reversible oxidation-reduction system.

(dyestuff) +Fet*= leukodyestuff+Fett*

(colorless)

Ferric iron is a much stronger oxidizing agent than thionine; there-
fore, in the dark, all the thionine is in the form of the dye, and all
the iron in the ferrous form. If, however, the mixture is illuminated
by the light absorbed by thionine—i. e., visible light in the region
5000-7000 A. (green, yellow, red light)—the thionine molecules are
activated by light and become capable of oxidizing ferrous iron.
Since the reduced thionine is colorless, the reaction is recognized by a
decoloration of the solution. This bleaching proceeds to a steady
state, whose exact character depends on the intensity of illumination.
In this state, the velocity of the photochemical bleaching reaction
is exactly compensated by that of the back-reaction restoring the
equilibrium. As soon as the light is switched off, the system reverts
to its original state.

Experiments have been conducted on the kinetics of this interesting
photochemical process, using a photometric method for the determina-
tion of the concentration of the dye under different conditions. Of
more interest in the present connection is the electrochemical effect of
light in the thionine-iron system. As the composition of the solution
changes through illumination, its electrode potential is also changed;
if two platinum electrodes are placed in the solution and the electro-
lyte surrounding one of them is illuminated while the other is kept
dark, a potential difference is established between the two electrodes
and a current flows from the dark to the illuminated electrode.
The problem of the photogalvanic effect demonstrated by this experi-
ment has two elements: the first and simpler question is that of the
electromotive force produced by a given illumination; the second is
that of the current that can be.drawn from such a photogalvanic
cell.

So far, experiments have been concerned with the first part of the
problem. The photogalvanic potential of the thionine-iron system
has been measured in relation to the concentrations of all the compo-
nents and the light intensity. A pronounced maximum of potential
is found at a certain concentration of the dyestuff, and a strong in-
crease in effect with decreasing acidity of the solution. From such
experiments, it has been possible to develop a quantitative picture of
the photogalvanic effect in satisfactory agreement with the experi-
mental results. The next step is a study of the factors affecting cur-
162 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

rent withdrawal from such a device, a phase of the program which
has just commenced.

As to whether photogalvanic cells of this or similar types have
practical importance as solar energy converters it is too early to
hazard an opinion. Certainly their study has the merit of presenting
problems in photochemistry which, while complex, are not so complex
as to defy analytical treatment. In that respect they satisfy the
condition which the scientist has learned to impose on himself, namely,
not to ask questions of Nature which are so difficult that he cannot
yet begin to understand her answer.

In summary, I have tried to point out that the best-known method
of utilizing solar energy by artificial means is the relatively simple
one of first converting the energy to heat; that, today, engineering
data are inadequate properly to determine the value of such heat,
whether for conventional use as heat or for conversion to power;
that, if heat is converted to power, we are limited in possible efficiency
by the second law of thermodynamics; that consequently it is necessary
to turn to the fields of photochemistry and photoelectricity where
theoretical limitations on expected output are less severe; that in
turning to these fields it is found that the problems which arise are
of so complicated a nature as to point plainly to the need for a long-
range program of research into fundamental phenomena, research
divorced almost completely for the time being from any considera-
tions of a practical nature. To summarize this summary, with respect
to the future of solar energy utilization, your guess is as good as
mine.

REFERENCES
ABBOT, C. G.
1929. The sun and the welfare of Man. Smithsonian Sci. Ser., vol. 2.
New York.
1939. Utilizing heat from the sun. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 98, No. 5.
ACKERMANN, A. S. E.
1915. The utilisation of solar energy. Journ. Roy. Soe. Arts, vol. 63, No.
3257, pp. 5388-562, April.
BRooKsS, F. A.
1936. Solar energy and its use for heating water in California. Univ. Cali-
fornia, Coll. Agr. Bull. 602, November.
EPSTEIN, LEO F.., KARUSH, F., and RABINOwITCH, EH. A.
1941. A spectrophotometric study of thionine. Journ. Opt. Soc. Amer.,
vol. 31, No. 1, pp. 77-84.
Horret, H. C. and WoeERTz, B. B.
1942. The performance of flat-plate solar heat collectors. Trans. Amer.
Soc. Mech. Eng. February.
RABINOWITCH, EH.
1940a. The photogalvanic effect. I. The photochemical properties of the
thionine-iron system. Journ. Chem. Phys., vol. 8, No. 7, pp. 551-559.
1940b. The photogalvanic effect. II. The photogalvanie properties of the
thionine-iron system. Journ. Chem. Phys., vol. 8, No. 7, pp. 560-566.

THE NEW FRONTIERS IN THE ATOM?

By ERNEST O. LAWRENCE

The University of California

[With 9 plates]

The anniversary celebration of a great university is indeed an
important occasion, and it is appropriate to signalize the event by a
symposium on “The University and the Future of America,” for a
a great institution of learning is eternally youthful, and youth looks
always to the future. I am greatly honored to be included in this dis-
tinguished gathering, and it gives me especial pleasure to join in wish-
ing our sister institution many happy returns.

In a discussion bearing on the future, the scientist is always in some-
thing of a dilemma. On the one hand, he is cautioned to make only
very limited prognostications, for he has learned the very limited
region of applicability of existing knowledge and the likelihood of
error in speculation. On the other hand, he faces the future with eager
excitement and curiosity about what is beyond the present frontiers
of knowledge, and he is naturally tempted to speculate and indeed
to indulge in day dreams. Perhaps I may convey something of what
is in the minds of physicists these days by a brief discussion of somé
recent developments of the current intensive attack on the new frontier
in the atomic world—the nucleus of the atom.

ATOMS

The atomic constitution of matter has long been a keystone of
natural science. At the beginning of this century it was a keystone
in a structure having as pillars the principles of the conservation of
energy and the indestructibility of matter. In the nineties, it was
almost axiomatic to say that the building blocks of nature are the
atoms—indivisible, indestructible entities, permanent for all time.
But the discovery of radioactivity altered all this. There followed

1 An address delivered at the symposium on “The University and the Future of America,”
on the occasion of the Fiftieth Anniversary Celebration of Stanford University, June 16-19,
1941. Reprinted by permission from volume entitled “The University and the Future of
America,” published by Stanford University Press.

430577—42——_12
163
164 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

the discovery of the electron and the proton as smaller and more
fundamental constituents of matter and the atom itself became the
happy hunting ground of the experimental physicist. Atomic physics
developed rapidly; for the atom was found to be a domain of almost
incredible richness, and today, thanks perhaps to the newspapers,
our children speak knowingly of smashing atoms!

To explain the wonderful phenomenon of radioactivity, Rutherford
came forward in 1904 with a revolutionary hypothesis which reduced
the complicated and mysterious observations of radioactivity to simple
order. According to Rutherford, not all of the atoms have existed
for ages and will exist for all time, but there are some atoms in nature
that are energetically unstable and in the course of time, of their own
accord, blow up with explosive violence. These are the natural radio-
active substances, and the fragments given off in the atomic explosions
are the observed penetrating rays.

It was not long before Rutherford’s hypothesis was established as
a law of nature and formed a greater keystone, replacing the chem-
ists’ conception of the atom and serving as a foundation for a new
science, the science of the atomic nucleus.

Time does not permit an adequate historical résumé of the develop-
ment of nuclear physics, but for the present purpose it is sufficient
to say that the ideas of Rutherford and Bohr on the structure of
atoms are now firmly established. There is an abundance of evidence
that an atom consists of a nebulous cloud of planetary electrons
whirling about a very dense sun, the positively charged nucleus,
and that it is in the nucleus that the atomic explosions of radioactiv-
ity occur. Indeed, our assurance that this is so rivals our confidence
that the planets revolve about the sun!

ATOMIC NUCLEUS

Let us now proceed immediately to a consideration of the structure
of the nucleus. The nucleus consists of a closely packed group of
protons and neutrons, elementary building blocks of nature some
2,000 times heavier than the electrons. The neutrons are electri-
cally neutral while the protons carry positive charges, and for each
proton in the nucleus there is a corresponding negative electron out-
side, for the atom as a whole is uncharged. Since the number of elec-
trons outside determines the ordinary chemical and physical proper-
ties of the atom, it follows that the nuclear charge determines the
place of the atom in the periodic table of the elements.

Thus, the nucleus is the body and soul of the atom. More than
99.9 percent of the atom’s mass is in the nucleus and the nuclear
charge determines the nature of the atom, its chemical and physical
properties.
NEW FRONTIERS IN THE ATOM—LAWRENCE 165
TRANSMUTATION OF THE ELEMENTS

These considerations reduce the age-old problem of alchemy to
simple terms. For we see to change one element into another is sim-
ply to change the nuclear charge, i. e., the number of protons, in the
nucleus. The subject of transmutation of the elements has recently
received a great deal of attention in the laboratory. All sorts of
transmutations have been produced on a minute scale—helium has
been made from lithium, magnesium from sodium, and even mercury
has been turned into gold. The day may come when we will indeed
possess the philosopher’s stone and will be able to transmute the ele-
ments on a grand scale. But interesting as these developments are, I
should like to draw your attention to two other subjects, artificial
radioactivity and the question of tapping the vast reservoir of energy
in the nucleus of the atom.

ARTIFICIAL RADIOACTIVITY

One of the early results of atomic bombardment was the discovery
that neutrons could be knocked in or knocked out of the nucleus
to produce radioactive isotopes of the ordinary elements. Thus, for
example, the nucleus of the ordinary sodium atom contains 11 neu-
trons and 12 protons, 23 particles in all, and so it is called sodium 238
(or Na?*); and by bombardment it was found that a neutron could
either be added to make sodium 24 or subtracted to make sodium 22,
both isotopic forms not occurring in the natural state. The reason
that these synthetic forms are not found in nature is that they are
energetically unstable. They are radioactive and in the course of time
blow up with explosive violence. Sodium 24 has a half-life of 14.5
hours, i. e., it has an even chance of disintegrating in that time,
turning into magnesium by the emission of an electron. Sodium 22,
on the other hand, has a half-life of 3 years and emits positive elec-
trons to turn to stable neon 22.

These artificial radioactive isotopes of the elements are indistin-
guishable from their ordinary stable relatives until the instant they
manifest their radioactivity. This fact deserves emphasis, and it
may be illustrated further by the case of chlorine. Chlorine consists
of a mixture of two isotopes, 76 percent of Ci®* and 24 percent of
Cl, resulting in a chemical atomic weight of 35.46 which is the
average weight of the mixture. By elaborate technique, to be sure,
it is possible to take advantage of the extremely slight difference in
chemical properties and bring about separation of these isotopes, but
in ordinary chemical, physical, and biological processes, the chlorine
isotopes are indistinguishable and inseparable. The artificial radio-
active isotopes Cl™* and Cl** are likewise indistinguishable. In fact,
166 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Cl** is more nearly identical in properties to the natural isotope
Cl** than is the other natural isotope Cl*’7. And again I would say
that the radioactive characteristic of Cl®* becomes evident only at the
moment it blows up to turn into the neighbor element sulfur.

RADIOACTIVE TRACER ATOMS

In these radioactive transformations of the artificial radioactive
isotopes, the radiations given off are so energetic that the radiations
from individual atoms can be detected with rugged and reliable
instruments, called Geiger counters. Thus, radioactive isotopes can
be admixed with ordinary chemicals to serve as tracer elements in
complicated chemical or biological processes.

As an illustration of the power of this new technique of labeling
and tracing atoms, let us consider iodine in relation to the thyroid
gland. It is well known that the thyroid takes up and stores iodine,
and this fact can be demonstrated strikingly by feeding an individual
iodine including a small quantity of radioactive iodine. Before the
feeding, the radioactivity of the food can be measured by placing it
near a Geiger counter, thereby giving a measure of the iodine con-
tent. Later the progress of the iodine through the body can be
observed by placing the Geiger counter next to various parts of the
body. Likewise, the proportion of the fed iodine in the various
body fluids at any time can be determined quickly by taking small
samples of the fluids and measuring their radioactivity. After some
hours it is found that a large part of the iodine taken in has col-
lected in the thyroid, a fact that is readily established by placing a
Geiger counter next to the gland (pl. 1, fig. 1) and observing the
activity while finding no appreciable activity elsewhere. This tech-
nique makes it possible to study the behavoir of the thyroid in
health and in disease, and much interesting work along this line has
been carried out recently.

RADIO-AUTOGRAPHY

Although the tracer elements are readily detected with the Geiger
counter, there is a photographic method which for many purposes
has obvious advantages. This method is sometimes called radio-
autography and is illustrated by plate 1, figure 2. Here a minute
amount of radioactive phosphorus in the form of sodium phosphate
was added to the nutrient solution of a tomato plant, and after a
day or so Jeaves were placed against a photographic film enclosed in a
light tight paper envelope. The penetrating rays from the radio-
active phosphorus produced the developed contact image shown in
the figure, which gives an accurate and detailed picture of the uptake
of phosphate by the plant. Now, indeed, the same method works
NEW FRONTIERS IN THE ATOM—LAWRENCE 167

very well also for the thyroid, as is shown in plate 2, which is a
photomicrograph of a thin section of thyroid tissue containing
radio-iodine; alongside is the radio-autograph obtained from the
same microsection by placing it against a photographic plate. The
distribution of the iodine in various parts of the gland is shown in
surprising detail.

Similarly striking radio-autographs of the distribution of phos-
phorus and strontium in rats are shown in plate 3, figure 1. Here
two rats were fed radiophosphorus and radiostrontium respectively,
and then some hours or days later they were sacrificed, and frozen
sections of the entire bodies of the animals were placed against a
photographic plate. The resulting radio-autographs show clearly
that both strontium and phosphorus are selectively deposited in the
bones, phosphorus being more widely distributed in other tissue.
The distribution of the strontium in the bones also appears to be
quite different from that of phosphorus as radio-autographs of the
sections of bones clearly show (pl. 3, fig. 2).

These examples serve to illustrate the power of the new technique
of radioactive tracer atoms. It has often been said that the progress
of science is the progress of new tools and new techniques, and I
think we may look forward to accelerated developments in biology
resulting from the tracer elements.

ARTIFICIAL RADIOACTIVE SUBSTANCES IN THERAPY

It is somewhat afield for me to discuss medical problems, but I
should like to direct your atention to the possibilities of the artificial
radioactive substances in the treatment of cancer and allied diseases.
It is well known that at the present time there are two main ap-
proaches to the treatment of neoplastic disease, surgery and radia-
tion. It is sometimes possible to cut out a cancer completely and
effect a cure, and in other circumstances, it is possible to destroy a
tumor by irradiation with X-rays or radium. The mechanism
whereby the radiation destroys the tumor without destroying an
excessive amount of surrounding norma] tissue is doubtless extremely
complicated, but in any case it is evidently important to localize the
radiation to the tumor as much as possible. Perhaps the idea would
be approached if a means were at hand to irradiate each and every
malignant cell without irradiating a single normal cell.

The artificial radioactive substances open for the first time the
possibility of an approach to such selective irradiation of tissue.
The above examples of tracers suggest the treatment of thyroid
tumors with radioactive iodine, bone tumors with radioactive
strontium and radioactive phosphorus. These possibilities are being
investigated as is the more specific problem of finding a radioactive
168 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

substance that is selectively taken up by tumor tissue. If there
were time, I should like to describe work along this line in progress
in several laboratories, and especially to speak of the important
progress that is being made in the treatment of leukemia, but I must
content myself with only mentioning these new developments in
medicine, which are so promising for the future.

ATOMIC ENERGY

For a long time astronomers have been vexed with a problem, the
problem of the source of stellar energy, for there is evidence that the
sun has been blazing at its present brilliance for thousands of millions
of years, and no ordinary fuel could be responsible for such an eternal
fire.

The discovery of radium posed to the physicist a similar difficulty ;
for it was found that radium gives off every hour enough energy to
heat its own weight of water to boiling, and this it continues to do for
more than a thousand years. Such a vast source of energy in the
radium atom was as difficult to understand as the evidently limitless
store of heat in the sun. The problem was of fundamental interest
and all sorts of possibilities were considered even to the abandonment
of the principle of the conservation of energy.

But the first clue to the solution of the problem appeared in 1905
when Einstein announced the theory of relativity. One of the revo-
lutionary consequences of the theory was that matter is a form of
energy and that presumably in nature processes go on in which
matter is destroyed and transformed into more familiar forms of
energy such as heat, radiation, and mechanical motion. The rela-
tivity theory gave as the conversion factor relating mass to equiva-
lent energy, the square of the velocity of light—a very large number,
even to an astronomer! Thus, the theory indicated that, if a glass
of water were completely destroyed, more than a billion kilowatt
hours of energy would be released, enough to supply a city with light
and power for quite a time!

This exciting deduction was immediately accepted by the astron-
omers, who said, “Doubtless within the sun conditions are such that
matter is being transformed to heat. Thus, slowly through the ages
the sun is losing mass; its very substance is radiating into space.”

Likewise, the physicists, who had other compelling reasons for
accepting the Einstein theory, concluded that the source of the energy
in the radium atom was a destruction of matter in the atomic
explosion giving rise to the penetrating rays.

Although the fundamental assumptions on which the relativity
theory was based were evidently sound, and the explanations of
the source of energy of the sun and stars and radioactivity were
NEW FRONTIERS IN THE ATOM—LAWRENCE 169

most attractive, until direct experimental verification was forth-
coming, Einstein’s great deduction could not be regarded as an
established law of nature.

The first direct evidence of the truth of this fundamental prin-
ciple was obtained in the first atom-smashing experiments a decade
ago. It was observed that, when the nucleus of a lithium atom is
hit by a proton having a kinetic energy of less than a million electron-
volts, the result is the formation of two helium nuclei which fly apart
with an energy of more than 17 million electron-volts; thus in the
nuclear reaction in which hydrogen and lithium unite to form two
helium atoms, there is a great release of kinetic energy.

Now one of the interesting and important occupations of the ex-
perimental physicist has been the measurement of the masses of
atoms and the weights of atoms are known with great precision—
much greater than any individual knows his own weight. In par-
ticular, it was known precisely that a lithium atom and a hydrogen
atom have a total weight slightly greater than the weight of two
helium atoms, and it was a great triumph for the Einstein theory
when measurements showed that the excess kinetic energy with which
the helium atoms flew apart in the hydrogen-lithium reaction corre-
sponded exactly with the disappearance of mass according to the
mass-energy relation. Literally hundreds of similar nuclear reactions
have been studied in the intervening years, and in each instance the
Kinstein relation has been verified. At the present time this great
principle has as firm an experimental foundation as any of our laws
of nature.

URANIUM FISSION

Now that it is an experimental fact that matter can be converted
into energy, it becomes of great practical importance to inquire
whether the vast store of energy in the atom will be tapped for
useful purposes. This question has recently taken on added interest
through the discovery of a new type of nuclear reaction involving
the heavy element uranium.

It has been known for some years that the heavy elements, such
as lead, gold, and uranium, are relatively heavier than the middle-
weight elements, such as copper and iron, or more precisely that the
average weight of the neutrons, protons, and electrons in the heavy
elements is greater than their average weight in the atoms near the
middle of the periodic table. Accordingly it is to be expected that,
if heavy atoms were split approximately in two forming correspond-
ing middle-weight atoms, there would be a vast release of energy
corresponding to the disappearance of matter in the transformation.
Indeed, from known values of the masses, it can be calculated on the
170 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

basis of Einstein’s mass-energy relation that each splitting or fission,
as the process is called, of a uranium atom into two approximately
equal parts releases an energy of about 200 million electron-volts,
which is millions of times more heat per atom than is given off when
ordinary fuel is burned. Thus, calculations show that 100 pounds
of uranium would yield a billion kilowatt hours, which at 1 cent
per kilowatt-hour would be 10 million dollars’ worth of electrical
energy.

For some time these considerations were largely academic because
no way was known for producing fission of the heavy elements. But
interest in the matter has now become extremely lively as a result
of the discovery that fission of uranium is actually brought about by
bombarding it with neutrons.

The phenomenon has, during the past 2 years, received intensive
study in laboratories all over the world and several salient facts have
emerged. First, the rare U?** isotope undergoes fission after absorp-
tion of a slow neutron. Second, the energy released in the fission
process has been measured; and, as expected, it is found that, when
a neutron having an energy less than an electron-volt enters the U?**
nucleus, about 200 million electron-volts of energy is released. Third,
it is found also that the fission process is so violent that usually the
U*** nucleus does not break up into two parts only, but more often
several neutrons are given off in addition to the two large fragments.

That neutrons are generated in the fission process is of the greatest
interest because it opens up the possibility of a chain reaction, a
series of nuclear reactions wherein the neutrons liberated in one fission
process go to produce additional fissions in other atoms which in
turn give rise to more neutrons which produce further fissions and
so on. It is this possibility of a chain reaction that has excited the
interest in uranium as a practical source of atomic energy.

Without going into further detail, it is perhaps sufficient to say
that there is some evidence now that, if U**® could be separated in
quantity from the natural mixture of the isotopes, a chain reaction
could, indeed, be produced. But herein lies the catch, for there is
no practical large-scale way in sight of separating the isotopes of
the heavy elements, and certainly it is doubtful if a way will be
found.

But I should not want to indicate that the uranium matter is a
disappointment, that after all we shall never find a way to bring
about fission of the heavy elements for useful purposes. Quite the
contrary !

The present situation is not unlike the circumstances 50 years ago
surrounding the then great question of whether man would ever be
able to fly. In those days the fundamental laws of classical mecha-
'

NEW FRONTIERS IN THE ATOM—LAWRENCE 7

nics were known, and they allowed the possibility of heavier-than-air
flight. Moreover, there was an abundance of supporting observa-
tional evidence that flight should be possible; there were kites and
there were the birds of the air. But man’s realization of the dream
awaited primarily the development of the combustion engine, a cir-
cumstance not so evidently connected with the fundamental problem
of flight. Likewise the fundamental laws of nature recently revealed
to us allow the possibility of obtaining useful nuclear energy, and
radium and the sun and stars bear witness that this vast source of
energy is being tapped in nature. Again success in this direction
may await the development of a new intrument or technique just as
the airplane depended on the gas engine.

Perhaps the problem awaits a deeper understanding of the forces
that hold nuclei together. That there are little-understood forces
operative in the nucleus is more than evident; especially from obser-
vations of the cosmic rays, it has been established that particles of
matter called mesotrons of intermediate mass between electrons and
protons play a dominant role in nuclear structure. Theoretical con-
siderations suggest that the mesotrons may be connected with the
primary forces in the nucleus, and accordingly, an understanding of
mesotron forces may ultimately yield the solution of the practical
problem of atomic energy.

THE GIANT CYCLOTRON

In order to study experimentally the mesotron problem, it is neces-
sary to bombard nuclei with atomic projectiles having energies in
the range of 100 million electron-volts rather than in the neighbor-
hood of 10 million electron-volts at present available in cyclotron
laboratories. To this end a giant cyclotron is now under construc-
tion on Charter Hill in Berkeley; some pictures of this great machine
are shown in plates 8 and 9. Whether it will be the key to the vast
store of energy in the atom, what new discoveries, what new insight
into nature it will bring—only the future will tell!

THE PRINCIPLE OF THE CYCLOTRON

The principle of the cyclotron has been described as follows in a
popular article by Henry Schacht.?

A circular chamber was placed between the poles of the magnet. Then all
air was removed from the chamber and heavy hydrogen gas allowed to flow in.
This so-called heavy hydrogen behaves in the same way as ordinary hydrogen.
However, while the nuclei of ordinary hydrogen atoms contain one positively
charged particle, or proton, heavy hydrogen nuclei contain two such particles

2Schacht, Henry, Lawrence’s cyclotron, Part I and Part II. California Monthly for
May and June, 1940.
172 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

plus one electron. Consequently, they weigh just twice as much as the nuclei
of ordinary hydrogen atoms. They are known as deuterons.

The deuteron’s added weight makes it an ideal atomic bullet. And here is
how Dr. Lawrence planned to send streams of deuterons crashing into the nuclei
of other atoms in a constant, destructive barrage: Inside the cyclotron cham-
ber was a heated filament that emitted streams of electrons. These particles
would collide with the electrons surrounding the nuclei of the hydrogen atoms
and in the ensuing mix-up the nuclei and their satellites would become sep-
arated. The deuterons would be left free to float around the chamber.
Hventually, the magnetic force set up by the cyclotron’s magnet would pull
them between two metal grids separated by a space across which an alternating
electrical current of 10 or 15 thousand volts would be operating. As the
deuterons floated into this space, they would receive a heavy shock, and under
this stimulus fly off toward the side of the chamber. But the magnetic field
would pull them back again in a semicircular path until they again came
between the two grids. Again they would be shocked and be sent flying out
toward the side. And again the magnet would pull them back to complete one
full circle of the chamber and be shocked again.

At each jolt from the current the deuterons would gather more energy. This
meant that they would go flying out from between the grids with constantly
increasing force and in constantly widening circles. So you get the picture of
the atomic bullets receiving shocks one right after the other from a weak
electrical force. Each time the bullets receive a shock their energy is increased
and they go on, describing wider and wider circles around the cyclotron
chamber. Finally, they circle so widely that they reach a slit in the chamber
wall and go flying out into the open air. The whole secret of the thing lies in
making sure by means of the magnet that the atomic bullets are forced to
come back for successive shocks until their energy is built up to the point where
they can force their way to the exit. Dr. Lawrence figured that to bombard
any Substance with his atomic bullets, all he had to do was clamp this sub-
stance over the slit and let the onrushing stream of deuterons crash into it.
This then was the theory put to the crucial test in 1934 at the Universiy
Radiation Laboratory. Dr. Lawrence threw the switch that sent a high-pow-
ered radio transmitter pumping energy into the cyclotron and the first experi-
ment with the 85-ton machine had begun.

Within a short time, physicists were amazed to hear that Lawrence and his
cyclotron were not only changing familiar elements like platinum into other
elements like iridium and gold, but were actually producing substances never
before seen on earth. These were the artificially radioactive elements. Perhaps
their character is best explained by illustration.

One of the experiments performed with the cyclotron involved the bombard-
ment of iron atoms with the high-speed deuterons produced by the cyclotron.
When the deuterons crashed into them with a force of about 8 million volts,
the iron atoms were broken up. Some changed into atoms of cobalt or man-
ganese. But others were converted into a new form of iron which, like radium,
emitted streams of electrically charged particles. In other words, this new iron
was radioactive. Thirty-four different elements were subjected to bombard-
ment with the 85-ton cyclotron and all of them underwent a transformation,
many turning into radioactive substances. Among the artificial radioactive
materials produced by the cyclotron were sodium, phosphorus, iron, and iodine.
It was even possible by bombarding bismuth to produce a degenerate form of
radium called Radium E.
NEW FRONTIERS IN THE ATOM—LAWRENCE 173

Another interesting product of these atomic bombardments was the neutron,
a particle often found in the atomic nucleus. It adds to the weight of the
nucleus but has no electrical charge, hence its name. When atoms were smashed
by the bullets from the cyclotron, they flew into two parts. One might be an
atom of a new radioactive element, and another an atom of a light element such
as hydrogen or helium. But more often than either of these two, a neutron
would appear. When the cyclotron was going full blast, 10 billion of these
particles could be liberated every second.

It was found that radioactive elements, such as sodium and phosphorus, had
certain advantages over radium which might make them extremely valuable
for treatment of human disease. Preliminary experiments indicated that
radioactive phosphorus might solve the problem of leukemia, the wasting blood
disease for which no cure has yet been found. Radioactive sodium, iodine,
phosphorus, and many other of the newly created elements proved to be price-
less instruments in the hands of scientists interested in finding out more about
our fundamental body processes. Finally, streams of released neutrons gave
every indication of being a more powerful weapon against cancer than the
X-ray. These discoveries marked the end of the first cycle of the cyclotron’s
career. So promising were the medical applications of its products that plans
were laid to build a new 225-ton cyclotron. This machine was finished and
housed in the William H. Crocker Radiation Laboratory on the University
campus during the spring of 1939.

In its first performance the new atom smasher produced deuteron beams with
a strength of 17 million volts, and “alpha rays,’ or beams of helium atoms,
with an intensity of 34 million volts. These voltages were greater than any
obtained with the original machine even though the electric current used to
energize the particles within the cyclotron chamber was only 60 kilowatts.
Such results were entirely unexpected, far exceeding anything Dr. Lawrence
had hoped for on the first trial run.

On April 8, 1940, The Rockefeller Foundation of New York City
announced its willingness, under certain conditions, to contribute
$1,500,000 toward construction of a 4,900-ton cyclotron at the Uni-
versity. It would be 56 feet long, 15 feet wide, and have an over-all
height of approximately 30 feet. About 12 feet of the vertical struc-
ture would be underground. It is estimated that 8,700 tons of steel
and 300 tons of copper windings would be used in the construction.
It is believed that such a machine could produce a deuteron beam 140
feet in length as compared with the 5-foot beam produced by the
present 225-ton machine. This next cyclotron is now under con-
struction at the University of California (see pls. 8 and 9) and when
it is completed the problem of subatomic energy may be solved and a
new power may be released to run the wheels of industry.
Sh ta}
¢ wees pre
400) iid om es wae

bin

ia “ %

ay Na ise

me e

'

* ¥ i,
Pe ae

bt rik ins

‘]
Paty ;

SOAR] OY} Ul aoBTd yoo}
snioydsoydorper jo wonepnumooe 39.195
B I

“LNW 1d OLVWOL V
AO SAAV]AT AHL NI SNYOHdSOHdOINVVY AO
NOILNSIYLSIG AHL AO HdDVYHOOLNV-OIODVY ‘2

OIPBI 6 qd s } lo sar) OUT

“ONV1D GQIONAHL AHL NI
ANIGO] AAILDVOIOVY AO AONSAS3SYd AHL AO NOILDOAL
-3Aqd AHL YOA LNAWSAONVEYY IWLNAWIYSsdxy SHL ‘I

“OUIPOL-OIPRA JO WOT}ISCdop 4sa}voIT JO SUOTZAL OY 0} PUOdSe1IO) SuTUOHIEp JO SBorB oY} oLO UMOYS ydeisojne-olpes oy} UT “oeULPOl-OLpei oy} JO 4souT
poyepnuNooe Yor onsst} plorAy} PopBAUL! JO SPULIST [[BUIS 9e1Y} OB JJoT 94} OL, “ONSS!} plorAY} SNOseoUBd JO AN opeUL ST UOLoeS OY} JO J[VY YS! oY} SUL1OA0d BoI’ IV[NI[90 ISNYIP PY L

(09 X) GIONAHL JHL AO

YSAONVD V HLIM LN3SILVWd V WOYsS HdVeSOLNV-OIdVY ONIGNOdSSYYOD SLI GNV SNSSIL GIONAH| AO NOILOAS V AO HdVY SOY DIWOLOHd

2 a1V1d a0usIMe]—' | F61 ‘qaoday uetuosyyIWig
“9m0q at} Jo
u st snaoyd

“SOLNV-OIOVY AO ANOINHOAL AHL AG GALVYLSNOW]RG SV
“SYNWASA LIFSSVY SLVY NI WNILNOYLSOIANVY GNV SNYOHdSOHdOIGVY GaEsyoOsS
OML AO SS9OIIS NIHL WOYA HdVYHSOOLNV-OIAVY ~ “2V ATLNSADAY AO NOILNEIYLSIG NI SDONSYSSSaIGQ AHL “}

-NOMLOIDAD SHI AO AMOLSIH Atava sna au sssu Si
“10}RIOGV'T UOTVIPSY ‘10JOIITC, JUBISISSV ‘Kasyoog preuog “iq Aq sydeisojoyd
*poyerjsuourep AT[Myssvoons 4SIy

SI sjoy[Ng oTur0ze oy} JO poods oy} Gory Ul ,ued,, 94} jo [opour SUIYAOM ATIVA % SBM SUIOZB JO SUIYSBUIS [ROTUBYDoUT JO ALOIY} 94} YOM TIM TOPOUL SUTYAOM [[BUIS “T

py 31V1d g0udIMPI—'"|p6| ‘Woday ueruosy TWIG
Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Lawrence PLATE 5

1. Another early working model of the ‘“‘pan”’ in which the speed of the atomic bullets is generated. Photo-
graph by Dr. Donald Cooksey, Assistant Director, Radiation Laboratory.

2. The chamber begins to assume somewhat its present form. Photograph by Dr. Donald Cooksey, Assist-
ant Director, Radiation Laboratory.

TWO PHASES OF THE EARLY HISTORY OF THE CYCLOTRON.
Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Lawrence PLATE 6

1. THE FIRST LARGE CYCLOTRON WHICH IS STILL IN OPERATION IN THE RADIATION
LABORATORY.

Photograph by Dr. Donald Cooksey, Assistant Director, Radiation Laboratory.

2. THE 225-TON MEDICAL CYCLOTRON.
Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Lawrence PLATE 7

1. THE ‘‘WORKING SIDE”’ OF THE 225-TON MEDICAL CYCLOTRON, WHERE NEUTRON-
RAY TREATMENTS FOR CANCER ARE ADMINISTERED.

2. THE CYCLOTRON RELEASES A BEAM OF DEUTERONS. THE ‘‘ATOMIC BULLETS’’
OF TRANSMUTATION.
Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Lawrence PLATE 8

"et 5 oe ofl
* 4 i

1. The first base plate being placed on the concrete foundation. The plate is 52 feet long, 75 inches wide,
and 2 inches thick, and weighs 1314 tons. There is about 1,200 tons of reinforced concrete in the founda-
tion.

2. The lower core of the magnet prior to placing of the final pole face. The diameter of the pole face is 184
inches, and the gap between the poles will be 40 inches.

PROGRESS PICTURES OF THE NEW GIANT CYCLOTRON AT BERKELEY, CALIF.
1S JO SUO} YOL‘E ULEIUOD T[IM JT “opr Soyoul PRT puB ‘YSTY 109} Og ‘SUOT Yoo) OG ST OUTRIJ JoUSBUA OY, ‘SooRy o[od pue a100 JOddn oY} Suryovy [MS “Juosord ye st 4I se youseur OY,

“SIIVD (ASTANA LV NOYLOTDAD LNVID MAN SHL AO SYNLO!ld SSAYHDON8d

6 3ALV1d 22U9IMe]—"|p6| “W4oday ueruosyyruIG
SCIENCE SHAPING AMERICAN CULTURE*

By ArTHur H. CoMPToN

Professor of Physics, University of Chicago

In no other part of the world and at no previous time in history
has life been so greatly influenced by science as in the United States
today. This influence extends not only to the supplying of the means
of living, but likewise to our thought, our amusements, our art, and
our religion.

American civilization is based upon science and technology. That
civilization includes great cities, which need for their very existence
mechanical transportation, steel rails and girders, electric elevators,
refrigeration systems to preserve food, careful control of sanitation,
and means of preventing the spread of communicable disease. It
embraces great areas of thinly populated but highly productive farm
land. Here farmers live relatively complete lives, and supply the
nation with an unparalleled abundance and variety of food, because
of the agricultural knowledge and tools and convenient communica-
tion and transportation that science has supplied. With the help
of science, labor and capital are efficient, the Government coordinates
the activities of a widely spread people, and our continent has become
a national community.

American thinking is strongly influenced by science. Whereas at
Oxford it remains doubtful whether science has yet earned a true
place in education, at Chicago three of the four main divisions of
the university are called sciences. Of the older learned professions,
the minister needs to pay close attention to science if he would retain
the respect of his congregation; the lawyer who would deal with pat-
ents, or corporations, or even crime must acquaint himself with the
rudiments of science, and, as for the doctor, the more science the
better. Most of the newer professions, such as engineering and archi-
tecture, are based upon science. A survey of current literature can
leave no doubt but that in American society most of our creative
thinking is in the field of science.

1Read April 19, 1940, Symposium on Characteristics of American Culture and Its Place
in General Culture. Reprinted by permission from Proceedings of the American Philosophi-
cal Society, vol. 83, No. 4, September 1940.

175
176 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

It is typical of contemporary American cultural life that good
reproduction of the best paintings, and radio programs of the best
music are available to nearly everyone. Here is an opportunity for
widespread vicarious enjoyment of fine art and music. Yet the soul
of art is in its individual expression. While the widespread use of
color printing may seem to have discouraged the amateur painter,
his place is perhaps taken by the amateur photographer, and the
recent rapid growth of school orchestras and bands seems to be
ascribable to the growing familiarity with orchestral music as heard
over the radio. It is not impossible that use of the radio may mark
the birth of a new era in American muscial expression.

On the credit side of the ledger we can certainly count the intro-
duction of new techniques in music and art. Among these may be
mentioned the electric “organ,” which affords rich, new tone possibili-
ties, and photography and motion pictures. Though the possibilities
in these directions are only beginning to be explored, it is already
clear that in both still and moving pictures there are new fields
opening for both the professional and the amateur. In particular,
the possibility of adding action and sound to pictures is comparable
in importance with the discovery of representing a third dimension
in perspective drawing.

In our recreation we may try to live a primitive life. Having
motored hundreds of miles over hard highways, we arrive at the
cabin in the wildwood, cook Chicago bacon on a stove using oil from
Texas refined in New Jersey, and go fishing with an outboard motor
made in Michigan. Or it may be that we go so completely native as
to canoe down the river, relying only on our Pittsburgh steel ax and
matches made in Ohio from Louisiana sulfur to light our fires, fruit
canned in California for our food, and mosquito netting woven in
New England to keep off the pests. Though we want to be free
from the ring of the telephone and to use the sun as our clock, we
must take care that the milk we drink is pasteurized. Thus the
American frees himself from technology!

SCIENCE MAKES MEN HUMAN

In his recent book, “Science and the New Humanism,” George
Sarton shows how throughout history man’s cultural growth has
followed the gradual growth of his scientific knowledge. In art,
except for new pigments, tools, and photographic technique, the
American certainly does not excel the Greek nor hardly even the
prehistoric European who painted lifelike animals on the walls of
his cave. In music the Russian peasants and the natives of Hawaii
give us lessons. It is Sarton’s contention that those aspects of our
culture which have been developing owe their growth primarily to
SCIENCE SHAPING AMERICAN CULTURE—COMPTON 177

the advance of scientific knowledge. Thus by learning more and
more about the world in which he lives, man has distinguished him-
self from his animal cousins. If this claim is valid, it means that
the primary responsibility for humanizing man les with science, and
that the society in which scientific knowledge is most rapidly growing
is the spear point of man’s advancing culture.

Let us then examine Sarton’s argument more closely. He points
out that each stage has been ushered in as some inquirer, more per-
sistent or more fortunate than his predecessors, and building on the
foundation of their techniques, has learned new facts regarding the
properties of matter, the chemistry of metals, or the laws of
mechanics. Thus when we speak of the stone age, the bronze age,
the iron age, and the machine age, we are summarizing the growth
of man in terms of the tools with which he does his work. Not that
mechanical inventions are the only ones. Language and writing
are among the most significant inventions of all, giving as they do
means of thinking more clearly, of communicating ideas, and of
remembering ideas with definiteness. When the invention of print-
ing, telegraphy, the telephone, moving pictures, and the radio are
added, it becomes possible for people to share thoughts widely, to
become quickly aware of what is happening to all mankind, and to
“remember” what has happened to men in the past. A great change
thus comes in men’s attitudes toward each other. The world becomes
almost a conscious unit, very similar to a living organism. Thus
even the nonmechanical inventions have found their most effective
application through the aid of scientific developments.

Hand in hand with this development of invention has gone the
increase in our knowledge of nature. Skillfully made lenses made
possible a telescope, and Jupiter was found to be a miniature solar
system. As high-vacuum pumps were developed, X-rays were dis-
covered, giving new knowledge of the structure of matter, with
resulting advances in metallurgy. “If I saw farther, twas because
I stood on giant shoulders,” is the statement ascribed to Isaac
Newton, who clearly recognized the way in which one advance makes
possible another.

The knowledge of nature, which from the beginning had been
man’s gradually but accidentally increasing heritage, at length be-
came the conscious objective of alert minds. Three centuries ago
the hobby of a few amateurs, there are now in the United States
nearly 2,000 research laboratories, equipped with refined apparatus,
where men of the highest training are striving to enlarge our under-
standing of the world. As a result, our life differs from that of
two generations ago more than American life of that day differed
from the civilized life at the dawn of written history.
178 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

The growing rate of this increase in knowledge and of the re-
sulting social changes may be strikingly presented by using the
historian’s device of compressing the time scale until the whole
growth of man through a million years is concentrated within the
lifetime of a middle-aged man of 50. It was then as a child that
our man was learning how to use certain odd-shaped sticks and
stones as tools. The meaning of sounds became definite as he learned
to talk. By the time he was 40 he had developed the art of skill-
fully shaping stones to fit his needs. Man soon became an artist,
and by half a year ago had learned to use simplified pictures as
symbolic writing. Some 6 weeks ago the Phoenicians introduced the
alphabet, and within a fortnight came the brillant art and science
of ancient Greece. Then came the fall of Rome, hiding for some
weeks the values of civilized life. Less than a week ago, as the
report has it, Galileo dropped the heavy and the light cannon balls
from the Leaning Tower of Pisa, refuting a proposition of Aristotle
and starting the period of modern science. Three or four days ago
the first practical steam engine was built and it was at about this time
that the United States came into being. Day before yesterday the
laws of electromagnetism became known, which by yesterday had
given us the telegraph, the telephone and incandescent electric light.
Only last night X-rays were discovered, followed quickly by radium
and wireless telegraphy. It was this morning that automobiles
came into general use. Air mail began to be carried only at noon
today. Popular short-wave broadcasts, practical color photography,
and fluorescent lighting have been with us for only an hour. It is
clear that our American scene is staged in the midst of a period
of unparalleled advance in science and rapidity of social change.

AMERICAN CULTURE IS THAT OF A CHANGING SOCIETY

Even before the outbreak of the present wars, America had be-
come the leader in most fields of scientific endeavor. The tradition
of the pioneer has made it relatively easy for the American to alter
his habits as required by the introduction of new techniques, with
the result that in this country social changes have gone ahead with
a speed not found elsewhere. Our culture is thus that of a new
community, with our customs and ideas only partly adapted to
the rapidly changing conditions of life.

For a week I have been living in an apartment on a corner by
which a streetcar clangs its noisy course. When first installed, these
cars gave the rapid transportation that made the city possible. Now
the demand is insistent that the streetcars be replaced by quieter
buses that will permit conversation by day and sleep by night.
Thus the first application of technology was to meet the primary
SCIENCE SHAPING AMERICAN CULTURE—COMPTON 179

need of transportation; but eventually the refinements come that
add to life’s enjoyment.

Our older habits no longer fit the new conditions of life, and
we have not yet learned how best to use the new possibilities placed
at our disposal. Nor as long as such rapid changes in our social
life continue can we hope to make a completely satisfactory adapta-
tion of our mode of life. For as one aspect of the problem becomes
solved, changes will lead to maladjustment somewhere else. It would
for this reason be futile to hope to attain within the next generation
an art of living in a technological world that can compare in re-
finement with the classic culture initiated by the Greeks and developed
through centuries of such tradition as that carried on by European
and English society. In course of time, though it may require
centuries, we may expect the development of science to approach
a new plateau of knowledge and invention. Then we may hope again
to refine our mode of living to fit precisely the conditions of our
greater world.

Does this prospect of generations of incomplete adaptation, with
resultant discontent and hardship seem discouraging? One is
reminded of the legend in which the people complain to Daedalus
that the steel sword he has given to King Minas will bring not happi-
ness but strife. Daedalus replies, “I do not care to make man happy,
but to make him great.” For those who have courage, the new pow-
ers thus given by science present a challenge to shape man’s life on a
more heroic scale. Here is a vision of a new world which only the
brave may enter.

Yet we can thus appreciate the dread felt by those who have
followed the tradition of classic culture as the life they have loved
and whose values they have cherished is threatened by the advance
of technology. They see science replacing the human interests pres-
ent in literature, art, and music with technological developments in
which the human factor becomes less and less significant. The most
fundamental values of morality and religion are ruthlessly shaken,
with the implication that their value is negligible. It is just because
so many scientific men seem blind to these human difficulties that one
feels the greater concern lest in following science mankind may lose
its soul.

There is a passage in Plato’s Phaedo in which Socrates describes
his early interest in physics and how he had found that physics fails
to account for the important things in life. Thus, he explained,
Anaxagoras would say that Socrates sat on his cot waiting to drink
the hemlock because of certain tensions of tendons acting on his
bones. The true reason was rather because he had been condemned
by the people of Athens, and as a man of honor he could not creep
stealthily away. Such moral forces as honor were not to be explained

430577—42-—13
180 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

by science; yet it is these forces that shape men’s acts. Since it did
not meet their human needs, the followers of Socrates and Plato
abandoned science, and the study of the truths of nature was for-
gotten for a thousand years.

We have now once more come to fear the unhuman implications
and the inhuman abuses of science. Yet science has enriched our
lives and has helped us catch a vision of a new and better world.
Shall we then again give up science and with it the tools by means
of which that better world may be attained ?

The truth is that we cannot cast away science even if we would.
In a time of intense social strife the knowledge of the world that we
call science is a source of tremendous strength. Nothing is so clear
as that a nation which abandons science must soon become weakened.
The world’s leadership must go to those who are served by science
and technology. That we shall live with science is thus decreed by
the immutable laws of evolution.

THE HUMAN MEANING OF SCIENCE

For those who know science, its inhumanness is a fiction. It serves
to satisfy the human hunger for a better understanding of man’s place
in his world. In this age when men throughout the world are trying
to formulate a philosophy by which they can live, it is to science that
they are turning with confidence in its truth. But perhaps of great-
est importance is the fact that science is making man develop into a
social being.

One of the most striking of biological phenomena is the change of
man in a short thousand generations from an individualistic to a
social animal. As has been indicated above, this change is due largely
to the development of science and technology. If we would assess
the cultural significance of science, it is thus important to consider
what the more specific directions may be along which this social
evolution will proceed. It is clear that we may expect those modifica-
tions in our mode of life to survive which give strength to the social
group. Among these strengthening factors three may be empha-
sized. These are: knowledge, cooperation, and a common objective.

In science and technology lies our approach to the laws of the
world of nature and the application of these laws. Enough has been
said regarding the strength that comes through such knowledge. In
a highly competitive, warlike world, that society cannot long survive
which neglects the truths of science.

Without cooperation, knowledge cannot be made effective. If men
divide into antagonistic groups, it becomes terribly destructive. Ex-
perience as well as theory has shown the superior strength of those
social groups which work together. The evolutionist thus sees as
inevitable the growth of social cooperation.
SCIENCE SHAPING AMERICAN CULTURE—COMPTON 181

Just as the automobile demands sobriety, or congested life makes
necessary careful sanitation, so the mutual dependence of a techno-
logical civilization implies consideration of the rights of others.
Breasted has shown how the growth of community life along the Nile
stimulated among the Egyptians the “dawn of conscience.” Cheyney,
in his retiring presidential address before the American Historical
Association, lists prominently among his “laws” of history the trend
toward a greater consideration of one’s fellows as society grows more
complex. Thus in the technological society of which American cul-
ture is a supreme example, science and industry are emphasizing as
never before the need of the will toward cooperation, that is, of the
love of our neighbors. Perhaps the urgency of the universal accept-
ance of this central doctrine of Christianity is not generally
recognized. This is merely because the social implications of our
increasingly complex life have not yet become evident within the
brief decades of the world’s growing social unity.

Most significant of the factors that give strength to man is, how-
ever, the vision of a goal which he recognizes as worthy of his supreme
effort. If we would truly live, we need a purpose. To many of its
followers, science gives a basis for the appreciation of man’s place in
the universe. It helps him to see himself as he is, a creature with
animal limitations, but with godlike powers, sharing with his Creator
the responsibility for making this world a fit place for life. The man
of science may not feel qualified to choose for others that which gives
life dignity and worth; but he can at least supply the data on which
that choice must be made. How can we correctly orient ourselves
without learning the facts about the world and dispassionately con-
sidering their implications. It is, I believe, in just this direction that
science must ultimately make its greatest human contribution. Science
must clarify the vision of the seers who would point out to us the
goal of life.

It is noteworthy that these things which give strength to society
are likewise those that make life worthwhile, the understanding of
man and nature, the love of one’s neighbor with the acceptance of
responsibility for his welfare, the finding of a goal worthy of our
best efforts. Though American technological civilization may lack
the refinements and nice adjustments which perfected the classic cul-
ture, its growth is toward the greater social development of man.
In this sense it is truly humanistic.

The role of science in American culture is thus threefold. First,
it supplies more adequate means of life, giving men longer life, better
health, and a richer variety of experience. Second, it stimulates man’s
social growth by rewarding more abundantly cooperative effort and
182 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

punishing more severely his antagonisms. Third, science serves as a
direct means of expression of the human spirit.

It was the greater variety of life that was the great reward of
science seen by Francis Bacon as he wrote in his “New Atlantis”:

The end of our society is the knowledge of causes, and the secret motions of
things, and the enlarging of the bounds of human empire to the effecting of all
things possible.

After three and a half centuries of experience with modern science
this aim has been so realized that the president of one of our leading
technical institutes can say,

In the last 50 years physics has exerted a more powerful beneficial influence
on the intellectual, economic, and social life of the world than has been exerted
in a comparable time by any other agency in history.

It is its responsibility for man’s social evolution which leads Sarton
to describe the growth of science as the central thread along which
may be traced the biography of mankind.

To the man of science himself, however, it is as an effective method
of developing the human spirit that he values his science. His study
affords exercise of imagination and broadening of perspective.
Whereas to Plotinus it appears that

It is through intuition rather than through reason that we may approach
our highest aspirations,
the scientist finds that in the discipline of unprejudiced search for
truth lies the beginning of wisdom. Thus, in the words of Thomas
Huxley:

Science seems to me to teach in the highest and strongest manner the great

truth which is embodied in the Christian conception of entire surrender to the
will of God. Sit down before a fact as a little child, be prepared to give up
every preconceived notion, follow humbly wherever and to whatever abysses
nature leads, or you Shall learn nothing.
This is the aspect of science recognized by the Greek philosophers,
who would seek “of what and how the world is made” in order that
they might find a better way of life. To a certain degree this
humanizing aspect of science is esoteric, since it can be fully appre-
ciated only by those who have themselves submitted to the discipline
required to share in the effort to widen the horizons of knowledge.
Certain aspects of science, notably astronomy, have been more effec-
tive than others in opening the way for many amateurs to take part
in their enterprise. As in art and literature, here in advancing hu-
man understanding is an opportunity for enriching life. With find-
ing new knowledge comes the satisfaction of knowing that one has
not only made a permanent addition to man’s heritage, but that the
new knowledge is a seed that will grow from more to more. With
Democritus the scientist can truly say, “I would rather learn the true
cause of one fact than become King of the Persians.”
MATHEMATICS AND THE SCIENCES?

By J. W. LASLEY, JB.
Department of Mathematics, The University of North Carolina

INTRODUCTION

At the outset I wish to express my very sincere appreciation for the
evidence of trust on your part which makes this occasion possible for
me. It is quite a surprise when a group of scientists so honor a
teacher of mathematics, for it is a moot question as to whether
mathematics is a science. It is more than a surprise when that
teacher is your speaker, whose association with science has been more
that of a worshiper from afar than he likes to have to admit.

The duties of this office resolve themselves in large part to the
retiring address which brings us here tonight. Upon asking myself
what I might say to you that might in part compensate you for
coming here, I thought it pertinent to consider with you the relation
between mathematics and the sciences. With this purpose in mind
I asked a philosopher colleague what he considered that relation to
be. His reply was quick and pointed. “There is no relation,” he
said, “science thinks a thing in terms of other things; mathematics
thinks a thing in terms of itself.” His inference was that the two
are mutually exclusive. This was very discouraging.

The history of science, however, does not seem to bear out the
philosopher’s contention. Until the time of Galileo (1600) that
history is practically a history of mathematics. Although we have
some knowled%e of perhaps 6,000 years of mankind’s intellectual ac-
tivity, we search in vain for any trace of science before 2,500 years
ago. True we have the pyramids, some 5,000 years old, and their
structure indicates the employment of scientific ideas. We have,
too, the Rhind papyrus, 3,500 years extant, and within its pages
a kind of mathematical science. But the first scientist to emerge
from the mists of antiquity was Thales, the mathematician of 2,500
years ago. Almost contemporary with him is Pythagoras, a strange
mixture of scientist and pseudo scientist. Two centuries later came

1 Retiring address of the president of the North Carolina Academy of Science, Wake
Forest, N. C., May 5, 1939. Reprinted by permission from the Journal of the Elisha Mitchell
Scientific Society, vol. 55, No. 2, December 1939.

183
184 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Democritus with the beginnings of an atomic theory which even the
opposition of an Aristotle could not down. Another century brings
us to Euclid, but we must wait yet another century until, around
200 B. C., appeared that resplendent figure of old, Archimedes, bring-
ing with him the law of buoyancy, the principle of the lever, the
discovery of light reflection and the cry of “Eureka,” which White-
head says should be celebrated as the awakening cry of mathematical
physics.

In the 17 centuries from that day to the time of Copernicus (1500)
physics was to remain at practically a standstill. In another century
these latent stirrings of the scientific spirit were brought to light for
the first time in the father of modern science, Galileo Galilei, whom
we know so well that we invariably call him by his first name. Im-
portant it is that he should be the first to formulate inertia, to dis-
cover the law of falling bodies, to invent the pendulum and the
telescope, to discover the four satellites of Mercury and the sun-
spots. More important still, says Millikan, that he should see “that
force is proportional not to motion, but to the rate of change of
motion, an idea the most profound in human thought.” I dwell on
Galileo because he is generally regarded as the originator of the
modern viewpoint in science. He, asserts Einstein, “saw that all
knowledge of reality starts from experience and ends in it.” Thus,
as Whitehead so aptly puts it, “the world waited 1,800 years from
Archimedes to Galileo for someone who could relate abstract mathe-
matical ideas to experimental investigation of natural phenomena.”

Modern scientific inquiry as such seems to have begun with Roger
Bacon in the thirteenth century. Leonardo da Vinci was indeed a
voice crying in the scientific wilderness of the fifteenth century.
Tycho Brahe’s tables of 1601 were a first step in scientific observa-
tion. By means of them one could tell the position of the planets.
It took a Kepler (1610) to see in them the three fundamental laws
of planetary motion. Kepler could then tell us where the planets
would be. In 3 inches he condensed the voluminous tables of Brahe,
a tremendous scientific advance.

And then came Newton! Whitehead says that science came of age
that day with Newton in his garden. Einstein regards Newton’s
laws of motion as expressed in differential equations as the “greatest
advance in thought that a single individual has ever been privileged
to make.” He says further that Newton was the first creator of
a comprehensive, workable system of theoretical physics. This one
man, he continues, gave intellectual guidance to science for 200 years.”
Perhaps no man, then or since, has known Newton’s scientific view-
point as has his modern prototype, Albert Einstein, who has done
more than any man to supplement his work. He says of Newton,
MATHEMATICS AND THE SCIENCES—LASLEY 185

“He believed that the basic laws and concepts of his system could
be derived from experience. This is the meaning of ‘hypotheses
non jfingo. Newton was uncomfortable about absolute space, abso-
lute rest and action at a distance, since he found no basis for them
in experience. The successes of his theories prevented discovery of
the fictitious character of his foundations.”

Daniel Bernouli (1700) following shortly after Newton has been
called the founder of mathematical physics.

From this era dates the origin of organic chemistry. Lavoisier
(1743-94) transmuted alchemy into a rational science. Perhaps, as
his judges said when he faced the guillotine, the republic had “no
need of savants.” Certain it is that chemistry had great need of
Lavoisier.

Mathematics through the calculus as we know it today was shaped
largely by the hand of Euler (1707).

Sedgwick and Tyler state in their history of science that at the
beginning of the nineteenth century general physics and chemistry
were “still in the preliminary stage of collecting and coordinating
data, with attempts at quantitative interpretation, while in their
train the natural sciences were following somewhat haltingly.”

Geike adds that at this time “geology and biology were not yet
inductive sciences.”

But the stirrings of science in the eighteenth century projected
themselves into the nineteenth. Dalton (1803) with his law of
multiple proportions for the formation of compounds supplied the
first scientific approach to the atomic theory.

Lyell with his publication of his “Principles” in 1830 raised
geology to the dignity of a science.

Biology was admitted to the union of sciences in the Victorian age
through the efforts of Darwin, Spencer, Huxley, Wallace, and others.

By 1850 the older universities had founded scientific schools.
Academies of science began to be formed. The public by the open-
ing of the twentieth century was science-minded. A new era was
about to dawn.

This new era took the form of a new conception as to the structure
of matter. There were significant undercurrents in the world of
physics. Sir Humphrey Davy made what he called his greatest
discovery, Michael Faraday. Faraday (1791-1867) discovered the
principle of magneto-electricity, and originated the electromagnetic-
field theory. The world was little aware of these tremendous hap-
penings. Even at a time when the Atlantic cable was in operation
Gladstone could (and did) ask Faraday whether electricity had a
use. And Faraday replied, “Why Sir, there is every probability
that you will soon be able to tax it.”
186 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

In 1850 Maxwell placed a mathematical support under Faraday’s
theories, to be followed by the experimental verification of Hertz.

Joule (1818-89) found a mechanical equivalent for heat, namely,
energy, giving the world the first law of thermodynamics.

Plank gave a description of radiation as incapable of emission in
aught but units, the quanta. In this quantum theory fractions of a
unit of energy simply do not exist.

De Broglie and Schrodinger combined the energy theory of Einstein
with the quantum theory of Plank and compelled the joint wave-
particle view of the atom. (Since then the physicist has been accused
of teaching the wave theory on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday,
and the particle theory on Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday.)

Heisenberg proclaimed the doctrine that nature abhors not a
vacuum so much as it does accuracy and precision.

Dirac extended the uncertainty principle of Heisenberg to the
entire realm of atomic physics.

Pauli furnished us with his exclusion principle.

Millikan and Cameron gave us cosmic radiation.

Minkowski offered his space-time world.

Einstein supplemented the Newtonian mechanics, proclaimed the
invariance of natural laws in inertial systems, the constancy of the
velocity of light, the abandonment of simultaneity, the identity of
mass and energy, claimed absolute motion incapable of detection,
related time and motion, connected space and matter. Gravitation,
that most elusive of concepts, appeared as the curvature, or crum-
pling, of a space-time continuum. But the electromagnetic fields
were not expressed in the field equations of general relativity. Later
came a field theory in which gravitation and electromagnetic radia-
tion were welded together. Only the expression of the atomic
structure in terms of the field theory was, and still is, missing.

Here we are, and what a long way we have come. Let us examine
some of the high and low places along the path. Let us see again
something of the view from a few of the peaks and depressions along
the way. Let us inquire of Mathematics, the guide in this long and
fascinating journey.

CONTINUITY

Perhaps we never realize its subtlety until we really try to find
out the meaning of continuity. The writer of radio script uses the
term to refer to his product. We have heard his programs. Can
such an idea be hedged about with difficulty? As is so often the case,
an understanding of the concept implies an understanding of its
opposite. The opposite of the continuous is the discrete.

Long ago there lived an excellent gentleman named Zeno. It was
back in the time of the Pythagoreans, 500 years before Christ. This
’ MATHEMATICS AND THE SCIENCES—LASLEY 187

Zeno saw the conflict between these opposites, and used what he saw
to deny the possibility of motion, to discourage placing bets on
Achilles in his historic race with the tortoise, and for other strange
and bewildering purposes. Even today one doesn’t just rush in to
show where Zeno was wrong. In his antinomies are found the baffling
ideas of the infinite, the deceiving implications of continual divisi-
bility. Down the years we trace these difficulties like a colored skein
in the pattern of scientific thought. They face the scientist in his
effort to understand the constitution of matter. Is this paper from
which I read smooth and unbroken, or is it made of discrete particles
bounding about hither and yon—a veritable beehive? The physicist
leans to the latter view. (This opinion may help explain the nature
of what is being read from these pages.) What, then, about action
at a distance? How are light, radiation, energy, gravitation con-
veyed from here to there? What? No ether? Can we have ether
without continuity? If the ether is a jellylike mass, is it not com-
posed of particles? If it is composed of particles, will not the
quantum behavior of matter nullify the continuity of the action? If
we have a continuous exciting cause, is it not strange that energy
should emerge in units (quanta), or not at all? Are there no frac-
tions? The physicist says, “No, no fractions.” De Vries claimed
that evolution proceeds by “explosions.” But Darwin, Newton,
Kant, Leibniz all believed in continuity. Plank’s quantum theory
replaces a continuum of states in an isolated system by a finite number
of discrete states.

The mathematician has been through—I should say, is in—this
same turmoil. He has never fully recovered from the Pythagorean
shock of the irrational. For a time it was thought that Weierstrass,
Dedekind, and Cantor had laid the spectre, but the contrary views of
Knonecker, Brouwer, and Weyl on the calculus of Leibniz and New-
ton, the feeling that this calculus is making “bricks without straw,”
must at least have a hearing. The critics of continuity claim that
nothing which cannot actually be constructed by a finite number of
steps can hope to lead to a discipline free of paradox. They maintain
that all analysis must eventually subject itself to the domination of
the positive integer. Karl Pearson, one of the nonmathematical
scientists who shares this view, states the position thus, “No scientist
has the right to use things unless their existence can be demonstrated.”

Some may meet these difficulties by what has been called “a con-
tinuous but discreet silence.”

Certain it is that a Thomas Wolfe may write “Of Time and the
River” with a much more glib assurance than may an Einstein.

Simple things these—in time such a perfect continuity; in number
such discreteness (I came near saying “discretion”), and in the
shadows an infinity trying to bridge the gap.
188 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941
CAUSATION

Jeans maintains that the “steady onward flow of time is the essence
of the cause and effect relation.” It is but natural, then, that when
continuity is in question, causation should take its place under the
microscope of scientific scrutiny. There is more at issue than the
mere post hoc ergo propter hoc argument. We are so used to draw-
ing inferences from data, that it is hard to realize on what flimsy
grounds many of our conclusions rest. It is hard, too, to see how
we may do intellectual business at all without the ability to infer
effect from cause. The great seventeenth century of Galileo and
Newton encouraged the scientist to think of causation as something on
which he could definitely rely. Modern physics takes the position, so
ably formulated by Pearson, that causation is intelligible only in the
perceptual sphere as “antecedence in a routine of sense impressions.”

With the precision of measurement in studying natural phenomena
came the realization of the statistical character of those measure-
ments. Into the relations connecting the numbers arising in this
way began to enter questions of doubt. The descriptions of the phe-
nomena exhibited by the relations were seen to be more exact than
the uncertainty of the data warranted. It began to appear that the
descriptions described little more than what Wey] has called “statisti-
cal regularities.” Pearson has put it thus bluntly, “In the order of
perceptions no inherent necessity can be demonstrated * * #*
necessity has a meaning in the field of logic, but not in the universe
of perception * * * causation is neither a logical necessity, nor
an actual experience.”

This position seems at first glance to be at variance with the “if
this, then that” of mathematical disciplines. The causation which
inheres in logic, whose presence we so naively hope for in our scientific
thinking, seems actually to emerge in the tenets of the mathemati-
cian. How, then, may the scientist fit data patently statistical in
character into mathematical form, clearly nonstatistical in character?
If, as Pearson claims, “contingency and correlation replace causation
in science,” how does the mathematical equation tell us a true story of
natural phenomena? Pearson answers this in part by saying, “Con-
tingency is expressed in a table with cell-dots forming a band. This
band viewed through an inverted telescope gives a curve. This curve
is the mathematical function.”

In the language of the mathematician, the scientific relation ap-
proaches the mathematical formulation asymptotically. Perhaps a
more nearly correct statement is that both the scientific data and the
mathematical description near each other in a process of successive
approximation which would warm the heart of a Poincare.
MATHEMATICS AND THE SCIENCES—LASLEY 189

Although many scientists feel, with Jeans, that the advent of
Plank’s quantum mechanics has dethroned continuity and causation,
they in large measure share his belief that the appeal to a purely
statistical basis may be a cloak for ignorance and that cause and
effect of an unknown character may actually be in operation.

DETERMINISM

One would expect that questions about cause and effect should have
philosophical implications. There arise the old questions of deter-
minism and freedom. Determinism, according to Dantzig, “consists
of the assumption that, given any natural phenomenon, the various
features that characterize it are completely determined by its ante-
cedents. The present knowledge permits prediction of the future
course.” “Each extension of the law of causation,” says Jeans,
“makes belief in freedom more difficult.” Pearson claims that “our be-
lief in determinism is the result of supposing sameness instead of
likeness in phenomena.” Eddington asserts that “physics is no longer
pledged to a scheme of deterministic law.” When asked why one
magnet repels another, Whitney replied, “By the will of God,” and
added “science can enslave us, or it can make us free, but it is we who
make the choice.” Others hold the view that our bodies and our
minds are as physical as inert matter, made of the same chemical ele-
ments to be found in the remote stars, subject to the same inevitable
laws; that the same determinism which holds for them holds also for
us. Compton, speaking at the University last November, refuted the
claim that man’s actions depend on physical law. But he claimed it
a vital question for science to find out whether man’s actions are
determined; and if so, by what factors. He maintained that it is no
longer justifiable to use physical law as evidence against freedom.

Into this confused picture comes mathematics with its Jaw of aver-
ages and its probability theory. Almost within the last decade the
uncertainties of the situation have been amplified by Heisenberg into
an Uncertainty Principle, which says, “To any mechanical quantity
@ there corresponds another quantity P in such a way that the
product of the uncertainties in our knowledge of Q@ and of P can
never be less than a certain constant A, Plank’s constant; hence the
more accurately we determine @Q, the more ignorant we are of P.”
In the Newtonian mechanics a knowledge of the position and of the
velocity of an electron at an instant determines the future position
of that electron, but Heisenberg assures us that we can never know
both. The more accurately we determine the position, the less accu-
rately we know the velocity; and vice versa. This concept of un-
certainty seems to put the coup de grace on determinism. But who
190 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

shall say that the very law of averages which replaces determinism
may not itself be as great a despot as the dictator which it displaces?
May there not be still a new determinism dominated by probability,
just as there may be a new causation whose source is unknown to us?
Or shall we, with Compton and others, align ourselves with freedom
because, as he says, “I find reason to believe in freedom, and wish
to find whether such freedom is consistent with the recognized laws
of physics.” It would be a fine irony, indeed, if science, the greatest
liberator of men’s minds, denied to itself that freedom which it has
so unstintingly given to mankind.

LAW

This outlook brings us to consider our ideas of law anew. When
we say law, what do we mean? Do we think of brass buttons and a
uniform? Do we think of statutes to which as citizens we owe
obedience? Do we think of natural law, such as Newton’s universal
law of gravitation, or of mathematical law, such as Gauss’ law of
quadratic reciprocity, or of the philosopher’s definition: “Law is
Unity in action difference”?

Wey] tells us that the mathematical lawfulness of nature “is a rev-
elation of Divine reason.” “The world,” he says, “is not a chaos, but
a cosmos harmoniously ordered by inviolable mathematical laws.”
We speak of Boyle’s law for a perfect gas, of Kepler’s three laws of
planetary motion, of Dalton’s law of multiple proportions and many,
many other laws. The scientist maintains that his chief concern is
the discovery of nature’s laws. Just what does he mean by that?
Is civil law one thing, and natural law another? Does law mean
one thing to some of us, and quite another thing to others of us?
Or, is there a philosophic pattern behind all law?

In trying to understand the world we live in we observe and we
experiment. We assume the validity of sense perception. We as-
sume that normal human beings observe and experiment in much the
same way. If we have ever listened to witnesses testify in court, we
know just how much of an assumption that is. And furthermore,
what, pray, is a normal human being? Many of us feel that all the
knowledge that we obtain of natural phenomena comes through the
senses, despite Pearson’s continued insistence that in thinking we deal
not only with sense impressions but with stored-up opinions of for-
mer sense impressions. We measure with all the uncertainties at-
tendant thereto; we think, or try to, amid all the doubts above
mentioned as to continuity and causation and determinism weighing
upon us. How in this atmosphere can we get at law?

The mathematician stands serene in his confusion. To him law is
simply the matter of an invariant under a set of transformations.
MATHEMATICS AND THE SCIENCES—LASLEY 191

This invariant incorporates the unity, if any, present in the differ-
ences of action in the situation in question. This unity answers the
question as to how we may see the permanent in the transitory. The
scope of it tells us how we may see the general in what is particular.

In civil law we have to make the statute. Whether we like it or
not, that statute may be broken. Still in the changing pattern of
civil law the statute formulates what unity is possible in the diversity
of action which it seeks to control. In natural law these differences
in action take the form of the great dissimilarities in observed phe-
nomena. The unity is the common part, if such there be. The
natural law expresses this unity amid the action differences. Its
form is never final until it partakes of the form of the mathematical
invariant.

POSTULATION

Reflections on the nature of law bring forcibly to our minds the
postulational character of our thinking. We do well to examine the
meaning of our most fundamental concepts as well as the lines of
argument leading to our most important conclusions. Every science
has its undefined terms. Aught else is an infinite regression. When
analysis fails, we rely on the properties of our concept to define it
for us. In setting up the discipline for a science, some of the prop-
ositions must be accepted without proof for similar reasons. The
criterion for choice is simplicity. This is not as simple as the name
indicates. By simplicity, as used here, is meant logical simplicity.
As Einstein so aptly words it, “By ‘simplest’? we mean that system
which contains fewest possible mutually independent postulates, or
axioms.” ‘This attitude of modern science is far removed from New-
ton’s hypotheses non fingo. It is an attitude undoubtedly provided
by the mathematician. Einstein continues, “Nature is the realiza-
tion of the simplest conceivable mathematical ideas. I am convinced
that we can discover by means of purely mathematical constructions,
the concepts and the laws connecting them with each other, which
furnish the key to the understanding of natural phenomena. Exper-
ience may suggest the appropriate mathematical concepts, but they
most certainly cannot be deducted from it. Experience remains, of
course, the sole criterion of the physical utility of a mathematical
construction. But the creative principle resides in mathematics.”

Such a postulational approach to mathematical thinking was seen
by Euclid insofar as our inability to define satisfactorily all our
terms. The fact that even a mathematician cannot prove every-
thing was not formulated until Pasch, almost in our own time. Now
the necessity of a postulational approach to both definitions and
theorems is a universally accepted tenet of the mathematician.
192 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941
SYMBOLISM

Whether we agree to this postulational so-called simplicity, we
can have no doubt of the existence and efficacy of symbolism in both
mathematics and the sciences. The desire for constructibility, so
ably championed by Knonecker, has found its way into our search
for an understanding of the nature of matter. We hear Lord Kelvin
exclaim that he “can understand nothing of which he cannot make a
mechanical model.” To meet this desire we have the dynamic Ruth-
erford-Bohr model of the atom and the static Lewis-Langmuir model.
But we are told these are too simple and definite to be regarded as
other than intellectual conveniences. The ether is symbolized for
us as a jellylike mass with remarkable properties. We are warned,
however, that the universe is not completely picturable in a graphical
sense. Radiation and gravitation elude such a mechanical descrip-
tion. We speak of particles and waves as describing the behavior
of light and radiation, but we are reminded that the electron is
only a symbol for convenience of speech. Eddington tells us that
matter and all else in the physical world has been reduced to a
“shadowy symbolism.” When we ask what the symbols stand
for, the reply is that it doesn’t matter. (One is reminded of the
story that is told of Professor Lefevre, of the University of Vir-
ginia. He is said to have greeted his philosophy class one fine morn-
ing with the startling pronouncement, “What is mind? No matter.
What is matter? Never mind.”) “Physics,” continues Eddington,
“has no means of probing beneath the symbolism. Nor does one
have to understand the symbols. What we have to understand are
the conditions to which the symbols are subjected.” The symbols
themselves are dummies. Any other would do as well.

The mathematician is thoroughly in accord with this use of sym-
bolism. He has likened his subject to a game of chess. The rules
of the game play the role of postulates. In such a game Bell tells
us there is no question of “truth”; there is merely a question as to
whether the rules have been complied with. To Hilbert mathematics
is “a game played according to certain simple rules with meaningless
marks on paper.”

PREDICTION

We have heard of old that a prophet is not without honor. For
the man in the street the ability of science to predict the future
holds a particular fascination. He is thrilled by the story of an
Adams and a Leverrier working apart, each computing from the
perturbing influences of an unknown source on Uranus, the position
of a new planet, Neptune, just 52 minutes from where Galle later
found it. He reads of the electromagnetic waves predicted by Faraday
MATHEMATICS AND THE SCIENCES—LASLEY 193

and Maxwell and verified by Hertz. He has heard of the more recent
prediction by Einstein of the shift toward the red end of the spec-
trum, caused by the deflection of light in a gravitational field, verified
in the solar eclipse of 1919. These and many others, such as Men-
delejeff’s prophecy as to the discovery of gallium, scandium, and
germanium, and such as Hamilton’s prediction of conical refraction,
have cast science in the role of one of the major prophets. Even
Pearson concedes science the ability to predict, as well as to describe.

Mathematics provides in its differential laws a pattern for these
predictions. “A differential law,” says Einstein, “tells us how the
state of motion of a system gives rise to that which follows it in
time.” “If we know how the velocities and accelerations depend
on position, we can trace out the past and future of our universe,”
says Pearson. This is done by means of differential equations with
proper boundary value conditions. The chemist does it when he
predicts the position of the electron in its orbit. The astronomer
does it when he predicts the position of the planet in its orbit around
the sun. Despite Heisenberg’s uncertainty as to our ability to
measure both position and velocity, the schedules of the planets are
much better known than are those of the crack Chicago to New
York trains.

INVENTION

Science is known to many only for its inventions. Much of its
popularity with the masses is due to the added comforts and en-
joyments with which it supplies them. Their eye is open for the
so-called practical things of science. The auto, the radio, and the
thousands of gadgets which give us our arm-chair civilization, endear
science to the heart of the multitude.

But this has not been the path of scientific progress. These things
have usually been but byproducts. Hertz little thought when he
verified Maxwell’s electromagnetic waves that he was laying the
foundation for radio. Perhaps as often the practical leads back
into the fundamental principles, as do the principles lead to inven-
tion. Again, when the scientist thinks himself most theoretical, he
may be near a very useful practicality. “Indeed,” says Richards,
“the developments of the wave mechanics now in progress may be
fraught with graver practical consequences for humanity than the
approaching commercialism of television or rapid transoceanic pas-
senger flying.”

It is an old story to the mathematician, whom the cry of “prac-
ticality” fails to arouse. Archimedes, tracing his conics in the
sand when Marcellus’ soldiers snuffed out his genius, had no thought
of a Kepler using them to describe the paths of the planets. Argand,
Gauss, Wessel in their abstract imaginings about the complex num-
194 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

ber little fancied that they would later im the hands of Maxwell
place a firm footing under modern electrical theories. Riemann,
Cayley, and Sylvester had no thought that they were preparing the
way for Einstein. Sturm and Liouville had no concern for the
wave mechanics of De Broglie, which their researchers made pos-
sible. The meditations of Cayley appear in the modern theories of
Heisenberg and Dirac. Fermat, Gauss, De Moivre, Pascal could not
possibly have foreseen that their probability theory would one day
revolutionize physics. Indeed, the theory of today is so often the
practice of tomorrow. If it were not, it would be no great matter.
But, as Philip has said, “it is only against the background provided
by the pure research of yesterday that the technical problems of
today can be viewed in their proper setting and tackled with a reason-
able prospect of success. Work in the pure sciences, however remote
from the practical issues of the moment, is building up a reserve of
knowledge and technique for future workers to draw on.”

COSMOGONY

One of the reasons why one studies mathematics and the sciences
is this: to obtain a better understanding of the world in which he
finds himself. As the sciences and mathematics have developed, so
have developed our views of the cosmos. To primitive man who
thought of himself as the center of the universe, to men who with
Ptolemy regarded the earth as the center, to men who with Coper-
nicus placed the sun in this strategic position, the cosmos presented
a very different view. This view colored many aspects of their
thinking. It led to the formulation of a very different philosophy
of life. So much so that someone has said “tell me a man’s view of
the Universe, and I will tell you what sort of man he is.” There
have been religious upheavals attendant upon man’s change in his
views of the world about him. In our own day his view is suffering
what is perhaps its greatest change. Not only has the sun been dis-
placed from its central position, but in its place nothing has been
substituted. We are told that there is no known center; no refer-
ence frame in which to orient a path in the cosmos. We have myste-
rious cosmic rays beating down upon us from an unknown source
with unknown effects. Out in an unknown place somewhere, Milli-
kan suspects cosmic radiation may be rebuilding matter—an inverse
phenomenon never dreamed of until our time. These are tremendous
disturbances in man’s view of the cosmos. That there have been no
attendant religious disturbances is a conspicuous testimonial to intel-
lectual freedom. The lay world is becoming accustomed to regard
almost as commonplace views which former generations held to be
impossible in some instances unintelligible. That the world can
MATHEMATICS AND THE SCIENCES—LASLEY 195

achieve this transition complacently is due in large part to the tough
intellectual fiber provided by mathematics and the sciences.

SOCIAL IMPLICATION

Einstein asserts that “concern for man himself and his fate must al-
ways form the chief interest of all technical endeavors * * * in
order that the creations of our minds shall be a blessing and not a
curse to mankind.” That scientific findings have the potentiality
of becoming the latter is the thought of many at this time when mod-
ern warfare threatens the very existence of civilization. May not our
very scientific endeavors prove a Frankenstein? It has even been
suggested that science take a holiday in order to let the rest of the
world, particularly the world of good will, catch up. But, as Hill
has pointed out, the scientist is after all a human being. Can he
know which of his discoveries will be put to harmful ends?) Mankind
must learn to take the good and the bad together. “It is ironical,”
says Gregory, “that greater productivity through invention should
bring more distress anc unemployment rather than an increase in
human welfare.” Soci..{ progress has not kept pace with scientific
progress. Russell takes the position that if mankind were rational,
his conquest of nature would increase his happiness and well-being.
“Only kindness,” he says, “can save the world, but even if we knew
how to produce kindliness, we should not do so unless we were kindly.”

This dilemma, many believe, is caused by our failure to apply to
social and economic problems the same intelligent analysis that has
been applied to scientific problems. They assert that scientific think-
ing is definitely on a plane above thinking in other fields—and that
this explains the fact that science has outdistanced nonscience. The
ideal of thinking is presented in the perfectly welded chains of mathe-
matical proofs. The sciences approximate this norm more closely
than do the nonsciences. Social, as well as scientific progress, comes
with the finding of truth. The pattern for the search for truth is
mathematical thinking.

FAITH

One rarely thinks of faith as an element essential to the scientist.
The scientist is by definition one who knows. What need then can he
have of faith? Mark Twain says that, “Faith is believing what you
know ain’t so.” Somewhere Hilaire Belloc exclaims, “Oh, one should
never, never doubt what no one can be sure about.” Does this levity
contain some truth? Does not the worker with facts need faith as a
sort of whistle to keep up his courage? If he is never really sure, does
he not need faith to bolster up this insecurity? Or is it that a calm,

pervading faith is one of the necessary tools in the kit of the scientist ?
4306774214
196 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

That the latter is the attitude with which the scientist should ap-
proach his task we are assured in the retiring address of President
George D. Birkhoff, of the American Association for the Advancement
of Science, delivered this past year at the Christmas meeting in Rich-
mond. There one of America’s foremost mathematicians spoke to
America’s scientists of the faith that is his. It is fitting that we here
try to catch an overtone of that meeting.

Mr. Birkhoff claimed that whether it is the mathematician dealing
with number, or the physicist with matter, the biologist with organism,
the psychologist with mind, or the sociologist with social values, there
is behind one and all an inherent faith guiding the reasoned super-
structure which they create upon intuitional concepts. Whether it is
the mathematician’s belief in the existence of infinite classes, the phys-
icist’s belief in the presence of a discontinuous process at work in
the theory of radiation, the biologist’s belief in a vitalistic theory of
life, the psychologist’s belief in a physiological accompaniment to
every psychical fact, or the sociologist’s belief in societal progress,
Birkhoff emphasizes faith as an “heuristically valuable, more general
point of view, beyond reason, often in apparent contradiction,
which the thinker regards as of supreme importance as he endeavors
to give his conclusions the greatest possible scope.”

Some think that there is an opprobrium attached to any belief, that
belief and science are mutually exclusive. Do these same people believe
in the processes of logic? Do they have faith in the rationality of the
human mind, in the similarity of the perceptive and reasoning fac-
ulties of normal, civilized beings? Is it not in their code that nature
is orderly, and that there are spiritual values underlying material
facts?

CONCLUSION

In the foregoing we have traced in broad outline the advance in
scientific thought from the earliest time down to the present. We
have pictured the scientist journeying down this path with his guide,
the mathematician. We have noted some of the scenes from certain
plateaus and valleys in the path. Continuity, causation, deter-
minism, law, the postulational method, symbolism, prediction, inven-
tion, cosmology, social implication, faith, have passed in review. We
have endeavored to point out how the guiding hand of the mathema-
ticlan has aided the traveler along the way. The physical aspects
of science, particularly those relative to the structure of matter, have
been stressed because they are better known and because of the major
importance of matter as “the building blocks” of the universe. There
has been no disposition to indulge in propaganda for mathematics.
Mathematics needs no “sales talk” to the scientist. It has been rather
MATHEMATICS AND THE SCIENCES—LASLEY 197

an effort to understand its function in the domain of scientific think-
ing. This relation seems to be much like that of the guide to the
mountain climber. Hardly could a guide be better fitted for his
task. Bound to the traveler by a philosophical bond they rise or fall
together. The assistance is by no means all on one side. Many are
the instances in which the problems of the scientist have enriched the
theories of the mathematician. Many are the instances in which the
theories of the mathematician have aided in the solution of the prob-
lems of the scientist. The equations of the mathematician are re-
garded by many as the only language which nature speaks. Helm-
holtz expressed this thought in the words, “the final aim of all na-
tural science is to resolve itself into mathematics.” Jeans has this
in mind in his statement, “all the pictures which science draws of
nature, and which alone seem capable of according with observational
fact, are mathematical pictures * * * the Universe seems to
have been designed by a pure mathematician.” Even Galileo back
in the beginning of what we are pleased to call modern science said,
“Nature’s great book is written in mathematical language.” White-
head maintains that the aim of scientific thought is, “to see what is
general in what is particular and what is permanent in what is
transitory.” In this vision science utilizes the general abstraction
of mathematics and adopts its theory of invariants. The concept of
progressive change is basic in the study of natural phenomena. This
same idea is the mud sill of the calculus. “With the calculus as a
key,” continues Whitehead, “mathematics can be successfully applied
to the explanation of the course of nature.” When classical physics
suffered the impact of the Michelson-Morley experiment it was forced
by its own findings to reexamine its foundations. “In this emer-
gency,” to quote Dantzig, “it was entirely due to the flexible mental
apparatus with which the mathematician supplied them, that the
physical sciences have at all survived this drastic revision.” Rich-
ards asserts that “when we reach the core of physical reality, the
truth is presented in mathematical equations.” Weyl claims that in
the long ago the Pythagoreans held that the world was not “a chaos,
but a cosmos harmoniously ordered by invariable mathematical laws.”
Jeans expresses it in the words, “Nature seems to know the rules of
mathematics as the mathematicians have formulated them in their
studies without drawing on experience of the outer world.”

We come now to the end of tonight’s account of this amazing jour-
ney of the scientist. In saying farewell to our scientific traveler we
hear that insistent injunction from the mouth of his guide, so aptly
put by Dantzig, “Read your instruments and obey mathematics; for
this is the whole duty of the scientist.”
ven euch i ies hscet ei itis “pia |
ytllh’ oi cab iany wale heininse aie toate Pesaran yin Saat
Cpe lS HAVO) wre nd nine saan innate Baste ae ‘eoel betes
dian Son ue Vial dy pic daunting a el Gaiseeadeattn uae
pres REE ealileincen sine ie atenstiy aa ph ak elena tate we xyiatiak
Agate Sewloenaw: oirmal Sek tater ele. tay shiioldeng wiht: ude sont
tt dorks mya prt eppet divs sable aoanpeasdh 2 cor? phsPreoitlwite meld Tic aed
Yoh eh iG vi Rotnas neha. Ahott babinay wt aaen sesitsniniods 9 oathe
of) royal antterktnpa ails: hr made ‘oe. RI Se RR
atl oae. | omislagonge erste Tegut ‘grr ‘aggre ne afin Hehe aie rp val bien
Bete Mies Apion it Noack, veka pirroeh Mae aL aufgieeel belt agoaeraent
etqcher act ei lo \F gabtacsackipons ate Sains oom ges ery equ (ive eat
Len Aro denig Nine ka apt hw eat Pray, oh Lins” Dhak phate a dye
ey eee a Gee Lal Mf, mi . Ries heel b tn olen) ad PACH ‘th Aiki si tee
of wes eam wa (OREM a medi qr Reali Carsten kin) beta yar RAN a
al earn) rs bana abe, Wy bean at pagent ip. Beheeigan eat saab paacnda
2 SUR ast sborn ALi etd Meade wy Lh: A nem we Ty ith yee
be wasuahtent o vaienca ess i) il en head ie ne? TAY PAs Le ary stat
; - sib ae” Js eltgen bi Wait Shih eee feo reise aah peg
rt gat iva etea Piety eid metwe ieee td re lat ni dade scant

- x a ae

r us t's arr eda V3 r luidannte iSBr ets gaint erat, on PEE ay “at: Desa ‘ ay i
at mkt). SOB EEAY i 8D; ee niceeleh tr pines oe a eats

wel hats Sat auto ean AS rae he Gass. Bie ohedkehorn “ah PEE eth!
tray ¢ Sas sandy es eaten off Uy | LLM fe ab ret ih ie ’ oul bash Shs ap ello tts he sah
shyt gypilicken aban: od Yoni eyct eres ite" pono ets Hall ‘ence apy f

fits ° Mi Maereaatl ody, Teeth TOME eats FB She pesodlnan ere g:
VEE wee ‘Baur FRA yal hope ete he eaeitiath ibd edt Yom leas i sikh an
Laat eth Oo” - eehitAheiyt Bk aceeaRzoed of Sune Re ae
Prieta whiten: ogly adn Vie oe ewer Site a, SOM ane t
sight Hs bee } it ae fret lyre i geen Lahiogiahn nid : ee | ean |

sre) i oi ht Nae Fee ty hat 1 hy 1 f » Pi ee fi Bas W ; eee mata aN
% oy i Py Bitty ie inf x Pag The , Prine itiget ia) in ihe ne m yr et AS
: Sate” tell? rey ey Pep eehity fy GOHIAY ‘7 ts var ret ae ' i
Tis ora ipa Nha fiir SANT A ee eka ba ent tt wale SF ott acti
Pa set tal henry ott cre paar atts opines th al \ bo
fad seiiry Td, Gere i) i's | ‘ yes sy dig aA eet. at m Haat ie } x

Aaah in Bs (it) O94 Hetrtg £* CYR ee nai py errare Lity LBS Re mapas
i "ey | oat yin ak ee fous if wre? mf By i's | ily Biss

aga sais isin Hit To hin Mut an pists aig

Pe Pat it rts if } Liv yey ‘aby with 4

Uke ga bkars Ath a Mu car aed Soma ron ee tee ihre tit Jang
\a ¢ ; |

lik, aohburab our elo Ree RHE Bea aa eee ae

| Seb kata ace DSR eine en

‘ i . :
THE ROLE OF SCIENCE IN THE ELECTRICAL INDUSTRY *

By M. W. SmiTH

Member American Institute of Electrical Engineers, Vice President in Charge
of Engineering, Westinghouse Electric &€ Manufacturing Company

[With 1 plate]

Behind the phenomenal growth of the electrical industry lies an important
fact: “The industry has consistently accepted and adapted to its own use the
new ideds and developments of science.”

The story of the electrical industry is one of growth in giant,
breath-taking strides and great technical advances. Turbine-
generator units have progressed to the stage where ratings of 100,000
ky.-a. at 3,600 r.p.m. and 300,000 kv.-a. at 1,800 r.p.m. can now be
built. Hydraulic generators, the size of which may ultimately be
limited by manufacturing facilities because of their large diameters,
have exceeded 100,000-kw. rating. Efficiencies of some of the large
hydrogen-cooled turbine generators, synchronous condensers, and
frequency changers have approached 99 percent in individual units.
Transformers have increased to present-day ratings of over 150,000
ky.-a. per bank, and efficiencies of well over 99 percent have been
realized. Circuit breakers are capable of interrupting several million
kilovolt-amperes—equal to that of the short-circuit capacity of some
of the large interconnected systems. Lightning arresters? are avail-
able with sufficient capacity to handle a direct lightning stroke of
over 100,000 amperes and yet limit the voltage to safe values.

Behind this growth, the rate of which has shown no diminution
since the birth of the industry, lies a significant, important fact.
The industry has consistently accepted and adapted to its own use
the new ideas and developments of science. In fact the industry has
fostered and encouraged fundamental research to the point that the
research laboratory has become an integral part of the industry
itself. It also recognizes the value and importance of the scientific
accomplishments of the universities and other research institutions,
and maintains a close contact with their work.

1 Reprinted by permission from Hlectrical Engineering, vol. 59, No. 2, February 1940.

2A lightning arrester is an electrical device used to protect electrical equipment from
damage when exposed to lightning or other voltages that are higher than that for which
the equipment was designed to operate.

199
200 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Although the industrial laboratory has become the basic element
in the electrical industry, the manner by which its fruits are put to
practical use is complex. Not only are there many ways by which
a new idea is transformed into a practical thing, but also there are
many problems in connection with making the fullest use of scientific
effort. These ways and these problems merit a closer examination.

EFFICIENT USE OF SCIENCE PRESENTS MANY PROBLEMS

The task of the industry is not only to uncover new principles and
make new discoveries, but also to determine which ones can be put to
practical, profitable use, and how. It is difficult to recognize the
potential value of new discoveries and to determine at an early stage
the possibilities of applying them to industrial processes and
products.

THE PROBLEM OF TIMING

The rate of application of new ideas is not dependent solely upon
the time necessary to conceive and develop them. It is also influenced
by the time required for public acceptance. Household refrigeration,
the basic principle of which is very old, required a relatively long
time for both instrumentalities and public acceptance. Numerous
problems had to be solved in the commercial development of such
items as suitable refrigerants, sealed compressor shafts or the alterna-
tive of hermetically sealed units, systems of proper lubrication that
would be effective for a period of years, elimination of noise, quan-
tity-production methods such as those previously developed in the
automobile industry, electric-welding methods, and many other items,
including even such things as a system of time payments.

During the first two decades of radio the efforts of radio engineers
were directed toward developing methods by which radio could be
used as a means of private communication. It remained for a new
idea, the opposite of this notion, to allow radio to assume its present
stature. Public acceptance of radiobroadcasting was almost instan-
taneous. This case is an exception to the rule that the exploitation
of new products and devices usually results in unprofitable operation
for prolonged periods.

The course of carrier current* also supports this point. In the
middle 20’s carrier current came into successful use for communica-

* Carrier current is a term used to define currents that are superimposed on circuits
such as transmission lines which are already carrying power currents. These carrier cur-
rents are induced in, and collected from, these circuits by the use of high-frequency trans-
mitting and receiving equipment which is not metallically connected to the circuits over
which they are carried. These carrier currents are generally used for communication and
control purposes, and this scheme of operation eliminates the necessity of providing parallel
telephone or transmission circuits,
ELECTRICAL INDUSTRY—SMITH 201

tion along transmission lines. Then came a quiet period of several
years in its development, followed about 1935 by an intensified ac-
tivity which shows no signs of any immediate slackening. The need
for high-speed relaying of long lines, the development of better tubes,
and other changes in the industry spurred engineers to adapt the
fundamentals of carrier current to relaying and supervision as well
as communication.

Spot welding has been a practical, though limited, industrial tool
for many years. However, some 6 or 8 years ago, the idea was con-
ceived of using the ignitron* to control exactly the duration of the
welding current. Since that time, spot welding has grown enor-
mously both in total use and in diversity of applications. The ig-
nitron, incidentally, was originally developed not with welding in
mind but to increase the reliability of mercury-arc rectifiers.

THE PROBLEM OF OBSOLESCENCE

The industrial laboratory poses the inexorable problem of obsoles-
cence. Fortunately the leaders of the electrical industry have taken
the far-sighted view that, in order to make sound progress, the seem-
ing ruthlessness of obsolescence must be accepted. Unless one has
studied the rates of development and consequently the rates of obso-
lescence, it is seldom realized how relentless is the march of progress.

A plant that is modern today may be out of date tomorrow. As
a matter of fact, the more progressive companies attempt to antici-
pate obsolescence. Capital expenditures are made on the basis of
the time at which the new plant or equipment will be obsolete, not
when it is worn out.

The discovery of a new fact in sclence may completely upset an
existing design. Even though the style or performance of a product
may not be greatly modified, the practice of the art or process by
which it is produced may be radically changed. With the steep rise
of welding not long ago, in a few short years the method of con-
structing most large machines swung from casting to welded fabri-
cation. Neither the appearance nor the performance of the machines
was fundamentally altered by this change; the principal motive is
economy of time and of construction cost.

It behooves all managements to keep themselves keenly alive to the
necessity of meeting changes resulting from progress. Of all com-
petition, there is none quite so ruthless as that which replaces. We
all can remember that during the early stages of radiobroadcasting,
several plants rapidly grew up for the making of radio headsets.

‘The ignitron is a special form of the mercury-are rectifier, and is generally used to
convert alternating current to direct current.
202 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

The development of the loud-speaker practically ruined this active
business. The early sets used vaccuum tubes supplied by direct cur-
rent, requiring plate and filament batteries. This created a heavy
production of dry batteries that was subsequently curtailed by the
development of plate-battery eliminators. Later, the development
of the copper-oxide rectifier eliminated the use of the storage bat-
tery for filaments, and still later, the development of a.-c. tubes so
completely changed the design of radio receivers that it rendered
many inventories and factory equipments obsolete.

The most recent step in this evolution—and one that shows the
cyclic character of many industrial developments—is the battery-
operated portable set that has suddenly become so popular. It is
additionally significant that although a tube development displaced
the early battery set, another development of tubes brings the bat-
tery back—the perfection of a tube that operates successfully on 114
volts.

This last development also shows the rewards from the policy of
letting the obsolescence caused by science take its seemingly ruthless
course. The new battery-operated radios do not offer new competi-
tion for established types of radio sets, but instead simply create or
uncover an additional demand for radios. The demand for batteries
and for tubes promises to reach an all-time peak.

Similar successive steps of development occurred in illumination.
A large kerosene-lamp industry was rendered obsolete, particularly
in metropolitan districts, by the coming of the gas mantle. It, in
turn, was replaced by the electric lamps. Now a new family of
lamps—the gas-discharge lamps, which include sodium-vapor, high-
pressure mercury-vapor, and fluorescent units—with efficiencies sev-
eral times those of incandescent lamps, have demonstrated their
practicability. It is still too soon to predict to what extent they will
become the universal illuminants, but there is more than a hint that
illuminant evolution is not at an end. No one in the industry thinks
for a minute that the more efficient light sources presage a decrease
in the requirements for energy or equipment. On the contrary, as
in the past, this improvement should promote further expansion.

INDUSTRY FINDS MANY BENEFITS FROM ORGANIZED RESEARCH

The industrial laboratory has served the march of electrical prog-
ress In many ways. Not the least of these is that it has served to
bring the scientist, the design engineer, and the application engineer
into closer contact. They now talk the same language and use the
same tools. Universities are giving more attention to the training
of industrial scientists, and within the last few years, important
meetings have been devoted to discussions of the application of
physics to industry.
3 ELECTRICAL INDUSTRY—SMITH 203

The cooperation of university and industrial scientific effort has
also contributed much to the progress of development by bringing sci-
entists of different training closer together on specific problems. For
instance, much of the recent progress in the improvement of insula-
tion for electrical apparatus has resulted from the combined efforts
of physicists, chemists, and electrical engineers working harmoni-
ously in close-knit groups. For many years, only a limited number
of scientists in the universities had shown any interest in dielectrics,
particularly solids. The engineer stumbled along rather blindly, and
little progress was made until all phases of the problem were coor-
dinated through the industrial laboratory. This relationship not
only has served an important function in coordinating the efforts of
individuals, but also has exerted a strong influence in bringing to-
gether the various departments within an organization as well as
outside agencies on problems of mutual interest. A new develop-
ment for one department is often seen to be of value to another.
Thus, research acts as a clearing house for information and stimu-
lates its flow from one department to another.

JOINT RESEARCH BETWEEN MANUFACTURER AND SUPPLIER

Another coordinating function of the industrial laboratory is the
cooperative work between electrical manufacturers and the suppliers
of raw materials. For many years, electrical manufacturers have
carried on cooperative research with manufacturers of steel, carbon
brushes, insulating materials, and other raw materials. As a result
greatly improved materials have been developed. These in turn
enable the electrical manufacturer to build more reliable and more
efficient apparatus, which can be extended into new and larger fields
of application.

INDUSTRIAL RESEARCH SHORTENS TIME BETWEEN DISCOVERY AND USE

Another important accomplishment of the industrial laboratory
has been to effect a marked reduction in the time between the dis-
covery of a new idea and its commercial application. For example,
only a few years ago scientists conceived the idea of using as a
germicidal agent a certain type of lamp the rays from which are
lethal to bacteria. In the last 2 or 3 years the resulting Sterilamp
has been put to regular daily use in tenderizing meat, retarding
spoilage of foods, killing bacteria on drinking glasses, helping to
prevent infection following surgical operations, and many other
important tasks.

Even today, however, special attention must be given to this phase
of the problem: After the research work has been completed and
the theory or principle of operation has been verified, there still
204 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19414

remains the decision as to the commercial possibilities of the new
device or product. Usually sufficient information is not available at
this stage on whch to base an intelligent decision. Information as
to probable costs (including equipment investment), processes, pro-
duction methods, market analyses, and distribution methods must be
obtained before a decision to manufacture and sell can be made.
This requires that the new product be carried through some prelim-
inary stage of development, where a study of these factors is made.
Usually this takes the form of some kind of pilot-plant activity
under the direction of a special experimental or development group
that has the responsibility of carrying new products through this
incubation stage following the completion of research work. This
form of development is particularly conspicuous in the chemical
industry.

PATENT SYSTEM STIMULATES NEW DEVELOPMENTS

Our patent system has had a stimulating influence on industrial
research and developments in the electrical industry that should not
be overlooked. It costs money to develop and exploit inventions.
The protection afforded by patents provides an incentive to develop
new things under conditions such that they may be exploited long
enough to become established. Quite often a strong urge toward a
particular development seems to become manifest and inventive effort
starts simultaneously in many places. This seeming chaos that
theorists would like to control from some central throne eventually
turns into true cooperative effort through the practical necessity for
cross-licensing of patents before a useful product can be obtained.
Television is a present-day example. Patents themselves are pub-
lished and the protection afforded does away with the necessity for
secrecy. ‘The new progress that has been made impinges upon other
minds, thereby starting new chains of ideas that result in coordinated
group effort leading to rapid progress.

Without the protection provided by patents, capital would be re-
luctant to venture into new fields. Industrial research would become
secretive, and because of the resulting lack of cooperation and coor-
dinated group effort, our progress in technical accomplishments and
standards of living would be seriously retarded.

In the light of these advantages, many times verified by experi-
ence, it is disturbing to observe the tendency in some political circles
to propose legislation that would destroy these values and place seri-
ous limitations on individual right. Even the uncertainties surround-
ing such proposals create a lack of confidence, tending to retard initia-
tive and technical progress. This same condition exists to a large
extent throughout the industry, and particularly in the public-utility
ELECTRICAL INDUSTRY—SMITH 205

field where political threats and limitations have seriously curtailed
expansion and thus retarded the use of scientific developments di-
rectly in the generation and distribution of electricity.

ELECTRICAL INDUSTRY DRAWS FROM ALL BASIC SCIENCES

Contributions to the development and progress of the electrical
industry have come from practically every branch of the basic
sciences. This is not surprising when we consider the large variety
of materials used in the manufacture of electrical equipment.

Metallurgy—tImprovement in electrical apparatus is largely de-
pendent on the improvement made in the properties of the materials
used. This applies to both physical and chemical properties of vari-
ous kinds. The limitations in physical properties of materials are
most likely to be encountered in high-speed rotating machinery such
as steam turbines, where centrifugal and steam forces are likely to be
large under conditions of high temperature, which in turn tends to
lower permissible stress limits.

Research work done in recent years by both electrical and steel
manufacturers to determine and improve the fatigue, creep,’ cor-
rosion, and other physical properties of various alloy steels used
in highly stressed machines has resulted in such marked advances
in design that output ratings have been more than doubled at the
highest operating speed in less than 5 years.

The electrical industry has also called on the metallurgist for new
and improved magnetic steels and alloys. Magnetic steel, particularly
electrical sheet steel, has been a subject of continued research by both
electrical and steel manufacturers. This has involved studies of
molecular and grain structures as well as of chemical compositions
and purity. This work has resulted in a steady decrease in iron
losses ® in the cores of transformers and machines of such magnitude
that they have been reduced by more than half in the last 20 years,
with a saving to the industry of millions of dollars annually.

Until recently, the improvement in electrical sheet steel was con-
fined largely to iron losses. Practically no improvement in perme-

5 When a load or strain is applied to a structural member such as a steel bar, the bar
elongates or stretches proportional to the load applied up to the elastic limit of the material.
For most practical applications, this elongation for a given stress is presumed to remain
fixed or constant. Actually, most materials will continue to elongate at a very slow rate
(in some cases over a period of years), even though the stress remains constant at a value
below its elastic limit. This property or characteristic of materials to slowly elongate
on a constant stress with time is commonly referred to as “creep.”

*In the iron cores of electrical devices, such as generators, motors, and transformers,
which either generate or receive alternating current, the magnetic flux is subject to
reversal at the same frequency as the generated or applied alternating current. This
reversal of magnetism produces a molecular friction loss inside the iron core which results
in an energy loss that appears in the form of heat. This energy loss is commonly referred
to as “iron loss.”
206 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

ability had been accomplished. As a result of recent research and
development we now have a magnetic steel that has not only lower
iron loss but also much better permeability.

New alloys are sometimes discovered and developed as byproducts
of other research work. In the electrical industry, the need for new
alloys with special characteristics often arises in connection with
new electrical developments. It is therefore often necessary to de-
velop special alloys to meet limitations encountered in electrical
developments, particularly when the volume required is too small
to be attractive to alloy manufacturers. For example, a recently
developed alloy containing only a few percent iron, is stronger at
1,100° F. than any low-carbon steel at room temperature. It creeps
very little. It survives a 6,000-hour creep test at 1,000° F. that
causes cast carbon-molybdenum steel to fail and high-strength nickel-
chromium steel to creep 100 times as much. As an amazing demon-
stration of how it retains its elastic properties when hot, a bar of
steel and one of this alloy were heated to 1,100° F. When struck with
a hammer, the steel bar responded with a dull thud; the alloy with
a clear, bell-like tone.

Chemistry—The application of chemistry to the electrical industry
has been almost unlimited. Chemists have been called on principally
to produce new and improved insulating materials, compounds, var-
nishes, oils, etc. ‘There have been many other developments, however.
For example, a fireproof chlorinated compound has been developed
to replace transformer oil in applications where fire hazards exist.
Many fireproof liquids have been made available, but a great amount
of research and development work has been required in recent years
to obtain a material that also had satisfactory electrical properties
such as high dielectric strength, low power factor, and viscosities
comparable with transformer oil, particularly at low temperature.

Physics.—The foundation of the electrical industry is supported
to a large extent on the laws of physics. Some of the most impor-
tant scientific discoveries and applications therefore have come from
this field. The discovery of electromagnetism, the electron, and the
X-ray are outstanding examples. From researches on the mechanics
of the ion came the principle of circuit interruption by deionization
that has been applied to a whole family of interrupting devices from
the giant circuit breakers that handle millions of kilovolt-amperes
down to the new practical circuit breakers for the home that are
little larger than a wall switch. In the field of electronics, numerous
electrical developments of far-reaching importance have been based
on these and similar discoveries.

Mathematics.—Probably no other industry rests on such a precise
mathematical basis as the electrical industry. From its very begin-
ELECTRICAL INDUSTRY—SMITH 207

ning its every step in the design, construction, and operation of
electrical apparatus has been guided by computation. In fact, the
electrical engineer has invented several mathematical tools to serve
his purposes, such as the complex quantity and symmetrical com-
ponents. He has even placed his mathematics on a mechanical basis,
such as that amazing creation, the calculating board.

Pure mathematical concepts have given birth to many electrical
devices. Particularly has this been true of relays for the protection
of transmission lines and terminal equipment. A conspicuous recent
example is a new, simplified pilot-wire relay that greatly extends
the practical field of this type of relaying. This relay was conceived
directly from the mathematical conception of positive, negative, and
zero-sequence components of alternating currents.

AS TO THE FUTURE

We know so little about nature’s basic underlying principles that
it is incredible that anyone should think that our knowledge of
natural laws is anything but exceedingly small when compared with
the vast amount that is listed in the unknown column. This alone
should be encouraging, for if we can accomplish all that we have
with such a poor understanding, it is reasonable to expect vastly
better results as we obtain more basic knowledge.

While our human limitations may prevent us from seeing very
far into the future, present developments give us some idea of future
trends and in what fields expansions are likely to occur.

In the processing industries, electricity will probably assume an
increasingly important role in the way of metering, regulating, and
controlling numerous phases of new as well as existing processes.
Recent improvements in electric furnaces and their controls, including
the control of the atmosphere inside of the furnace as well, indicate
various possibilities in this field. For instance, heat treatment of steel
sheets for automobiles by continuous processes in less than 15 min-
utes has been accomplished. In the presence of highly purified at-
mospheres, various steels and alloys can now be bright-annealed. In
controlled-atmosphere furnaces, dies can be heat-treated without
oxidation or carburization, thus eliminating subsequent grinding.

In the broad field of air conditioning, electricity will play an im-
portant part, not only in applications requiring power but in the
processing and treatment of the air itself. Electrical means are now
available for cleaning and sterilizing air. These new aids in air
conditioning, coupled with the available services of heating, cooling,
and humidity control, make it possible to improve man’s living con-
ditions so profoundly that he may live in a clean spring or fall
atmosphere all the year around in any locality.
208 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Lightningproof electrical systems were but the dreams of engineers
a few years ago. They are still not a reality, but the day is coming
when they will be. Much has been done in this direction; more is
yet to be done. The recent development of a device for recording
natural lightning strokes that is relatively inexpensive and simple,
so that dozens of them can be installed over wide areas, will be of
tremendous assistance in collecting that quantity of statistical in-
formation about lightning necessary for the construction of protective
devices and self-protecting apparatus. We now have reason to believe
that in the not too distant future lightning, once the great disturber
of electrical systems, will be eliminated as a hazard to power
continuity.

Vast new vistas are being opened by high-frequency electric energy.
High frequencies, which broadly include everything beyond 60 cycles,
are already being used for numerous tasks of melting, heat-treating,
and drying. Packaged raw materials are being dried without open-
ing the containers; bearing surfaces of finished engine crankshafts are
being given additional hardness by localized heating induced by high-
frequency currents. With the rapid developments in high-frequency
generators, both of the rotating and electron tube types, it is not in-
conceivable that all gasoline and Diesel engines, machine tools, and
other machines will be treated by high-frequency when assembled or
partially assembled to harden the wearing surfaces.

The great field of electronics, which is now best known in radio,
television, and communication, can be expected to find a greater
number of future applications in the electrical industry, particularly
in those fields having to do with automatic machine operations, in-
spection of materials and safety methods. Recent progress in the
development of larger and more reliable metal-tank tubes indicates
that electronics may also be expected to play an increasingly im-
portant part in electric-power distribution, both in transformations
and control.

When it is considered that the power consumption in many small
homes today is from 3 to 10 times the national average, due to the
increasing acceptance of electric ranges, water heaters, forced air
circulation, high lighting levels, and other conveniences, we can ex-
pect domestic power consumption to double in a reasonable time.
This indicates the need for an improved low-voltage distribution
system as well as rewiring of homes.

Agriculture is another field that has scarcely been touched by the
electrical industry. In addition to the usual applications of power
and light, there appear to be many possibilities of applying treat-
ments and radiations for the stimulation of plant growth and control
of insects that now infest grains, plants, and seeds.
ELECTRICAL INDUSTRY—SMITH 209

Present researches in nuclear physics in many institutions may re-
sult in obtaining information that will be just as extensive in its
influence on the developments in the electrical industry as was the
discovery of the electron. The production of radioactive substances,
through the disintegration of the atom may provide a very useful
tool. Naturally, one thinks of using these radiations instead of the
X-ray for radiography or for radium in the treatment of disease.
While they no doubt will be used to some extent for such purposes,
the possibility of using these radiations as a means of studying
certain atomic reactions and structures may be even more useful.
For instance, by the use of electrical-detection methods, it appears
feasible to follow the migration of radioactive atoms through a metal
during heat-treating processes. Similarly, it is possible to trace
the movement of radioactive substances through a plant or the
human body and thus learn more about how and where these sub-
stances are assimilated. In contrast to radium, most of these arti-
ficial radioactive substances have such a short life that no permanent
harm is done to the human system.

The present methods of generating electric power are so well
established that we are inclined to accept them as permanent.
Gradual improvements in present methods have reduced the amount
of coal used per kilowatt-hour to approximately one-fourth that
required 20 years ago. While this improvement is indicative of real
progress in steam-power generation, it is still small when compared
with the theoretically possible energy that could be gotten from a
highly efficient method of energy conversion.

With an increasing knowledge of the fundamental properties of
matter and a better understanding of the conduction of electricity
in gases, recent calculations and experimental work indicate that it
may be possible to use the electromagnetic properties of the rapidly
moving ionized products of combustion of certain fuels in conjunc-
tion with some suitable electrical transforming device as a means
of generating electric energy. A practical development of this idea,
which at least appears to be a possibility at the present time, would
result in the use of static electrical devices extracting power from
the kinetic energy of the gases of combustion without the intervention

_of rotating electrical machinery.

| Although these and many other prospective developments that
might be mentioned are indefinite and difficult to evaluate, we can
look forward with the expectation that the electrical industry will
continue to grow under the stimulation and impetus of new scientific
| discoveries and advances.

f
Te FC ae
eR Tien. she

yaar nN
RL ot
nt tay

Pint

, r ye wa
). Yo, BOC

Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Smith PLATE 1

RESEARCH STUDIES OF VIBRATION IN LARGE STEAM

TURBINE BLADES.
THE NEW SYNTHETIC TEXTILE FIBERS?

By Hersert R. MAUERSBERGER
Technical Editor, Rayon Teatile Monthly

We are living in a fast and progressive age as far as textiles are
concerned, recently referred to as a “fiber revolution.” The old nat-
ural fibers do not any longer limit the ability of the textile industry
to create and supply new fabrics of unusual character, beauty, and
usefulness. These new developments mark an advance in fiber tech-
nology, which must be examined and evaluated with the greatest care
by all who wish to keep up-to-date. They create both opportunities
and hazards for the progressive textile manufacturer—opportunities
for those awake to the possibilities they offer of meeting our human
needs more fully; hazards for the ultraconservatives, who let prog-
ress pass by. To the technical man, they are fascinating and worthy
of careful examination and study.

In my investigation of these new synthetic fibers I have not in-
cluded the cellulosic filaments and fibers, such as rayon or modified
rayons. I believe that the word synthetic has never been applicable
to rayon in its various textile forms. True synthesis would involve
the union of chemical elements to form the basic substances from
which a textile fiber is obtained. This stage has not as yet been
accomplished, but the new man-made fibers I shall discuss come very
close to this ideal.

My information has been obtained from sources I believe authentic,
such as patents, chemical abstracts, newspapers, both local and foreign
technical publications as well as private correspondence with the
companies directly involved.

In discussing them with you, I will take them up in the order of
their present relative importance. I will also include a few in which
research work has been practically completed but which have not
been marketed as yet in this country for economic or other reasons,
which I shall state. In each case I will state the origin, comparative

1 Paper presented before American Society for Testing Materials, Papers Session, October
17, 1940. Reprinted by permission from Rayon Textile Monthly, November and De-
cember 1940.

211
430577—42——-15
212 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

properties as far as they could be ascertained, and their present or
past uses.

The importance of these new synthetic fibers may be more fully
understood when it is considered that the supply of some of our
natural fibers may be cut off or prices become prohibitive. At a
recent technologists’ meeting, the Army, Navy, and Air Force have
taken serious recognition of this and are making tests on substitution
for silk and wool in particular.

Through the courtesy of Mr. von Bergen, Director of Research
Laboratories of Forstmann Woolen Co., prints of a number of new
synthetic fibers, both in longitudinal and cross section, are found in
the new Textile Fiber Atlas to be published soon.

NYLON

Nylon is the generic name chosen by the du Pont Co. for “a man-
made proteinlike chemical product, which may be formed into fibers,
bristles, filaments and sheets, and when drawn is characterized by
extreme toughness, elasticity and strength,” to quote from the com-
pany’s statements. This means that it has to some degree the same
chemical composition as the proteins, of which silk, hair, and wool
are common textile examples. The term “nylon” does not refer to
any particular chemical form of the polyamide any more than glass
refers to any particular form or item of glass.

It is an outgrowth of considerable research begun by du Pont in
1928 and its success was announced by the company on October 27,
1938. To explain how it was conceived and how it is made today
would be a paper in itself. I shall confine myself only to the textile
aspect and its various desirable properties. While nylon is com-
monly stated to be made from “coal, air, and water,” much more is
involved. To the technical man, it can be made from a dibasic acid
derived from phenol and a diamine, likewise derived from phenol.
Oxygen from the air is needed in the dibasic acid, and ammonia is
used in making the diamine. Since phenol is commonly derived
from bituminous coal and since ammonia is made synthetically by
causing the hydrogen from water to unite with nitrogen from the air,
it follows that this particular nylon is derivable from coal, air, and
water.

In regard to its physical and chemical properties, it must be said
that nylon is the first synthetic textile fiber that has reached practical
use and thereby has proved definitely that it is possible to make
textile fibers synthetically and with raw materials other than cellu-
lose. Nylon has a crystalline polyamide structure, can be drawn
cold, and is exceedingly strong and elastic. This is attributed to

SYNTHETIC TEXTILE FIBERS—MAUERSBERGER 213

the orientation of molecules in the drawing process, which can be
altered to suit any particular condition or demand. It is the proper-
ties of the yarn resulting from this control of molecular arrangement
which caused the company to introduce it in the manufacture of fine
hosiery. Nylon is also extremely tough, standing long wear and
abuse, making it ideal for the bristles in tooth and hair brushes, fish-
ing leaders and the like. It is resistant to abrasion. Its resistance
to heat is good, 1.e., its melting point is around 480° F., which is
above the temperature normally used in ironing fabrics. Nylon
does not burn or blaze or propagate a flame. It merely melts.
Hence, no fire hazards are involved in its use. It is not injured by
water or any liquid commonly used in the home. It is attacked by
phenol (carbolic acid) and certain mineral acids normally found
in the laboratory only. It is readily wet out by water, but absorbs
much less water than common textile materials. Hence, nylon
articles dry extremely rapidly and are just as strong wet as when
dry. Hot water and saturated steam impart a substantially “perma-
nent set” to nylon yarn and fabricated materials, which serves to
retain its shape. Of course, nylon can be made waterproof or water-
repellent by customary treatments.

Nylon, like all ordinary textile fibers, is subject to injury by
ordinary light. It is claimed to be at least equally as resistant to
indoor and outdoor light as corresponding unweighted silk fabrics.
It can be stored in the absence of light for long periods without
injury. Nylon is absolutely proof against attack by moths, fungi,
and bacteria. Nylon has good insulating properties and high abra-
sion resistance. Its refractive index in the textile form is 1.53 to
1.57 Nylon is doubly refractive and when examined between crossed
Nicol prisms, all colors of the rainbow appear.

Of its present 4,000,000-pound production, 90 percent goes into the
manufacture of fine, full-fashioned women’s hosiery. It has found
application in the manufacture of sewing thread known as “Neophil.”
It is also used for corset fabrics and for shroud lines for parachutes,
and is now being developed for the parachute fabric itself. As a mono-
filament and bristle, it is used in “Exton” and “Miracle Tuft” tooth
brushes and hair brushes; also as surgical sutures.

While nylon is produced at Seaford, Del., with a capacity of
8,000,000 pounds, another plant is being started at Martinsville, Va.,
which will bring the production to 16,000,000 pounds by the spring
of 1942.

Much of this information is already available to technicians, sc1-
entific workers, and textile experts. It is merely repeated for the
sake of A. S. T. M. records and also as a summary for you. Nylon
serves as an excellent example of what can be done to construct and
214 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

manufacture textile filaments and fibers to suit specified needs and
modern demands.
VINYON

This is probably the most promising new synthetic textile fiber.
While already hinted at by Dr. Robert Hooke in 1664, and by René
Reaumur, the production of a suitable and practical textile fiber
from gums and resins did not become a reality until synthetic resins
were made.

Vinyon was originally made by Carbide & Carbon Chemicals Cor-
poration and described in a United States patent, No. 2,161,766,
granted to Rugeley, Field, Jr., and Conlon in 1937. Later in 1939
the American Viscose Corporation took up the manufacture of the
filament yarn and fiber.

Vinyon is the result of extensive research on vinyl polymers,
specifically a copolymer of vinyl chloride and viny! acetate produced
by polymerization rather than by condensation. The raw polymer
in the form of a white fluffy powder is dispersed in acetone and a
dope is obtained containing 23 percent of the copolymer by weight.
After filtering and deaerating, this solution is spun the same as ace-
tate and coagulated by the dry- or warm-air process. After condi-
tioning on take-up bobbins the yarn is wet-twisted to 6 turns per
inch, whereupon it is given a stretch of over 100 percent of its orig-
inal length, giving the yarn its high tensile strength and true elas-
ticity. It is also produced in the partially stretched condition for
certain purposes at a lower price. They are now produced in 40,
60, 80, 120 deniers and up.

Delustering is done by incorporation of pigments and a new
process has been found to produce a mild delusterization directly in
spinning. The yarn has no abrasive action and, owing to its high
tensile strength of 14 grams per denier and elongation from 18-120
percent, will stand abrasion well. The tensile strength is the same
when wet or dry. Dyes are rapidly being found so that it can now be
colored in a wide variety of shades.

These unusual properties have caused the yarn to be employed for
many industrial fabrics, such as filter cloths, pressed felts, sewing
threads and twines of various types, chemical workers’ clothing, sail
and tarpaulin fabrics, fish nets, parachute cords, chemical-resistant
hose, noninflammable fabrics, awnings, curtains, and upholstery.
Vinyon staple fiber has been mixed with cotton, wool, and rayon, and
fabrics made from it will retain their pressed shape, fold, or crease
very well. Maximum concentrations of mineral acids, caustics, alka-
lies, bleaching agents do not affect vinyon. It has no affinity for
moisture, does not support bacteria and virus growth, and is not sub-
ject to damp rot, mold, or mildew.

————

SYNTHETIC TEXTILE FIBERS—-MAUERSBERGER 215

it is truly a synthetic fiber, of truly amazing properties and not
like any natural fiber—another excellent example of what can be done
in creating fibers of special character to meet special needs.

Modifications and further experimentation in this category of
synthetic textile fibers have produced other very interesting and
valuable materials in Europe known as Pe-Ce fiber, Synthofil, Igelite,
and Permalon. The latter is a vinyldene chloride derivative which
the producer, The Dow Chemical Co., calls Saran. According to
Pierce Plastics, Inc., of Bay City, Mich., they take this white powder
and exude it after heating through a die. When the filament issues
from its die it is hot, and thence is passed through a tank of water.
It is then taken to a stretching device, where the size of the threads
is controlled and at the same time acquires a tensile strength of
40,000-50,000 pounds per square inch. When the company first
started, it made Permalon threads solely for fishing-leader material.
They now make small tubing, which is used for catheters in hospitals.
A number of textile concerns are now making a narrow fabric and
upholstery seat fabrics of Permalon threads—a very remarkable and
interesting development of considerable importance.

Dow Chemical has also made experiments with ethyl] cellulose deriv-
atives, known as Etho-raon, Ethocel, and Ethylfil. I am informed
that Dow Chemical is not ready to disclose any details, but has stated
that these materials are very similar to cellulose acetate rayon. It
was first made known at the National Farm Chemurgic Council in
Detroit. More information on these new textile fibers may be
available later.

CASEIN FIBERS AND FILAMENTS

Probably the most extensive and costly research was done on the
possibility of producing synthetic textile filaments and fibers from
milk casein, first mentioned by Todtenhaupt in 1904. He dissolved
casein, which is the coagulable portion of milk, in an alkaline fluid
and then allowed the solution to fall, or pressed it in the form of thin
threads, into an acid bath. Later the spinning solution was dissolved
in zinc chloride, spun and insolubilized in a formaldehyde solution
which made the filaments softer and more pliable. The principal
objections and early difficulties were the proneness to swell, soften,
and stick together at normal temperatures during dyeing. Many ex-
periments were necessary to overcome this and finally resulted in the
Ferretti process of Italy in 1935, which has produced a satisfactory
commercial product known as Lanital.

In Ferretti’s process the casein is dissolved in dilute aqueous alkali,
allowed to stand 2 to 8 days until the solution becomes thick and
viscous. A solvent is gradually added to the desired volume and
viscosity, then spun, rendered insoluble, and deacidified. This fiber
216 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

has shown closer resemblance to wool than any other synthetic fiber
yet produced. This fiber was imported into this country as Lanital
until Italy entered the war.

Owing to certain weaknesses in the casein fibers, particularly
tensile strength in dyeing, attempts have been made to mix viscose
and casein together. Such products as Railan and Cisalfa are the
result of such experiments. Further, casein has been mixed with
Latex and glue with some success in fibers known as Tiolan (German)
and Lactofil (Dutch).

In this country Whittier & Gould in their United States patent
No. 2140274, of December 138, 1938, and later No. 2204535 in June
1940, offered a process of making casein fiber and assigned the patents
for public use.

Recently in this country a new synthetic staple fiber has been an-
nounced by F. C. Atwood, president of the Atlantic Research Asso-
ciates of Boston, under the trade name of Aralac. It was announced
at the National Farm Chemurgic Conference in March 1940, at De-
troit. This casein material is made in natural or opaque form, or
in a delustered condition; also in a softened condition to simulate
the softness of high-quality wool, as well as in an unsoftened con-
dition, possessing a scroop. It is made in less than 20 microns and
over 30 microns to match the thickness of every grade of wool. It
is now being produced commercially by the Aratex Division plant
of the National Dairy Products Corporation, at Bristol, R. I.

The present physical and chemical properties are about the same
as Lanital, reported on by von Bergen. It has a high affinity for all
wool dyes. Its dry strength is about one-half that of wool and its
wet strength is about one-fifth that of wool. Compared to viscose
rayon it has about 10-20 percent less strength. Of course, lack of
strength is not always a drawback to its introduction, as was the
case with rayon.

The longitudinal structure of Aralac is more or less smooth and
shows no pronounced indentations or striations like rayon, but its
surface is peculiarly “rippled,” the only word I can find to describe
it. Its cross section is nearly circular and highly uniform. The
contour shows hardly any deviation frem a smooth circle. Its dif-
ferentiation from soybean and Lanital is not easy, because of its
close chemical composition.

The price of Aralac is now from 40 to 55 cents per pound. Its
principal use at present is in the felt-hat industry, as an admixture
with wool and rabbit hair. It is claimed that hats and hat bodies
containing up to 50 percent of Aralac are already on the market.
Experiments in other woolen fabrics and admixtures are now in
progress and all uses will consume almost a million pounds in the
first year of its existence.

|

/

SYNTHETIC TEXTILE FIBERS—-MAUERSBERGER 217

According to an announcement last week the National Dairy
Products Corporation has a new casein fiber known as R-53? (finer
than Aralac), which is furnished to the Hat Corporation’s three
plants in long continuous strands of 15,000 filaments each. These
are cut to 34-inch staple lengths and blended with natural fur in
proportions of 10-15 percent casein fiber to 90-85 percent rabbit hair.
They claim men’s hats made from this blend are the equal of ortho-
dox felt hats in appearance, feel, resistance to wear and crushing,
and superior in color fastness.

SOYBEAN FILAMENTS AND FIBERS

While the major part of research work in soybean has been in
connection with the preparation of plastics, foods, paints, oils, and so
forth, some work has been done to utilize the protein meal or pulp
after the oi] has been extracted. The work on the casein pulp has
been a side study, rather than a direct study on the part of chemists.

Heberlein & Co., back in 1929, submitted the extracted protein
from soybean to a swelling operation with water under pressure and
heat or a dilute acid with simultaneous treatment with phenols, after
which the filaments are formed by extrusion in the usual manner.

In this country, the first announcement of research work on the
production of a synthetic textile fiber from soybean pulp came with
the opening of the World’s Fair in 1989. A part of the Ford exhibit
was devoted to its manufacture. The Dearborn Laboratories of the
Ford Motor Co. had been working since 1937 on the idea of producing
a synthetic textile fiber that would simulate wool very closely. From
20,000 acres of soybeans under cultivation, they had been using the
soybean oil for paints and the meal for plastics.

The process used is about as follows: After the soybean is crushed
under pressure and the oil extracted with hexane it is passed through
a weakly alkaline solvent, which extracts the protein. The soybean
meal is exceptionally rich in protein value—as high as 50 percent.
The protein is then combined with various chemicals and/or dyestuffs
in a secret process and made into a viscous solution. It is then forced
through a spinnerette and coagulated into filaments in a bath con-
taining sulfuric acid, formaldehyde, and sodium chloride or alumi-
num sulfate. A formaldehyde solution is used to set the filaments
during the winding process. They are bleached and dyed, if desired,

? R-53 is the laboratory name used for this new fiber by the Hat Corporation of America
during the present experimental state of its use. The R stands for research, and the
number indicates that this was the fifty-third fiber tested by the company in the course
of a 20-year search for a fiber that could be used in making top-quality felt hats. R—53,
as used by the Hat Corporation, cannot be regarded as the same as Aralac, because while
Aralae rovings are the original raw material from which the company produces R-53,
much additional processing is necessary before the fiber is ready for hat making. It must
be specially combed to remove noils and knots, and it must be cut to the proper staple
length for blending with rabbit fur.
218 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

and are then ready for commercial use. The filaments are also cut to
produce a staple fiber. The skeins have the consistency and texture
of silk and wool, which are our present protein fibers. Ford officials
have informed me that Henry Ford himself has shown considerable
personal interest in these experiments. The yarn has been woven
and knitted into goods and the company considers its suitability for
auto upholstery definitely satisfactory and practical. Later, the
Glidden Co. at Chicago set up a pilot plant for experimental purposes
of fiber production for the textile trade.

The physical and chemical properties of textile fiber produced
from soybean are particularly interesting. I submitted a sample of
the product to Mr. von Bergen, of the Forstmann Woolen Co., late
in 1939. He reported that it closely resembled Lanital in color, lus-
ter, touch, and crimp. Its tensile strength was 0.94 gram per denier
dry and 0.26 gram per denier wet. The elongation of the filaments
was 112 percent dry and 47 percent wet. This means that soybean
fiber is about four times weaker than wool when dry and approxi-
mately eight times weaker than wool when wet.

The fineness and diameter of the soybean fiber is exceptionally
uniform, approaching nylon in this respect. The fibers are more or
less smooth with fine dots and streaks or short striations, presumably
caused by air bubbles. Similar to protein fibers, soybean fiber does
not burn, but chars and produces the same odor as wool, which is
like burned feathers. He found traces of sulfur present and
yellowish-brown alkali fumes issue when it is heated in a test tube.
The fiber shows a high affinity for acid colors with no visible change
in the fiber itself. For identification purposes Mr. von Bergen sug-
gests a sulfur-content test to distinguish it from Lanital, if this is
ever necessary. Water does not wet soybean fiber as readily as it
does casein fiber and wool. Its specific gravity is 1.31. Recent
samples are more resistant to carbonizing and to boiling in dilute
acids and alkalies.

Hence, the only deficiency is its tensile strength; the filaments and
fibers otherwise show remarkable qualities. I am informed that in
more recent samples from Ford and Glidden the strength had been
improved. Development work on upholstery fabrics has progressed
satisfactorily and it looks as 1f the soybean fiber will soon be a com-
mercially practical textile fiber, ready for the textile trade to use. It
is now used in hat felts, suitings, upholstery fabrics, etc. A com-
mercial plant for the production of this fiber at the rate of about
1,000 pounds per day is now planned.

FIBERS FROM CORN

A protein fiber can be obtained from corn meal, which is a corn
proteid, often called zein or maisin. It has received considerable
SYNTHETIC TEXTILE FIBERS—-MAUERSBERGER 219

prominence since a patent was granted in May 1939 to Corn Products
Refining Co., of Argo, Il]. Zein is obtained from corn and is soluble
in 75 percent alcohol, phenol, mixed solvents such as alcohol and
toluol, aleohol and xylene, and others. The zein, according to Swal-
len, of Corn Products Refining Co., is dissolved in aqueous alcohol
containing a proportion of formaldehyde, which is extruded into an
aqueous coagulating medium and the withdrawn filaments subjected
to a current of air heated to not above 100° C., skeined, then baked at
60°-90° C. for 8-10 hours. Up to the present time there have been
no difficulties in spinning zein filaments, but the product obtained,
when sufficiently insoluble in water, has been deficient in elasticity,
resiliency, and tensile strength in the dry and wet condition. They
can be dyed. Latest reports from Corn Products are that the work
on it has been suspended but may be revived at a later date.

FIBROIN FILAMENTS

The idea of obtaining a merchantable fiber from fibroin, a proteid
substance and the chief ingredient of raw silk, is in itself not new.
It is composed mainly of two constituents—probably proteins—which
comprise chemical combinations of alanine and glycocoll, with some
tyrosine. The problem for a long time was to find solvents for this
substance, which could be obtained from silk waste, old silk stockings,
and silk threads.

The Japanese did considerable work in this field and samples of
some yarns, then termed “regenerated silk,” came to this country in
1937. Samples from Max Baker were analyzed and investigation
showed that a patent and process had been devised in this country in
1923 by Abraham Furman. The patent was assigned to Corticelli
Silk Co., of New London, on May 13, 1924. The company tried the
process out and produced a 75-denier yarn on a small scale from
cocoon waste and other raw and dyed silk noils and waste. The pro-
cedure in brief was as follows: The silk waste was cut into very short
lengths, boiled off twice, hydroextracted and dissolved in a chemical
solution, probably copper or nickel sulfate. The solution was then
forced through filters and piped to storage tanks. It was then de-
aerated and spun on spinnerettes, similar to rayon, with refrigeration,
and coagulated into an acid bath. Bleaching was not necessary and
the yarn was washed and finished in skeins. The lack of sufficient
strength and elasticity finally caused the Thames Artificial Silk Co.
and the Corticelli Co. to discard the process. The Japanese samples,
while a little better in strength, did not satisfy textile requirements.
Many other investigators, such as Galibert, Hoshino, Millar, Lance,
and others, are still trying to perfect this method, but so far none
has succeeded or undertaken commercial production anywhere,
220 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

This is merely an instance of how many efforts have been made and
what types of processes have fallen by the wayside. This does not
mean that they are impractical or that under favorable conditions
they would not be revived.

GLASS FIBERS AND FILAMENTS

Fiberglas (or glass fibers) has been lifted out of the category of
curiosities, and is now a textile raw material, with many potential
applications. It is being produced by two processes—the continuous-
filament process and the staple-fiber method—by Owens-Corning Fiber
Glas Corporation. In its manufacture glass marbles are fed into an
electrically heated furnace, which has a trough or V-shaped bushing
made of metals of a higher melting point than glass. In the continuous
process, molten glass, entering the wide top end of the bushing, is
“drawn” downward by gravity, the glass emerging from 102 tiny holes
in the bottom of the bushing. The filaments, averaging 0.00017 to
0.00020 inch in diameter, are combined to make one strand measuring
0.024 inch in diameter for winding on bobbins. A number of strands
can be plied together to produce a yarn of any size.

In the staple process, the molten marbles are forced downward
through holes of the same type as in the continuous process, but, in-
stead of being “drawn,” they are blown downward by steam under high
pressure. Passing through a burst of flame to eliminate moisture, the
fibers, averaging 8 to 15 inches in length, gather upon, and are drawn
from, a revolving drum. The accumulation of “sliver” follows
grooved wheels to be wound on revolving spools. The subsequent
spinning operation is carried out on regular textile machinery.

Spun yarns have been made as fine as 100s cotton count. The yarn
is put up on beams, cones, tubes, bobbins, and spools, as desired. The
physical and chemical properties of glass filaments and fibers are very
interesting. The fibers are produced in various colors which are not
affected by heat, light, or weather. The fibers are solid, circular in
cross sections, and smooth. Fiberglas is fireproof, resistant to acids
(except hydrofluoric and phosphoric) , weatherproof, and mildewproof.
Good dialectric properties and good thermal-insulating characteristics
are very pronounced. Glass fiber is attacked by strong or hot solu-
tions of caustic soda.

Fiberglas has a high tensile strength which can be varied by chang
ing the glass formula. In general, finer yarns have a greater tensile
strength than coarser yarns of the same size. The tensile strength and
elongation of the basic 102-filament fiberglas yarn are as follows:
Tensile strength, 6.38 grams per denier; elongation, 1 to 2 percent.

The strength expressed in grams per denier of yarns spun from the
staple fiber type is somewhat lower and elongation is higher, 24% to 4
SYNTHETIC TEXTILE FIBERS—-MAUERSBERGER 221

percent. The fibers lose strength when abraded and hence, unless they
are protected by a flexible coating, are not suitable for applications
involving severe bending or creasing. While the fibers themselves are
waterproof, fabrics woven from them are more susceptible to mechan-
ical damage when wet than when dry. Resistance of yarns and
fabrics to abrasion has been improved considerably since fiberglas was
first introduced, and further progress along that line is expected.
At temperatures above 600° F. there is a loss in tensile strength, and
at 1,500° to 1,600° F. the fibers start to soften or melt. Fuiberglas
yarns are approximately two to two and a half times as heavy as
cotton yarns of the same diameter.

Fiberglas yarns can be woven, braided, or knitted on the usual types
of textile equipment. During manufacture a small amount of lubri-
cant is added to the yarn. Special formulas for warp sizing have been
worked out. Fiberglas cannot be dyed satisfactorily by any of the
usual processes. Some experimental work has been carried out on
printing fabrics with lacquer colors.

For the present, fiberglas textiles have been confined to industrial
and decorative purposes. Some knitted fabrics have been produced
experimentally. Aside from shoe fabrics, no attempt has been made
commercially to manufacture fabrics for wearing apparel. Among
the more important industrial applications are filter fabrics; yarns,
braids, tapes, and other materials for electrical insulation purposes;
anode bags used in the electroplating industry; wicking for oil stoves
and lamps; pump diaphragms, and belts for resisting high tempera-
ture, fumes, and acids. Draperies made from fiberglas are now on
the market in a wide range of designs and colors. Among other po-
tential household uses are tablecloths, bedspreads, curtains, uphol-
stery, wall coverings, and awnings. Still other applications are rope,
twine, and sewing thread for sewing glass textiles.

FILAMENTS AND FIBERS FROM CHITIN

Chitin was discovered in 1811 by Braconnot and is a polysaccharide
containing nitrogen, present in the cell walls of fungi and the skeletal
structure of such invertebrates as crabs, lobsters and shrimps. Like
cellulose it may be acetated, but has little resemblance to cellulose
and is quite different from fibroin. Rigby in his United States
patents deacetylated chitin in 1936, and the product as well as many
of its salts may be used for the manufacture of films and filaments.
He has used a 3-percent aqueous solution of medium viscosity
deacetylated chitin acetate for films, filaments, and for cementing
paper sheets, the product being insolubilized by exposure to
ammonia fumes.
222 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Kunike, of Germany, in 1926 found that purified chitin is soluble
in acids, from which the filaments can be spun wet or dry. It has a
round or heart-shaped cross section and its tensile strength is 35 kilo-
grams per square millimeter as against 25 kilograms per square milli-
meter of cellulosic silk. The pale lustrous filaments resemble acetate
rayon and real silk. He claims that the production of textiles from
chitin offers no commercial difficulties.

Thor and Henderson, of Visking Corporation of Chicago, IIl., have
described the production of filaments from regenerated chitin
products. The purified chitin in a modified process is xanthated and
filaments are obtained by treating it with an alkali and then with
carbon bisulfide, filtering, deaerating, and extruding through minute
orifices into a setting bath. The films obtained from regenerated
chitin resemble those of regenerated cellulose, but differ from the
latter in their affinity for dyestuffs. Its dry tensile strength is some-
what better than regenerated cellulose, but its wet strength is much
lower. The only drawback to its commercial introduction is the
insufficient supply of chitin, I understand.

GELATIN SILKS

The earliest attempt to produce a commercial textile fiber of a
gelatin base was Vandura silk by Adam Miller of Glasgow in 1894,
which was not successful owing to its partial solubility in water,
and could not be dyed in filament form. This was followed by Bi-
chromate silk by Fuchs and Bernstein, in which the glue or gelatin
is insolubilized by potassium or sodium bichromate. Gerard, Men-
del, and Ohl worked on producing a gelatin filament, but so far no
satisfactory and economical textile filament has been produced as far
as can be learned.

OSSEIN FILAMENTS

Ossein is closely related to gelatin and is obtained from bones by
dissolving out the mineral part with phosphoric acid and recovering
the ossein by evaporating the mother liquor. There are several
methods of obtaining the ossein. Helbronner and Valee have pre-
pared such filaments. Early difficulties were brittleness. Carbofil
is a German protein fiber obtained by mechanical treatment of horse
or ox muscle, previously treated chemically to remove the major
portion of soluble proteins. The fibers are 3-8 centimeters long and
resemble flax in structure. They are resistant to boiling water and
have been used in surgery.

The Swiss have made a protein fiber known as Marena fiber from
jides and leather wastes, which may be mixed with wool in textiles,
SYNTHETIC TEXTILE FIBERS—-MAUERSBERGER 223

FILAMENTS FROM LICHENIN, PECTIN, ICELAND MOSS, AND AGAR-
AGAR

Vegetable mucilages such as lichenin, pectin, Iceland moss, and
agar-agar have been experimented with in England, for use in
gauzelike fabrics. By incorporating into the viscous mass before
extrusion glycerol, borax, or gluten the fibers become rather flexible.
Such fibers are said to be sufficiently resistant to atmospheric moisture
and to be nonhygroscopic. Colored fabrics are made by incorpora-
tion of ground colored pigments or by spraying on dyes.

ALGINIC ACID FILAMENTS

A synthetic textile fiber has been produced in Germany by Goda
from a jellylike substance containing algin (alginic acid) prepared
from seaweed by dissolving it in ammoniacal copper solution con-
taining alkali metal hydroxide, and spinning it into a bath containing
a salt prepared from furfural and caustic soda, an aliphatic acid,
alcohol and formaldehyde. The filaments are afterward treated
with solution containing a sulfate and sulfite. Sarason, of Great
Britain, also has a method of preparing such filaments; also the
Japanese have a method for forming filaments. Nothing is known
of their success or their commercial introduction. It is merely cited
here to show the possibilities for future synthetic textile filaments
and fibers.
Me . heh day ie A
Rs WA Sad

AS, * in! { i

PLASTICS?

By Gordon M. KLinEe

Chief, Organic Plastics Section, National Bureau of Standards

{With 5 plates]

The parade of new applications in plastics went on in 1940 as
the industry continued its phenomenal growth, as evidenced by the
increased volume of production and greater annual dollar value of
the finished products. This progress can be aptly surveyed by a
glance at the winners of the 1940 Annual Modern Plastics Competi-
tion which drew approximately 1,000 entries, representing the com-
bined contributions of chemists, engineers, designers, molders, and
fabricators in extending the frontiers of the plastics industry.

In the architectural classification awards were given for decorative
and functional uses of plastics in the beauty salon and theater and
for a crystal-clear doorknob resembling the expensive glass knobs
formerly imported from Czechoslovakia and Belgium. In business
and office equipment, new achievements in telephone equipment, hous-
ings for portable sales registers, and drafting devices were recog-
nized. Midget and portable radios in the communications group
and ingenious seasonal displays in decorators’ accessories were out-
standing. The judges selected the woven plastic porch and terrace
furniture, transparent acrylic resin tables, and colorful “period”
Pieces veneered with cast phenolic sheets for top awards in furniture
applications. Such prosaic but essential items as bathroom scales,
brooms, and shower heads revealed further extension of plastics
into the household domain. Plastic diffuse reflectors for fluorescent
lamps won most of the honors in the lighting group. Electrical
and refrigerator equipment, soldering paddles, and nylon-bristle
brushes for industrial purposes represented advances of plastics in
machinery and appliances, and transparent oil containers, electric
razor housings, and greeting cards were selected from a host of
novelty and miscellaneous items. Laboratory dialyzers, portable mo-
tion-picture projectors, and arch supports won recognition in the

1 Reprinted by permission from The Progress of Science, a Review of 1940. Published
by the Grolier Society.

225
226 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

scientific group, and transparent plastic belts and suspenders, shoes,
raincoats, and smocks topped the style and fashion group. In the
sporting goods, games, and toys classification, model boats, chess-
men, and harmonicas of exceptional interest were made of plastics.
The shipping, airplane, and automotive industries were all repre-
sented in the awards made in the transport group. Special listing
was given to the development of resin-bonded plywood, which has
expanded the market for this material to cover many outdoor ap-
plications, such as home construction, boats, concrete forms, outdoor
signs, airplanes, truck and bus bodies, farm silos, and refrigerator
cars.

A consideration of the classification of plastics and of some de-
tails of each type will promote a better understanding of what
plastics are and why they can take on many important tasks.

SCOPE OF THE PLASTICS INDUSTRY

The dictionary definition of plastics as materials which are “readily
responsive to shaping influences” does not place a convenient limita-
tion upon this field. It implies, but does not state, that the material
should maintain its new form when the shaping influences are re-
moved. Even this more limited definition of a plastic would include
a great variety of materials—from the metals which are readily
shaped when heated to the solid rocks of the earth which exhibit
zones of flow at great depths because of the pressure of the overlying
mass.

The modern plastics industry deals chiefly with moldable materials
manufactured from organic compounds, that is, combinations of
carbon with hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, and other elements. The
inorganic molding materials, such as concretes, cements, and ceramics,
and also rubber, an organic substance, are not generally included
within the scope of the plastics trade as it is known today, inasmuch
as the industries utilizing these materials are considerably older
and were already individually organized and developed prior to
the advent of the newer plastics.

Classification on basis of chemical source-—The four principal
types of organic plastics are (1) synthetic resins, (2) natural resins,
(3) cellulose derivatives, and (4) protein substances. A brief de-
scription of each of these groups will serve to indicate to the reader
who is unacquainted with this field the essential characteristics of
each type and the distribution of the various commercial plastics
according to this classification.

Synthetic resin plastics—Public interest has probably centered
largely upon the synthetic resin plastics because of their multiplicity
and versatility. ‘The chemist has been able to produce at will resin-
PLASTICS—KLINE 227

ous materials having the hardness of stone, the transparency of
glass, the elasticity of rubber, or the insulating ability of mica. These
synthetic resins, in combination with suitable fillers, are readily
molded into products characterized by excellent strength, light
weight, dimensional stability, and resistance to moisture, moderate
heat, sunlight, and other deteriorating factors. They lend them-
selves especially to the rapid manufacture of large quantities of
accurately sized parts by the application of heat and pressure to
the material placed in suitable molds and to the use of original or
imitative effects in a variety of colors. Some of the cheap raw
materials used in their production include phenol, urea, formalde-
hyde, glycerol, phthalic anhydride, acetylene, and petroleum. Syn-
thetic resin plastics are known commercially under such trade
names as Bakelite, Catalin, Beetle, Glyptal, and Vinylite. They
are used in an ever-growing variety of applications, such as electrical
parts, automotive parts, closures, containers; costume accessories in-
cluding buttons, buckles, and jewelry; hardware, tableware, and
kitchenware, and miscellaneous novelties.

The powdered molding compositions are generally sold to custom
molders who produce the finished parts. Casting resins and lam-
inated resinous products, described in more detail later, are, how-
ever, usually made into sheets, rods, or tubes by the manufacturer of
the resin. Blanks are cut from these for the preparation of the
finished product by machining operations.

Natural resins—These are more familiarly known to the public
by their common names, such as shellac, rosin, asphalt, and pitch,
than by the proprietary names attached by manufacturers to mold-
ing compositions prepared from them. ‘They are used in industry
for the production of the fusible type of molded product as dis-
tinguished from the infusible articles formed by some of the syn-
thetic resins. Hot-molding compositions are prepared by mixing
shellac, rosin, and asphalts with suitable fillers. Compositions con-
taining chiefly shellac as the binder are used in electrical insulators
for high-voltage equipment, in telephone parts, and in phonograph
records. The terms rosin and resin are often confused. Rosin is a
natural resin recovered as a solid residue after distillation of turpen-
tine from pine tree extracts.

Cellulose derivatives.—The third type of organic plastics, the cellu-
lose derivatives, is probably the most widely used and best known
of any of these materials. To this group belong celluloid plastics
used for making toys, toiletware, pen and pencil barrels, and the
like; cellulose acetate commonly used in the Celanese type of rayon,
safety film, and in place of the slightly less expensive nitrated cellu-
lose when noninflammability is desired; and regenerated cellulose,

430577—42-—16

228 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

familiar to all as the wrapping material Cellophane and the common
or viscose type of rayon.

The basic raw material, cellulose, is obtainable in fairly pure,
fibrous condition as either ordinary cotton or pulped wood. ‘Treat-
ment with chemicals converts cellulose into compounds which are
characterized by the ease with which they can be formed into desir-
able shapes. Cellulose plastics excel in toughness and are especially
useful in thin sheets which have remarkable flexibility. These plas-
tics conduct heat slowly and can be made substantially tasteless,
odorless, and transparent. Their principal applications, in addition
to those mentioned above, include photographic film, safety glass,
flexible window material, artificial leather, airplane dopes, and
lacquers.

Protein plastics.—These are perhaps best known according to the
source of the raw material—for example, casein from skimmed milk
and soybean meal from soybeans. These protein substances are thor-
oughly kneaded into a colloidal mass, which is then formed into
sheets, rods, or tubes by suitable presses or extrusion devices. The
formed pieces are hardened by treatment with formaldehyde. The
finished products, such as buttons, buckles, beads, and game counters,
may be machined from blanks cut from the hardened material or may
be shaped from the colloidal casein mass and then hardened. This
latter process is now common practice because of the shorter curing
time required for the thin pieces.

Classification on basis of heat effect—The plastics used in the
molding industry may be divided into two groups, based on their
behavior toward heat, as (1) thermoplastic and (2) thermosetting.
The thermoplastic materials are permanently fusible, that is to say,
they alternately melt or soften when heated and harden when cooled.
If they are subjected to very high temperatures, vaporization or
decomposition takes place. The cellulose derivatives, some synthetic
resins, and most of the natural resins are examples of this type. The
thermosetting plastics, on the other hand, may be made permanently
infusible. ‘This group is usually further subdivided into three stages
on the basis of changes in physical and chemical properties. The
product of stage (A) is called the initial condensation product and
may be liquid or solid; it is both fusible and soluble. The inter-
mediate or stage (B) product is insoluble and difficultly fusible, but
it can be molded by the proper application of heat and pressure.
This is the usual condition of the resin in the molding composition
when it is received from the manufacturer. Further heating of
this material, as in the process of molding, converts it to the final
or stage (C) product, which has a permanent set and maximum
PLASTICS—KLINE 229

hardness, strength, resistivity, and insolubility. Most of the molded
products of synthetic resin composition which are on the market
belong to the thermosetting type.

HISTORY OF THE DEVELOPMENT OF PLASTICS IN AMERICA

A chronological survey of the development of plastics in America
is presented in the following paragraphs. By discussing them in
the order of their appearance on the market a better idea of the
underlying needs which led to their production and their relative
importance in the plastics industry today will be obtained. ‘The spe-
cial properties which characterized each new material and which
in many instances were there by design and not by mere chance alone
will be described. The important uses which have been made of
these various plastics will be recounted.

Cellulose nitrate plastic—The oldest of the synthetic plastics is
the cellulose nitrate or pyroxylin type. It is amazing that a material
so hazardous to handle and so readily decomposed by heat has held
an important share of the plastics business for so many years. How-
ever, it has many unique properties which until recently have made
it the best available thermoplastic material for many purposes.
Alexander Parkes, an Englishman, prepared various articles from a
solution of cellulose nitrate and camphor during the period 1855 to
1865, but John Wesley Hyatt, an American, is generally credited
with being the first to attempt to work with cellulose nitrate as a
plastic mass rather than in solution. He is said to have been moti-
vated by a desire to find a substitute for ivory in the manufacture of
billiard balls, in order to win a prize offered for that achievement.
Although unsuccessful in obtaining the award, Hyatt with his
brother, Isaiah S. Hyatt, took out a patent in 1869 for making solid
collodion with very small quantities of solvent, dissolving the
pyroxylin under pressure, thus securing great economy of solvents
and a saving of time. The Albany Dental Plate Company was or-
ganized in 1870 to handle the first application of the cellulose-nitrate-
camphor plastic. By January 28, 1871, the demand for the material
for miscellaneous uses had become sufficiently great to bring about
the formation of the Celluloid Manufacturing Co., which moved in
1872 from Albany to Newark, its present location. Today Celluloid is
only one of a number of trade names, such as Nixonoid and Pyralin,
that are used to designate cellulose nitrate plastics produced by
various firms in America.

Cellulose nitrate plastic was one of the first to be used in the auto-
mobile, being employed in sheet form as windows in the side cur-
tains of early models. Its flexibility and nonfragility were impor-
230 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

tant factors in this application, but its susceptibility in the trans-
parent form to ultraviolet light resulted in rapid deterioration of
these sheets. Typical applications of this plastic include bag
frames, brushes, buckles, clock dials and crystals, drafting instru-
ments, fountain pens, piano keys, shoe eyelets and lace tips, spectacle
frames, toilet seats, tool handles, toothbrush handles, toys, and covers
for wooden heels. The contributions of this first synthetic plastic to
the plastics industry have been extensive and lasting. It not only
paved the way for the advances which have been made in formulation
and pigmentation of all thermoplastics, but it also supplied much of
the mechanical and operative means of manufacture and fabrication.
It was the real pioneer in the development of the market for plastics
and in many of their uses.

Shellac plastic—The next plastic to become of importance in this
country was shellac molding composition. Shellac is of natural
origin, being produced by an insect which lives upon certain trees
in India and southern Asia, and has been known and utilized for
many centuries for various purposes, such as a component of sealing
waxes, polishes, and varnishes. In 1888, Emile Berliner had worked
out the details of the method that made it possible to engrave a sound
groove on a flat disk, but means of duplicating these recordings in
large numbers remained to be perfected. He tried both cellulose
nitrate and hard rubber, but neither of these materials was satisfac-
tory for his purpose. In 1895 he turned to a plastic composition
containing shellac as a binder, and soon the technique of molding
shellac-base phonograph records was under full development. It
remains today the largest single outlet for shellac in the plastic
molding field. The properties which make it especially suitable for
the manufacture of records are ease of molding, toughness, hardness,
fidelity of reproduction, low cost, and the possibility of reusing the
scrap material. Developments in the past 20 years have been pri-
marily in its application as a resinous binder for cloth, paper, silk,
mica, and other electrical insulating components.

Bitumen plastic—The third plastic to become industrially impor-
tant in America was the bituminous type, more commonly known as
cold-molded. Emile Hemming was the pioneer in its development
in the United States and introduced it on the market in 1909. The
raw materials used in the preparation of cold-molded plastics are
asbestos, asphalts, coal tar, stearin pitches, natural and synthetic
resin, and oils. The asbestos in the proportion of 70 to 80 percent
contributes the body of the material and the bituminous or resinous
ingredients in the proportion of 20 to 30 percent function as the
binder. The molding is done at or near room temperature, hence the
name cold-molded. The pieces are removed immediately from the
PLASTICS—KLINE 231

mold and cured in electrically heated ovens to drive off the volatile
constituents, oxidize or polymerize the oils or resins, and so trans-
form the plastic into a hard, infusible state. The cold-molding
operation is faster than hot-compression molding since the curing
is not done in the mold, but the higher pressures required for cold
molding and greater abrasive action of the mineral filler make mold
maintenance much more of a problem than it is in hot molding.
Typical applications of cold-molded plastics include connector plugs
on household electrical equipment, heat-resistant handles and knobs
for cooking utensils, and battery boxes.

Phenol-formaldehyde resin.—The first and still the most versatile
of the commercial synthetic resins, the phenol-formaldehyde con-
densation product, was described and patented in 1909 by Leo Hendrik
Baekeland. Thus, both the original thermoplastic material, cellulose
nitrate plastic, and the original thermosetting material, phenol-
formaldehyde resin, were first developed commercially in America.
Johann Friedrich Baeyer had reported in 1872 that the reaction be-
tween phenols and aldehydes leads to the formation of resins, but
no products of industrial interest were obtained for the next 35 years
because of the inability of investigators to control the reaction.
Baekeland’s fifth-mol patent provided this essential feature, and his
heat and pressure patent described the technique for converting this
resin in a relatively short time into a molded article of excellent
mechanical and electrical properties. The basic patents covering the
preparation of solutions of this resin and their use in impregnating
fibrous sheets to make laminated products were issued to Baekeland
in 1910 and 1912, respectively.

The manufacture of Bakelite phenolic plastics was begun in Baeke-
land’s Yonkers, N. Y., laboratory in 1907. The General Bakelite
Co. was organized in 1910 and was merged in 1922 with the Condensite
Co. and the Redmanol Chemical Products Co. into the Bakelite Cor-
poration. Since the expiration of the basic patent in 1926, many
other firms have marketed phenolic resins under other trade names,
for example, Durez and Resinox.

An important modification of this general type of resin is the use
of furfural, produced from waste oat hulls, in place of formaldehyde
for the condensation reaction with phenol.

Typical applications of phenolic plastics include distributor heads,
coil parts, switches, and related elements in automobiles and air-
planes, camera cases and other housings, corrosion-resistant apparatus,
and telephone and radio equipment. In combination with paper and
fabrics, phenolic resin produces laminated products which are used
for gears, bearings, trays, table tops, refrigerator doors, wall coverings,
doors, and counter and cabinet paneling.
232 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Casein plastic.—The discovery of the tough, insoluble, hornlike mass
produced by the action of formaldehyde on milk casein is said to
have been made by two men who were looking for a composition ma-
terial to replace slate for blackboards. These two men, Wilhelm
Krische and Adolph Spitteler, began production of casein plastic
about 1900 in Germany and France, respectively, using the trade name
Galalith, meaning milk stone. It was 1919 before successful produc-
tion in America was realized, and its use has been limited because
of the marked variations in climate throughout the year, which lead
to warping and cracking of this plastic. Its use is confined to small
articles like beads, buckles, buttons, game counters, novelties, and
trimming accessories.

Cellulose acetate plastie—A period of very active development of
new plastic materials in America started with the appearance of
cellulose acetate in the form of sheets, rods, and tubes in 1927. The
firm which pioneered in the development of pyroxylin plastic also
introduced cellulose acetate plastics to the American market. This
was accomplished by a combination in 1927 of the Celluloid Co. with
the Celanese Corporation, already a large producer and consumer of
cellulose acetate for rayon manufacture. In 1929 the first cellulose
acetate molding powder was marketed for use in compression molding.
The appearance of the injection molding press in the early thirties
greatly increased the speed with which molded articles could be pro-
duced with this thermoplastic material. Cellulose acetate plastics and
molding powders are now available from several commercial sources
and have outstripped the cellulose nitrate type in the quantity and
dollar value of annual production.

Cellulose acetate very early found use as a safety photographic
film to replace the hazardous cellulose nitrate product. Many of the
applications of this plastic—for example, protective goggles, oil gages,
screw-driver handles, and flexible window material—have been
brought about by the safety factor introduced by its high resistance
to impact. It is employed in practically every make of automobile
and the total number of acetate parts involved is well over 200, includ-
ing such items as knobs, handles, switches, escutcheons, steering
wheels, instrument panels, horn buttons, and dials. Some of the
trade names for cellulose acetate plastics are Lumarith, Plastacele,
and Tenite I.

Urea-formaldehyde plastics—The appearance of the urea-formal-
dehyde resinous molding compound on the American market in 1929
meant the extension of unlimited color possibilities into the field of
thermosetting molding. Two such urea molding powders, Aldur and
Beetle, became available that year, while another, Plaskon, was mar-
keted in 1931. Extensive use of urea plastics in the illuminating in-
PLASTICS—KLINE 233

dustry has resulted from their efficiency in providing a diffused light,
plus their lightness in weight and shock resistance. The fact that
they are insoluble, infusible, tasteless, and generally chemically inert
has made possible their successful use for bottle closures and light-
weight tableware. The urea-formaldehyde resins have also been in-
troduced into the field of laminated plastics as paneling and trim for
bathrooms, libraries, and hotel and theater lobbies, in order to take
advantage of the many stable colors in which they are produced.

Cast phenolic plastics—Phenolic resin for casting is prepared in
the form of a viscous syrup which is poured into lead or rubber molds
and hardened by heating. Products were made as early as 1910 from
cast Bakelite resinoids, but in their modern form cast phenolics were
first introduced in America in 1928. Cast phenolics are known by
such trade names as Catalin, Gemstone, and Marblette. They owe
their popularity quite largely to their beauty and decorative value,
and this type of plastic is often referred to as the “gem of modern
industry.” Typical application include advertising igns and dis-
play, clock cases, game counters and pieces, radio housings, and
lighting fixtures. More recently their ue in indutrial adhesives and
laminating varnishes has been promoted.

Vinyl resin plastics—Resins formed by copolymerization of vinyl
chloride and vinyl acetate were first made in the United States by
the Carbide and Carbon Chemicals Corporation under the trade name
Vinylite in 1928. This type of resin has found its most important
uses in phonograph records, coatings for concrete and metals, can
linings, adhesives, and electrical insulation. In a highly plasticized
form, it is now employed for making transparent belts, suspenders,
and shoe uppers. The resins formed from the individual esters—
vinyl chloride and vinyl acetate—are also important commercially
for the manufacture of wire and cable coverings, coated fabrics, ad-
hesives, and plastic wood-filled compositions. Polyvinyl butyral plas-
tic has been found to be outstandingly superior for use as the binder
in laminated glass for the automotive and aircraft industries. Three
plants were built for its manufacture during 1937 and 1938, and it
has now largely supplanted cellulose acetate in this particular appli-
cation. Production of vinylidene chloride resin was initiated by the
Dow Chemical Co. in 1939, and 1940 saw its successful use in fishing
lines and seat coverings.

Styrene resin—In 1937 the Dow Chemical Company made avail-
able a synthetic monomeric styrene of high purity and a correspond-
ing polymeric product, Styron, in clear, transparent form. The
Bakelite Corporation also started to manufacture Bakelite poly-
styrene this same year. The most significant properties of polysty-
rene are its low power factor and practically zero water absorption.
234 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

These remarkable properties make styrene resin exceptionally well
suited for radio-frequency insulation. Its transparency and chemical
resistance are responsible for most of its other uses, such as bottle
closures, refrigerator trim, automotive accessories, and indirect light-
ing of mileage and other indicators.

Acrylic resins—The acrylic resins were first prepared industrially
in America in 1931 for use in coatings and as a binder for laminated
glass. The better-known and very interesting methyl methacrylate
resin is a product of more recent origin. The cast resin, called Plexi-
glas and Lucite, respectively, by its two manufacturers, reached the
production stage during 1937-38. The airplane industry has found
these cast sheets particularly well adapted to their requirements for
gun turret and cockpit enclosures because of their lightness, weath-
ering resistance, nonfragility, and clarity. The resin’s high internal
reflection makes possible spectacular and useful lighting effects in
edge-lighted signs and dental and surgical instruments. This type of
resin has been found to be preeminently suited for dentures. Its
optical qualities make it suitable for spectacle and camera lenses and
for reflectors for indirect highway lighting.

Cellulose acetate butyrate-—The Hercules Powder Co. introduced
this material in 1932 as a protective coating base. The Tennessee
Eastman Corporation started manufacture of a cellulose acetate
butyrate molding composition in 1938 and designated it as Tenite IT,
the original Tenite being their cellulose acetate molding compound.

Cellulose acetate butyrate compositions are superior to cellulose
acetate plastics in weathering resistance and in freedom from warp-
ing. The requisite plasticity can be produced with a relatively low
percentage of plasticizer and with comparatively nonvolatile and
water-insoluble plasticizers. The applications of cellulose acetate
butyrate plastic are primarily such as result from its combination of
toughness and resistance to weathering, for example, woven furniture
for exterior use, automobile accessories, and fishermen’s equipment.
Its record of achieving new applications during 1940 was outstanding
among the plastics.

Ethylcellulose.—The first cellulose ether to be made commercially
in America was ethylcellulose. The Hercules Powder Co. began
making it in 1935 and the Dow Chemical Co. undertook its manu-
facture in 1937, marketing their product under the trade name Etho-
cel. Ethylcellulose plastic has not as yet come into general use for
molded parts. Its chief applications to date have been in protective
coatings, adhesives, paper and fabric coatings, wire insulation, and
extruded strip. Another cellulose ether, methylcellulose, was an-
nounced by the Dow Chemical Co. late in 1939. Methocel, as it is
called, is water soluble, odorless, tasteless, and nontoxic. It yields
films which are greaseproof and highly flexible.
PLASTICS—KLINE 235

Lignin plastics.—The utilization of waste wood and sawdust for
the production of molding compositions has been the objective of a
considerable number of investigators for the past 10 years. Wood
contains approximately 25 percent of lignin, a complex and highly
reactive organic compound. In 1937 a lignin plastic first became
available under the trade name Benaloid, manufactured by the Ma-
sonite Corporation. The development of lignin molding compo-
sitions of both the thermoplastic and thermosetting types was
announced in 1939 by the Marathon Chemical Co. The possible
commercial applications of this type of plastic have just begun to
be explored. The low cost of the necessary ingredients makes this
plastic of interest for industrial applications which require large
quantities of material, such as certain automotive parts, building
units, furniture, and wall paneling.

Alkyd resins —A survey of plastics would not be complete without
mention of the alkyd resins. They are used primarily as coating
materials which, incidentally, are the largest single outlet for syn-
thetic resins. Over 75,000,000 pounds of these resins were produced
in 1939, out of a total resin production of about 215,000,000 pounds
for that year. They are made by the reaction of phthalic anhydride
or maleic anhydride with glycerol or other polyhydric alcohols.

Finishes based on these resins, Glyptal, Dulux, and Rezyl, are
characterized by rapidity of drying, good durability outdoors, excel-
lent flexibility, tenacious adhesion, and electrical insulating qualities.
These resins during the thirties replaced the pyroxylin lacquers to a
large extent for finishing the bodies and fenders of motor cars.

Nylon resins.—These polyamide resins are made from polyamines
and polybasic acids. They could be called amkyd resins, following
the terminology used in the name “alkyd” for resins made from
polyhydric alcohols and polybasic acids. The basic raw materials
for nylon resins are castor oil from which sebacic acid (a 10-carbon
dibasic acid) is obtained, and phenol which by hydrogenation and
oxidation yields adipic acid (a 6-carbon dibasic acid). Hexamethyl-
ene diamine made from adipic acid, and decamethylene diamine made
from sebacic acid are typical diamines used in synthesizing these
resins. Nylon resin was made available on a large scale by E. I.
du Pont de Nemours and Company, Inc., during 1940. It has already
proved its suitability to manufacturer and consumer alike for hosiery
and has been accepted as a superior bristle material for tooth brushes,
hair brushes, and brushes for miscellaneous industrial purposes.

Coumarone-indene resins—The manufacture of this type of resin
from certain coal-tar distillates was begun in 1919 by the Barrett
Co. using the trade name Cumar. In 1929 the Neville Co. marketed
such resins as Nevindene. The low softening points and brittleness
of these resins have restricted their use to serving as plasticizing
236 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

agents and tackifiers with various organic binding materials in rubber
compounding, floor-tile compositions, and other industrial applica-
tions. Annual production in 1935 was 8,000,000 pounds and the
output is said to have increased appreciably in recent years.

Molding technique-——The discovery of the fundamental principle
involved in the operation of the hydraulic press is generally conceded
to have been made by Blaise Pascal in 1653. The adaptation of this
principle to a practical machine is credited to Joseph Bramah in
1795. Little industrial use was made of it until after the discovery
of the vulcanization of rubber by Charles Goodyear in 1839. A
simple hydraulic rod-type press, between the platens of which a
2-piece mold was inserted, was developed for handling the manu-
facture of rubber products and was subsegently employed for
molding the thermoplastics.

The advent of the phenolic thermosetting resin in 1909 provided
the stimulus for introducing features in the compression molding
press which would increase the output from a given mold. However,
realization of the fully automatic compression molding press has
come about only in the last 2 to 3 years. These presses perform all
the operations of routine molding of thermosetting plastics, consist-
ing of measuring the charge of molding powder, preheating it, loading
it into cavities, closing the mold, opening it slightly for breathing,
that is, expulsion of gases, closing it again for a predetermined
curing period, opening the mold, ejecting the finished pieces, blowing
flash from the cavities and plungers, and then repeating this cycle
hundreds and thousands of times with the only manual labor required
being to keep the hopper supplied with the molding powder.

The original conception of the injection molding principle is com-
monly attributed to Edmond Pelouze, who in 1856 developed a die-
casting machine for forcing molten metal into a die by mechanical
or hydraulic means. The industrial history of the injection molding
machine for plastics in the United States is only about 5 years old,
a fact which seems almost incredible when one looks at the huge 1940
model capable of taking a mold 8 by 4 feet in cross section and
turning out four 36-ounce moldings every minute.

The need for the injection molding machine came with the com-
mercial development in 1929 of the heat-stable thermoplastic mold-
ing material, cellulose acetate, which required an uneconomical
chilling period when molded by conventional compression methods.
The cellulose acetate plastic, however, unlike the older cellulose
nitrate type, could be kept hot for a relatively long period in a heating
chamber and injected hot into a cold mold, wherein it cooled in a
few seconds to a temperature at which it would maintain its shape
and hence could be ejected from the mold.

PLASTICS—KLINE 237

At the close of 1935 there were approximately 75 injection mold-
ing machines in use in America, mostly of 14 to 144 ounces per cycle
capacity and suitable only for the molding of small articles, such as
buttons, pocket combs, and costume jewelry. The demands of molders
for machines of increased capacity and sturdier construction to be
used for turning out parts for industrial applications led domestic
press manufacturers to construct injection molding machines with
radical changes in the design of the heating cylinders, spreading de-
vices, injection plungers, and clamping devices. By combining sey-
eral cylinders, each feeding into a different inlet in the same mold,
parts of considerable size weighing up to 36 ounces can be produced.
It is estimated by the Institute of Plastics Research that at the close
of 1940 there were in the United States 1,000 injection molding
presses, 11,000 compression presses, 550 preform presses, and a rapid-
ly growing number of plastic extruding machines.

SUMMARY OF 1940 ADVANCES

No really new plastics appeared on the market during 1940, but
outstanding progress in developing increased volume and new mar-
kets can be credited especially to the vinyl ester resins and cellulose
acetate butyrate. Vinylidene chloride resin is commanding attention
in its applications as high-strength fibers and seat coverings. Nylon
resin is entering the industrial field as bristles for brushes used in
the textile-printing trade. There was further activity in the manu-
facture of melamine resins, which, in combination with the chemically
similar urea resins, are finding ready acceptance by the automotive
industry as a hard, durable, rapid-baking finish for car exteriors.

Improvements in injection and compression molding presses have
been concerned primarily with various operating features, partic-
ularly heating and automatic controls. The technique of continuously
extruding thermoplastic materials also advanced considerably dur-
ing 1940, and extruded plastics are replacing reed and rattan in
woven furniture. A process for forming molds by spraying metal
against a model has been perfected to the point where production
molds have been made and are being tested in service.

The aircraft industry was spotlighted during the past year, and
further important strides were made in the use of plastic plywood
for molding airplane wings and fuselages. An outstanding develop-
ment in this field was the laminated plastic tab for insertion in
aileron, elevators, and rudders to aid in balancing and controlling
the aircraft during flight. The reinforced plastic contributes a saving
in weight and greater rigidity in this part. Other military applica-
tions of plastics include transparent plastic windshields for airplanes,
luminescent resins for various devices, cellulose acetate chutes for
238 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

conveying ammunition from boxes to machine guns, plastic face pieces
and lenses for gas masks, molded parts for shells, and the use of
synthetic fibers in parachutes.

Resin-bonded plywood in 1940 expanded into many industrial fields.
Refrigerator cars constructed largely of this material are said to be
6,000 pounds lighter than the previously used type and to provide
an economy in fabrication costs because of an 86.5 percent reduction
in the number of joints. Simplification of small-boat construction
and improved weather-resistant decking and planking for larger
craft have also marked the introduction of this material into the
shipbuilding industry. The use of laminated plastic for bearings
and cams in high-speed industrial machinery was further extended
during 1940. Jigs and fixtures made of laminated plastic represent
a new development for light milling operations. Laminated sheets,
rods, bars, and tubes of various cross sections and lengths are avail-
able so that these tools can be produced with very little machining.

Progress in plastics applications during 1940 may be summed up
by noting that many branches of industry, such as the automotive,
radio, refrigerator, and mechanical handling fields, which had pre-
viously made extensive use of plastics, added new molded parts to
their products, and that other manufacturers of consumer goods,
faced with military priorities for light and heavy metals, turned to
the synthetic plastics as readily available and suitable materials for
structural parts of many types of equipment.
Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Kline PLATE 1

Ie

SUCCESSIVE STEPS IN THE MANUFACTURE OF A PLASTIC.

At the starting line are these snowy cotton linters. Taken from the cottonseed after the spinnable
cotton has been ginned, these short, fuzzy fibers are bleached and scoured to a fluffy mass of pure cellulose.
2. Into this acetylating mixer go the cotton linters, catalysts, and a vinegary solution of acetic anhydride
and acetic acid. Powerful machinery stirs the mixture during reaction. 3. Drastic transformation.
Acetylator tips up, and out pours an entirely new substance—cellulose acetate. 4. The cellulose acetate
is then hydrolyzed (or ripened) in huge storage jars. 5. Cellulose acetate reappears in cakes which may
eventually become photographic film, transparent wrapping material, acetate rayon, or other plastics.
6. The plastic, Tenite, shown here is supplied in granular, blank, and sheet forms for molding. It is
available in plain and variegated colors, and in all degrees of transparency from crystal clear to opaque.
‘a1g JO ddUNSa1d oY} UL SNOpiezeyuoU

*oj1U9, [, JO SI UMOYS 9UO 9UL,
S AyYBUI SOrsBId yUoBdsuUBIy P9yUT} 10 Iva —)

AUBUL 1OJ n
3 PSO[N][90 B ‘al90B4Se[q JO P[sIysoA SIY.L,

pue s[lo Aq poajooyeun ‘s1o[10 9[qBaolA
“SNVD 110 YOs4 SOILSV 1d “1

c ALV 1d aUl| J—" | p6| ‘W4odeay ueruosyyIUICG
Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Kline PLATE 3

1. WEAVING A PLASTIC MATERIAL.

Woven Saran makes a rattanlike seat covering.

PP g\
2. NYLON BRUSHES IN INDUSTRY.

The operator is inserting new brushes into the machine which is used by a bottling company.
I : J
DLR] [2 MOPULM Ivar pUB ‘oINsopoU Idy909 “pPporyspulM B sey auR[douour [e}oUI-[[B MOT STU L,

‘aTISRTA agITAUTA JO SJoeys poystpod ‘repo W10d; poze
“NOILODNYULSNOD ANV1dy IV NI SOILSV1d

y 3aLV 1d aul sJ— "| 61 ‘qaoday ueIuOsYyyIWG
‘ONse[d Juost[ises “YdN07 YYysIeMIYSI B ‘OVIMAT, JO paprour st a MOYSVU0 0 “OPBI
JO [[BJ OY} UL 9UIT, 4SIG OY} OJ WOITPIIS 94] UO WdVS aIOM SJOMIPAY [[Bq100] O1SRIq

“NAWSSAHD SILSV1d ‘2 “LAWTIAH SOILSV1d ‘1

“949 T, peplour-uoT,deful 018 UIUISSOyd ISO LD

Qc =3 1 wn FF
VITAMINS AND THEIR OCCURRENCE IN FOODS’

By Hazet EK. MUNSELL
Nutrition Chemist, Washington, D. C.

INTRODUCTION

The first vitamins were discovered less than 3 decades ago, but
since then an almost phenomenal number of substances has been
classified in this nutritionally important group. A complete listing
at the present time would include as many as 40 or more and there
are indications of the existence of still others.

The presence of vitamins in foods was recognized from observa-
tions of the almost spectacular effect certain foods have on growth,
function, and general well-being of the body. For centuries it had
been known that the juice of limes or lemons would prevent or cure
scurvy, but there had never been an adequate explanation of this
relation. When it was demonstrated that a substance in the outer
coating of the whole rice grain would cure or prevent the disease
known as beriberi, and that butter and egg yolk contained a sub-
stance required for growth and for the prevention of a peculiar type
of inflammation of the eye, it became apparent that foods contain
certain substances other than protein, carbohydrate, fats, and min-
erals which are likewise essential for normal nutrition.

The substances in foods credited with these properties were dis-
tinguished by descriptive terms as the antiscorbutic, antiberiberi,
and antiophthalmic factors, respectively, or on the basis of their
solubility, as water-soluble C, water-soluble B, and fat-soluble A.
When the name “vitamin,” from the term “vitamine” originally used
for the antiberiberi substance, was suggested for them as a group
they were designated vitamin C, vitamin B, and vitamin A. Since
the chemical composition of the vitamins became known, several of
them have received names related to their chemical structure. Thus,
vitamin C is now known as ascorbic acid, vitamin B, as thiamin,
vitamin G or B, as riboflavin, and vitamin B, as pyridoxine.

1Reprinted by permission from The Milbank Memorial Fund Quarterly, vol. 18, No. 4.
October 1940.

239
240 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

For various reasons a number of the water-soluble vitamins have
been grouped together as the vitamin-B complex. Vitamin B, and
vitamin G were the orginal members of this group which now in-
cludes nicotinic acid and vitamin Bg, as well as five or six other
factors not mentioned in this discussion.

The number of vitamins actually known to be essential in human
nutrition is relatively small. The importance of vitamins A, B,, and
C in the diet is now well known. It is certain that vitamin D is a
requirement of children, and while it may be needed by adults as
well, perhaps in lesser amounts, this is yet to be demonstrated. Evi-
dence of the significance of riboflavin (vitamin G) in the diet of
man has been obtained within the last 2 years, and we now have a
clear picture of the external symptoms that follow the use of a diet
deficient in this factor. Since the announcement in 1937 of the value
of nicotinic acid in the cure of the disease in animals which is com-
parable to pellagra in man, considerable information has accumu-
lated to establish the value of this substance as a pellagra preventive.
There is still some question as to whether nicotinic acid and/or
nicotinamide can unreservedly be designated the pellagra-preventing
or P-P factor or factors, but there can be no doubt that they are
specific in their effect on certain symptoms of pellagra. The sub-
stance in foods which is referred to as vitamin K helps promote the
clotting of blood, and the supposition now is that it functions in
man, aS well as in animals, in maintaining a normal level of pro-
thrombin in the blood. An anemia which occurs in chicks given a
diet deficient in vitamin K responds to treatment with extracts
containing this vitamin.

These are the vitamins definitely known to be required by man.
There is also considerable evidence in favor of two others, vitamin
FE and vitamin B,. Vitamin E (alpha-tocopherol) has been shown to
be important for normal reproduction in several species of animals
and it may be required for successful reproduction in the human
species as well. Both vitamin E and vitamin B, are being actively
investigated at the present time.

The importance of the vitamins to normal nutrition is now fully
recognized, although there is still a great deal to learn about these
substances. In planning foods for the day it is essential to know
how to select them for vitamin values as well as for their content of
protein, carbohydrate, fat, and minerals. The purpose of this article
is to give a brief and not too technical presentation of our knowledge
of the properties and food sources of these vitamins. A brief de-
scription of the method of quantitative expression used for them and
a table of values for vitamin A, vitamin B,, vitamin C, and riboflavin
content of common foods are also included.

oe
VITAMINS—MUNSELL 241
PROPERTIES AND FOOD SOURCES
GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS

The most distinctive common characteristic of the vitamins is the
fact that they occur in foods in almost infinitesimal quantities and
are effective in the body in similarly small amounts. Beyond this
they have little in common since they differ markedly both in their
physical and chemical properties. Some are soluble in water while
others dissolve only in fats and fat-solvents. Some are easily de-
stroyed, especially at high temperatures and when oxygen is present,
as when foods are heated in air. Others are fairly resistant to de-
struction by heat even when heated for several hours at temperatures
well above the boiling point of water. In the case of nearly all of
them, however, destruction takes place more rapidly in alkaline than
in acid solution.

In estimating the vitamin value of foods in the diet it is essential
to know and keep in mind the properties of the various vitamins in
order to be able to take account of possible losses. Consideration
of changes that occur in the vitamin content of foods during processes
connected with preservation and preparation, such as storage, freez-
ing, cooking and canning, and drying, is of as much importance as
consideration of the vitamin content of the fresh or untreated food.
A food which, in its original state, is a perfectly good source of one
or more of the vitamins may have its content of one or all of these
factors reduced to insignificance as a result of the treatments it un-
dergoes during preparation for consumption. Loss of vitamin value
may be brought about not only as a result of inactivation or destruc-
tion of the vitamins but also through their mechanical removal by
solution, the vitamin passing out of the food material into the sur-
rounding liquid.

While vitamins are found in foods of both plant and animal
origin, plants—generally speaking—should be considered the pri-
mary sources since animals depend upon plants for their supply of
most of the vitamins. This does not mean that the substance re-
sponsible for vitamin value in plant tissue is always the same as that
having a similar function in animal tissue. Vitamin A, for instance,
does not occur in plants, the vitamin-A value of plants being due to
certain orange-yellow substances called carotenoids. These are broken
down in the liver of the animal so that vitamin A is derived from
them, and for this reason the carotenoids are sometimes called the
“precursors” of vitamin A.

It is now well known that foods show marked differences both in
the kinds and amounts of vitamins they supply. Differences in the
vitamin values of different foods do not constitute the only problem
242 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

of variation that must be considered, however. There is the equally
important matter of variation from sample to sample of a single
food item. While it may generally be taken for granted that samples
of a given food, selected at different times, will contain the same
kind or kinds of vitamins, it does not necessarily follow that they
will contain equal quantities of any kind. The idea must not be
held with respect to any natural food, that it has a definite and fixed
content of any vitamin—unless, perchance, it is zero.

The problem of sample variation in vitamin content of foods is
responsible for some of the newer phases of vitamin research, espe-
cially in connection with studies related to food production. Some
of the factors associated with this variation have been identified but
there is still much to be learned. In foods of plant origin, variety in
a given kind is very often an important factor in relation to vitamin
content. Age and maturity of the product, its size, the amount and
kind of fertilizer used in cultivation, the amount of moisture present
in the soil, and the degree of exposure to sunlight may also have
considerable influence. In foods of animal origin the breed of the
animal from which the food comes, as well as its age and physical
condition, is sometimes of significance, but the most important fac-
tors are the vitamin content of the animal’s food and, in the case of
vitamin-D value, the length of time the animal was exposed to sun-
shine. This sums up to the conclusion that values for vitamin con-
tent can in no sense be considered exact unless correlated with an
adequate knowledge of the conditions that might have had an
influence on them.

A point of considerable practical importance in dealing with vita-
min values for foods is the fact that relative vitamin potency may
easily be discussed by reference to food groups or food types. <A diet
can be planned on the basis of food groups rather than individual
foods, thus lessening the tendency to place undue emphasis on one
food that may have been shown to be very rich in a particular
vitamin.

VITAMIN A

Properties.—Vitamin A belongs to the group of fat-soluble vita-
mins and is practically insoluble in water. The pure vitamin, pre-
pared by freezing it out of solution, is a pale yellow, viscous, oily
substance. It is not readily broken down by heat but is inactivated
by oxidation, especially when heated in a medium where there is
free access of oxygen.

As already explained, the vitamin-A value of foods of plant origin
is due not to vitamin A, since this substance does not occur in plants,
but to the presence of orange-yellow pigments called carotenoids—
“precursors” of vitamin A. There are four of these substances:

VITAMINS—MUNSELL 243

alpha-, beta-, and gamma-carotene, and cryptoxanthin. Beta-caro-
tene is by far the most important and most widely distributed in
natural food products. Cryptoxanthin occurs in only a few foods.

The carotenoids, like vitamin A, are soluble in fats and fat-solvents
and are not readily inactivated by heat except as oxygen is present.

Food sources—The vitamin-A precursors may occur in any part
of a plant root, stem, leaf, flower, fruit, and seed. There is con-
siderable variation, however, in the amounts present in foods of
plant origin. Many contain them in abundance, and some carry only
small amounts or none at all.

An orange-yellow color in foods of plant origin indicates the
presence of one or all of the plant carotenoids from which vitamin
A may be derived and furnishes a rough index of vitamin-A potency
in many vegetables as well as in fruits. Carrots and sweet potatoes
are outstanding examples of this relationship. This index holds
good where there are yellow and white varieties of a given product.
Yellow turnips, yellow peaches, yellow corn, and yellow tomatoes
are sources of vitamin A whereas the corresponding white varieties
are not. To avoid confusion as to the application of these findings
a word of caution seems advisable here. The fact of the presence of
vitamin A in yellow varieties of foods is no reason for ignoring the
white varieties. They may have values the yellow ones do not have.
There is a place in the diet for all types of foods and there is little
or no reason for consistently using certain ones and excluding others.
Care should be taken to avoid applying factual information on food
values in a fanatical way.

A yellow color is not invariably associated with vitamin-A po-
tency, for there are yellow plant-pigments that do not yield vitamin
A. A red color has no relation to vitamin-A value and is not indica-
tive of it except that in some foods a red color may mask the orange-
yellow of carotene. An example is the red-fleshed tomato containing
carotene either in the flesh or the skin.

Experience has led to the recognition that a green color? in plants
indicates vitamin-A value. Green leaves, and more especially thin
green leaves like those of spinach, kale, dandelion, and leaf lettuce,
are among the richest sources of vitamin A. Other green foods that
are notable in this respect are green string beans and green peppers.
The stems of asparagus, celery, and broccoli, and many other plants,
may be appraised for vitamin-A value on the basis of greenness.
Bleached parts of plants that would normally be green but do not
have the green color, either because the chlorophyll never developed

7Chlorophyll, the green coloring matter of plants, does not itself form any part of
vitamin A, but the high concentration of this vitamin in parts of the plant where chlorophyll
functions has led to the suggestion that it may play a role in the formation of the vitamin.
Vitamin-A potency in other parts of the plant would in that case be due to substances
transported to them for storage.

430577—42 17

244 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

or because it was destroyed as in the case of winter cabbage, the
inner leaves of lettuce, and the bleached stems of asparagus and celery
have practically no vitamin-A value.

In general, roots and tubers may be accepted as low in vitamin-A
value with the exception of carrots and sweet potatoes, as noted above.
Seeds, including nuts, cereal grains, and legumes (peas and beans),
are on the whole low in, or totally devoid of, vitamin-A value unless
they have some green or yellow color as peas and yellow corn.

Vegetable oils contain little or no vitamin A.

Among the foods of animal origin, eggs and milk are important
sources. The hen and the cow do not convert all of the carotene
obtained from their feed into vitamin A, and eggs and milk contain
both vitamin A and carotene. In both cases the proportion of vita-
min A is much higher than that of carotene. The ratio between the
quantities of these two substances in milk from different breeds of
cows may be significantly different, some breeds, for instance, con-
sistently giving milk which contains a higher proportion of carotene
than others. Since vitamin A is soluble in fat and only slightly, if at
all, soluble in water, the vitamin-A value of the egg is in the yolk
and that of milk is in the cream. Butter is an important source of
vitamin A, and other milk products, such as cheese, contain it in
proportion to the quantity of milk fat present.

Eggs and milk show wide variations in vitamin-A values. The
total quantities of both vitamin A and carotene in eggs and milk are
influenced by the quantities present in the feed of the respective ani-
mals producing these foods. During the summer months, when
green feed is available, milk and eggs may show radically higher
values than during other months of the year, although present-day
feeding practices, by the use of feeds of high vitamin-A value
throughout the year, tend to eliminate seasonal variation.

In contrast to its precursors, the carotenoids, vitamin A has very
little color. Inasmuch as milk and eggs contain both carotene and
vitamin A, color is of little value in judging their vitamin-A po-
tency. This is especially true of eggs. If the hen derived vitamin-A
value from green feed or products rich in carotene, the yolk of the
eggs will be deep yellow in color and will have a high vitamin-A
value. If the hen did not have access to green feed or other highly
colored food, but was given feed containing cod-liver oil, which
contains vitamin A but not carotene, then the yolk of the eggs will
be very light in color and still will be rich in vitamin A.

Meats vary considerably in their vitamin-A value since much
more of this factor is stored by some tissues than by others. Liver,
especially, retains large amounts of it when there is an abundance of
the vitamin in the diet, which makes it a rich food-source but from
the standpoint of cost it can hardly be considered an important one.
VITAMINS—MUNSELL 245

Glandular organs, other than liver, contain fairly large amounts of
the vitamin but, like liver, they are available in limited quantities.
Lean muscle meats contain only small quantities of vitamin A.

Losses of vitamin-A value.—Vitamin A and its precursors are not
greatly affected by any of the processes connected with food preser-
vation and preparation unless there is considerable chance for oxi-
dation. Foods that are stored show a loss only after prolonged stor-
age. This is greatest in foods that have been dried preparatory to
storing, such as dried grasses and dried fruits. Even though such
foods were good sources to begin with, they may lose as much as 50
percent of their vitamin-A value in a few months’ time. Boiling and
steaming cause practically no diminution in vitamin-A content.
Losses have been noted as a result of baking but they are not serious;
in roasting, destruction of vitamin A is appreciable.

As would be expected there is little or no loss of vitamin A when
foods are canned. During storage the vitamin-A content of canned
foods may decrease but this change takes place gradually and usually
is not appreciable up to 9 months.

VITAMIN B, (THIAMIN)

Properties.—Vitamin B, is a white crystalline material that is solu-
ble in water. In plants it seems to exist in relatively simple combina-
tion and may be removed fairly easily by extraction with water. In
animal tissue it is present in more complex form combined with
phosphate.

Vitamin B, is described as heat-labile—that is, unstable when
heated. Inactivation depends entirely, however, upon conditions
under which it is treated. In acid solution it is relatively stable but
in neutral or alkaline solution it is readily broken down, the rate of
destruction being higher with increase in alkalinity, temperature,
and time of heating. The rate of destruction of the vitamin is also
higher when it is heated in solution or in mixtures that are moist
than when heated in dry mixtures.

Food sources.—Vitamin B, occurs in practically all foods derived
from plants with the exception of fats and oils, but there are very
few concentrated sources. Vitamin-B, values of foods seem to be less
subject to the influence of conditions of production and are therefore
somewhat more constant than other vitamin values.

The relatively low concentration of vitamin B, in foods and the
lack of sensitivity of the methods for measuring it have not made it:
possible to determine its distribution in the different parts of plants
as Closely as in the case of some other vitamins. Seeds, including
grains, nuts, and legumes, are known to be among the richest sources.
_ In grains, the vitamin is concentrated in the embryo and outer cover-
246 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

ing. In the process of refining, these parts are largely removed,
hence the importance in the diet of whole-grain breads and cereals
from the standpoint of vitamin B,.

All fruits and vegetables contain some vitamin B,;. Although
none of them is a rich source, they should be considered important
sources since they comprise a part of all diets and are usually eaten
in relatively large amounts. Potatoes should be considered especially
in this respect.

Milk is a good source of vitamin B, in that it is generally con-
sumed without having been subjected to treatment other than pasteur-
ization which entails little loss of the vitamin. Eggs are also a
good source, the vitamin being in the yolk.

Meats should probably be rated as good sources of vitamin B,,
although there is considerable destruction during cooking. For
reasons not yet determined pork has a vitamin-B, content two or
three times greater than other meats, and the dark meat of chicken
may be richer than the light meat. Glandular organs, liver and kid-
neys for example, are somewhat richer than muscle meats.

Fats and oils do not contain vitamin B,.

Losses of vitamin B,.—In considering loss of vitamin B, in foods
it is essential to keep certain facts clearly in mind: (1) The vitamin
is soluble in water; (2) it exists in foods in different combinations
which may have a bearing on the ease of removal and also on its
destruction; and (3) inactivation of the vitamin depends upon con-
ditions,’ and the quantity destroyed cannot very well be expressed by
a definite percentage but is more a matter of rate of destruction.

When foods are cooked by boiling, the proportion of vitamin B,
destroyed is relatively small up to cooking periods as long as 1 hour,
and generally does not exceed 10 to 15 percent unless the food is
distinctly alkaline or has been made so by the addition of soda.
The loss by solution, on the other hand, may be considerable, de-
pending, in addition to other factors noted, upon the proportion of
water used. Larger amounts of water remove more of the vitamin.
The proportion of vitamin B, found in water in which food has
been cooked has been reported as high as 50 percent of that origi-
nally present in the food. If this water is used there will be little
loss of the vitamin.

Baking causes only slight, if any, destruction of vitamin B, but
the higher temperature and longer time required for roasting results
in appreciable destruction.

2 Acid solutions containing vitamin B, have been heated as long as 1 hour at 120° C.
without appreciable deterioration of the vitamin. In slightly alkaline solutions losses ap-
proximated 30 percent during 1 hour of heating at the boiling point of water. Dry mix-
tures containing vitamin B, have been heated at 100° C. for as long as 48 hours and have
shown no detectable change in their vitamin-B, content.
VITAMINS—MUNSELL | 247

In canning there is apparently no loss of vitamin B, from process-
ing, the greatest loss taking place during blanching or other proce-
dures where there is a chance for solution. There are very few data
to support a statement concerning the effect of storage on vitamin
B, in canned foods. Losses noted were determined after about 6
months’ storage and ranged around 40 percent.

Practical information on the inactivation of vitamin B, in foods
during drying is almost entirely lacking. The vitamin seems to be
retained fairly well by foods dried at a temperature of 60° C. but at
higher temperatures destruction is probably considerable.

VITAMIN O (ASCORBIC ACID)

Properities—Vitamin C in its pure form is a white crystalline
material with an acid taste and is readily soluble in water. It is
inactivated by oxidation and the rate of destruction increases
rapidly with increase in temperature. The degree of acidity of the
mixture also has a marked influence on the stability of vitamin C. In
an acid mixture like tomato juice it is destroyed only slowly, but in
less acid solutions the rate of destruction is much more rapid.

Inactivation of vitamin C by oxidation proceeds in two steps. By
mild oxidative processes a substance called dehydroascorbic acid is
formed. This substance, which functions in the animal body as vita-
min C but does not respond to the usual chemical] test, may be re-
duced to ascorbic acid. Under more drastic conditions of oxidation
the vitamin is completely inactivated and iis activity may not be
restored.

Food sources.—Vitamin C may well be called the vitamin of fresh
foods. This does not mean fresh from the market, but fresh from
the plant or animal that produced the food. One authority has said,
“with the exception of ripe seeds, practically all fresh foods of either
plant or animal origin contain generous amounts of vitamin C.”

Fruits and vegetables are, on the whole, the richest sources of
vitamin C. There is a tendency, however, to limit the emphasis to
fruits and vegetables that can be eaten raw, and more especially to
the citrus fruits and tomatoes. Since these specific products are not
only outstandingly rich sources of the vitamin but also retain their
potency remarkably well during the various treatments to which
they may be subjected, they have come to be considered almost
essential in the diet. This tendency should probably not be encour-
aged to the extent of diverting attention from other fruits and vege-
tables that are equally important for vitamin C. In some localities
and at certain times of the year other fruits and vegetables, if
handled so as to conserve their vitamin-C value, might be more
economical than citrus fruits or tomatoes.
248 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Other fruits that may be considered important from the stand-
point of vitamin-C content are strawberries, blueberries, and cran-
berries. Among the vegetables, peppers are outstanding in the quan-
tity of vitamin C they contain. Cabbage and other members of the
cabbage family, cauliflower and brussels sprouts, and turnips and
rutabagas also contain large amounts. Vitamin C occurs in fairly
high concentration in all leaves such as spinach, collards, turnip
greens, and watercress.

Variation in vitamin content according to variety has been studied
more extensively with respect to vitamin C than for any of the other
vitamins. Rather wide varietal differences have been shown for
apples, tomatoes, oranges, and cabbage. In the case of oranges sev-
eral other factors are known to influence vitamin-C content, making
varietal differences as studied of lesser importance. Fully ripe fruit
contains more of the vitamin than partially ripe fruit, and that ex-
posed to sunlight is richer than that from the shaded side of the tree.
The vitamin-C content of a given variety of orange decreases pro-
gressively as the season advances although this change is less pro-
nounced for some varieties than others. Conditions of cultivation
also have an influence, but these are not as well defined as other
factors. The extent of differences that exist in the vitamin-C content
of oranges may be illustrated by values obtained in the Bureau of
Home Economics on a dozen oranges examined individually. These
oranges were of uniform size and appearance and were purchased
at one time and came from a single bin in a store in Washington,
D. C. The vitamin-C content ranged from 24 to 60 milligrams of
ascorbic acid per 100 milliliters of juice.

Factors other than variety that may influence vitamin-C content
have also been studied with apples and tomatoes. With apples, size
is significant. In this fruit the vitamin is concentrated in the skin
and in the flesh just under the skin. Since the proportion of skin to
flesh is greater in small than in large apples, a small apple contains
more vitamin © in proportion to its weight than a large one. In
tomatoes there is a gradual increase in vitamin-C content as the fruit
matures while during the actual process of ripening there may be a
decrease.

Milk and meats should not be considered significant sources of
vitamin C. Milk as it comes from the cow contains an appreciable
amount, but this is inactivated rapidly as the milk stands. Meats are
not important sources because whatever vitamin C they contain is
destroyed during cooking. Eggs do not contain vitamin C.

Vitamin C is not present in fats and oils since it is soluble in water
and not in fats.
VITAMINS—MUNSELL 249

Losses of vitamin C.—Loss of vitamin-C value from foods may
occur as a result of inactivation by oxidation or removal of the vita-
min by solution.

Consideration of losses from oxidation require mention, at least,
of factors pertaining especially to this vitamin. Some fruits and
vegetables contain substances called oxidases that accelerate the rate
of inactivation of vitamin C by oxidation. These substances in turn
are inactivated by heat and are destroyed in a short time when kept
at the boiling point of water. Small amounts of copper coming from
utensils and containers also catalyze, or hasten the oxidation of vita-
min ©. Some foods also contain within their tissues an amount of
oxygen sufficient to be a factor in the oxidation process.

Deterioration of vitamin C begins in all foods as soon as they are
removed from the environment in which they were produced. This
is the reason for indicating carefully what is meant by “fresh foods”
from the standpoint of vitamin-C content. The rate of inactivation
of vitamin C in fruits and vegetables that are allowed to stand seems
to depend upon their physical characteristics. Thin leaves like spin-
ach lose vitamin C rapidly and may retain no more than 50 percent
after standing 2 or 3 days. Peppers having a smooth compact
outer covering, show little loss. In apples the loss is gradual and
ripe tomatoes may be stored as long as 10 days without detectable
change in vitamin-C content. Rate of inactivation in all such prod-
ucts increases with increase in temperature so that loss is less when
they are kept under refrigeration.

In plant products inactivation is more rapid when the plant cells
have been opened up so that the vitamin is exposed to oxygen. De-
crease in vitamin-C content takes place in vegetables that are pre-
pared for cooking or canning and then allowed to stand. Foods that
are chopped or crushed lose vitamin C rapidly and may contain ap-
preciably less of the vitamin after standing only a few hours. The
rate of destruction of the vitamin is less, however, at low tempera-
tures in such cases. Expressed juices like orange juice and tomato
juice may be stored in covered containers at household refrigerator
temperatures for as long as 24 hours with no detectable change in
vitamin-C content. Rate of destruction after that time depends
upon whether the oxidases have been previously destroyed by heat-
ing. Canned tomato juice, after the can is opened, shows little
change in vitamin-C content after several days’ storage in a
refrigerator.

Heat markedly accelerates the rate of destruction of vitamin C
and cooked foods are not dependable sources of this vitamin. Toma-
toes are a notable exception since they are rich sources to begin with
and due to their high acidity they show loss of the vitamin only
250 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

after prolonged heating. In foods that contain oxidases destruction
of vitamin C during cooking is very rapid at first or until the tem-
perature is reached at which the oxidase is destroyed when it pro-
ceeds at a much slower rate. To preserve vitamin-C content during
cooking, foods should be cooked quickly. They should also be
served immediately since cooked foods lose vitamin C more rapidly
when allowed to stand than do raw ones.

When foods are boiled some of the vitamin C they contain may
dissolve in the cooking water. This dissolved vitamin may be con-
served, obviously, by using the water. The proportion of vitamin C
destroyed in foods that are boiled averages 20 to 25 percent while 30
to 40 percent may be present in the cooking water depending upon
the amount used.

Foods that must be cooked at temperatures higher than that of
boiling water do not retain enough vitamin C to require
consideration.

Reduction in vitamin-C content from canning is less than in foods
cooked by other methods since air is largely excluded during proc-
essing. Decrease in vitamin-C content is greater in foods that are
preheated in an open kettle before they are put into the can than in
those canned by the cold pack method. Blanching may cause some
loss of vitamin C through solution, but this procedure at the same
time effects inactivation of any ascorbic acid oxidase present.

Canned foods may be stored several months without showing
serious decrease in vitamin-C content, but when deterioration once
begins it proceeds rapidly. Inactivation of vitamin C in canned
goods is directly and specifically related to the size of the bead space,
hence, this should be kept as small as possible. Conditions of stor-
age do not seem to be closely related to rate of loss of vitamin C in
canned foods. The question as to whether loss is greater in foods
canned in tin or in glass is still in the controversial stage.

In considering canned foods as sources of vitamin C, one impor-
tant point must be kept in mind. Such foods have been cooked at a
fairly high temperature and the cellular structure is largely broken
down. If they are allowed to stand after removal from the can or
are heated and then allowed to stand they will not have very
much vitamin C. Tomatoes are an exception since they retain vita-
min C well under most conditions because of their high acidity.

Drying of foods is very destructive of vitamin C. Some dried
products—fruits—have been reported as containing small quanti-
ties, and sulfured foods are supposed to contain more than others;
but the amounts left even in foods that have just been dried are so
small that it seems safer on the whole to disregard dried foods as
probable sources of this vitamin.
VITAMINS—MUNSELL 251
VITAMIN D

Properties.—At least 10 different substances are known to have
vitamin-D activity but only two of these are of practical importance.
They are vitamin D, or activated ergosterol, known also as calciferol,
and vitamin D, or activated 7-dehydrocholesterol. Ergostero] which
is found only in plant tissue, and 7-dehydrocholesterol, which is asso-
ciated with cholesterol, the sterol in animal fats, are often called pro-
vitamins. Under the influence of ultraviolet light (irradiation) they
are changed into active forms of vitamin D. The commercial prep-
aration known as Viosterol, is a solution of activated ergosterol in
oil.

The relative activity of these two forms of vitamin D is different
for different species of animals. A preparation of vitamin D, or
calciferol, judged by tests with rats to have the same activity as a
given preparation of vitamin Ds, will be judged to be considerably
less potent when examined by tests with chicks. Thus, while, for a
given effect, chicks may require the same amount of vitamin Ds,
they will require more vitamin D,.

Vitamin D (D, and D;) is soluble in fats and is not affected by
heat or oxidation.

Food sources——Vitamin D does not occur to any extent, if at all,
in foods of plant origin, but plants do contain the provitamin, ergos-
terol. Dried plant tissue containing ergosterol acquires properties
of vitamin D on exposure to ultraviolet light. Yeast contains large
amounts of ergosterol, and irradiated dried yeast is an important
source of vitamin D.

The only significant natural sources of vitamin D are among the
foods of animal origin. These include milk, eggs, liver, and fish that
are rich in oil, like salmon and herring. The value of these foods
as sources of vitamin D may well be questioned, however. The
quantities of the vitamin that they contain are so small compared
to the quantities needed by children for protection against rickets as
to be of little practical value in this respect, and if adults require
vitamin D it is difficult to believe that the quantity is as small as
that ordinarily supplied by the use of these foods. This statement
does not apply to fish-liver oil, which is the richest natural source of
vitamin D. Since foods of animal origin are the only ones that
contain vitamin D naturally, and they contain only vitamin D, this
form of the vitamin is sometimes referred to as natural vitamin D.

The vitamin-D content of milk and eggs may be increased by
feeding the animals producing these foods some rich source of the
vitamin. Cows may be given irradiated yeast. “Metabolized” vita-
min-D milk is produced in this way. The greater proportion of
252 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

the vitamin D in such milk will be vitamin D, with the small quantity
of natural vitamin D normally present. Eggs of high vitamin-D
activity are obtained by including cod-liver oil in the hen’s feed so
that eggs generally contain only natural vitamin D.

Milk may also be enriched in vitamin D by irradiating the cow,
by irradiating the milk, or by adding concentrates of the vitamin
directly to the milk. Only the last two methods have been used
to any extent commercially.

RIBOFLAVIN (VITAMIN G)

Properties.—Pure riboflavin is a yellow crystalline material readily
soluble in water, giving a yellow green-fluorescent solution. Ribo-
flavin is not readily destroyed by heating but is less stable in alkaline
than in acid solution.

As it occurs in nature, riboflavin forms part of a protein phos-
phoric acid complex that must be broken down pores the pure
vitamin can be obtained.

Food sources—Food sources of riboflavin are less completely
known than are sources of the other vitamins so far discussed. This
is due partly to its later discovery but largely to the lack of a
satisfactory method of measurement.

Milk, eggs, and lean meats are the richest sources. The yolk and
the white of eggs contain it in about the same concentration. As
riboflavin occurs associated with protein, it is present in milk in the
skimmed milk and not in the butterfat.

In plants, riboflavin seems to be concentrated in the green parts.
Thin green leaves are especially rich sources. Green stems are much
richer than the flower or the root. Although the vitamin is more
concentrated in the green parts, the bleached parts of plants are not
devoid of it, as they are of vitamin A. Most root vegetables and
tubers contain some riboflavin. In fact, riboflavin is present in
practically all vegetables of one sort or another.

Seeds vary considerably in the amounts of riboflavin they con-
tain. Legumes, peas, beans, and especially soybeans are good sources,
while nuts and cereal grains are not so rich. The germ portion of
the seed usually contains a high concentration of riboflavin, as it
does of vitamin B,.

In general, fruits are low in their content of riboflavin. The ma-
jority can be rated only fair and some fruits such as grapes, lemons,
oranges, and grapefruit, contain little more than a trace. If there
is a basis for classifying fruits as to riboflavin content, it is not
apparent in the few data now available.

Fats and oils have already been described as not containing the
water-soluble vitamins B, and C. They are also about the only
foods that do not contain at least traces of riboflavin.
VITAMINS—MUNSELL 253

Losses of riboflavin—There is not a great deal of information
available on losses of riboflavin in foods. From the fact that the
vitamin is soluble in water it might be anticipated that there would
be loss during boiling or any process where food is kept in contact
with water for any length of time. It will be remembered, however,
that in foods riboflavin is combined with other substances. The
difficulty experienced in removing the vitamin from foods by those
who have undertaken quantitative estimation by chemical tests indi-
cates that probably no great amount would be removed during
boiling, blanching, or soaking.

Riboflavin is described as heat-stable, which again might lead one
to think that losses during cooking would be small. Milk whey,
having an acidity comparable to that of tomato juice, was found to
lose only 10 percent of its riboflavin value when heated at the boiling
point of water for 1 hour, and 4 hours of heating was required to
reduce the original value by 30 percent. When the mixture was
made only slightly alkaline, the rate of destruction reached 30 to 40
percent for 1 hour of heating. This is a clear indication that con-
ditions within the medium influence inactivation of riboflavin as they
do inactivation of vitamin B,. Under similar conditions, in a liquid
medium the rate of destruction of riboflavin was found to be slightly
less than the rate of destruction of vitamin B,. This relieves the
situation relative to lack of specific information on loss of riboflavin
in foods, since any measures designed to reduce losses of vitamin B,
during boiling apparently would also operate to protect against losses
of riboflavin.

In contrast to vitamin B,, riboflavin is less stable when heated in
a dry mixture than in one that is watery or even only moist. This
may afford partial explanation of the fact that the most extensive
losses noted have been in the baking, roasting, and frying of meats.
These ranged from 30 to 60 percent.

There is no indication that storage causes loss of riboflavin irre-
spective of whether foods are fresh, canned, or dried. Canning per
se does not seem to reduce the riboflavin content of foods or at least
not significantly. Information on the effect of drying is not
available.

NICOTINIC ACID (PELLAGRA-PREVENTING FACTOR)

Properties.—Nicotinic acid is a white crystalline substance soluble
in water and fairly resistant to heat. The amide, nicotinamide, is
also effective as a pellagra preventive. Like some of the other vita-
mins discussed, nicotinic acid as present in foods is combined with
other substances and is not easily removed until these complex
compounds are broken up.
254 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Food sources——No consistent effort has been made to determine
the nicotinic acid content of foods accurately. Most of the studies
along this line have been concerned with determination of pellagra-
preventing value directly. Some of these studies have been made
with dogs as subjects and some with human beings. It is difficult to
correlate the two kinds of data. Appraisal of pellagra-preventing
value of foods on the basis of content of nicotinic acid depends upon
the quantity of this substance required for the cure and prevention
of pellagra; and this has not yet been definitely determined, although
it can be stated approximately.

Milk, lean meats, eggs, fish, liver, and some vegetables have long
been known to be valuable in the cure and prevention of pellagra.
Among the vegetables, green leaves are especially effective, and the
legumes (peas and beans) and tomatoes have some value.

Losses of nicotinic acid.—The pellagra-preventing value of foods
is not reduced easily. Foods have been heated in an autoclave or
pressure cooker as long as 6 hours without showing a decrease in
effectiveness. Canned foods seem to be equally as good as the
corresponding fresh ones.

VITAMIN K (THE ANTIHEMORRHAGIO VITAMIN )

Properties.—Vitamin K is one of the newer vitamins. It is a color-
less or slightly yellowish crystalline substance soluble in fats but
not in water. It seems to be resistant to heat but is destroyed by
alkalies and certain substances that bring about oxidation.

Food sources ——Vitamin K is fairly widely distributed in foods.
It occurs abundantly in green leaves, alfalfa having been one of the
chief sources from which concentrates have been prepared. Flowers,
roots, and stems of plants contain less than leaves. The vitamin is
present in soybean oil and some other vegetable oils and in tomatoes.
It is not present in fish-liver oils, but decomposed fish meal has been
the source of a substance having vitamin K activity, differing slightly
from the vitamin K of alfalfa. A number of compounds are known
to have properties ascribed to vitamin K but how many of these occur
naturally is not known.

VITAMIN E

Properties.—Vitamin-E activity is shown by several substances.
The one of most importance from the standpoint of its natural occur-
rence is alpha-tocopherol. This has been separated from wheat-germ
oil and cottonseed oil as a light yellow viscous oil.

Food sources.—Vitamin E occurs in many of the various types of
foods considered essential in a well-balanced diet and it is not dif-
ficult to obtain an adequate supply. Foods known to contain vita-
VITAMINS—MUNSELL 255

min E in abundance are milk, meat, eggs, whole seeds, including both
cereal grains and legumes, and lettuce. It is also present in many
vegetable oils including, in addition to the two already mentioned,
corn oil, rice oil, and Red Palm oil.

Losses of vitamin E’.—Vitamin E is soluble in fat and occurs asso-
ciated with oils. It is stable toward heat but is inactivated when
oils containing it become rancid—presumably because of oxidation.

VITAMIN Bg, OR PYRIDOXINE

Properties —Vitamin B, is a white crystalline substance and is
soluble in water. It is stable toward heat even in alkaline solution,
but is destroyed by long exposure to light.

Food sources.—Vitamin B, is found in seeds; in some vegetable
fats and oils such as linseed oil, peanut oil, rice oil, soybean oil,
cottonseed oil, corn oil, and wheat-germ oil; and in butterfat, beef
fat, meats, and fish. Most vegetables and fruits are poor sources.

THINGS TO REMEMBER

The array of information relating to the vitamins is extensive and
complex. Unless one is making almost constant use of it, it is next
to impossible to keep even the essential details in mind, and very few
people wish to be hampered by the need of a pocket handbook in
order to remember their vitamins. In the selection and preparation
of foods for a diet adequate in vitamin content a few rules or sum-
mary statements are usually sufficient. Those given below are sug-
gested as helpful and others may be formulated if need requires.

1. Use a variety of all types of foods giving especial attention to the use
of milk, eggs, green leafy vegetables, fresh fruits and vegetables, lean meats,
and whole-grain cereals and breads.

2. To avoid loss of vitamin value in cooking:

Cook foods as quickly as possible.

Use small amounts of water and use any that is left. Special utensils
are not necessary for so-called waterless cookery.

Steaming is an excellent way to cook many vegetables and some other
foods.

Do not peel vegetables or fruits and cut them up and then let them stand
before cooking. Cooking them whole and with the outer covering on helps
preserve vitamin content.

Never add soda to vegetables during cooking. It serves no useful pur-
pose and makes for destruction of vitamins. Cook green vegetables in an
open kettle and they will stay green.

Serve foods as soon as possible after they are cooked.

Do not fry foods if they can be cooked in some other way. Frying
and roasting are very destructive of vitamins.

3. Give very careful attention to sources of vitamin B: in the diet. It is
more difficult to obtain an adequate amount of this vitamin than any of the
others. It is probably the one in which American diets are most deficient.
256 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Take special care to conserve the vitamin B: in foods during cooking. Many
of the foods that contain an abundance of vitamin B: are cooked before being
eaten, and next to vitamin C, vitamin B; is the vitamin most likely to be lost
when foods are cooked or canned. The precautions necessary to conserve vita-
min B; will conserve other vitamins as well.

4. Store foods at low temperatures and in closed containers.

5. Do not chop or crush fresh fruits and vegetables and allow them to stand.
They lose vitamin C rapidly.

6. Frozen foods have practically the same vitamin content as fresh ones.
Care must be taken to conserve it during preparation for serving. Do not
defrost and then allow to stand. If frozen foods are to be cooked put them on
to cook while they are still frozen and use all of the liquid.

7. Dried foods are not especially recommended for vitamin value.

8. Canned foods retain vitamin value well, with the possible exception of
vitamin C, provided they have not been stored too long. To obtain full value,
use the entire contents of the can. Canned foods are cooked foods and should
be treated accordingly.

9. In canning foods observe the same precautions for conserving vitamin
content as suggested for cooking.

VITAMIN VALUES

As soon as the existence of any one of the vitamins was recognized
it became a matter of concern to know not only in what foods it oc-
curred but also in what quantities. The development of methods of
measurement was, therefore, of considerable importance. Chemical
identification of the vitamins has usually not been made until some
time after their discovery and for this reason development of chemi-
cal or physical methods of measurement proceeded uncertainly.

Many of the studies on the physiological effects of the vitamins
have been made with laboratory animals. It was natural in some of
these studies for information to be obtained on the relation between
the quantity which an animal ate of a food known to contain a par-
ticular vitamin and the response of that animal in terms of growth,
or cure or prevention of the disease associated with the vitamin. As
these observations were made, consideration was given to the possi-
bility of using a relationship of this kind as the basis of a quantita-
tive method of measurement for the vitamin concerned. Methods of
determination in which the reactions of animals are used are called
biological methods.

To determine actual vitamin content by a besloaical method it is
necessary to carry out a test in comparison with a substance con-
taining a known amount of the vitamin in question. When the bio-
logical methods were first suggested, this condition could not be
met because the chemically pure vitamins had not yet been prepared
and natural products vary too much to be used as reference mate-
rials. As a result of this situation it became the custom to express
content with respect to a particular vitamin in terms of the quantity
VITAMINS—MUNSELL 257

required to produce a given response in the animal used and under
the conditions specified for the test. Such a quantity was known as
a “unit.” Several of these biological units have been defined and
used but the best known are probably the Sherman units for vita-
mins A, B,, and C, and vitamin G or B, (riboflavin).

As interest in the importance of the vitamins increased, attempts
were made to devise more satisfactory methods of evaluating them.
A committee appointed by the Health Organization of the League
of Nations has established standards of reference called Interna-
tional Standards of Reference for vitamins A, B,, C, D, and E to be
used in determining the content of these vitamins in foods and other
materials. A definite quantity of each standard was specified as the
International unit in terms of which the content of the respective
vitamin was to be expressed.

Definitions of the International Units for Vitamins A, B:, C, and D

Vitamin A.—The International unit of vitamin A is the vitamin-A activity
of 0.6 microgram (0.0006 milligram) of the International Standard beta-carotene.
One U. S. P. (United States Pharmacopoeia) unit of vitamin A presumably
has the same value as 1 International unit (I. U.) of vitamin A.

Vitamin B,—The International unit of vitamin B: is the vitamin-B; activity
of 3.0 micrograms (0.003 milligram) of the International Standard crystalline
thiamin chloride (vitamin Bi). One U. S. P. (United States Pharmacopoeia)
unit of vitamin B: has the same value as 1 International unit (I. U.) of
vitamin Bi.

Vitamin C.—The International unit of vitamin C is the vitamin-C activity of
0.05 milligram of the International Standard crystalline ascorbic acid (vitamin
C). One U. S. P. (United States Pharmacopoeia) unit of vitamin C has the
same value at 1 International unit (I. U.) of vitamin C.

Vitamin D.—The International unit of vitamin D is the vitamin-D activity of
1 milligram of the International Standard solution of irradiated ergosterol in oil.
One U. S. P. (United States Pharmacopoeia) unit of vitamin D presumably has
the same value as 1 International unit (I. U.) of vitamin D.

Enumeration of vitamin potency in terms of International units
is now the accepted mode of expression. As more satisfactory chemi-
cal and physical methods of measuring vitamin content are developed,
this somewhat cumbersome device will doubtless be abandoned for
the more usual procedure of giving composition on the basis of
weight of chemical substance. This is already the case with vitamin
C where values are given more often in terms of milligrams of as-
corbic acid per gram or per 100 grams of material than in terms of
International units.

No International Standard for riboflavin has been established.
The Sherman or Sherman-Bourquin unit is frequently used for de-
noting vitamin-G potency, otherwise riboflavin is given directly as
milligrams or micrograms of riboflavin.
258 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Values for vitamin-A, vitamin-B:, and vitamin-C content of foods
and other materials determined prior to the adoption of the Inter-
national Standards of Reference are for the most part expressed in
terms of the Sherman units. For some foods the only values avail-
able are expressed in these units and for this reason attempts have
been made to derive factors showing the relation between the Sher-
man and the International units. Since there has been some divided
opinion as to what these should be, it seems well to reemphasize the
fact that a biological unit does not have an exact value. These
units are defined in terms of animal behavior which, however well
controlled, is certain to vary. This simply means that the ratio be-
tween an International unit and the corresponding biological unit
varies according to conditions, and a fixed figure cannot be estab-
lished for it. Values expressed in International units which have
been derived from Sherman unit values by use of conversion factors
cannot be considered more than rough approximations. International
unit values so obtained should be clearly designated if pre-
sented with other material. The ratios given below for these two
units represent general experience with comparative values.

Suggested Interrelation of Sherman Units for Vitamins A, B, C, and @ and the
Corresponding International Units

Vitamin A.—Sherman units of vitamin A corresponding to 1 International unit
of vitamin A have been found to vary from 0.8 to 2.5. The ratio of 1.5 is
suggested as most representative, that is, 1 Sherman unit of vitamin A=0.7
International unit.

Vitamin B,—Sherman unit values of vitamin B: corresponding to 1 Inter-
national unit of vitamin B; have been found to vary from 0.7 to 4 or 6 Sherman
units. The most general relation for the majority of values obtained by the
Sherman technique is suggested as 1 Sherman unit equivalent to 1 International
unit.

Vitamin C.—One Sherman unit of vitamin C is generally considered equivalent
to 10 International units.

Riboflavin.—One Sherman-Bourquin unit of vitamin G is equivalent to 3.0
to 3.5 micrograms of riboflavin.

VALUES FOR THE VITAMIN CONTENT OF FOODS

For some purposes, and especially for dietary calculations, it is
desirable to have a set of values showing the quantities of the vari-
ous vitamins in different foods. In the general discussion of food
sources of the vitamins it was made clear that no food has a fixed
and invariable content of any vitamin. Values for different samples
of any food may vary over wide ranges depending upon the factors
that influence the content of the vitamins it contains. The deriva-
tion of average values, in the strict sense of this term, is not possible
without using an unreasonable amount of descriptive material con-
VITAMINS—MUNSELL 259

cerning each individual food item. In lieu of this it might seem
advisable to indicate a range in place of a single value. The diffi-
culty in that case is that anyone requiring a single value will use
the median of the range which may not be in any sense the best
value to use. This reduces the problem to one of arbitrarily select-
ing what are considered the most representative values.

The values in the table presented here, which is offered as an
aid to those who must use single values expressive of vitamin con-
tent, were selected on this basis. The selections were made from a
summary of all of the data that could be obtained in the literature
or elsewhere up to July 1, 1940. Careful consideration was given to
the methods of analysis used and the nature of the food material
studied. The values given should be taken as applying to foods that
are reasonably fresh and of good quality. This is especially im-
portant to keep in mind relative to vitamin-C values. “Market fresh”
vegetables are often far from “fresh” as far as vitamin-C content is
concerned. Adjustments should be made in the vitamin-C values
for fruits and vegetables, especially leafy vegetables, when the
products to which they are being applied are not strictly fresh.

Some values in the table may differ materially from correspond-
ing ones in other summaries. Too much concern should not be felt
over such discrepancies, perhaps, since all values of this kind are,
as explained, arbitrarily selected and their approximation to actual
fact is problematical in any case. If specific information about a
food is available, other values might be selected as more suitable.

TABLE 1.— Values selected as representative of the vitamin-A, vitamin-B,, vitamin-C,
vitamin-D, and riboflavin content of common foods

[Unless otherwise stated, the values given are for the edible portion of the fresh food] t

Vitamin a Ya tami OU |e eee
Food material
Units per 100 grams!

Int. Int.2 Int.8 Int. Sherman 4

Alfalfa leaf meal, dried___-___ $0000 See = |e ea | eee 50
ETA pl RS eee 75 75 a aaeaG) | ace aes 200

30-400
i ee ie 75| 15 { sage | ae 10
mprieob, breah 22 4, 000 10 100M ESS its
maricot, dried 22 5, 000 30 COARe es ey 35
Artichoke, Globe__________- 200 60 LZ5\ |e sew ee Fair
Artichoke, Jerusalem. £22 2013) ooc.. 2 50 DDS Ale aisles xh AES
Asparagus, green___________ 700 70 FU) ia eae ea 40
Asparagus, bleached___-_____ 0-50 50 (05(0)s | Ras SSS Fair
UD Eon ee a a 100 30 400: |e 30
CT See eee ee eer 300 15 200 He 22 ke 30
Preyer 8 SS 0 120 Oyjeees oe 3
Beans, snap:

ReCH eereee ee ae ee WY 1, 000 25 300 |~_=-__ 40
5a eee el Be 25 1010) eed 40

See footnotes at end of table.
430577—42——__18
260 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

TaBLE 1.—Values selected as representative of the vitamin-A, vitamin-B,, vitamin-C,
vitamin-D, and riboflavin content of common foods—Continued

Riboflavin
vitamin G

Ataris ae Vitamin O Vitamin

Food material

Units per 100 grams !

Beans, shelled:

INAV Yee sooo cee atom ere
Soybeans. cee ee

Beet tops Sees soe ee

Blackbertyeeee so eee

Black-eyed peas (see Cow-
peas).

BITE Derive eee eee ae
ighubsh': aa heee ees SP Hee bul Ve
Wo walls bays 4s et eae ade oe eee

Brazibnuteeosssseee soe ee

Bread:

Brussels sprouts. 222 = 222 ===
Buckwheateeecn cone tae 22 eal eee Se
Butter, average------------
From cows on dry feed___-
From cows on green feed_-_
Cabbage, head:
Young, partly green_--_---
Mature, bleached___--_--_--
Tec aye Bie Ui Se ire lp ee ee call Ak
Chinesetecousti casos aoe
Cantaloupe.= =. 3 4sse = fee
Carotene eas sek aoe ee ee
@awinowersenn 26. oo er ee
Celery stalks:
Greene he otis eae ere

1 DE ge ie pie tyes A ae yo Seen se ROR LR A BO a fees bats eel eee Excellent
Vinh 22 22s ee ee ee ee SO eer ea eT Sia Excellent

5
Eodeliverioili gee (*) 0 Ons)
Wollarclee tess Sas ike ee 7, 000 50 SOO cad 100

See footnotes at end of table.
VITAMINS—MUNSELL 261

TaBLE 1.—Values selected as representative of the vitamin-A, vitamin-B,, vitamin-C,
vitamin-D, and riboflavin content of common foods—Continued

Vitamin A ee Vitamin c_ | Vitamin Ebaby G
Food material
Units per 100 grams!
Int. Int.3 Int. Int. Sherman 4
Corn, sweet:
UE) SE et tem ee a 0-50 45 200 22sec: 2 see
Biel OWee = 2 ee ON 500 45 PABLO (Some ee 20
Corn dried:
La) SE eS 9 Fok ee 0 100 Oye ee Fair
BGO WPe ee eee a ee oa ae 550 100 Oa | See Fair
Wom ei, refined... 22+ - 0 0 O jeuias 0
Cottonseed oil, refined _____ 0 0 0 0 0
owpea:
125 (3S) AV eS a eA eae 2g (ae) i ne TSO see sa 2 ee eee
DP riedeen ss = tee. A 50 SOOM 4232 ee sy See 100
Sranpemye 22.2 et es DON iret 3 = 225 0 0
Cream, 20 percent_-__------_- 600 SUM ee ere epee Ae Praces| <4 5.028 4!
Wucumber: 2222222 25s 2222. 20 15 2005 |Peeees 8
Currant:
Blac kes ee ee See 400 10 3; OOOU Ee. Seas Soars
CC eee ee eee Be. ce Le ae 15 (21010 Nat epee er ME
Dandelion... 2222-525... £2 0000} 2222 2, 000 |e aves Good
Dates veured. 1208s... 150 25 0 Ned FS 15
MIGCK NCANGS. o 521s soos ann be 2 as Pe ee (Ee een ap ee) Ee Good
Bee wholeee = 58 ee 1, 000 50 Oe ee 110
Gee te ER as oe 0 0 Oh Ease 100
Ollie Ps 2 A se 8 2, 800 140 Oe ees 115
Peplangs oo oe So 8 35 15 200} (te 2eee 10
Endive (escarole) __...__-..-- 15, 000 28 400. )222 42% 40
inren Che ales ee sauce Good PAS a) IE eae Ne ee Nd ol ye ee, 20
Fig
TURE) 01 1 See oe 2 50 25 30. 22k 15
iD Ya0 28 ae es See 60 22 Oe ase 25
Flour:
White, patent___-__.-._.- 0 30 Ol jo. See ea
Wihrolemwheatel se Oss alles e ut dee 110) 0) Ge a cre ee Coo LO Fair
(Gardenicresses 3228) ess Excellent P20 i Oh eS De Ne ANN We RAY ome + (ha ee
US OVIGIG£ Gilt) A. Cee Mea em ase] bes MER re ty) ERM 500, |= 2G iG eee
| 2 yl ee Trace 15 BONS. 8
Rp MPU Cp UNSC i sc Ys ds hs ce I BO ncaa aie AS
Sraperriith Sesto. 0 23 850 [222 o8 Trace
(bec ee ee eee td EN AR 0 25 SOON seater Trace
Canned >= 222k Saye 2 0 25 300) |zaS222 Trace
CEE ag a 200 14 1 SO0OM zoo zee 3
PROC KE 6 oi oR 5 Bei pa oy a -cmOe eee tee Good
A Geet ee i PN SOM 2 sec ae sous | Pee aes
Hazelnutse2 eee Se eek. 100 220) |osoeo S85 2 Reee le ee
eart:
lBYYeisp et oe ee Le Trace 200).|-4.. chess ae oo 300
LLpytn oe te ESS Se Ae ee Trace 200! Wis 2s 3S Se | ee ee
Leta te the gee Se Se ATR O ge e|| ty  aee aeee ESO! Jets 2 te 2 aire ea ae
Ce oe 2 0 0 0 0 0
PROTSCLER CIS Mess fe eee soy 27 s| Cheeks ls eh IO hes Bet 25 000h Beas ee eee
UV EEESUE STS) Raa AS ea eee oe i pa 2 | 2 SE OS Fo
Blepe sede Bi eas 20, 000 50 2500) eeeas 200
Kidney, beef or veal_______- 1, 000 60) Pas see a see eS 700
LEAT OP Ne ane at Rs pet 1, 000 y (oy ae esee Pe Ee EAE
LE (a rd eau SNES ENR aT Aad 2) Be 50s 2 Sean a | SS 2
Lo) ELS ee SS SE a IRR 0 os 2 3) TR eee een 20 PAULO)" As Su it PL 2a Me VS pak
Meer muscle, lean 23 oo Dal oo $0 (oo eee ep lQe ae 70

See footnotes at end of table.
262 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

TABLE 1.—Values selected as representative of the vitamin-A, vitamin-B,, vitamin-C,
vitamin-D, and riboflavin content of common foods—Continued

Riboflavin

Vitamin
Vitamin A Bi vitamin G

Vitamin O | | Vitamin

Food material

Units per 100 grams!

VEE 0 DR a Ee Ae ee
ee he EE Ths a ee
WmemonyiUice2= 224) sou ae es
bentilsdried2 545522 eee
Lettuce, green___----------
Bleached.) ee eee oe
Romaine or cos
AINE ICS eh ae he Be Ol ee
hiverbeeh 2 a seme oom 9, 000 75 | Fresh 750 45 600
Ca Eene So ee eyes POL 7, 000 70 | Fresh 650 15 550
Chickentiss {ioe enews ou Excellent 75 | Fresh 450 50 | Excellent
LOY a0 0 WB Se CMRI Sip) as pee Excellent 75 | Fresh 750 20 550
Pi Gr Se pen ee a Fa eal od Excellent 100 | Fresh 525 45 600
Wars 2S eo = ote Bork 1, 500 30 GO0g i See. 20
JAG A Nee esa ge AE AO SAIS Ny ON eee as te NE Raw: 40n 2352.42 seeee
Whele fresh, average mar- 110 20 Past. 25 2 75
et.
From cows on dry feed_- 55 20 Raw 30 1 60
From cows on pasture-- 175 20 Raw 50 3 80
Whole dried:
AVE Css Miele bee 875 120 0 16 500
From cows on dry feed_- ASO i saa ae 0 S|. Seka oe
From cows on pasture -_- 1 200M Sees 2 0 DA 5) ee
pl Lait oo Vim NS STN ARI 2 2 15 0 is aE Excellent
KIM, 1Gnied . oc Gk ooo 20 120 LO Me ae ee 600
Molasses Mine tise eu an 0 0 Oy | et ea
IMUISHROOMS= 55ers Ake 0 30 ‘Trace i422 82 eee
Mustard greens__.--------- Excellent 45 2 SOO Mes Excellent
Oats (rolled or oatmeal) __--- Trace 180 0 0 35
(QUES fa YApa ayes ROO eerie Sete ath 400 40 4200 gee s24 Fair
Olive, canned:
Green ee aie EBs ka eas HOO sees (eee hells Jog RNS,
Rese Abses ne ee eee ale ee 125 2 0 0 0
Olive oil, refined.___------- tJ Pe | eh Raa Oo ecw
Onion:
Green shel Ries Oe ee alr Se 270i) 22 2 Ae een
WaCUTOU Ss cee 10 160 We 30
Oranve jilleess 52 582054529 45-350 30 wa f ooo \ A ele tee 5
Oysters a TAQ He Sea Poe ee fe | ee eee
Bapayaat cos eee ee eke 2, 500 25 GOO ee es 60
Parsley css oee ha ee Bae ee SOSOCOM Saaa== 2) 000 222224 |e54eeeeer
IPArsnip Wee ss oo oe Se ee Trace 40 450 yi. 25 Ss ae eee
ea:
Green freshis 228 22 eee oe 1, 000 140 S007 aes 65
Greenyanied sa ese ae ee 1, 200 1 SS | Bema apeesee ey | fl ase 100
Peac
Wihite: 328 eee ee aes 5 10 2002 eee ees
Mellow see See ie nS 1, 000 10 2008 ee 20
Viellowsaniedi- sma. ee 3. O00 ete iio oo kee eee
Peanut:
DriTAO So Se eee OM: 820 Whe he ae ee Good
RLOASGEM Soo, 2 ee Gar El eee ;O 9 We a Ape gee ORE) (RE NV iach ee 8
SATIN e's 22 feels WT ah aaa OE SOO ee eae eee 250
Spanish’ roasted ee spa ee GO) te ee ed ee

See footnotes at end of table.
VITAMINS—MUNSELL 263

TABLE 1.—Values selected as representative of the vitamin-A, vitamin-B,, vitamin-C,
vitamin-D, and riboflavin content of common foods—Continued

Vitamin A |Vitamin} Vitamin |Vitanin| Roe
Food material
Units per 100 grams!
Int. Int. Int.3 Int. Sherman 4
an 2 ae eee 10 15 SORES es 2
pL ee Sa es ee ee AOE spent) i etd nd eC a a 100
Pepper
ACEO are el ees 2 ee 5, 000 10 25008 E aoe ee 40
JE ls ee aes ORO ba Se 5, 000 10 3, OOO 252278 See
Pareles ou se A 90 25 BUR ers 12
INTICG Sires ster aoe fC oe 30 6008 ones eee eee
ier venMnnd 22S sa OM eee 25 F(A ee eat ee np A
ere ee ee ae TN ee ee 35 1OON Seen 15
Pork, musele, Jean_.2===2=—- Trace AO ee Let a see | ea 15
Potato, average. = 22 22-20 30 40 DaO Mets 15
FEN ye ae tes nee oy) TOS SS ee Oe ee S00C | See |S
SLOLeG Ol Gee falen se el a Le ee ae LOOG| s2= 425) aces ee BS 2
Prune:
resis ea Eek see 1, 500 DAYS | a tenes Seer e: | sete wes | ee eee SR
1D yatec |< Soe See sae eee eet 2, 500 50 SOU ee se Good
LACT 0) 11 ee ne ae 2, 500 15 i (a | Sa a 15
Perieeecea sere canine Serna eae ale PRS se ee eee P75 | Vi fh eel | ol ee MEE
LETTS gS I ee Trace 20 AGONY 223 22 10
lca Fe) oes eae he ge ee penne 50 30 OU 2a r00 eet ae ee
LETS ns a a ae i eee 10 (01 in| RE RR APC ie
ASTLLTVL S)TCS Cagle gt SASS i A ect ‘Traces... — A002 GE eat
Rice:
STO Wisse 3 oar eee Trace 15 Oy jseece 50
Polished Secs e ese eres 0 10 (Oat bf ehnge dons Trace
LEOTS YS pe a aye ee ee ee 2, 000 30 LOO 24822 Fair
Rutabaga:
Riinenaee seek so Reese 0 15 1, Us ipa Ee las Cid Be TE 28
Wrellowss= £223.40). oni ot sess. | 25 es ADO vate = 242 | bs Settle
RivG@.3: 2s eee 0 140 Ones Fair
Salmon, canned:
Mara ars Seats hel) ee SO ee ase Ls See A 2208 aoe os
nin O Kee = he ses eee ESOS] eases Ss fgets eee PA Aa Te Ee ee gD
Pia Re Ss ee ee NOOR Set fons ee ese eee 6254|Ssa2 ee
Re GL ie Sie cinch 8 2 al a 98 oe 325 |Trace 0 800 75
“LO TET NEE Ta ed A EAS [ee PEE A Te eee Good Good
Soybean (see under Bean).
Rpmaebs a0 o20 8 2 bE ok 25, 000 40 1,500) -:te = 125
Squash
SUMMIT ae Saye PPE iss 1, 000 Deri Se a aa 15
Vn Gee Tees ah at a args 2 4, 000 15 TOO; || es see 25
SUTCEIG] Tet oS La a eer Trace |Trace ff O000 eee se Trace
Sweet ‘potato. 22122 ft 3, 500 30 4005 [pant be. 30
pneerne hae rd ae ae I Wee eT AN 30 COD hee oe 10
omato, mature:
1 3 Se en 700%]. 28: Hn “Orgy || oe 15
Hip! shesihes = ey 1,000:}° 25] “Ei gey (fee: 20
aiice, tres oe 1, 000 25 PR ST Na Bei ay blr feces Relate
Juice, canned commercial. _|__.-..-.---j------ { ie a Rl Et eee eer
Turnip
Wihitess sous S28 0 12 600) 2223 12
LS ee Pa ae wr 20 12 6007/2223 12
jrenip greens. 22. | = 10, 000 40 Oo OOON Lee 120

See footnotes at end of table.
264 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

TABLE 1.— Values selected as representative of the vitamin-A, vitamin-B,, vitamin-C,
vitamin-D, and riboflavin content of common foods—Continued

Vittermnic, Af] NESTA Nitieaeaten cs Net ie Da
Food material
Units per 100 grams !
Int. Int. Int.3 Int. Sherman 4
Walnuts

BUY o) fallere Fare as Ty Ne sD 130 0 G6 Pic ra saa Va NN Fi a PU eo
Rin olishiags eset enn ae 100 1 5) 0 Vs] Bae Rap AE Rae RP a
Watercress} 22+ Be es 4, 000 40 Te OOO Meneses 90
Watermelon) =) Geek a Trace 20 150 0 10
Wihea te Ge 2 ne ees Trace 180 OF eae 35

3 : Where there are no values, data were not available for making estimates. 100 grams is approximately
.5 ounces.

2 International units of vitamin B; multiplied by 3 give micrograms of thiamin.

3 International units of vitamin C multiplied by 0.05 give milligrams of ascorbic acid.

4 For the calculations made in this table, the relation of 1 Sherman unit equivalent to 3.0 micrograms
(0.003 milligrams) of riboflavin was used. Sherman units multiplied by 3 give micrograms of riboflavin.

*For vitamins A and D use values given on the container.

t The author suggests the following revisions for table 1: A value of 100 for the vitamin-A content of cottage
cheese instead of 500, a value of 10 for the vitamin-C content of dried prunes instead of 50, and a value of 78
for the riboflavin content of jumbo and roasted peanuts.

SELECTING FOODS TO MEET VITAMIN REQUIREMENTS

In planning or assessing diets for adequacy in vitamin content, it
is obviously necessary to have information as to the quantities of
each of the vitamins needed in the daily diet. Suggested values for
vitamins A, B,, C, D, and riboflavin are summarized in table 2.4

At the present time considerable interest is being shown in studies
to determine the requirement of the various vitamins known to be
essential in the diet of man. The main problem has been the
development of methods giving results that could be interpreted in
relation to nutritional well-being. The first knowledge of the
requirement of any vitamin came as a result of determining the
quantity required to cure or prevent the disease associated with that
vitamin. Such quantities have usually been referred to as minimum
protective quantities. It soon became apparent that the quantity
needed for normal nutrition was considerably in excess of the mini-
mum protective quantity. As information and experience accumu-
lated the aim has been to obtain values of vitamin requirements that
apply more nearly to normal nutrition.

4See also the Table of Recommended Dietary Allowances prepared by the Committee on
Food and Nutrition, National Research Council, May 1941, available through Nutrition
Division, Federal Security Agency, Washington, D. C.
VITAMINS—MUNSELL 265

TABLE 2.—Values suggested as expressive of the daily requirement for vitamins A,
B,, C, D, and riboflavin!

For the average adult under average conditions

a Sa Pe ee Re During prer= : a
Vitamin eee nancy and lac- Perea @idren
solute . tation
aS Adequate Optimum
| PR ages See 2,000 I.U____- ee to 5,000 se to/.8;000))), Miores..-2- = =.= = 8,000 to 10,000 I.U.
B,; (thiamin) _} 200 I.U. or 300 to 400 1.U. 500 to 600 I.U. | Several times al- Considerably more in
0.6 mg. or 0.9 to 1.2 or 1.5 to 1.8 lowance for proportion to their

mg. mg. average adult weight than adults

C (ascorbic | 20 to 25 mg. | 40to 60mg. or | 80mg.or1,600 | Twice that for | Only slightly less than
acid). or 400 to 500 800 to 1,200 TU the average that for adults.
I.U. I.U. adult.

DS ae oe INO WRTO Wine 2s 00 Se Ae os ae 8001I.U.suggest- | 300 to 400 I.U. suggest-
ed as adequate ed as adequate for
protection against
rickets; 675 I.U. sug-
gested for optimum

growth.
Riboflavin | Approximately 600 Sherman-Bourquin units |_.__..___________- At least 400 Sherman-
Gi tamin or 2 milligrams. Bourquin units.

1 Previously published. Munsell, Hazel E., Planning the day’s diet for vitamin content. Journ.
Amer. Dietetic Assoc., vol. 15, p. 639, October 1939.

In summarizing data on vitamin requirements, it seems desirable
to give the quantities determined as minimum as well as those con-
sidered adequate. In some instances data have been obtained indi-
cating that nutritional well-being is enhanced by a diet supplying
quantities of a vitamin in excess of that considered adequate. Such
quantities have been designated as optimum.

Studies to determine the requirement of the various vitamins are
still in the preliminary stage. It is problematical whether the
requirement of any vitamin can ever be expressed with precision.
Many factors operate to influence the quantity of each that is needed.
Data already at hand indicate that the requirements may vary from
individual to individual according to sex, age, size, and activity, and
vary in the same individual from day to day depending upon the
physiological condition, activity, or environment.

The material offered in table 2 should be used with certain con-
siderations in mind. With the exception of vitamin D the values
for the requirement of each of the vitamins represent quantities
that may be supplied readily by the use of natural foods. These
quantities indicate the daily requirement of the normal individual
with no allowance made for variation in the vitamin value in dif-
ferent foods or losses that may occur from cooking or other processes
to which the food may be subjected.

There is no evidence of harm from the ingestion of vitamins as
they occur in foods in quantities considerably in excess of those given
as requirements. In planning diets the aim should be to provide
foods that will supply at least as much and preferably more than the
adequate allowance of each vitamin and several times this allowance
in cases where there is indication of a greater need.
Pt isaats

hs

at) 5 56 we 1 hy 7" ay +, ny & AA ‘af x hi ae | , Y Wn
CEG eet LES 1d SL oe BR ena Ai: °F
‘ Blt A Ra Ot ead, hy Pak Soa Ay ude i

; rs
RT

*

aN
x : fas S¢ "
en rites

SCIENCE AND HUMAN PROSPECTS?

By Evior BLACK WELDER

Stanford University

On facing the duty of preparing the customary presidential address
for this year, I gave some thought to the question of what contribution
I could best make. Having been for many years a field geologist and
at times even an explorer, I might have gathered up the results of
many local studies and generalized them. Being engaged more re-
cently in studying desert physiography and the Pleistocene history
of the western States, I might have chosen one of those subjects—and
indeed they are well worth considering.

However, in such a fateful year as 1940, it seemed to me that the
occasion called for a subject of greater importance and one that has a
more direct relation to the welfare of this nation; and so I decided to
ask your attention this evening to a subject that has long been one
of my chief concerns—namely, education in science and its relation
to the future welfare of humanity.

It seems to me that a teacher of geology, or indeed of any other
science, should devote himself not only to giving his students informa-
- tion, and explaining processes and theories—however important those
educational duties may be—but especially to training young people
in the scientific way of thinking and helping them to acquire the
scientific spirit. To my mind, that is his most important function.

Since geology is considered a science—albeit not one of the so-called
exact sciences—and since we call ourselves scientists, it may be well
to ask at this point, what, essentially, is science? In general terms
the dictionaries say that it is knowledge established, organized, and
systematic. To me, however, this concept is not adequate. In the
words of the great French mathematician, Poincaré: “A collection
of facts is no more a science than a heap of stones is a house.” Verified
knowledge is one element, organization and classification are necessary
and so is the testing of hypotheses, but I cannot regard any of these

1 Address as retiring president of The Geological Society of America, delivered at the
annual meeting of the Society in Austin, Tex., December 26, 1940. Reprinted by per-
mission from the Bulletin of The Geological Society of America, vol. 52, Mar, 1, 1941.

267
268 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

as the core of science. Tome the basic thing about science is an attitude
or habit of mind, a way of thinking which is characteristic of those
entitled to be called scientists. If that is so, most subjects of human
concern may be dealt with in a scientific way. The essential basic
condition is freedom from bias and prejudice. The major objective of
the scientist is truth, no matter how unpleasant it may be or how
much discomfiture it may cause among those who hold cherished
beliefs which happen, nevertheless, to be errors. Dr. Crapsey once
remarked that: “Truth is a brand new virtue.” And it may be added
that as such it is not yet as widely sought and valued as it should be.
It has been well said that “the purpose of science is understanding.”
This is only a modern version of the well-known admonition of King
Solomon to “get understanding.”

The scientific method is relatively new. As recently as four cen-
turies ago it was a rarity even among the most learned thinkers of
the time. Today it is used only incidentally by most of the people
in even the most civilized countries. It is hardly an exaggeration
to say that the majority of educated persons—even those with college
degrees—do not really understand it. Often it is confused with in-
vention or the mere cataloging and classifying of knowledge. Some
years ago, in a nation-wide poll which was taken for the purpose of
finding out who was popularly considered to be the greatest scientist
in the United States, the choice fell upon Edison, the inventor. But
inventions, however useful and ingenious, are only the outgrowth,
the byproducts, of science. Although invention was originally a
matter of mere cut-and-try experiment it now makes more and more
use of science, until much of it is now highly scientific in the true
sense. Even so, the one should not be confused with the other.
Science is not invention. The purposes of scientists and inventors
are fundamentally different, even when they use similar methods.

As for the majority of mankind, in the less-developed countries,
their lives have scarcely been touched by science except in the form
of some of its tangible products such as machines, the radio, or by
the services of the sanitarian; and their understanding of science is
hardly greater than was that of their ancestors a thousand years ago.

Even among the most cultured of civilized people some misunder-
stand science so completely that they think they disapprove of it and
consider it dangerous. Not infrequently do we hear the ills of the world
today blamed upon the advances of science, by which is evidently
meant inventions such as dynamite, poison gas, or the airplane. Some
writers have even called for a moratorium on scientific research,
lest the dangers they ascribe to science overwhelm our civilization.
But we do not abolish automobiles just because criminals use them
in bank robberies and child snatching. On the contrary, it would
HUMAN PROSPECTS—BLACKWELDER 269

seem better to extend the scientific method to those fields of study
which are not yet making the required progress. One might para-
phrase a famous remark about democracy by saying: “The best cure
for the evils of science is more science”’—at least better and more
widespread science.

The genuine scientist searches out the facts he requires, testing and
evaluating them as he goes. He must try to discriminate the true
from the false, and the trivial from the significant. His disciplined
imagination, always at work even during the fact-gathering process,
suggests explanations for the things observed—usually for the de-
tails and later, as the picture takes shape, for phenomena of wider
scope. All these ideas must be impartially tested before they can be
either accepted or rejected, just as an engineer determines by calcu-
lation the strength of the arches in a projected bridge, and for a
similar reason. How high shall we appraise the value of the for-
{unate speculator who happens without much evidence to hit upon
the right explanation far ahead of others, as compared with the
patient investigator who carries a firm structure of fact and con-
trolled theory with him all the way? The former has uses, but it
is chiefly to the latter that steady scientific progress is due. Loose
speculation is an ingrained habit of humanity, but the careful scien-
tist realizes that many problems are now insoluble because the nec-
essary data are not yet obtainable. He will, therefore, restrain his
fancy, devoting his efforts to objectives that are within his reach,
content to leave to his better-informed successors those other ques-
tions which are not yet ripe for consideration.

The critical testing of ideas is a habit difficult for the average hu-
man being to adopt. An original idea is a brain child and tends
to be jealously cherished as such. To expose it to the cold light of
reason takes a sort of Spartan courage that is too often undevel-
oped and yet is one of the essential attributes of anyone who aspires
to be called a real scientist. To be merely logical with facts selected
for a purpose is much easier than to divest oneself of bias. Stead-
fast courage and a renunciation of false pride are required in the
search for opposing rather than supporting evidence.

The unrealized assumptions hidden in his theory are the sunken
rocks on which the ship of many a hopeful scientist is wrecked. Our
literature affords examples without number, especially in the earlier
times. Geologists will find a good illustration even in the writings of
that thoughtful old Scot who is regarded as the founder of their
science—James Hutton. Writing about the granite boulders from
Mont Blanc that are sprinkled over the slopes of the Jura Moun-
tains near Geneva, he concluded that the Rhone River must have
excavated its valley after they were deposited. The erroneous as-
270 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

sumption, hidden in his mind and unrecognized, was that only
streams could have moved the boulders, and he knew that streams
cannot flow uphill. He overlooked the glaciers, although it is
evident that he already knew something of their power and habits.
Perhaps he assumed that those he saw around Mont Blanc had never
been much larger than they were in his day.

Failing to understand what the real scientist must be and what
the essentials of science are, part of the public today is led to accept
as science various elaborations of intuition, speculation, and fancy,
such as were much more widely current a few centuries ago. To the
practitioners of this pseudo science, David Starr Jordan (1924), in
a humorous paper, once gave the name “Sciosophists.” The term, he
explained in mock seriousness, comes from two Greek words, skzos
meaning shadow, and sophos meaning wisdom, or in short “the
shadow of wisdom.” Sciosophists, he said, are happily free from
the ordinary limitations of science for they are not hindered by the
need of evidence. To them one idea is as good as another, and so
why go through the laborious process of examining facts, searching
out all the evidence, and testing each explanation before accepting
it? A glittering and imposing structure can be built up with ease
by a sciosophist out of many such unverified suppositions; but, of
course, Jordan scarcely needed to say that it is as vulnerable to
critical analysis as a child’s tower of blocks is to a touch of the hand.
It is regrettable, but in a free country perhaps unpreventable, that
the cloak of science should be donned and worn by faith healers and
other mystics who have no comprehension of the meaning of the
term. As a result, however, it is hardly surprising that part of the
general public has a rather confused impression about science, when
it reads serious accounts of such absurdities as a “science of astrol-
ogy,” “the science of phrenology,” and many others.

That the scientific method had its beginning in the ancient Greek
and probably even earlier civilizations is clear enough, but it was
displayed by only a few of the philosophers of that era and not con-
sistently even by that few. This is all the more strange in view of
the fact that the art of reasoning—logic—was highly cultivated by
the Greeks. True, men like Anaxagoras at Athens had many sound
ideas and employed the scientific method to a notable extent, but at
the same time they entertained, as firm beliefs, some notions that
would now bring a laugh to any schoolboy.

If one examines the writings of the founders of ancient Greek
science in the sixth century B. C.—men like Thales and Anaximan-
der—he finds that many of their opinions were mere suppositions,
elaborated and bolstered with such support as labored argument and
ingenuity of words could give. These men were the precursors of
HUMAN PROSPECTS—BLACKWELDER 271

modern scientists but can hardly be called scientists themselves. No
true scientist would have seriously put forth as a conclusion so fan-
tastic and wholly unverified a notion as the great Aristotle’s dictum
that earthquakes are due to the surging of the wind through caverns
in the earth. Even allowing for the inaccuracies of translation from
the Greek, one can find only the slenderest evidence to support this
opinion. It was a result of pure speculation upon a subject about
which the author had not even the most elementary knowledge. Yet
it was quoted with approval for 20 centuries. This is all the more
inexcusable because a considerable body of definite information about
earthquakes was available in the Greek world of Aristotle’s day, and
there were many pertinent observations on geology that could easily
have been made in that epoch, even without modern instruments, if
serious attention had been devoted to the problems,

In its early stages the cultivation of science was often too largely
a contest between champions of rival theories. In ancient Greece the
celebrated master gathered about him a group of disciples who too
often came to regard his pronouncements as infallible. In the school
of such a man as Pythagoras of Sicily, to quote the leader was suf-
ficient to settle any disputed point. The ideas of the master thus
became dogmas and took on a kind of sanctity.

It must be admitted that dogma has been the fashion of the past.
For millions of the earth’s inhabitants it still remains so. Today we
see the current of progress being reversed in the despot-ridden coun-
tries of Europe, where the privilege of freely drawing conclusions
from evidence is being restricted and the blind acceptance of official
dogma is exalted as a duty, if not a necessity.

Even in the last century or two the history of science was marred
by many a bitter controversy between rival leaders and their followers
over theories. A theory was defended like a home citadel, and
doubters were considered enemies actuated by the darkest of motives.
Among such bickerings there was by contrast the magnanimity of
Charles Darwin who said, regarding the storm of criticism that
raged after the publication of “The Origin of Species,” “If my book
cannot stand the bombardment, why then let it go down and be
forgotten.”

Fortunately, rancorous disputes have nowadays largely ceased to
afflict the relations of real scientists. Yet there is still far too much
of that spirit in the world at large. It has been well said that “Most
men think with their emotions rather than their intellects.” The
ancient method of verbal combat is still employed in our law courts
and legislative halls. Each participant adheres to his thesis. Search
is then made for evidence to support it and at the same time to
272 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

refute its opponents. An equal effort is made to suppress or
depreciate any facts that may prove to be embarrassingly adverse.

The debating society may be a good place to train lawyers, but the
partisan attitude of “win the argument and confound the opponent”
is an unhealthy state of mind for a young scientist. Indeed, he can
never become a true scientist until he outgrows that mental attitude.
Rather he should cling to the advice of that wise old Quaker, William
Penn: “In every debate, let truth be thy aim, not victory.” Per-
haps it is our sporting instinct, derived, it may be, from our age-long
struggles against each other, that makes us usually more interested
in winning a contest than in finding the truth.

By those who have not considered the matter thoroughly, scientists
are often adversely criticized for devoting so much of their energy
to problems that seem to lead to nothing of any human value. No
doubt there is considerable merit in this charge. But we shall never
know to what extent it is justified, because we can only guess what
kind of knowledge and what kind of understanding may become
useful in the future. The history of science is full of examples sup-
porting this statement. Our huge electric motor industry grew out
of the simple discovery by Faraday that when a magnet was moved
in a loop of wire an electric current was generated in the wire. Why
should the knowledge of that bare fact have been of much value,
and why should the public have been impressed at the time? In fact,
it was not. Only a few men of science gave it some attention, as
revealing a new principle—that of electromagnetic induction. Sim-
ilarly, the oil industry of Texas has been greatly aided by the in-
telligent combining of many bits of scientific information no one of
which by itself has much commercial value—such items as undula-
tions in strata, earth vibrations, soil analyses, and Foraminifera in
drill-hole samples.

Although the gathering of facts cannot in itself develop a science,
yet facts we must have, in infinite number and variety, even though
they are only the bricks to be used by the builder. The mere multi-
plication of facts, the piling up of observations closely similar to hun-
dreds of others, is properly regarded as of less value than the search
for explanations, principles, and laws. While the layman thinks
of Major Powell as the intrepid explorer of the Colorado River and
its Grand Canyon, discovering, even at the risk of death, the wild
beauty of its scenery and the details of its geologic section, it is
fitting that geologists should honor him even more for his clear
exposition of the principles of the base level of stream erosion and
the antecedent river.

In view of the fact, already mentioned, that we can seldom foresee
what utility any scientific fact or principle will eventually have, we
HUMAN PROSPECTS—BLACKWELDER 273

cannot afford to neglect any aspect of science. Discoveries in one
field often release obstructions that have held back progress in other
branches of science, and thus permit further advances. On the other
hand, by regimenting scientific work and even opinion, along with
all other phases of life, for their own immediate purposes, modern
tyrants are violating this principle. This they can do with some
measure of success for a short time, but eventually their countries
will almost surely suffer a degeneration of science, and therefore of
the civilization which is based upon it.

Along with the increasing complexity of modern life there has
grown up an urgent need for the scientific expert. The demand is
being met by many persons who are real scientists but unfortunately
by others who do not deserve the name. On that score Dean Roscoe
Pound lately said in sarcastic vein that “the administrator is not
appointed to office because he is an expert but he is an expert because
he has been appointed.” We all know of cases that fit this satire,
but in all seriousness we may trust that they are not numerous and
that they are decreasing.

Since the public must depend on its experts, it is essential that it
should be well justified in placing confidence in them, to the end
that such respect will endure. That puts a heavy responsibility upon
the individual expert. As Grover Cleveland once said, “a public
office is a public trust,” no less so should any degree of leadership in
science be regarded as a public trust; and so the expert scientist is
under great obligation to deserve the confidence of the public. His
intellectual honesty will need to be outstanding and unwavering.
Today, in this country, the scientist has already won such esteem
to a large degree, although he is compromised and discredited now
and then by the shortcomings of the less conscientious and careful
of his colleagues. Unfortunately, too, it is among the latter that the
most vocal types are apt to appear, and it is they who often attract
the most public attention. Perhaps it is expecting too much of man,
as we know him, to hope that a time will some day arrive when our
most influential leaders will be persons who have the true scientific
spirit and have been trained expressly for the work they are to do,
as humble in the face of their own limitations as they are wise and
honest.

Many years ago a former president of our Society, R. A. Daly,
speaking informally as a visitor to one of my classes, advised the
boys to “think to scale.” It would be hard indeed to pack more
meaning into three words. The person who thinks to scale sees the
relative value of each fact he uses and of each objective before him.
He can then economize his time by confining his attention chiefly to
the important and the significant problems. On that point the wisest
274 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

of the Roman emperors, Marcus Aurelius, is said to have remarked
that “Every man is worth just so much as the things are worth to
which he devotes his earnest efforts.” It might be somewhat dis-
quieting to many of us if we should measure ourselves by that
principle.

More than three centuries ago Sir Francis Bacon urged the appli-
cation of the scientific method, as he then conceived it, to human
affairs and problems in general, but we are still far short of having
adopted his advice, although all our experience since his day confirms
its value.

The greatest progress has been made thus far in the physical
sciences and scarcely less in the biological. The scientific method
and attitude of mind also pervade to a very large degree the related
professions of engineering and medicine. Engineering and inven-
tion, based in increasing measure upon science and pursued largely in
the scientific spirit, have given us nearly all our modern transport
and communication facilities, our great water control and power de-
vices, our vast numbers of useful and convenient new materials such
as rayon, plastics, alloy metals, and other benefits too well known
and too numerous to mention. But for the application of medical
science we should be decimated not only by typhoid, tuberculosis,
and smallpox, but also by yellow fever, cholera, and even the plague.
Were it not for the deficiency of science in politics, statecraft, and
ethics we might not find ourselves today threatened by the plague
of military despotism, which is more deadly in its modern form
than any pestilence. We have used the scientific method in engineer-
ing and medicine for a century and have found it good—far more
effective than the old ways of speculation or of trial-and-error. In
spite of the difficulties involved, why not then extend it to other
fields? Is there any reason to suppose it will not bring great improve-
ment there also ?

In such fields of study as economics and sociology, the complex
and fluid nature of the basic data that must be used and the influence
of human prejudice, which closely touches these subjects, have greatly
impeded their emergence from speculative philosophy and their rise
toward the scientific level. In addition they need a more general
adoption of the scientific attitude and method. Why not apply these
to human affairs, subdue the emotional considerations, and brush
away the cherished errors of the past? Then we should be able to
move more rapidly toward a real understanding of principles, for we
are justified in believing that such principles do exist.

In ethics, which is in some respects the most important of all
subjects of human inquiry, we have made no great progess beyond
the Greeks of Aristotle’s day; and most of them were, except in
HUMAN PROSPECTS—BLACKWELDER 275

mathematical studies, philosophers rather than scientists. Even to-
day the study of human conduct is but slowly emerging from its
age-long status as an appendage of religion. Would it not bring
fruitful results to study ethics in the same scientific spirit that
already pervades such a field of research as physiology? Without a
firmly based and widely accepted science of ethics, the other natural
sciences alone may lead us eventually to ruin for want of adequate
control. Under the direction of the engineer, dynamite is an effective
aid in construction and promotes industrial progress; but in the
hands of the criminal it means murder and destruction. The differ-
ence is only one of ethics.

To have science flourish, there must be complete freedom of in-
quiry and discussion. The beneficial influence of such freedom is
indicated by the extraordinary development of philosophy and the
sciences among the Greeks in the fourth to the sixth centuries B. C.,
in the Germany of the nineteenth century, and in modern America.
Scholars properly insist on this necessity and guard their hard-
earned right to intellectual liberty; nor is this freedom of research
so firmly held but that it takes a little defending all the while from
the bigots who would close to discussion certain trends of thought
of which they chance to disapprove.

But if the scientist is to deserve and therefore keep his freedom,
even in a democracy, he should be equally scrupulous about his own
responsibility to the public. He has no right to claim on the one
hand immunity from restraint and on the other license to be unre-
lable. It is the few irresponsible members of our profession who
endanger our freedom of expression, for it is their words that tend
to discredit the very science to which they are nominally attached
and thus bring all science into disrepute.

One of the best indicators of the scientific maturity of a nation
is the standing accorded scientists in their own communities. In
Greece science and philosophy flourished not only because they were
free, but because they brought honor and even wealth to those who
distinguished themselves in scholarship. In Germany 40 years ago
the great scientist, like Helmholtz, was appointed a Geheimrat and
on the whole stood higher in the social scale than the banker or the
industrial magnate. In our own country we are lately beginning
to appreciate our thinkers, but their value to the world is not widely
comprehended, nor are we very discriminating in recognizing them.
We are apt to rate too highly the man who makes a spectacular but
very definite and easily apprehended discovery, as compared with
another who slowly develops an idea or principle which in time
unlocks for us another room of progress.

430577—42-—19

276 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Jefferson, Franklin, and other founders of our American Union
fully realized that a well-informed people was essential to the suc-
cess of the republic. Although a lover of freedom, Goethe under-
stood the difficulty of making a democracy succeed, remarking that
“the trouble with democracy is that it has to wait for an enlightened
public opinion.” More pessimistic commentators, like Disraeli, were
confident that the experiment could end only in failure, because they
believed that even the best popular education that was practically
attainable would be inadequate.

A system of education, to be good, must be suited to its time in
history. The boys of ancient Persia were taught “to ride and to
shoot and to speak the truth.” In their day, nearly 3,000 years ago,
that was education enough, but now it would be of little avail,
although the last item (speak the truth) has eternal value.

If we were willing to accept the Nazi plan of society we should need
only a small highly educated upper caste. The rest of the people
would be given only training and indoctrination. But if we want
freedom and the so-called democratic way of life, then we need the
most widespread and effective education that our mental equipment
will permit. In our own system, a few wise leaders would be help-
less in the face of a grossly ignorant populace, swayed chiefly by its
emotions and prejudices. Too often this has been true in democracies
thus far, and in America it is still a dangerous factor. So I conclude
that we must have, as soon as we can provide it, far better and more
extensive education, and a general adoption of the scientific attitude
of mind. Is that a large order? It surely is—perhaps too much to
expect—but it may well be the price of our liberty and the survival
of the American type of civilization.

Hitler is quoted as having said that no people is capable of govern-
ing itself or even of planning its own affairs. If the majority of the
people are to be kept in ignorance, he is doubtless right. As our life
becomes more complex our problems become more difficult. To solve
them badly may mean disaster. To solve them well requires adequate
knowledge and especially clear thinking. Bias and prejudice are lia-
bilities or handicaps that we cannot well afford and hence should
try by all means to reduce. If, in a republic, we are to have affairs
well handled, we must rear millions of capable unbiased persons to
make those varied problems their life concerns. That, it seems to me,
demands the scientific attitude of mind and an efficient system of
education expressly devised for that purpose; for it is not something
which we gain by inheritance or in the common experiences of life.

To insure a well-informed and intelligent people is a most difficult
task. History affords no good example of such a nation. It is by
HUMAN PROSPECTS—BLACKWELDER DET.

no means certain that it is even possible. The eugenicists will prop-
erly assert that their advice must be followed, and no doubt there
is some hope in their principles and plans; but beyond that it seems
evident that education is our best chance. It means educating more
people and educating most of them longer—perhaps continuously
throughout life. Most important of all, it means educating them far
more wisely and efficiently. As a scientist I am perhaps biased in
believing that the most important element in this education is the
scientific attitude of mind. That does not mean that every person
must become a scientist, but that he must acquire the habit of think-
ing as a scientist. It means that the great majority should under-
stand what science is, what it stands for, and its value to society.
They should then be able to recognize the true scientist and distin-
guish him from the sciosophist or the imposter. It will also enhance
their capacity to judge the merits of their leaders and the general
issues of the day.

Having harped at length on the importance of science, I must ask
you not to misunderstand me as implying that science is all we need.
It is no panacea for our troubles. Indeed, if we were exclusively
scientific we should not be human at all. There are other things that
are also necessary—love, art, imagination, intuition, loyalty, poetry,
and many others. I merely emphasize the opinion that science is one
of the most indispensable factors in civilization. We must become
more scientific and especially more widely scientific.

To say that one vital function of society is more important than
another is as pointless as to say that the lungs are more important
than the heart. We may, however, be sure that effective education is
one of the indispensable concerns of a free civilized nation. In the
opinion of Dr. Copeland (1928) “education is incomparably the most
important function of society.” Without it the state could not en-
dure for even a century, for in no other way can the long, slowly won
progress of the past be effectively transmitted. Good education is
one of the greatest means of national advancement. Poor education
insures the decline of a people and even their disappearance as a
nation,

Many of the ablest thinkers in the past, from Plato down to our
own day, have felt sure that democracy was an unworkable plan.
Much as I hope that they were mistaken, I should feel constrained to
agree with them if I did not have some grounds for hoping that we
can devise and continually improve a process of education adequate
for the requirements of the country; but it will need to be much
better than anything we have had thus far. This hope is encouraged
by the view of so experienced an educator as ex-President Morgan of
278 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Antioch College, who has said that “results as revolutionary are
possible in education as in engineering, and they are even more
necessary.”

Conditions in our schools and even in our colleges and universities
today are far less satisfactory than they should be in view of our
acute need of the best education we can provide. As recently
remarked by Professor Curtis (1939) :

Even in this so-called scientific age we find, among our high-school, college, and
university graduates, many who believe nothing definite and have no convictions,
while many others will believe anything, no matter how fantastic * *
there is little difference between many college graduates and those who have
not gone beyond the eighth grade, insofar as their mental attitudes or judgments
in the fields of science are concerned.

This he is inclined to ascribe partly to the fact that many teachers, as
well as students, have had little or no training in science and partly
to the type of teaching that is all too prevalent, especially in our
lower schools. Too much of it is dogmatic, and the student is not
trained to think for himself. There is far too much emphasis upon
the learning of facts, on the mistaken supposition that knowledge,
as distinguished from understanding, is the chief object of schooling.

Since in order to progress we must constantly improve our educa-
tion, we shall have to have more teachers, especially better and wiser
teachers, and teachers who are not only competent to train youth but
who are allowed to utilize their competence in teaching, under a
minimum of administrative control. In my opinion no mature
teacher who needs to be told by a principal or dean how to teach
deserves to be employed as a teacher. There has grown up in recent
years a widespread tendency to overstress the importance of teaching
methods and to give school executives wide powers of direction over
the daily work of the individual teacher. Such practice overlooks
the fact that good teaching is a matter of individuality, that the
teacher to be successful must be a true scholar, and that scholars can-
not be regimented. Also, our system has always been less effective
than it should be, because we have left so much of the education of
our rising generation to relatively inexperienced young persons. This
seems almost as shortsighted, and in the long run as likely to prove
disastrous to the Nation, as to leave our military defense largely to
young recruits. The only apparent advantage to this is that it is
less expensive than the alternative; but the cheapest system may prove
in time to be the least economical.

At this point it may be asked what results we can fairly expect
from such improvements in our educational arrangements in the next
decade or century. The experienced scientist will understand that
sound improvement in human affairs will come only by evolution and
after cautious experiments on a small scale rather than by sudden
revolutionary changes on a large scale.
HUMAN PROSPECTS—BLACKWELDER 279

One of our greatest dangers lies in the impatience of many people
to gain great results quickly. This is natural enough, in view of the
brevity of our individual lives. But it is inconsistent with the prin-
ciples which govern all life. We are a part of Nature and, however
much we may seem to influence natural processes, there is every rea-
son to believe that we are in fact and on the longer view controlled
by Nature. Whether we like it or not, slow evolution is Nature’s
way. And so we can hardly hope to elaborate some theoretical new
scheme of social or economic organization, put it into practice on a
national or world-wide scale in a few years, and have any reasonable
prospect of success. Hidden faults and weaknesses are likely to cause
failure, and that in turn may exhaust for decades even the healthy
impulse toward improvement. The fascination that these schemes
have for our youth doubtless has a complex cause, but it may well
be due in part to the faulty character of our current education, which
has not given them the advantages of the scientific viewpoint. Again,
as Daly said, they should learn to “think to scale.”

However difficult it may be to forecast future trends more than a
few years ahead, the geologist can hardly be expected to overlook
the longer view; and so I may now raise a few questions about what
may be in store for humanity in another epoch—not a matter of
centuries but probably of tens or even hundreds of thousands of years.

There are many who expect that man will make continuous progress
toward higher and better things, becoming in the course of time so
much wiser, more sensible, and reasonable that the world’s life will
be vastly more happy than it has ever been in the past. War, sick-
ness, and poverty would then be abolished. Cruelty, hate, and in-
justice would become obsolete, and we should be living in a sort of
Golden Age the like of which we have never even approached. That
is a beautiful vision to contemplate, especially in these dark times.

The lessons of historical paleontology may throw a beam of light
ahead on this speculation, for of course it is no more than that. As
we look back over the history of man we find evidence of great cul-
tural progress since the time of the primitive cave man, who made
crude stone implements but lived in isolated families competing with
the wild beasts of the day for such food as could be found or seized.
He was indeed only one of the beasts, and it is hard to point out
more than a few respects in which he was superior to them. Did
the early Stone Age men gradually develop, by slow practice and
learning, into modern man? We do not know, but there is little
reason to suppose so. All that we know today of human paleontology
indicates that what we loosely refer to as man comprised a group
of at least five and probably eight or more distinct animal species
which are generally grouped by zoologists in several genera. These
280 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

may have originated in various parts of the world, each lived many
tens of thousands of years, and then with one exception all became
extinct. At certain times two or more such species may have co-
existed, although probably in different regions. Perhaps they even-
tually killed off each other, just as the white race in historic times
has exterminated the Tasmanians and certain other primitive tribes.
But today only one species survives, and he has apparently had the
field all to himself since the middle of the last glacial epoch, or about
30,000-50,000 years ago, according to current estimates. Each of
these species appears to have been as distinct from the others as
species and genera of animals usually are.

There is nothing to indicate that the very primitive Stnanthropus
made much progress in culture during his long career in China. He
learned to use fire—probably to make it—and to fashion a few simple
tools of stone and bone; but that seems to have marked the limit of
his inventive capacity. For shelter and safety from attack he seems
to have crept into caves, like many another beast.

Neanderthal man, generally placed in the genus Homo, shows evi-
dence of a distinctly higher culture. He made more varied and better
tools of chipped flint, of wood, bone, and other materials ready to
his hand. But with a brain which appears to have been inferior,
even his long career as a species seems not to have sufficed for him to
invent pottery, polished or ground stone tools, to learn to domesticate
and use other animals rather than to hunt them, or to grow crops,
not to mention building houses or using metals. Apparently he had
some ideas about spirits and a future life, for he buried his dead
with some care and placed in their graves some of their ornaments
and weapons; but we have no evidence that he developed any art of
drawing or sculpture, and none of his tools were finely wrought.
There is evidence of only slight progress during the long age
through which he lived, and at his best his cultural level was dis-
tinctly lower than that of the most primitive savages now known to
anthropologists.

How these various species of men came into existence is unknown
and may well remain so. But there is nothing to suggest that their
origin differed in any way from that of the other mammals. To
suppose that it did would be gratuitous speculation. Indeed, had it
not been for the achievements of the latest of these species, the
Hominidae would never have been entitled to special notice as
anything more than somewhat peculiar mammals.

From biological friends whom I have consulted, I learn that they
are not yet agreed upon the question of how a new species originates.
In fact there is some difference of opinion as to just what constitutes
a species, as contrasted with a race, a variety, or even a genus. While
HUMAN PROSPECTS—BLACKWELDER 281

waiting for the biologists to work out these problems, we may use
the term “species” a bit vaguely in its current meaning, and we may
tentatively adopt the now preponderant view that new species origi-
nate not by gradual imperceptible changes but by sudden mutations,
either extensive enough to produce a distinct species at once or
occurring in series which eventually culminate in full specific status.

However any new species actually originated, its parental species
doubtless continued to exist for a time without much change. The
new kind expanded in numbers and, if more effective, eventually over-
ran and exterminated the older one. It then went on living without
important physical change until it was in turn crowded out by more
efficient animals or until it succumbed to other adverse factors in its
environment.

Have we any reason to suppose that Homo sapiens is not subject to
the same process or that his fate will not be similar? He differed
from earlier species of men very slightly in physical form and struc-
ture. His achievements and the shapes of his crania suggest that he
possessed, from the outset, not only a larger but probably also a dis-
tinctly better brain, which has enabled him to learn more extensively,
to devise complicated languages, and eventually to develop what we
now call civilization. This progress seems to have gone forward on
a steadily rising curve. For perhaps 20,000 years Homo sapiens was
only a savage, a wandering hunter. In the next 5,000 years or more
he advanced locally to the status of a shepherd and even a village
farmer. In another 3,000 years he learned to extract and use metals,
form city states and even nations, and become skillful in many of the
finer arts. Accelerated advance in the next 1,000 years lead to books,
commerce, literature, and philosophy. The last century or two has
witnessed a rapidity of material progress in communication and far-
flung organization that exceeds anything previously known; and
with it has come much growth in ideas and in the complexity of eco-
nomic and social arrangements. Are we justified in assuming from
the contemplation of that curve that it will continue to rise indefi-
nitely, and at a similar rate? Is there in all geologic or human his-
tory any precedent for that? Other animal species of the past have
followed career curves that involved a rise, culmination, and decline.
We have seen the same law controlling the nations and even races of
humanity. Will our own species also reach its climax and then
deteriorate? And if that happens, how and when will it occur?
As yet we have but little basis for answers to such questions.

In contrast to his progress in ways and ideas, Homo sapiens seems
to have undergone only slight physical changes, even in the estimated
30,000 years of which some records have come down to us. Anatom-
ically there seems to be no evidence whatever of any progress—no
282 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

increase in cranial capacity, probably no appreciable change in brain
anatomy. In the last 3,000 years, in which some evidence is available,
there is no sign of any improvement in native intelligence. Man’s
actions are still governed more by his emotions and subconscious
mental elements than by his intellect. His savage instincts, that we
like to think began to be conquered thousands of years ago, are still
present beneath the surface and reappear at unexpected intervals
even in civilized man. Among the more backward modern races of
humanity they have scarcely changed.

In short, our surviving species of Homo, being one of the mam-
mals, is probably as definitely limited in his possibilities as are the
other species of that class. Just as we do not expect a dog to learn
algebra, although he can learn to open a door, so we probably ought
not to expect more from present-day man than his brain is capable
of attaining. As Hawkins (1930), the English paleontologist, sees
it: “Our mental capacity is a specific character.” If this is the truth
of the matter, it may be over-optimistic to expect our own species to
rise far above his present stage of mentality. Notable improvement
along lines already established, and a raising of the other two-thirds
of the earth’s population to or above the level of the present civilized
minority, may well take place over the centuries and thousands of
years yet remaining in the expectable future life of this species.
His contribution to biological progress will then have been made,
and, if history is to repeat itself, he will then be ready for conquest,
if not extermination, by some other type of being, perhaps some new
species of the Hominidae that has more innate capacity for progress.

Whence may such a higher species originate? Will it be an out-
growth of the most highly civilized nations of today? The general
testimony of history suggests the contrary. The ancestral mammals
did not spring from the most advanced dinosaurs of the Mesozoic
era. Man and the great apes are traced back, not to the large special-
ized mammals of Eocene times, but to primitive generalized animals
related to the humble insectivores. The extraordinarily successful
Mongol dynasty of the Middle Ages arose not from the cultivated
Chinese of Nanking, but from a tribe of barbaric nomads of the
steppes. Likewise the most civilized nations of modern Europe did
not spring from the Romans of Caesar’s day but from the forest bar-
barians around the Baltic. Perhaps, therefore, the progenitors of
the newer and better man will appear unnoticed in some remote and
backward corner of the world, where they can develop in obscurity,
while the well-known modern races of Homo sapiens contend with
each other for a transient supremacy.

Just as it would have been difficult for even a most intelligent
trilobite to imagine the fish, which was destined to drive him from
HUMAN PROSPECTS—BLACKWELDER 283

the scene, so it is not easy for us to forecast the nature and potential-
ities of that new species of Homo which may appear in the distant
future, unless indeed our genus itself has by that time run its course
and it is not destined to offer the world anything further. It is of
little consequence whether such a new species may have smaller
teeth, a skin less hairy, or taller stature. The only way in which
he is likely to outstrip Homo sapiens effectively is in the quality of
his brain. Will he be able to absorb knowledge more rapidly and re-
member it better? Will his imagination be keener; will he reason
out his problems more effectively; and, above all, will his life and
conduct be controlled by his intellect rather than by his feelings?
If so, he may be able to take knowledge in larger doses, profit more
by the stored-up experience of others, instead of merely his own, and
by the lessons of history. He should be far more educable than any
earlier species in the family.

It may be objected that these speculations are hardly optimistic,
that they do not present a hopeful picture, and that they do not neces-
sarily envisage continued progress toward a far higher and better
human world. To this I must reply that a scientist is under no
obligation to be an optimist. His only concern must be to approach
nearer to the truth. If the truth offers hope, we may rejoice. If it
fails to do so, we are not thereby justified in denying or even ignoring
it. As King Solomon long ago advised, let us get understanding, and
by so doing we may reach a serenity of outlook that will fit us better
to play a worthy part in the great drama of human evolution.

REFERENCES
COPELAND, E. B.
1928. Natural conduct. Stanford Univ. Press.
Curtiss, O. F.
1989. Education by authority or for authority? Are science teachers teach-
ing science? Science, n.s., vol. 90, pp. 100-101.
Hawkins, H. L.
1930. A paleontologist looks at life. Cotteswold Nat. Field Club, Proc.,
vol. 23, p. 219.
JORDAN, D. S.
1924. Science and sciosophy. Science, n.s., vol. 59, pp. 563-569.
ICELAND, LAND OF FROST AND FIRE?

By Vicrus HINARSSON

Ministry of Industries and Communications, Iceland

[With 12 plates]

Remote from all other countries, in the middle of the Atlantic
Ocean, a stepping stone between the New and Old World, lies Ice-
land. It is the largest island in Europe after Britain, having an
area of 40,000 square miles.

Iceland is a very mountainous country, consisting of basalt lava
and other volcanic rock, with, however, a large area of lowlands, espe-
cially in the south and the southwest. Otherwise there is very little
lowland, except at the heads of the fjords and in the great many
valleys which stretch from the numerous fjords and bays up into the
highlands. Except for some rounded hills and shallow depressions,
the central part of the country is an unbroken plateau, 1,100 to 2,600
feet high. In the interior, a great deal of the territory, especially
the higher mountains, is covered with a cap of eternal snow.

Iceland is the most volcanic country in the world, and is, perhaps,
most widely known for her volcanoes. Volcanic signs can be seen
everywhere. Not only the mountains but great plains are covered
with lava, often like a furious sea which has suddenly become stilled.
This is something more than a simile, because the lava was once a
roaring current of boiling rock. Over a hundred eruptions have
been recorded since the country was first inhabited. In later years,
however, volcanic eruptions have not been frequent, and most of
them have taken place in the center of the country far from human
habitation.

The most famous of all volcanoes in Iceland is Hekla, a familiar
name in every country. In former times this mountain was con-
sidered unmistakable proof of the existence of Hell. For several
centuries people refrained from climbing Mount Hekla because it
was believed to be the chimney of the dark abode underneath, but
during later years it has become quite popular. A return trip to the

1 Reprinted by permission from the Canadian Geographical Journal, vol. 21, No. 4,
October 1940.

285
286 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

top of Hekla, with a neighboring farm as a starting point, takes 10
to 12 hours. The view from the top is magnificent and well worth
the somewhat strenuous trip, which is accomplished partly by the
aid of ponies.

In Iceland there are many glaciers under which are volcanic craters
in various places, as for instance, in the western area of Vatnajokull,
which, in recent years, has commanded attention on account of vol-
canic eruptions. A number of Icelandic and foreign scientists have
climbed the glacier in order to investigate this peculiar phenomenon
of ice and fire. It is fantastic to visualize these two opposing forces
in conflict, fire breaking its way through hundreds of feet of solid ice.

Hot springs and geysers are to be found all over the country, even
in the rivers, on the sea bed, and under the glaciers. The most
famous of all the hot springs is the Great Geysir about 80 miles
from Reykjavik; from it spouting springs all over the world have
derived their name. After having witnessed an eruption of the
Great Geysir which lasted for 20 minutes, a Scottish captain re-
marked: “This power would have sailed half a dozen Queen Mary’s
right across the Atlantic.” This unbroken column of scalding water
and steam that rises from 160 to 180 feet up into the air is impres-
sive and affords a spectacle never to be forgotten. The internal heat
of the earth is a tremendous source of power. During recent years
the Icelanders have been busy harnessing this heat and power. This
is done chiefly by heating houses, buildings, swimming basins, and
greenhouses. Not only are a great number of individual farms
heated by the thermal springs, but certain public buildings as well,
such as the larger country schools. It is of special interest for the
traveler to note that many of these country schools are used as hotels
during the summer season. In these places one can have outdoor
and indoor swimming in warm water. The houses, in a considerable
part of Reykjavik, are already heated by the thermal springs near
the city, and we have reason to hope that a heating system of this
kind will cover the entire city within a few months. After that no
chimneys will be built in Reykjavik. The greenhouses, supplied with
natural heat, are already busy procuring flowers as well as tropical
fruit.

There are numerous rivers in Iceland and some of them have great
volumes of water. Most of the larger ones have their origin under
the glaciers and are of an opaque grayish color, on account of the
glacial clay. Others rising from springs are crystal clear. Most of
the rivers are now spanned with bridges, but one can still imagine
what it meant to ford them on ponies.

These huge rivers, rapid and powerful, sometimes run peacefully,
although with a hidden strength, over fertile plains; sometimes
ICELAND—EINARSSON 287

plunge in tremendous falls, thundering on their way, and where the
rivers drop down from the highlands, magnificent and beautiful
waterfalls are formed. The most remarkable of these are Dettifoss
in the north and Gullfoss in the south.

The water power in the country is enourmous, and year by year it
is being more and more utilized. Af present it is giving light and
heat to thousands of homes in Iceland. But the rivers in Iceland
provide another asset ; in a number of them the salmon are abundant,
as are the trout in the many lakes in different parts of the country.

The lava fields of Iceland are numerous and extensive, especially
in the uninhabited part of the country, the most remarkable of these
being Odaoahraun, the largest lava field in the world.

Iceland has often been called “the land of contrasts” and it justly
deserves the name. This is a land where the snow-white caps of the
mountains cover the intense fire beneath, where you can take a bath
in hot-spring water out in the open during the severe part of the
winter; the inhabited valleys and plains are friendly, inviting, and
charming, the lava deserts desolate, barren and awe-inspiring. Beau-
tiful lakes and rivers winding through green pastures and fertile
meadows with their gushing geysers are a sharp contrast to the
sparkling glaciers, those fields of snow and ice, where no birds sing,
and where nature is dead and silent except when the wind sweeps
over the white desert.

THE CLIMATE

The name of the country and its geographical situation have given
rise to the prevalent erroneous ideas about the island. Fortunately,
however, there is very little similarity between the name and the
country itself.

The climate of Iceland is a maritime climate: not particularly
warm in summer and not very cold in winter. As for the tempera-
ture, it is interesting to note that the mean temperature in January
in Reykjavik, the capital, is about 30° F. The mean summer tem-
perature is 52° F. The mean temperature of the whole year is 39°
F., which is similar to Quebec. In Reykjavik we very seldom have
snow, and on the lowlands snow rarely lies for long ; on the mountains,
however, it lies deep, making ideal conditions for winter sports.

THE POPULATION

And now, who are the people who inhabit this “land of frost and
fire” as Iceland is sometimes called ?

The people of Iceland are descendants of Scandinavian vikings
who were full of vitality, eager in exploiting new countries and
288 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

seeking freedom as Leifur the Lucky, the Icelander who discovered
America.

Iceland was colonized mainly by Norse vikings, who wanted to
throw off the political yoke of Harald the Fairhaired of Norway.
But a considerable part of the early settlers came from the British
Isles, principally from Scotland and Ireland. The Icelanders are
therefore a Scandinavian people with a mixture of Celtic blood.

Hrafna-F16ki was the first viking who intended to settle down in
Iceland, but he left the country after a short stay, somewhat disap-
pointed, as due to lack of foresight he gathered no hay for the sheep
he had brought with him and therefore lost them all. Before he left
the country he climbed a high mountain and saw a firth full of ice.
This gave him the idea of giving the country the uninviting and rather
misleading name it bears,

In the year 874 the first settler of Iceland, Ingsélfur Arnarson,
landed on the south coast of the country. Three years later he
built his homestead where Reykjavik now stands. Reykjavik claims
the distinction of being specially selected by the gods themselves to
become the leading place of the country. According to the tradition,
Ingélfur, when he sighted land, threw overboard his high seat pillars,
declaring that he would settle down where the gods deigned to have
them driven ashore. After a 3-year search he found them where is
now the harbor of Reykjavik.

Sixty years after the settlement of Ingélfur the population was
about 50,000; these self-willed vikings made their homes here, becom-
ing a nation of farmers and creating their own history and culture.

In the summer of 930 the people established a code of laws. This
legislative assembly, the Althing, the oldest parliament in the world,
used to gather every summer at a place called Thingvellir.

In the year 1000 the Christian faith was adopted by law. In the
same year Leifur, called the Lucky, discovered America, which he
called Vinland. In commemoration of this event, the Congress of
the United States of America presented Iceland with an impressive
statue of Leifur the Lucky at the one-thousandth anniversary of the
Icelandic Parliament in 1930.

THE LANGUAGE

Icelandic, the language of Iceland has remained pure and prac-
tically unchanged since the time when it was the common tongue
of all northern people. Consequently, it might be called the mother
tongue of the Scandinavian languages; a great many words in the
English language are derived from this same source.
ICELAND—EINARSSON 289

In Iceland there are no dialects, thanks to the national literature
the Icelanders created long before any such thing was known in
other parts of northern Europe.

Early in the twelfth century the Icelanders began to write their
laws and the history of their country on parchment, which was
followed by the writing of the famous Icelandic “Sagas.”

POLITICAL RELATIONS

In the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries, through changes in
political relations, Iceland became united first with Norway and later
with Denmark.

The loss of political freedom, epidemics, and widespread poverty
and hardships for many years caused the population to diminish to
about one-third of what it was at the time of the republic. But
during the last few decades the Icelandic people seem to have taken
on new life. In 1918, after a long and strenuous political struggle,
Iceland became an independent and sovereign state in personal union
with Denmark through a common king. Since the restoration of
the power of administration, a steady and far-reaching change has
taken place in the mode of living and general conditions in the
country.

FISHING, AGRICULTURE, INDUSTRY, TRADE

The Icelandic nation is one of the smallest nations in the world
(population about 120,000), but its influence in the world trade is
felt far beyond what one might expect.

The greatest factor in Iceland’s economic life is the fisheries. The
sea around the country is enormously rich in fish. There are two
currents striking the coast of Iceland. A branch of the Gulf Stream
encompasses the larger part of the coast so that the country is almost
surrounded by warm water. This is the reason the climate on this
Arctic island is much milder than one would expect when its geo-
graphical position is taken into consideration. The other current,
polar in character, comes from the north and strikes the north and
east coasts of the country.

On account of these two currents with their different types of
marine plant and animal life, the sea around Iceland is rich in the
growth which is the basis of life for various kinds of fish such as
cod, saithe, haddock, halibut, herring, and many others. Seals are
numerous and millions of sea birds breed and make their homes on
the seashore, on the rocks, and on the many small isles around the
coast. The most important of these sea birds is the eider duck, from
the nests of which the eider down is gathered.
290 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

The Icelandic fisheries are as old as the nation itself. For cen-
turies the Icelanders used virtually only rowing boats. Later on
came sailing vessels, which again, in their turn, were replaced by
steam trawlers, other steamships, and motorboats. Now the fishing
is run on the most scientific modern lines.

But it is not only the Icelanders who enrich themselves with the
abundance of the sea. There are thousands of ships of different
nationalities fishing around the coast of Iceland. During the winter
nights some of the fishing banks look like moving towns, light with
light, ship with ship, all fighting for the cod. But the Icelanders
are, of course, best situated for these fishing grounds, and indeed
they exploit them with diligence, being the fourth largest fishing
nation in Europe.

Agriculture, second largest occupation of the Icelandic nation has
undergone a great change although the development has been slower
than in the fishing industry. Stock raising is largely pursued, the
qualities of the soil being suited to it. The production of vegetables
is considerable and increasing. An interesting feature of this occu-
pation is, as has been stated earlier, the ever increasing use of natural
heat from the thermal springs for growing all kinds of vegetables,
fruit, and flowers. The possibilities in this respect are practically
without limit.

There is a considerable amount of industry in Iceland, particu-
larly in connection with the fisheries, and it is increasing rapidly.

Trade, both at home and with foreign countries, is extensive in
proportion to the size of the population. The foreign trade is greater
per person than that of any other country from which statistics are
available. This is because Iceland has need of a great many products
for which there are no raw materials in the country. On the other
hand, the products are somewhat one-sided. The exports consist
mainly of sea products, such as fresh fish, frozen, salted, and dried
herring, cod-liver oil, fish meal, and agricultural products such as
meat, wool, butter, cheese, hides, and skins, and eider down. Manufac-
tured goods, groceries, and all kinds of cereals have to be imported. In
Iceland there are no mines, no coal, no salt or oil. These and all kinds
of machinery must therefore be imported.

COMMUNICATIONS

Communication is, as may be expected, rather difficult in Iceland.
The country is mountainous and intersected by great rivers, but the
population is small. Perhaps the first thing that would strike the
visitor wanting to travel about in Iceland is the absence of railways.
There have never been any railways in Iceland, and it is improbable
that any will ever be built. Nevertheless, roads fit for motor traffic
ICELAND—EINARSSON 291

total altogether over 3,000 miles with about 330 bridges, of which the
majority have been built during the last two decades. The roads
cover most of the populated districts, linking them together across
highland and mountain passes. Motor roads are also beginning to
reach up into the highland plateau. Motor vehicles are the chief
means of transport, and have replaced the horses. But travelers want-
ing to reach places outside the motor roads have to resort to ponies
both for riding and transport of goods. The Icelandic ponies are the
most delightful animals; they are strong, sure-footed and intelligent.
As a matter of fact there are a great many who prefer the ponies to
the motor vehicles, and it is difficult to imagine a more pleasant way
of spending a holiday than by going with a group of friends on
horseback through certain parts of Iceland.

Before the outbreak of the war passenger steamers sailed regularly
from Iceland to England, Denmark, Norway, and Germany. This is,
of course, somewhat changed now, and two steamers have been put on
the Reykjavik-New York route. Iceland hopes for improved com-
munications with the American countries in the near future and
wishes to establish a closer cultural and commercial relationship, par-
ticularly with Canada and the United States.

Telegraph lines extend over the whole country, and submarine
cables, as well as a wireless telephone system, link Iceland with the
rest of the world.

EDUCATION

Illiteracy is unknown in Iceland, and the general level of education
is considered very high. Attendance in school is compulsory for every
child up to 14 years of age. In towns the school system is not unlike
what is common in the English speaking countries. But in the
country, schools have not yet been built in every district, so that in
some places the teachers have to use the individual homes where the
children gather. A number of schools for adults have been built in
the country districts. These schools are preferably erected at the side
of a hot spring, and are not only heated but are also equipped with
swimming baths and even steam baths.

The University is small and a number of students go abroad to
various European and American countries for special studies.

The art of writing seems to be a strong inheritance because a com-
paratively great number of people have shown their talent in this
respect. Perhaps they are encouraged by the knowledge that if they
have something to say and say it well, it will be read by a whole
nation, even if a small one. Nowhere are so many books and news-
papers published yearly in proportion to the size of the population,
and, in addition, there is imported a great number of foreign books,

430577 —42——20
292 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

for many people read one or more foreign languages. On the book-
shelves in the farmsteads may often be seen a selection of world litera-
ture in the original languages.

ICELAND AS A TOURIST COUNTRY

Iceland lies off the beaten track and has therefore not yet been dis-
covered as a tourist country, except to a very limited extent. But the
country has great possibilities in this respect. The number of tourists
visiting Iceland has been increasing steadily in recent years and to
those who love the open air and the pleasures and recreations afforded
by nature, Iceland has much to offer.

Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Einarsson PLATE 1

1. MANY WATERFALLS ARE FORMED WHERE THE STREAMS FROM THE LAVA
PLATEAU PLUNGE OVER ITS BOUNDING ESCARPMENT.

The lava banks show the typical columnar structure formed in many lava flows when they cocl.

2. A WATERFALL FORMED WHERE A STREAM DROPS INTO A CRACK IN THE LAVA
PLATEAU.
cetutntananiendeenaeeeieene aa iene

*punOISIIOJ IY} UT Woes SIOAV] POYTIBIIS JO SoLIoS
8 poul4oy svy 1dsho3 9Y} WO] 10}} BW [BAVUTW JO pnut so MOY-3NO oq,

“ONVW 139]
AO SONIYdS LOH OGNV SYASARAD ANVW AHL AO ANO “2

“SMO OFITVSE [VIDAVS JO 4081
-109 JO SOUT], oY} Suoye uvojso1sa Aq posned o1vB soydued oy1[doeqs oy,

"SaOWId
ANVW NI WSS 3HL WOUS 3SIYMY SASITD YSBSHS “1

@ aALV 1d

uossieul{—*| $6 | *‘qaoday weruosyzIWig
*punois910} 94} Ul BAB] 94} UI SHNVIO OY} JO aUO UI 10}eM Jo [ood *pepis-dAy A[YSNo1 U9}jo ‘sHIOTG O4UI BAB] OI

B IM ‘punoisyoRq od UI Wods ST UOTSe1 SNOMIeIUNOU IYSIY oq, ayBIBdas YOIYM SYOBLO 9} PouI10} YOO1 uUoj[OUL 9yy JO Suypooo oy,
“NVALVId AHL NO ‘SHDOY DILIVSVG AHL NI NOW
SddLS GAWYOS AAVH SMOT14 VAV] SNOIYVA AHL “2 -WOD SI JYNLONYLS 3AdIid-NVOYO YOUVNWNT1OD °1

€3LV 1d _ cl Clic es iat : mas ir Uwe aor te ie oho uossieuly—' | $6] ‘J40dey ueruosyyIUIS

“SHONVOTOA AHL WOU8S
GQ3aLOary IWIMSLVW GNV SVAV7] SHL NI NOISO’S4 “ONV1S] FHL AO SHDOY DINVOTOA AHL
Ag GS3SNVD MOON SAMIMWOOYXHSONW YVITINOAd V 2 NI SWYO4 WNOISOYFZ IWNSNNN ANVYVW 3uYV SYaHL CL

py 3aLV1d uossieuly]—"| p6| “oday ueluOsyzIWIG
“yrAelyAoy Jo AYUTOTA 04 UT pey oq AvuT sdi14 o1ud0s AUB

“MoOva
“de L004-3yYNS AGNV AGYNLS AYV SHINOd DIGNVT1S9] °2 -ASYOH NO S| ‘SGQVOYN YHOLOW MAS SHL WOYA AVMY “TIBAVYL “1

G 31V1d uossieUuly—*| $6] ‘J4oday URruOsYyqIWIg

“THID DIGNV1E5D] NV ‘2 “NVWALV 1d AHL NO AYANADS ‘1

9 3ALV 1d uossieury—* | $6] ‘oday ueruosy zug
“NVALW1d
BHL ONINFGHYOR LNAWdyVOSyg AHL YSAO SAONNNd
*“NOILdNYFA NI SHASAAD AHL AO ANO ‘2 WVSYIS AHL JYSAHM GAWYHOSY TIVAYSALVM VY LL

*puglsI 04} UI SsulIds 404 pus sissh03 AUBUI 918 910TL,I,

LALV1d

Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Einarsson PLATE 8

ee y
. eo MESSE ape

CONES ARE BUILT UP AROUND VENTS WHERE LAVA OR HEATED WATERS OF THE

ite
GEYSERS ISSUE.

This material is deposited in layers.

. SINK-HOLE DEPRESSIONS ARE QUITE COMMON, EITHER AT THE VENTS OF GEY-
SERS WHERE THE WATER WELLS OUT OR WHERE GASES ESCAPE FROM THE

HEATED INTERIOR.

Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Einarsson

(OT

1. COASTAL SCENE IN ICELAND.

2. A STREAM IN ICELAND.

Note the peculiar pinnacles due to erosion in the voleanie rock.

PLATE 9

Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Einarsson PLATE 10

1. CANADIAN AND BRITISH TROOPS IN ICELAND

2. CANADIAN AND BRITISH TROOPS IN ICELAND.
Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Einarsson PLATE 11

1. CANADIAN AND BRITISH TROOPS IN ICELAND.

2. CANADIAN AND BRITISH TROOPS IN ICELAND.

‘squeid 1amod Survey pues suryysiy 10} 1amod ojdue aptaoid 9soy,.L,

“duVOS ONINSCHOR SHL YAAO SONMN 1d GNV1dN
BAHL WOYA SYHSALVM SHL FYSHM GAWYOS ‘GNVT1S9! “ONITOOD ATIHM WAV] AHL AO NOILOVYLNOD
NI SYSAIYMN AHL AO ST1IV4H SNOYAWNN AHL AO ANO ‘2 S3HL OL ANG MOVED LNIOF MOYYVN V NI 100d V ‘1

cl 3LV1d uossieury—' |

[h6| ‘J40deayy UeruOsYyyIUIG

THE GENES AND THE HOPE OF MANKIND?

By Bruce BLIvEN
Editor, The New Republic

Amazing strides have been made in recent years and even months
in relation to the most fascinating of all scientific riddles—that which
has to do with the origin and development of life itself. These
recent achievements would have attracted far more attention than
they have were it not that the world has been distracted with war
and politics. Nevertheless it is quite possible that some of the work
done in the past few years may be remembered for many centuries
after the political and military leaders of today are gone and for-
gotten. In some of the great research laboratories of the United
States I have recently had the privilege of seeing the extraordinary
achievements in this field that science is now accomplishing.

It is hard to realize how rapidly progress has been made in rela-
tion to this subject. It is only since the year 1901 that the Mendelian
Jaw has been rediscovered after having lain forgotten for more than
35 years in a paper written by the fat Austrian monk. (It was
ridiculed, when first published, by some of the leading scientists
of the day.) It was more than a decade later before the extensive
usefulness of the tiny banana fly in laboratory experiments was
fully realized. Only in 1927 did science discover that bombarding
the individual with X-rays or neutrons could produce a wide variety
of mutations in the next generation, thus speeding up the evolution-
ary process a hundred or a thousandfold. Not until 1934 did the
scientists learn that the giant chromosomes found in the salivary
glands of this banana fly (Drosophila) could be studied under the
microscope to great advantage. Finally, only within the last year
or two have the scientists found out that remarkable things happen
to plants when they are treated with the miraculous drug called
colchicine, obtained from the roots of the bitter autumn crocus.
As a result of all these things, the doors have swung open on a

1This is the sixth of a series of articles under the general title, “The Men Who Make
the Future.” They are based on interviews with numerous leading American research
experts who were promised that they would not be quoted by name. Reprinted by per-
mission from The New Republic, vol. 104, No. 15, April 14, 1941.

293
294 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

wonderland of new knowledge, although as yet we have only crossed
the threshold.

If justice is done, there will some day be monuments all over the
world to the banana fly. This tiny, light-colored insect has great
advantages in the genetics laboratory. It thrives in captivity, pro-
duces one generation in only 12 days, and each female may have
several hundred young; thus 2 years of the banana fly are equal
to 2,000 years of mankind. Its unique giant salivary chromosomes
seem almost made to order for the research of the scientists.

One of the first things to impress a layman about the new knowl-
edge of the geneticists is the similarity of the life principle in plants
and animals. In the great genetics laboratory of the Carnegie In-
stitution at Cold Spring Harbor, Long Island, the other day I saw a
chart of the genes and chromosomes of the jimsom weed, a favorite
plant for colchicine experiments. Only across the hall was a similar
chart for the banana fly. While there were of course differences,
the similarities were even more apparent. In both cases, the living
matter consists of cells. In both cases each of these cells contains
a nucleus equipped with a definite number of chromosomes. In
both cases these chromosomes are filled with genes. In both cases,
each gene or group of them supplies a definite characteristic to the
living organism. It is not too much to say that from the stand-
point of science plants are only stationary animals, or that animals
are perambulating plants.

In order to understand the startling new information which science
has unearthed regarding all living things, with its searching impli-
cations for our own social conduct, it is necessary to describe briefly
the mechanism of birth and growth, as the scientists now understand
it. For the sake of simplicity, I shall use the human body as my
illustration, although the process is similar throughout all organic
matter.

The body consists of microscopically small cells, each containing
in its nucleus 48 chromosomes that are very much smaller still.
Twenty-four of these are contributed by the father and an equal
number by the mother. (This rule holds good throughout the world
of plants and animals, although the number of chromosomes differs
with each species.) The microscopic chromosomes contain the genes
and these have the clue to the very riddle of life itself. They are
known to control the growth and development of so many character-
istics that geneticists believe they probably dictate all growth proc-
esses. How many different genes there are in a human bemg no one
knows; it is believed that Drosophila has about three thousand.
Man probably possesses at least as many.
GENES AND MANKIND—BLIVEN 295

Under the microscope the giant salivary chromosomes of Droso-
phila (100 to 170 times larger than those in other tissues) look some-
what like tiny snakes with alternate transverse markings of light
and dark. You must not think, however, that each dark area is one
gene or even that the genes are concentrated in them. All that the
scientists are willing to say is that certain genes are associated with
certain dark areas and that the bands in some sense mark the limits
within which certain genes are known to lie. There are of course
many genes in each part of each chromosome.

There is one important exception to the rule that there are 48
chromosomes in every human cell. The male sperm and the female
evum which meet to start a new life have only 24 chromosomes each.
They meet and join at the moment of fertilization and the chromo-
somes which appear in the cells of the offspring come from both
parents. This meeting of the chromosomes and genes is not a
matter of mere blind chance. Genes for the same characteristic of
the individual (color of hair or eyes, pigmentation, etc.) are located
always in the same chromosomes. (Any one character, such as eye
color, is not, however, controlled only by genes from a single chromo-
some.) The genes from both father and mother jointly dictate the
characteristics of the child.

As science discovered more than a hundred years ago, there are
dominant and recessive characters. When they meet, we now know,
the dominant will win out, as the word itself suggests. In Mendel’s
famous experiment, he crossed a true-breeding form of red peas
with white ones. Red is dominant; white is recessive. In the next
generation all the plants had red flowers, but they were carrying
the white genes none the less. The self-fertilized grandchildren of
these peas were 25-percent pure red and 25-percent pure white. The
other 50 percent were red in color, but they, too, carried white genes,
so that their descendants would not breed true to the dominant red.

Sometimes characteristics are controlled according to whether
the organism possesses one gene of a certain type, or a pair of them.
For example, there are two genes which, when they appear in pairs,
cause a man to sing bass and a woman to sing soprano. Two other
genes, in pairs, produce tenors and altos. One gene from each pair,
together cause baritones and mezzo-sopranos. As Dr. Herluf
Strandskov has pointed out, the children of a basso and a soprano
can only sing bass or soprano; a tenor and an alto can have only
children of those voices. A baritone and a mezzo-soprano is the
only mating that can hope to produce a quartet!

How does a child grow from an almost invisible, microscopic fer-
tilized egg into a 200-pound football player? He grows, and so
does everything else in nature, by cell division. Did you ever put
296 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

a bubble pipe in soapsuds and blow until a mass of tiny bubbles rose
above the surface of the water and almost overflowed the basin? The
analogy is inaccurate, but the mental picture you will get is similar
to what happens in the process of cell division. Each of the 48
chromosomes in a cell divides by splitting lengthwise into two parts,
which separate, half of them going to the right, so to speak, and
the other half to the left. Then the nucleus begins to narrow in
the middle, into a dumbbell shape, with 48 chromosomes in each end.
The bar in the middle grows shut; the two ends break off, and we
have two cells each containing all the chromosomes of the original
one. This process is repeated; the two cells become four, the four
become eight, and so on, until their number rises into billions.

The almost unbelievable work that has recently been done is to
identify the genes which create certain characteristics of the living
creature. With enormous patience and countless hours of weary
industry, the scientists have tracked down the characteristics
associated with individual genes. (This had been worked out in
theory some years before it was verified under the microscope
through experiments in artificial mutation.) In the case of the
jimson weed, for example, about five hundred new genes have been
discovered, of which more than seventy have been located in par-
ticular chromosomes. The scientist can put his finger on the
chromosome chart of the jimson weed and can say: “At this point
are found the gene or genes that cause the plant to have a rough
skin, or to carry tufts, or to be an albino.” In the banana fly, simi-
larly, the scientists know where in the chromosome lie the genes
associated with certain definite characters such as the color of the
eye, the size of the wings, bands on the abdomen, and so on. More
than 500 genes in Drosophila have been definitely located.

A few years ago it was discovered that carefully controlled bom-
bardment with X-rays, neutrons, or other radiation would affect the
genes. Sometimes they are altered or destroyed, sometimes the
arrangement of the sections of the chromosomes is changed. In a
state of nature, once in many times the genes are spontaneously
changed by extreme heat or cold, by old age, or for other reasons.
When the organism is subjected to X-rays, the process of change is
enormously speeded up. Large numbers of mutations can be
detected in the short space of two generations, and the scientists are
perhaps beginning to see the mechanism of evolution in operation
before their very eyes.

The almost incredible fact is that the experts now know in
advance in a general way what will happen when Drosophila is sub-
jected to a moderately severe dose of X-ray. Perhaps half the flies
will be killed. Among the survivors some will have descendants,
GENES AND MANKIND—BLIVEN 297

and among these descendants certain types of mutation will appear
in definite percentages which the scientists can now predict in
advance. They can tell you before the baby Drosophilae are born
(when they are considered in sufficient quantities) about how many
will have dwarfed wings, or white eyes resulting from lack of
pigmentation, or other abnormalities. If mankind has ever come
any nearer than this to usurping the privileges of the Deity, I do not
know where.

These changes in characteristics which the scientists create in the
laboratory will breed true for all time in the future unless affected
by additional mutation later on. Ten thousand years from now, if
these Drosophilae were to continue having descendants that long,
their remote offspring would still have white eyes or dwarf wings,
because the genes creating the normal characteristics, colored eyes, or
large wings, are lacking or altered. To illustrate this with a more
familiar laboratory animal: you could cut off the tails of 1,000 gen-
erations of mice and the one-thousand-and-first would have tails as
long as those of the original ancestors. But destroy the chief long-
tail-producing genes in a single pair of mice, and their descendants,
if inbred and selected for taillessness until they are pure for this
characteristic, will be tailless forever more.

The action of the genes must certainly be one of the most interest-
ing mechanisms in the realm of nature. It is hard to believe, yet it
is increasingly being proved, that almost every hereditary char-
acteristic of the individual is to be found packed away in these
microscopic particles. The genes, acting together, seem literally to
plan the growing organism. Science does not yet know just how
this is done, or the relation among the genes, the mysterious and
miraculous glands of internal secretion, and the tissues. It is
assumed that the genes control the shape that growth takes from
the beginning of the new life. There are embryonic tissues, called
by the geneticists “organizers,” which evoke specific growth-reactions
in other embryonic tissues. In the human being each of the glands
of internal secretion—the pituitary, the thyroids, parathyroids,
pancreas, adrenals, and gonads—secretes one or more hormones which,
poured into the blood stream, keep the body functioning. Most of
them, indeed, are vitally necessary for the maintenance of life itself.

It staggers the imagination to think of the genes at work
through the months and years creating every organ of the complex
electrochemical-physical machine for living that is the body, Either
directly, or indirectly through the endocrine glands, they bring each
of the organs to full usefulness at the proper time and in co-ordina-
tion with each other. Then think of the hundreds of thousands of
species of animals and plants, in each of which the genes follow the
298 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

proper and unique pattern of the species, and you begin to have
some idea of the wonders of this universe.

When you lift your arm or bend your finger the process is an
electrochemical one. The nerve impulse from the brain sets up at
the proper places in the muscles an electrically induced chemical
alteration. It is possible that the genes do their work in the same
way; we do not know.

Nothing is more mysterious in this whole complex story than that
the genes, and the tissues and glands which they help to build up, seem
to work on an elaborate and intricate time schedule. In human
beings, for example, there are characteristics that do not develop
until many years have passed. There appear to be “bad” genes, from
the individual’s point of view, which lurk unsuspected for half a cen-
tury and then cause a man to become bald in just the way his father
did. Others seemingly wait for decades to produce hereditary blind-
ness or insanity. A marvelous mechanism is that operated by the
gonads which brings about the characteristics of adolescence at 13 or
14, produces hair on the face of the male (in certain races) at 18 or 19,
and either creates the changes of the menopause in the forties and
fifties or, by ceasing to function, permits them. There are even pre-
sumably old-age genes which determine, before you are born, how
long you will live—if you don’t terminate your life prematurely with
whiskey, a bullet, or a speeding automobile. For longevity, as every-
one knows, “runs in families,” and whatever runs in families, if
actually inherited, is controlled by the genes. That is to say, the
tissues and organs of the individual have a gene-determined life cycle
that will be carried out if other factors do not intervene.

The miracle of the “time-clock genes” is clearly shown in the case
of identical twins—twins which arise from a single fertilized egg
which for some reason divided early in embryonic life to produce two
human beings with, so far as science knows, the same genes and
chromosomes. Identical twins develop the same physical character-
istics, throughout life, at almost exactly the same time. This prin-
ciple holds even if three, four, or five children have developed from
a single egg. This is the case with the Dionne quintuplets, who have
the same genes.

Let me emphasize again that it is wrong to think of a single gene
as performing a specified function unaided. It is now believed that
every gene influences every other, just as all the genes occur in every
chromosome and there are 48 chromosomes in every cell of the body
except the sperm and ovum from which the new life will be created.
There are eye genes in your toe, and toe genes in your eye. Science
now knows that there are certain groups of genes which are inherited
GENES AND MANKIND—BLIVEN 299

together. Often such genes appear to have no logical relation to one
another, at least in the present state of our understanding. In some
families of human beings, for example, a given color of hair is asso-
ciated with the lack of one or more of the incisor teeth. By studying
family strains it is possible to predict that a child born to certain
parents, and having hair of a given color, will possess only six or
seven incisors instead of eight.

This innocent-sounding fact is likely to prove of the very highest
practical value to the future of the human race. Many diseases are
not predominantly hereditary, but others are, and often you can inherit
a predisposition. Among the hereditary ones are some that are par-
ticularly terrible in their effects, which nevertheless do not manifest
themselves until middle life, after the victim has unwittingly married
and had children to whom he can pass on his taint. An example of
such a disease is Huntington’s chorea, which does not appear until
the individual is 35 or 40 years of age. Previously he may have been a
fine physical and mental specimen. When Huntington’s chorea strikes,
he goes to pieces mentally and physically; his muscles fail; he sinks
into hopeless insanity which usually terminates, after a few years,
in death.

Medical science knows no way to cure this terrible malady; but
the knowledge that is coming out of the laboratory gives us the
hope of a means by which we could stamp it out in only a few gen-
erations. If linked genes could be discovered that are inherited to-
gether and transmitted with the disease, latent Huntington’s chorea
could be identified far in advance through other seemingly harm-
less and unrelated characteristics. No civilized person would marry
and have children if he knew that such a fate overhung him and
them. The time may not be far distant when, thanks to the ad-
vance of science, society can say to such an individual long before
he reaches the age for fatherhood that it is forbidden to him. Other
dread diseases, believed to be hereditary, for which there is now
similar hope are muscular atrophy, which brings death at about the
age of 20, and hereditary blindness, which may also begin in the
late teens.

Opinion is divided among the experts as to whether it is possible
to inherit a predisposition toward diabetes or whether its seeming
to “run in families” is due to quite different causes. Whatever
the scientific explanation, it is desirable that one who may develop
diabetes should be forewarned and should take the necessary steps
to safeguard himself by following a hygienic routine of living.
Science is now prepared, by the study of family histories, to give
warnings of this sort.
300 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

These new secrets of the laboratory have resulted in greatly alter-
ing our concepts of many aspects of our individual and communal
life. Here are a few:

1. Geneticists are no longer interested in the old debate as to
whether environment is more important than heredity. From their
point of view, both are of tremendous significance. What the or-
ganism inherits is not so much characteristics.as the tendency to
produce these characteristics provided the environment is favorable—
a profound new discovery which, if it could be grasped by political
leaders in all its implications, might well make over our society.
For example, there is a species of rabbit whose hair is mostly white;
but if exposed long enough to low temperature, black hair grows
out. Pink-flowered hydrangeas can be changed to blue by adding
iron salts to the soil. Tall corn planted too close together will
grow only a quarter of its normal size. Yet the offspring of these
rabbits, hydrangeas, and corn, in a normal environment, will again
have white fur, pink flowers, and tall stalks. When the hereditary
influences are strong, those of environment are correspondingly weak,
and vice versa.

These changes, however, could not have taken place unless the or-
ganisms carried the special genes that make them possible. Not
all rabbits have fur that changes color; there are “Tom Thumb”
breeds of corn that never grow tall no matter how widely the hills
are spaced; some flowers remain the same color when fed iron salts.
In other words, environment can change you, but only on a basis
of what you originally possess—or lack. It is like the developing
chemical in the photographer’s dark room; it creates nothing, but
it can bring out what is on the plate. The tragedy of life is that
we so often discard the plate without ever finding the perhaps rich
and beautiful picture concealed on it.

2. For practical purposes, at least, we may assume that almost
nothing in our biological heritage is transmitted from one generation
to the next except what is passed on in the genes. This does away at
one stroke with a multitude of conceptions of the popular mind. It
is nonsense to suppose, for example, that because a mother before the
birth of her child receives a fright or sees a snake, the child will be
“marked,” any more than he will be musical or artistic if she goes to
concerts and galleries.

3. There is a popular theory that whole families can be subjected
to continuous decay and degeneration. This might be true under
very special circumstances, if, for instance, all the good men in a
community had been killed off in war, or in the case of isolated
groups where inbreeding would serve to reinforce undesirable strains
instead of desirable ones. The chances are, however, that when a
GENES AND MANKIND—BLIVEN 301

family seems to go rapidly downhill from generation to generation,
it is only partly because of bad heredity. The rest of the story is
environment—poverty, ignorance, and imitation of their elders driv-
ing down one crop of children after another.

Science nowadays looks with deep suspicion on conclusions drawn
from the famous “degenerate families” such as the Jukes and the
Kallikaks, with which sociologists regaled us a generation ago. No
doubt there were some “morbid” genes among the members of
these families; but the sociologists made a bad mistake in attributing
the whole evil record to the genes alone and ignoring environmental
factors. What chance would even a normal child have had, brought
up in a household composed largely of drunkards, thieves, and pros-
titutes? His family record would be enough to turn the community
against him from the start. The geneticists of today try to balance
the evils transmitted by the genes against those caused by imperfect
surroundings.

4, Alcoholism, as such, probably cannot be transmitted from par-
ent to child, though an unstable neural system, predisposing to dip-
somania, may be. When the son of a drunkard takes to drink, it is
possible that his genes are involved; but it is also possible and even
probable, that it is by imitation or in response to a bad environment
in which the father’s alcoholism played a part. Roughly the same
is true of other human weaknesses—drug addiction, sexual promis-
cuity, improvidence, love of gambling, habitual lying.

5. The common belief that the mother’s blood circulates through
the body of the child before birth is now known to be false. The
two blood streams are separated by the placenta, through which
nourishment passes by osmosis, which is roughly the way that blot-
ting paper picks up moisture. Mr. Justice Holmes in a famous
decision once held that an unborn child is “a part of the mother’s
bowels”; but science has overruled the great Justice. The number
of abnormal conditions the mother can transmit to the unborn child
is much smaller than is commonly supposed. She can infect her
baby with syphilis, but this is not a hereditary form, and responds
to treatment. She cannot transmit gonorrhea, although she can
infect the child during birth itself. Until a few years ago, thou-
sands of children all over the world became blind at birth because
of venereal infection transmitted in this way. There are a few
drugs which manage to find their way through the placenta, and it
is believed, for example, without much reliable evidence, that an
unborn child may become a cocaine addict. Certainly the child’s
genes can be injured before birth by lead poisoning. But such path-
ological conditions, at least as between mother and child, are not
hereditary and can be treated just as postnatal infections are.
302 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

As scientific knowledge improves, we learn more and more about
inherited susceptibility, or predisposition, toward certain diseases,
as well as resistances or even immunities. We learn that some types
of illness formerly supposed to be hereditary are only partially or
not at all in this category, while in other cases inherited character-
istics are found to predispose an individual toward a given disease.
Among those in which inheritance is a definite factor are rheumatic
fevers in childhood, a few rare types of cancer, color-blindness, a
number of disorders of the eye, baldness, and albinism. Certain
sorts of feeble-mindedness are hereditary. The geneticists are in-
creasingly reluctant to draw a hard and fast line between environ-
mental and hereditary factors; yet in regard to 10 of the 12 most
serious diseases, environment on the whole seems more important
than heredity.

These recent scientific revelations have enormously altered our
conception of eugenics. We understand now for the first time how
mutations occur, through destruction or alteration of the genes.
From the individual’s point of view, there are good and bad genes,
but the good ones enormously outnumber the bad. Since nearly all
changes in the genes are destructive, and consist in taking something
away, under the law of averages most mutations are undesirable.
They produce an organism limited in some respects, in comparison
with its parent, and therefore probably somewhat less fitted to cope
with its environment.

In a state of nature, this does not matter greatly, for it is offset
by natural selection—the survival of the fittest. Mutations that are
disadvantageous tend to die out; good ones help the organism to sur-
vive and to transmit its desirable “symphony of genes” to the next
generation. But unfortunately civilization as it has existed for the
past few centuries tends to reverse this process. We are moving in
the direction of keeping everyone alive, the unfit as well as the fit,
and permitting nearly all of them to transmit their genes to their
children. Many of the leading geneticists of the world believe that
this process, continued long enough, would so reinforce the morbid
genes as to bring about the degeneration of the race.

To say this is not, however, to accept the theories of those who are
demanding wholesale compulsory sterilization of the unfit. The
geneticists realize better than the amateur enthusiasts what an
enormously difficult and complicated subject this is. They advocate
sterilization in certain definite cases of proved hereditary feeble-
mindedness and insanity, partly to put an end to bad genes and partly
because people of low or unstable intelligence bring up their children
badly. In other cases of undesirable heredity, the experts recom-
mend voluntary abstention from parenthood.
GENES AND MANKIND—BLIVEN 303

Amazing things have been done in only a few generations to per-
fect plants and animals, and impatient persons often ask why the
same should not be possible for mankind. It is a legitimate ques-
tion and the assumed answer holds an exciting promise for the
future. There is little doubt that if genetic principles could be ap-
plied to humanity, the average of our population could be brought
up to the level of our best examples within a few generations. If
you want a slogan, here it is: “Every man a genius by the year
2141.”

The difficulty is that somebody would have to decide what are the
desirable traits, after we had agreed that hereditary feeble-minded-
ness and insanity are undoubted handicaps. His judgments would
be subjective, and that is where the trouble comes in. Who is to ac-
cept the fearful responsibility of saying what are good traits for a
future society, and what are bad ones? For that matter, who is to
say what the future society will be like? Will you assume a con-
tinuance of our present social organization, which seems to require
large numbers of not-too-bright toilers and soldiers? Or will you
envisage an ideal state of universal peace and all the heavy work
done by machines?

The overwhelming obstacle is that most human beings today live in
environments so unsatisfactory that we cannot tell what their genetic
possibilities are. We know by scientific research that there are
thousands of geniuses in this country alone who remain swamped by
poverty and ignorance and never get a chance to demonstrate their
abilities. Before we can live up to the promise of our genetic future,
we must remove the shackles which prevent full development of our
present capabilities. Otherwise, the effort at improvement is like
trying to carve a statue in the dark.

The geneticists, on a basis of solid science, hold forth a glorious
picture of the future of mankind. They tell us that by improving
our environment and our heredity simultaneously we can in a few
generations abolish nearly all human afflictions. It is sober truth to
say that it lies within our power to create a race of superbeings, liv-
ing in Utopia, and to do so in perhaps the length of time that has
elapsed since George Washington was born. No more exciting pros-
pect was ever offered mankind.
a < - : :
CARE OF CAPTIVE ANIMALS?

By Ernest P. WALKER

Assistant Director, National Zoological Park

[With 12 plates]

INTRODUCTION

The purpose of this article is not to stimulate the keeping of
animals in captivity, but rather to make more tolerable and, if
possible, more happy the lives of those that are inevitably to be kept
in captivity. Most pets are kept because the captor is fond of them.
Yet in altogether too many instances the animals are not properly
cared for. The result is often suffering, ill health, or death due
largely to lack of knowledge on the part of the captor, who would
gladly provide his pet all it needed if he but knew how.

Anyone not sufficiently fond of and interested in animals to be
willing to provide the proper quarters for pets and thereafter give
them proper and regular care should not attempt to keep them.

1 Animals of many kinds have not yet been successfully kept in captivity, or if they have
been so kept, the fact is not generally known. Therefore the information now available
about the best ways of keeping many kinds is necessarily very incomplete. It is hoped
that readers of this paper who have had experience in the keeping of animals whose needs
in captivity are little known, will communicate with the author in order that the benefit of
their experience may be added to his records and so be made available for others who are
interested in the subject.

Acknowledgment is made to the following persons for information, assistance, and advice
in the preparation of this paper: Dr. Carter H. Anthony, veterinarian, National Zoological
Park; Mr. Vernon Bailey, retired, chief field naturalist, U. S. Biological Survey (now the
Fish and Wildlife Service) ; Dr. Doris Cochran, assistant curator, Division of Herpetology,
U. S. National Museum, for examination and considerable work on the reptile and amphib-
ian sections; Mr. Malcolm Davis, principal keeper, National Zoological Park; Dr. Herbert
Friedmann, curator of birds, U. S. National Museum, for examination of the bird section ;
Mr. John N. Hamlet, of the U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service; Mr. Roy H. Jennier, principal
keeper, National Zoological Park, who has given consideration to the reptile and amphibian
sections; Dr. David Johnson and Dr. Remington Kellogg, of the Division of Mammals,
U. S. National Museum, for examination of the mammal section; Mr. Charles E. Kellogg,
Section of Fur Resources, U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service; Dr. J. E. Shillinger, Section of
Wild Animal Disease Studies of the same service; and numerous others who have at various
times supplied me with information which is incorporated herein. Such a work as this is
necessarily a composite of information obtained from innumerable sources, all of which
cannot be specifically credited.

Mr. Gerrit S. Miller, jr., associate in biology, U. S. National Museum, has painstakingly
gone over the entire manuscript to review it from both biological and editorial points of
view.

305
306 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

When man takes wild animals into captivity and endeavors to
maintain them, he sets up for himself a definite obligation to furnish
them with the comforts and necessities to which they are accustomed
in their native state.

The basis of the entire problem is to view the subject from the stand-
point of the animal and its requirements. Experience gained in
handling one animal is often of great value in the handling of related
kinds, but this is not an infallible guide, as frequently related forms
will have different feeding habits and requirements.

Within the scope of such a brief work as this, it is not possible
to treat in detail each kind of animal; the most that can be attempted
is to point out a few of the basic principles that may generally be
applied, and to cite additional sources of information where further
details regarding certain groups may be obtained? Perhaps it will
also encourage those who keep live animals to view the subject from
the broadest possible standpoint, so that they may obtain new informa-
tion regarding the care and requirements of their captives.

Fairly satisfactory information can frequently be obtained by cor-
respondence or personal inquiry from well-informed sources, such as
the personnel of zoos, museums, biology departments of universities
and high schools, State and governmental agencies, and local natural-
ists.

The work of agencies for the prevention of cruelty to animals is
to be commended, and well-run zoos and parks cooperate with them.

Altogether too often animals are kept as exhibits merely to attract
attention to a business enterprise, and the captor has no real fondness
for the animal, knowledge of its requirements, or interest in its wel-
fare.

Unhappy, sick, or diseased animals are not pleasing pets or attrac-
tive for exhibition. Therefore, any effort on the part of the captor
that will keep the animals happy, contented, and in good health, is
well justified. The more one knows of the conditions under which
the animal lives in the wild, the better able he will be to plan for its
welfare.

It is sometimes said that certain animals cannot be kept in captivity.
A better way of stating the fact would be that we do not yet know
enough about the requirements of certain animals to be able to keep
them successfully. Often certain people have excellent success not
only in keeping but in breeding animals that others have said could

2The U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior, Washington, D. C.,
has available for distribution many publications formerly issued by the U. S. Biological
Survey and the U. S. Bureau of Fisheries relating to food habits and care of many different
kinds of animals, including earthworms and other forms used for bait or food of animals.

The Bureau of Animal Industry of the U. S. Department of Agriculture has issued many
publications on the care of domestic stock, including chickens and ducks, that contain
useful information.
CARE OF CAPTIVE ANIMALS—WALKER 307

not be kept in captivity. The sooner we admit that we really know
very little about the lives and requirements of wild animals, the
sooner we will be in a frame of mind to learn more about the subject,
with correspondingly increased success in keeping them.

The observing, thoughtful person can amplify the sketchy outline
given herein and find many more foods, methods, and materials use-
ful in keeping animals. He will realize that the animals in any re-
gion eat only the plant, animal, or mineral products in their own
generally restricted ranges. This will suggest many local products
that are potential foods.

Adoption of the rule that “the animal is always right” will go far
toward smoothing the road for both the pet and the owner. We are
fond of animals because they are animals; therefore they should be
allowed to live the lives of animals rather than forced to ape our
lives, actions, and methods.

GENERAL CARE

In providing for animals, it is important that we give considera-
tion to the range of temperature under which they normally live,
whether their home climate is dry or humid, what kind of food they
eat, and whether or not they vary their food from season to season
as many animals do. We should also provide the proper type of
shelter or nest, meet their requirements as to drinking water, tem-
perature of water, and know whether or not they need to swim or to
wallow in dust or mud. These are major necessities; but there are
many other important details in the life of every captive animal] that
must be heeded if they are to be successfully kept.

Before obtaining animals,’ persons should endeavor to ascertain
the proper care for them and be prepared to render such care upon
the animal’s arrival. If specimens are obtained from dealers or
others who have had them in captivity, it is frequently possible to
obtain fairly satisfactory information as to their care. In some
instances irresponsible or poorly informed dealers will give erroneous
or incomplete instructions. An example of this is the advice given
by circus vendors to feed anolis, which they sell under the name of
chameleons, sweetened water. The animals soon die on this diet.
They eat live insects, and will thrive on flies.

Obviously man cannot provide animals with exactly the same con-
ditions they would enjoy in the wild. It is therefore of great im-
portance that he give very careful heed to providing the substitutes

* Almost every nation, country, State, and Province has restrictions on the capture, pos-
session, transportation, and importation of wild animals. Anyone who wishes to obtain
animals should first familiarize himself with the restrictions of the region in which he
expects to obtain the animals, and any of the restrictions that may apply to the method of
transportation contemplated and within the region in which he expects to keep them.

430577—42——-21
308 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

that most closely approximate the conditions and foods they would
obtain in their natural state, and that he give the animals a sufficient
variety so that they may select those that are best adapted and
thereby show the captor the foods and conditions preferred.

Newly acquired animals are usually much worried, fretted, and
tired from a trip, and often have not had water or proper food
en route. The first step in their care is, therefore, to provide them
with clean, fairly roomy quarters, proper food, water for drinking
and bathing, and fine sand or dust for cleaning themselves, if they
use that method. Birds that require grit have usually not received
it on their trip. A small amount should be given immediately.
They will take too much if given a large quantity.

Let them be quiet and undisturbed so they may rest. If they are
just received from the wild and are to be placed in a collection with,
or in close proximity to, other animals, it is an excellent plan to
exercise some quarantine precautions, such as maintaining them in
quarters well isolated from the main collection, and, at the same
time, treating them with insect powders and sulfur to remove ex-
ternal parasites, doctoring serious injuries, and taking any other
safety measures that may appear necessary. Some animal custodians
also follow the practice of giving some medical treatment to elimi-
nate internal parasites, or to at least make observations of feces to
determine whether or not such parasites do exist.

The shipping crates or cages in which the animals are received
should be burned or cleaned and sterilized thoroughly to prevent
introduction of parasites or disease.

Too often animals are displayed in the hot sun without an oppor-
tunity to get into the shade, often without water, and in other
instances they are exposed to bleak winds without shelter, and with-
out straw, leaves, or bedding to insulate themselves from cement,
iron, or board floors. Such treatment is inhumane, to say the least.

Almost all animals have some sort of a home in the wild. In
some instances it is a burrow deep enough so that there is almost
no change in temperature in it throughout the year. In others, it
is a nest made of fibrous material that is good insulation from
changes in temperature. Wild animals are free to move about and
choose for themselves the locations and conditions most to their
liking. This is not possible for captives, so it behooves the captor
to heed their needs closely, for they cannot talk our language to tell
us of their wishes and sufferings.

Sunlight is essential to the welfare of many animals, but like other
good things, it can be overdone. It is important that cages be placed
so that the animals can choose whether to be in the sun or in the
shade. Even a comparatively short period in the direct rays of the
CARE OF CAPTIVE ANIMALS—WALKER 309

sun is often fatal to snakes and lizards that are inhabitants of
desert regions and are supposed to enjoy the sun. They regularly
seek the shade during the hot portion of the day in hot weather; or
they burrow in the sand or under stones to get out of the intense
heat. Small den houses become unbearably hot when in the sun.
Shade should be provided for such enclosures in hot weather.

Animals that particularly require sunshine frequently develop ill
health and become unsightly because they do not get enough sunlight
or ultraviolet rays. This can frequently be remedied by installing
ultraviolet lamps at the cages so that the animals can go into the
rays to such extent as they wish. Such rays can be harmful if the
animal is subjected to them too much.

Sunlight is not essential or even desirable for certain animals,
for, being nocturnal, many of them never see the sun, not coming out
into the open until the sun is set, and going to bed before the sun
rises. Others live subterranean lives entirely away from the sun-
light. Presumably such creatures obtain, through their food, the
materials that are manufactured by other animals in sunlight.

Developments in air conditioning, refrigeration, and special types
of lighting now make it fairly easy to provide physical surroundings
that closely approximate those of the climate in which animals would
normally live. The big problem is to furnish suitable substitute
foods. In the wild, some of the animals are what we term “speci-
alized feeders,” that is, they eat but very few kinds of food. At first
thought such foods may not appear to furnish well-balanced diets.
However, careful consideration will disclose the fact that their
limited diet does provide a well-balanced ration for them. Feeding
these animals is sometimes the most difficult of all problems, and at
other times it is very simple, depending on whether or not we are
able to furnish palatable substitute foods that contain the necessary
constituents. Other animals take a wide variety of foods in the wild,
a nibble of this and a nibble of that, obviously selecting things that
are palatable to them and that contain the constituents necessary for
their well-being. Careful study of the feeding habits of such animals
in the wild discloses a surprising variety of food consumed. Some-
times they may eat a limited variety for a short period, but with
the changes of the season, the diets may be radically changed. In
some instances, such changes appear to be necessary for physical de-
velopment aud growth. For example, many young birds, such as
finches and others, are fed insects by their parents, whereas the adults
eat mainly seeds for most of the year, and insects for only a short
season. In others, the changes appear to indicate a wide food toler-
ance that permits the animal to survive under seasonal conditions that
vary greatly from one time of the year to another.
310 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

The examination of stomach contents of wild animals, which has
been carried on so extensively by the United States Biological
Survey ‘ over a long period, has been of great value in showing what
North American animals eat. The studies carried on in this manner
are valuable as guides in the keeping of captive animals.

One of the most common errors in the feeding of carnivorous ani-
mals is to give them only choice red meat, on the assumption that
carnivores limit themselves strictly to such food. On the contrary,
in many cases when carnivorous animals make a kill, they eat the
viscera of the prey or drink its blood or eat its brains before they
will eat any of the red meat. Recent studies in vitamins reveal that
the viscera of animals are rich in several vitamins; liver is especially
rich, as are other glands of the body. Furthermore, it is probable
that the digestive fluids in the stomach and intestines, which are
regularly consumed by the carnivores, are really needed by these
animals. The fur or feathers and skin of the victims are regularly
consumed, and are obviously needed as roughage and bulk if they
serve no other purpose. The bones of the victims are relished in
many instances and are valuable as a source of minerals such as
calcium and phosphorus; also, red bone marrow is a valuable food.
Furthermore, the chewing of bones stimulates the flow of digestive
fluids and strengthens the teeth and jaws.

Almost all carnivores will occasionally take plant foods to some
extent, as witness the cat that will frequently chew grass, apparently
taking it as a medicine or for the vitamins. Dogs do likewise. Bears,
other than polars, eat mainly plant products.

Overfeeding is a frequent cause of animals becoming sluggish or
excessively fat, and even dying. Care should be taken to give an
animal only as much as it will clean up fairly promptly at its usual
time to eat. Surplus food that remains in the cage is likely to spoil
and poison the animal, and also to attract ants, flies, cockroaches,
and other pests.

Nocturnal animals will not, of course, ordinarily take food that
is given to them in the daytime. Their failure to take it promptly
should not be construed as indicating that they are not hungry.
They should be fed in the evening.

Fur farms are probably the most outstanding examples of progress
in the care and keeping of wild animals in captivity, for if a fur
farm is to profit, it must not only be able to keep its animals alive, but it
must be able to induce them to reproduce prolifically and to be in such
excellent health that their fur is of superior quality. Furthermore,

On July 1, 1940, this organization was consolidated with the U. S. Bureau of Fisheries,
formerly of the Department of Commerce, under the new title of U. S. Fish and Wildlife
Service, and transferred to the U. S. Department of Interior.
CARE OF CAPTIVE ANIMALS—WALKER Sau!

these conditions must be produced at a minimum of cost. The many
fur farms in the northern United States, in Canada and Alaska, as
well as elsewhere in the world, carry on a variety of research work
looking toward more successful fur farming. Veterinarians have
been employed who are not merely animal doctors and surgeons, but
who carry on active research in well-equipped laboratories and make
many painstaking and accurate observations. Experimental fur
farms of governmental agencies, such as that operated by the former
Biologieal Survey and now carried on by the Fish and Wildlife
Service at Saratoga Springs, N. Y.; their rabbit experiment station
at Fontana, Calif., the Canadian fox experimental station at Sum-
merside, Prince Edward Island, and others are at work on these
problems. Asa result of these studies by individuals, companies, and
governmental agencies, a wonderful fund of information about the
care of fur-bearing animals has been developed. Some of this is avail-
able in Government or other publications that are cited in the bibliogra-
phy at the end of this paper. Naturally most of the information
developed relates to the raising of foxes, minks, muskrats, rabbits,
chinchillas, coypus, and a few other animals, as these are the
fur bearers that are commonly raised. However, the researches and
experiments have so clearly demonstrated the need of many animals
for vitamins, certain foods, and certain types of treatment and care,
that the basic principles can well be applied to a much wider variety
of animals and to man. Research laboratories that have carried on
experimental work with mice, rats, rabbits, guinea pigs, monkeys, and
other animals for the purpose of developing information relative to
medicines, vaccines, serums, foods and food deficiencies, and for other
purposes, have likewise made outstanding contributions. These were,
of course, mainly designed to advance the cause of human medicine,
but their findings should be freely used by persons interested in
keeping animals in captivity in the best possible condition.
Various studies have been made to determine the chemical constitu-
ents necessary for proper diet for animals. These have been carried
on in various ways and much valuable information has been devel-
oped. Among the studies is the work of Dr. C. P. Richter, of the
Psychobiological Laboratory, Johns Hopkins Hospital, who over
a long period of years has carried on studies, principally with rats,
in which he has clearly demonstrated the importance of furnishing
animals with the proper amount of the various food constituents
needed by them. He has carried on long feeding experiments with
a great number of rats fed on diets composed entirely of solutions
of starch, proteins, salts, and other ingredients. On these the ani-
mals thrived, remained active and in good health, and developed
good coats. He found that by removing certain of these foods, he
312 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

could induce the evidences of ill health that frequently can be recog-
nized in captive animals. These experiments obviously showed that
some captive animals do not receive all of the food constituents
needed by them. In some of his experiments, he supplied the rats
with what would normally be considered good varied diets, but he
also offered them the test-tube foods so that they could choose from
them any ingredient that they might feel they needed. He found
that they would frequently take certain test-tube food, thereby dem-
onstrating that the supposedly good general diet they were receiving
was deficient in certain constituents necessary for their welfare, and
realizing this lack, they made it up by taking the relatively unpalata-
ble test-tube material.

An example of deficiency due to an inadequate diet, and what can
be accomplished by supplying a suitable diet, is the case of a wood-
chuck that was in the National Zoological Park. It became almost
completely naked, and remained so over a period of 2 or 3 years. It
was fed by Dr. Richter on his chemically complete diet, and at the
end of 4 months was returned to the Zoo with as good a coat of fur
as a wild marmot would ordinarily have. This animal, together with
others of its kind in the National Zoological Park, had been fed with
what was supposedly a varied, well-balanced diet, but obviously some-
thing was lacking which prevented its growing good fur. This is a
clue which should be followed up in the hope that the specific food
requirement may be found for the growing of hair. It would benefit
many mammals that have a tendency to become naked in captivity,
and perhaps some of the birds that suffer from feather loss. Con-
ceivably it might even be useful to bald-headed men.

Grooming is an important activity in the lives of animals, and they
will ordinarily take good care of their coats if they feel well. If
they fail in this, it may be because of ill health or because they lack
proper facilities. Some must have water for bathing; others, fine
sand or dust; others enjoy a shower bath, and still others need to bathe
in mud. Large mammals, such as elephants, rhinoceroses, and hogs,
delight in daily baths of mud or water, which assist them in avoiding
insect pests and parasites.

If a mammal does not shed its old fur and keep sleek and well-
groomed, it is a sign that something is wrong, probably in the diet.

In addition to correcting the diet, it is well to provide bundles of
brush in the cage so that the animal can comb out its fur by rubbing
against it, as it would comb its fur in the wild by going through
vegetation.

Human standards of cleanliness should not be the sole factor in
determining cage arrangements and accessories. Fresh soil and mud
CARE OF CAPTIVE ANIMALS—-WALKER als

with normal bacteria is often of great value to animals, whereas
human beings are likely to consider it dirty, and therefore objection-
able, forgetting that the real menace to the health of their pets
may lie in dangerous bacteria that multiply in food left exposed, or
in food and drinking dishes not entirely clean. It is well to adopt
a regular routine of sterilizing the utensils frequently, and, if possible,
cleaning the cage with disinfecting solutions which are not harmful
or objectionable to the animals.

The National Zoological Park is now using a disinfecting and
cleaning solution made up as follows: Stock solution—5 gallons of
5 percent solution of sodium hypochlorite and 18 ounces of caustic
soda (lye). Dissolve the lye in 1 to 2 gallons of water in enamelware
or earthern container, then pour lye solution slowly into hypochlorite
to avoid violent reaction. Stir while pouring. For use add 1 pint of
stock solution to 2 gallons of water. The stock solution costs only a few
cents per gallon to make and is very similar to, if not better than, a
commercial product that sells for about $2 a gallon. This mixture
is good for disinfecting cement floors, walls, and dishes, but is injuri-
ous to paint.

Disinfectants and deodorants should not be confused. In general,
if cleaning and disinfecting is well done, there is little need for
deodorants. In some cases, however, a deodorant is desirable to mask
an odor which cannot be eliminated. For such, use about 4 ounces
of oil of pine to a gallon of water. This is excellent and is not
known to be harmful to any animal, unless it be reptiles. Many
deodorants and disinfecting preparations, such as carbolic acid,
phenol, creosote, and others, are harmful to animals and should not
be used.

There appears to be a widespread but erroneous belief that an
animal can thrive under a wide range of temperature. As a matter
of fact, only a few can withstand extremes of heat and cold as great
as man regularly endures. The majority have some means of avoiding
extremes. Some migrate. Those that burrow obtain equitable tem-
peratures in their dens. Others go into caves, hollow trees, masses of
dead leaves, or other locations where there is good insulation from
heat and cold. Further, the cavities are usually small so that the
body heat of the animal is conserved.

Exercise is important in maintaining the health of most animals
in captivity, though to provide suitable means for exercising is a
problem for the ingenuity of the caretaker. He must, of course, know
something of the type of activity that each animal normally carries
on. A few suggestions are made. The larger the cage, the more
likely the animal will be to obtain some exercise by moving about.
314 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

(Some caretakers maintain that certain parrots do better in small
cages than in large ones.) If it is a climbing animal, trees, horizontal
bars, swings, ropes, rings, and poles will all stimulate activity.
Wooden or rubber balls, or other toys, even dolls, are sometimes useful,
either as playthings or as companions. Wheels that will give the
animal a sense of progress are particularly good. They may be of
the inclined disk type, or of the ferris wheel type. (See pl.1.) It is
also probable that successful exercising devices might be developed
for the small cats, or other animals of similar size, after the model
of the endless-belt treadmills, such as were at one time made to utilize
dog and horse power for man’s purposes.

Some animals that do not thrive in captivity when kept alone do
very well in groups with others of their kind. An excellent example
of this is the ani; lone individuals promptly die in captivity, but
groups of four to six have lived for several years in the National
Zoological Park under exactly the same treatment as previously given
single birds. Others thrive when a companion of another kind is with
them, if one of their own kind is not available. There have been
numerous odd companionships of this kind, such as the friendship
between an African rhinoceros and a goat. We have in the Zoo a
Javan macaque monkey that lovingly fondles its pet guinea pig, and
is thus provided with an interest in life. One black-tailed marmoset
in a cage by itself at the National Zoological Park was gradually
failing. Presently two other marmosets of a different species were
put in the cage with it. At first, it was very much afraid of them
and stayed as far away as possible. After a few days, it gained a
little courage and would occasionally come near the others, and finally
it was participating in their play. Thus, the lethargy and so-called
cage paralysis which had been coming on was averted. ‘This example
rather definitely suggests that one type of cage paralysis is the result
of a wasting away of muscles due to inactivity, which can be prevented
by providing animals with a good-sized cage and inducement to
exercise.

When placing animals of the same kind or different kinds together,
care must be taken to prevent fighting. It is a good plan to keep
them in adjacent cages so they may see and smell each other for a
few hours, days, or even weeks, and thus become acquainted. When
they are first put together, it should be done very quietly and the
animals should be allowed to make their own approach to each other.
Careful watch should be kept until it is seen whether or not they
will get along together. Nocturnal creatures should be watched the
first night. Many animals have a very definite sense of ownership
of their homes and resent intrusion by another. It is therefore
CARE OF CAPTIVE ANIMALS—WALKER Bie)

sometimes desirable to put both animals into a new cage so that
neither will feel that it is the owner.

Sometimes animals will get along well together for some time,
and later begin fighting. Males should usually be removed from a
cage before a female is to give birth.

If captive animals are to be successful in rearing their young, it
is generally essential that the female should have a nest, den, or
secluded quarters of some kind during the earlier life of the little
ones.

Many nocturnal animals are attractive and can become interesting
pets. Their habit of sleeping during the day and being active at
night is a disadvantage in some instances, and in others, an ad-
vantage. Some animals can be induced to reverse their days and
nights by keeping them under a very subdued light during the day-
time and at night giving them a nest box and flooding their cage
with bright lights. The daylight can be reduced by filtering it
through one of the celluloidlike materials sprayed with a blue-black
lacquer, or blue cellophane. Special arrangements must be provided
for properly cooling and ventilating the cage.

The toenails and hoofs of many animals grow rapidly in order to
be adequate for their function in the wild. It is well to provide
facilities for such animals to wear down their hoofs or claws. If
this cannot be accomplished, it is often necessary to trim the nails or
hoofs.

Many animals that would normally hibernate * do not if kept under
unfavorable conditions. In order to hibernate they must become fat
and have cool quarters so well insulated against winter weather that
they will not be subject to freezing. There should be little fluctua-
tion in temperature and the atmosphere should be definitely moist.
Animals appear to have a remarkable instinct in this matter, and
with a few exceptions will refuse to hibernate as long as they do not
have a snug nest in a well-insulated den; but if supplied with such
facilities they will promptly go to sleep. Apparently such a period
of rest is required by many animals if they are to thrive.

Hibernation appears to be essential to female bears if they are to
be successful in rearing their young, which are born while the mother
is in hibernation. Rodents that normally hibernate rarely survive
the second summer, if not allowed to sleep during the winter.

Dry leaves, grass, straw, hay, paper, cloth, and many other ma-
terials may be used for nest material and bedding. While soft tissue
paper is excellent for small mammals, it sometimes sticks to the wet

5The ninth, tenth, and eleventh editions of the Encyclopedia Britannica contain good
articles on hibernation.
316 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

newborn young. Sugarcane pulp, a byproduct, is available in bales,
and is an excellent absorbent and insulating material which can be
spread on cement, metal, and wooden floors to help keep the cage
clean and to insulate the animal from the cold cement that is so com-
monly used in cage floors. This is much better than sawdust, which
often contains resins that get into the fur or feathers of animals
and make the animal’s coat Jook dirty and unkempt, or sometimes
causes actual staining of the coat. Most furry creatures need to have
fine sand or soil in which to roll to keep their fur clean. This is
particularly true of the finely furred little desert creatures that ap-
parently cannot keep their coats in good shape unless they have very
fine sand constantly available. Slightly moist soil appears to be
desirable for furry creatures that regularly burrow in moist regions.

HANDLING ANIMALS

In handling practically all wild creatures, strategy, gentleness, and
patience must be exercised. Most wild things will struggle violently
if forcefully restrained, particularly if they are suddenly seized.
Often they will dislocate wings or legs, or injure themselves. Until
the animal has become well accustomed to its captor and is willing to
submit to him, actual physical handling should be avoided by the
use of shifting crates or cages, or the placing of a small box over the
creature so that it will be quiet while the cage is being cleaned or
other activities are carried on.

In handling the smaller of the small mammals in the National
Zoological Park, “telescoping” cardboard nest boxes are provided.
A hole is made in one end which goes through both of the walls. When
the animal is in the nest, it is a simple matter to slip a piece of wire
fabric in front of the hole between the two walls. This provides
a very effective temporary method of restraining the animal while
the cage is cleaned or in which to shift the animal to another cage. The
animal feels perfectly at home in its own nest, and does not fret
itself or struggle. (See pl. 2, fig. 1.)

A very effective means of transferring small and medium-sized ani-
mals from one container to another when the containers are of such
type that it is difficult to place the entrances opposite each other so
that the animals can go directly from one to another, is to use a large
cloth bag of moderate weight, placing the entrance of the cage con-
taining the animal in the bag, inducing the animal to go into the
bag, removing the now empty cage, and then placing the bag with
the animal in it in the new cage and gradually and gently working
the animal out of the bag into its new quarters. Ring nets, that is, a
bag or net securely fastened to a ring from 10 inches to 2 feet in
diameter on the end of a pole, can often be used to excellent advantage
CARE OF CAPTIVE ANIMALS—-WALKER 317

in capturing and transferring animals. The use of such a net elimi-
nates the need of grasping the animal; and, when yielding materials
such as cloth are used, the animals do not ordinarily hurt themselves
by struggling violently.

Often a slow approach, best accompanied with gentle, slow-spoken
tones, will reassure the animal, and it can then sometimes be picked
up without danger of injury to itself or to its captor.

One should never grab an animal suddenly by the tail, wings, or
legs. Almost invariably the animal will make a sudden start, and
the tail feathers of birds may be pulled out or the skin of the tail
of mammals may be stripped off the bone. If the wings or legs are
clumsily grabbed, the long bones may be broken or dislocated.

When animals are to be liberated in a new cage or new enclosure,
it is good practice to hang burlap or other material that appears as
a definite obstacle in front of the glass or wire, so that the animal
enters a place of subdued light and can see that it is enclosed. It
is then less likely to dash into the glass or wires of the cage or fence.
The box or shipping crate in which it was transferred to the new
quarters can often be placed inside the new cage or at the entrance
of the cage and left there for a time. The animal is thus permitted
to choose its own opportunity to go into the new quarters, and is
thus less likely to make a sudden dash and suffer injury.

When large animals, such as elephants, rhinoceroses, and other
hoofed animals, are liberated from their shipping or shifting crates
into their paddocks or cage rooms, it is well to place the crate so
that they back out of it into the new quarters. This will often
prevent a sudden charge out of the crate that might result
disastrously.

To one not accustomed to working with a wide variety of animals,
it is inconceivable the number of difficult situations that can arise.
Animals have an abundance of time, are often energetic, can get
into many predicaments, some of which may be fatal to themselves,
or at other times, may be merely annoying or embarrassing to the
captor. Careful thought will go far toward ayoiding such unhappy
incidents.

Practically all animals are much quieter when being shipped if
they are screened from the view of the public. Burlap or other
more or less porous material placed around or in front of the prin-
cipal opening of the cage helps to make them feel secluded. Such
material cannot be used if the animal is able to get its paws or hands
out through the openings. In this event, small-mesh wire fabric
through which the captives cannot put their hands or paws should
be placed before the openings in the case or crate, and then the cloth
material placed beyond it at a distance of a few inches, so that it
318 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

will be out of reach of claws or fingers. The cloth can be arranged
as a curtain so that it can be raised for inspection of the interior
when necessary.

FOODS

Under this heading we might include everything that can be eaten,
but obviously it is impossible to list all foods that might be available
or desirable for animals. Therefore, the best that can now be done
is briefly to list foods that are ordinarily obtainable, or that in general
must be supplied to meet the requirements of a considerable variety
of animals. The saying, “What is one man’s meat is another man’s
poison” is particularly true of animals. Some thrive on foods that
would be fatal to others; therefore, if one does not know definitely
just what a particular animal requires, it is important that careful
heed be given to determine as nearly as possible what it probably
eats, and to offer a wide variety within this range, in order that it
may find among the foods offered something that will serve its pur-
pose and not be forced to satisfy hunger by eating foods injurious
to it. In general, very few animals will eat foods that are harmful
to them if they are supplied with a wide variety. The instances of
animal deaths from the eating of foods that are harmful are usually
the result of endeavors to satisfy cravings arising from the lack of
some necessary element in the food given, but sometimes they may
be from actual hunger cravings.

Persons interested in maintaining animals in good condition should
consider every possible food obtainable in their native haunts. It
would be ideal to supply a complete array of such material, but
obviously from the practical standpoint, this is impossible. It be-
comes necessary, therefore, to offer the animal such food as can be
obtained.

In the wild, many animals that are normally supposed to feed
principally on fruits or other plant life supplement their diet with
insects or other animal material, and most carnivores do not strictly
limit themselves to meat. While the quantity of supplementary food
may be small, it apptars to be of great importance, in some cases at
least. Many rodents should be offered small bits of meat, mealworms,
or other forms of insect life, and eggs, either fresh or boiled; also
bones with dried meat on them. This material takes the place of
the insects, animal carcasses and bones they would find in the wild.
Carnivores should likewise be offered fruits, vegetables, and bread.
The rejection of any given food on one or two occasions is not
necessarily conclusive evidence that the animal will never eat it;
therefore, it is a good plan to continue offering such food from time
to time.

When it becomes necessary to offer animals food to which they are
unaccustomed, it will frequently be found that they are hesitant about
CARE OF CAPTIVE ANIMALS—-WALKER 319

eating it. It may appear that they are not hungry, when in reality
they are, but lack confidence in the food. For this reason, new food
should be left long enough for them to become accustomed to it.
Such unfamiliar food will sometimes be taken only after it has been
repeatedly offered to an animal. If it is possible to make a gradual
change in the diet where such change becomes necessary, it is prefer-
able gradually to reduce the food that the animals have been receiv-
ing, supplementing with the food that they are expected to consume
in the future. In the course of any such change, it is important that
the animal be offered as wide a variety of foods as possible, in order
that it may make a selection. It is frequently found that animals
eat and relish foods that experienced so-called animal authorities
say they will not eat.

Protein, carbohydrate, and fat should form parts of every diet,
since these are always present to some degree in every animal cell.

In general, carnivores have a higher protein requirement than
herbivores and omnivores. Therefore, lean meat or some other pal-
atable food of high protein content should constitute the major por-
tion of their diet. Carbohydrates and fat can be utilized by these
animals, but neither should replace the meat entirely because of the
essential amino-acids and vitamins contained therein. Carbohydrates
and fat can be used to supplement exclusively protein diets, though
the former nutrient is of limited value to most carnivores. Red meat
or muscle is not the sole source of protein. Tendons, connective tis-
sue, cartilage, bone, brain, and nerves, as well as the viscera, are
excellent sources of protein that are frequently wasted.

Herbivorous animals are able to digest large amounts of roughage.
The latter should be of good quality in order to insure adequate pro-
tein, minerals, and vitamins. Small amounts of grain are commonly
used as a supplement to the roughage.

Omnivorous animals stand somewhere between the carnivorous and
herbivorous species as to requirements. Apparently they can utilize
more carbohydrates than carnivores, and less roughage than
herbivores.

Presumably most of the known vitamins required by man are neces-
sary to most lower animals as well, but perhaps not in the same
proportions. It is likely that furred and feathered creatures may
require certain vitamins in greater proportions than mankind, at least
during the seasons for growing hair and feathers.

The vitamins *® known at this time, and a brief summary of infor-
mation regarding them, are given below. Since vitamin studies have
been made primarily of foods used by human beings, and evidences

*Most of the information regarding vitamins has been condensed from the Physicians’
Vitamin Reference Book issued by the H. R. Squibb Co. and the Nutritional Charts issued
by the A. J. Heinz Co.
320 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

of lack of vitamins are usually expressed as to effects on human be-
ings or laboratory animals, the statements should be evaluated
accordingly.

Vitamin A.—Known to exist in oil from cod, halibut, and certain
other fishes; egg yolk, whole eggs, spinach, liver, raw carrots, cheese,
fresh prunes, squash, butter, sweet potatoes, green lettuce, cream,
peas, tomatoes, peaches, salmon, bananas, milk, yellow corn, and al-
falfa, arranged in the order of their richness in this vitamin. In
vegetables, vitamin A occurs as carotine and is known as provitamin
A. Lack of the proper supply of this vitamin is evidenced by eye
and skin defects, possible susceptibility to infections, and retarded
growth.

This vitamin can be given to animals in the form of cod liver oil,
halibut liver oil, and several well-known medicinal concentrates.
The vitamin A value in cod liver oil is seriously impaired by expos-
ing the oil to light or heat, or when the oil becomes rancid. It
should be used sparingly because of injurious effects due to overdos-
age. Green plants eaten in sufficient quantities will ordinarily sup-
ply the animal with enough of this vitamin. Apparently all verte-
brate animals require this vitamin. Pregnant and nursing females
require unusual quantities.

Vitamin B, (thiamin hydrochloride)—Found in yeast, wheat
germ, rice polishings, whole-grain cereals, peanuts, dried beans,
liver, milk, nuts, malt, ham, bacon, almonds, spinach, prunes, pars-
nips, carrots, corn (canned), and greens, in order of the richness of
their content. |

Deficiencies in this vitamin in man are evidenced by lack or loss
of appetite, retarded growth of young, and increased nervous excit-
ability, pains, tremor, and muscular fatigue.

Can be supplied in cod liver oil, halibut liver oil, commercial con-
centrates, capsules, and drop dosages. Thought to be required by
all animals, but it is known that ruminants manufacture this in their
digestive tracts. Others of the B group are also manufactured by
certain animals.

This compound is readily destroyed by heat and alkalines.

Vitamin B, (riboflavin).—Good sources are dried yeast, liver,
kidney, eggs, meat, wheat germ, spinach, milk, cheese, milk whey,
turnip greens, carrots, and carrot tops, kale, and cottonseed.

Deficiency in this vitamin is associated with digestive disturbances,
retarded growth, reduced lactation, loss of hair and other skin
troubles, eye diseases, and irritation of the gums and tongue.

Can be supplied in commercial tablets.

This compound is destroyed by strong light.

Nicotinie acid and nicotinic acid amide—Good sources are dried
or concentrated yeast, liver, lean meat, kidney, heart, buttermilk,
CARE OF CAPTIVE ANIMALS——-WALKER 321

cabbage, spinach, wheat germ, salmon, dried whey, eggs, kale, milk,
peas, potatoes, tomatoes, and turnip greens. Deficiency of this vita-
min in human beings is associated with soreness of mouth, redness
and itching of skin, swelling of the tongue, diarrhea, vomiting,
nausea, loss in weight, indigestion, and nervous disturbances.

Can be supplied in medicines as tablets and solution for hypodermic
administration (intramuscularly).

Vitamin B, (pyridoxin).—Good sources are dried yeast, liver, rice
polishings, meat, fish, maize, whole wheat, egg yolk, wheat germ,
legumes, milk.

Deficiency of this vitamin in man is associated with retarded
growth, anemia, and muscular disorders. Can be supplied in cap-
sules, or solution for intravenous injections.

Vitamin C@ (antiscorbutic vitamin, ascorbic acid; cevitamic acid) .—
Found in oranges, lemon and grapefruit juice, raw cabbage, toma-
toes (fresh or canned) or tomato juice, strawberries, cranberries,
fresh peas, peaches, apple juice, blueberries, asparagus, canned pine-
apple, lettuce, broccoli, parsley, brussels sprouts, turnip greens, spin-
ach, and red and green peppers, in the order of their content.

Deficiency in supply of this vitamin in man is responsible for
spongy, bleeding gums, loose, poratic teeth, hemorrhagic tendencies,
sore and swollen joints, increased capillary fragility, edema, and
scurvy. Deficiencies more frequently appear in the young than in
adults. Essential for primates and guinea pigs, but known to be
synthesized in the body of some animals. In addition to the foods
listed above, this vitamin can be supplied in the form of cevitamic
acid tablets. So little is known about vitamin C that anything given
herein should be considered as suggesting watchfulness and experi-
mentation.

Vitamin D (antirachitic factor).—Gocd sources are fish liver oils,
butter, egg yolk, irradiated milk, and liver, arranged in the order
of their richness.

This vitamin is in such small quantities in human foods that
deficiencies are usually made up by giving the patient viosterol, cod-
halibut liver oil, or cod liver oil. Lack of the proper supply of this
vitamin in man is evidenced by improper development of bones,
muscular weakness, protruding abdomen, delayed development of
teeth and dental deformation. No doubt many cases of rickets, cage
paralysis, and other instances of poor bone development in captive
animals are the result of deficiency of this vitamin. Animals that
will eat fish livers might obtain enough from this food. Some zoos
now regularly use viosterol or halibut or cod liver oils to make up
the deficiency.

Vitamin EF’ (antisterility)—Good sources are wheat-germ oil,
cottonseed oil, lettuce leaves, whole rice, watercress, egg yolk, meat,
322 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

milk, and grains, palm oil, peanuts, and rice oil, arranged in the order
of their richness.

Evidence of lack of the vitamin is sterility, placental failure, re-
tardation of growth, degenerative diseases of nervous system, mus-
cular weakness, muscular dystrophy, habitual abortion. Enough of
this vitamin will probably be obtained by most animals that are sup-
plied with plenty of grain and green food. It is known to be essen-
tial for dogs and chickens, not essential for goats, sheep, or rabbits.
Habitual abortions in cattle and pigs have been successfully treated
with vitamin E preparations. It can be supplied in the form of
medicine, as wheat-germ oil.

Vitamin F.—Certain unsaturated fatty acids, such as linoleic acid,
were known at one time as vitamin F. There is little evidence to
justify its use for skin abnormalities when added to the diet or
when applied externally. The Bureau of Investigation of the Amer-
ican Medical Association holds much the same opinion. However,
Weinstein and Glennar state that vitamin F may be of value in some
diseases of the skin, including allergic eczema.

Vitamin K (antihemorrhagic).—Good sources are alfalfa, kale,
spinach, dried carrot tops, tomatoes, chestnuts, soybean oil, and
certain other vegetables, putrefied fish meal, bran, casein, alfalfa leaf
meal, hog liver, hemp seed, cabbage, carrot greens, cauliflower, egg
yolk, rice bran. The sources listed are not necessarily arranged in
the order of their value, as little is known about the occurrence of
this vitamin or the amounts necessary for animal welfare. Lack
of the vitamin results in prolonged coagulation time of blood, and
anemia. It can be supplied in oil, capsules, and tablets.

Pantothenic acid (filtrate factor—antidermatitis)—Good sources
are dried yeast, liver, rice polishings, whole-grain cereals, lean beef,
egg yolk, milk, peanuts, yeast, molasses, peas, rice bran, salmon,
wheat bran, wheat germ. Lack of this vitamin is evidenced by corni-
fied skin, dermatitis, desquamation of skin, granulation of eyelids,
incrustation of mouth, retarded growth. This vitamin has been
found essential for the nutrition and growth of chicks, rats, dogs.

Choline occurs in bran, egg yolk, heart, kidney, liver, pancreas,
sweetbreads, tongue, fish, fruits, grains, meat, milk, root vegetables;
it is most plentiful in the first eight. Evidence of the lack of this
vitamin in human beings is impairment of liver and kidney functions,
hemorrhagic degeneration of the kidneys, regression of thymus, en-
largement of spleen. It has been found essential for normal satis-
factory metabolism, lactation, growth, and structural elements in
body tissues, and is known to prevent fatty livers and “perosis,”
or slipped tendon, in turkeys.

There is no proved commercial source.
CARE OF CAPTIVE ANIMALS—WALKER 323

Vitamin P.—The “permeability” vitamin (citrin, hesperidin) is a
factor, other than vitamin C, in paprika and lemon peel. It is
necessary for normal capillary resistance in guinea pigs. This vita-
min is present in material (called hesperetin or hespendrii) flavone,
a colorless crystalline substance. From it are formed numerous yel-
low dyestuffs, some of which (atrin) have an antiscorbutic vitamin
influence.

Vitamin T.—This is a factor present in sesame oil. It is reported
to produce with regularity an increase in the number of platelets
in the blood of normal children. A fat, soluble substance not pres-
ent in cod liver oil or olive oil—therefore not vitamin A; it has been
called vitamin T.

Vitamins A and D are the ones most likely to be lacking in diets.

Many elements available in minerals are known to be essential
parts of a properly balanced diet for animals. Calcium, phosphorus,
sodium, magnesium, chlorine, iodine, potassium, and sulfur are re-
quired in some quantity. Smaller amounts, or mere traces, are re-
quired of copper, manganese, cobalt, zinc, iron, and fluorine.

MEATS

All animal products will be treated under this heading.

Beef, horsemeat, chickens, rats, mice, and rabbits are most com-
monly used. However, almost all meats will be eaten by some animals.
When the flesh of larger animals such as cattle, horses, sheep, goats, or
pigs is fed, efforts should be made to feed not only the red meat but
also the skin, glands, such as the liver, blood, viscera, fat, bones, bone
marrow, and brains.

Chickens, pigeons, mice, rats, rabbits, and other small animals
should be given freshly killed, and whole, if possible.

Milk is an excellent food, especially for building bones. It is often
taken by sick animals when other food is refused. Adults in good
health sometimes take milk alone; and milk is a good vehicle for giv-
ing medicines to an animal. Raw eggs can frequently be mixed in
it to provide very nutritious food for such animals as anteaters, car-
nivores that are not well, and young animals. Dried skim milk is
especially useful for travelers. Evaporated milk can be used wher-
ever raw milk is needed, and need only be diluted with water.

Chicken and other eggs are excellent foods and can be used raw or
boiled, alone, or mixed with other foods.

Cheese and cottage cheese are valuable for supplying the important
protein of milk.

Insects are eaten by such great numbers of animals that they should
not be overlooked in providing foods for many different species.

4305774222

324 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

One of the most convenient means of maintaining a supply of in-
sects is to raise mealworms (Tenebrio molitor, or Tenebrio obscurus).
These are generally fed in the larval or worm state, which is about an
inch long and 1 inch in diameter. Such larvae are easily raised and
appear to be almost ideal food.

In the National Zoological Park, the mealworm cultures are kept
in deep trays or drawers about 40 inches long, 20 inches from front to
back, and 8 to 10 inches deep, with metal bottoms and a metal over-
hang at the top. Bran is put in the drawer to a depth of 3 or 4 inches
and two layers of burlap are placed on the bran. The culture is occa-
sionally sprinkled lightly with water to supply moisture, and pieces of
potato, apple, and various green foods are put into the bran to supple-
ment the mealworms’ diet.

Because the larvae congregate between the two layers of the burlap,
it is an easy matter to scoop up quantities of them after raising the
top layer. It is also possible to separate them from the bran by sifting
through a coarse mesh screen, allowing the bran with the dusty residue
and small worms and eggs to fall back into the tray.

Small cultures can be kept in pound coffee cans, or almost any con-
tainer that has ventilation and will retain the insects.

Grasshoppers, locusts, and crickets are favorite foods. Whenever
they can be captured alive, they afford excellent variety in the diets
of the many creatures that eat them. It is probable that grasshop-
pers or crickets could become staple articles of food for many ani-
mals by arranging for the capture and proper drying of them in
regions where they are especially plentiful, as for example, in the
erasshopper-infested regions of the western United States and of
Africa. Analysis of grasshoppers shows that they are excellent
food, and chickens fed on grasshoppers have made good growth.’

Waxworms and the adult waxmoths (Galleria mellonella) are
excellent food for small toads, frogs, and many other creatures—
particularly those that require very soft, tender insect food. They
are pests of bee culturists and can sometimes be obtained from bee
raisers. Cultures can be maintained in almost any sort of box or
container that is tight enough to prevent the insects from escaping
and that provides some ventilation, such as that given by screen wire
openings. The waxworms are supplied with old bee comb on which
they feed. If bee comb is not available, the insects will thrive on
the following mixture: 1 part of fine corn meal, 2 parts of whole-

7Information on the value of grasshoppers as food for animals and methods of capture
and treatment are to be found in Locusts versus agriculture (pp. 35-37), by Ignacio
Villamor, published by the Agricultural Service of the Philippine Islands, Manila, P. L.,
1914. This article tells of excellent success in feeding chickens with locusts; Grasshopper
control in Indiana, by J. J. Davis, Cire. No. 88, Indiana Agr. Exp. Sta., Lafayette, Ind.,
January 1919; Grasshoppers and their control, by J. R. Parker, Farmers Bull, No. 1828,
U. 8S. Dep. Agr., Washington, D. C.
CARE OF CAPTIVE ANIMALS—WALKER 325

wheat flour, 2 parts skimmed-milk powder, 1 part powdered dried
yeast, and 2 parts of standard wheat middlings. This should be
thoroughly mixed. When ready for use, it should be mixed with
equal parts of honey and glycerine until about the consistency of
wet sand.®

The adults, maggots, and pupae of the common housefly (Afusca
domestica) and the bluebottle or blowfly (Calliphora sp.) are good
and convenient forms of food for a number of animals. They can
be caught and raised fairly easily. One method of capturing the
insects and of starting the cultures is to place in the open, where
flies can get to it, a conical or pyramidal screen wire cage with a
small hole in the top plugged with a cork or a piece of paper, and
with a door on the side that can readily be closed. This is usually
placed in a pan or tray in which is meat or fish to attract the flies,
and the door of the cage is left open. ‘The flies enter the cage to lay
their eggs on the meat or fish. If one desires the adult flies at that time,
he closes the door and removes the flies by inverting a wide-mouth
bottle or screen wire bag over the opening in the top of the cage
after the stopper or paper is removed. Now, by tapping on the
sides of the cage, the flies can be induced to go upward into the
jar or screen wire container in which they can then be transported
to the cage containing the animal that is to be fed. The eggs are
permitted to hatch into maggots. These feed on the meat or fish, and
in this stage can be fed to animals, or they can be allowed to pupate
and permitted to hatch into adult flies, thus maintaining the cycle.
If there is a layer of sand or sawdust an inch or two in thickness on
the bottom of the pan on which the meat is placed, the maggots will
enter this to pupate. The pupae will hatch into adult flies in 6 to
15 days, depending on the temperature. However, by placing the
pupae in a refrigerator, hatching can be delayed indefinitely. The
pupae can be removed from the refrigerator from time to time in
such numbers as needed, and permitted to become warm, whereupon
they will hatch into flies that can be supplied to chameleons, aniles,
and such other creatures as require this food. Shrews and a few
other mammals, and many birds and some reptiles, will enjoy the
maggots and pupae when they might not take the flies.

Cockroaches can often be readily obtained and are freely eaten by
many animals. Cultures can easily be maintained.

Earthworms (Lumbricus) are excellent food for many animals, and
cultures can be kept in rich garden soil in almost any container that
will prevent the worms from escaping. Earthenware or wooden
containers are preferable to tin. The soil should be slightly moist

8 This formula was developed by Dr. Mykola H. Hydak and described by him in the
Ann. Ent. Soc. Amer., vol. 79, No. 14, pp. 581-588, December 1936.
326 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

and the temperature never allowed to go over 75° Fahrenheit. Earth-
worms may be fed on well-decayed leaves, powdered bread crumbs,
pieces of boiled potatoes, and crumbled hard-boiled eggs. The orig-
inal stock can often be obtained by offering boys a small sum of money
for capturing them. (The yellowish-green earthworms that are about
manure piles are almost invariably refused by animals. Persons pur-
chasing worms from boys should make certain that they are not sup-
plied with worms from such sources.)

White worms, or enchytrae (Z’nchyiraeus) are from 1 to 2 inches
long and scarcely larger than threads. They are very good food for
small fishes and some other small animals, and can be raised in a
small container such as a granite pan 8 to 10 inches in diameter and
5 inches deep, filled to a depth of about 314 inches with good garden
soil. Moisten the soil occasionally, but do not allow it to be wet.
Give the worms mashed potatoes, boiled rice, bread soaked in milk,
and see that all the food is covered with soil. The temperature should
be maintained between 45° and 70° Fahrenheit. Keep the top of the
pan covered with a piece of slate or glass to prevent the soil from
drying.

Common green frogs (Rana) are excellent food for otters, minks,
raccoons, herons, and some snakes. They can usually be obtained
from biological laboratories and supply houses, or local boys will fre-
quently capture them for a small price. Various sizes can be obtained
from those just past the tadpole stage to full-grown frogs. They are
generally readily obtainable from dealers in the southern United
States. The same type of material, however, is obtainable throughout
most temperate and tropical regions.

Tadpoles, the tailed, early stage of frogs and toads, are excellent
food for some animals and can be obtained at a small price from deal-
ers, or can be captured in quantities with a dip net in their native
haunts.

Toads are almost the exclusive diet of the hog-nosed snake. They
can be obtained from dealers or captured by local boys.

Small lizards, particularly anolis, the so-called chameleon of the
southeastern United States, Cuba, and Central America, are inex-
pensive and good food for small snakes, such as green and garter
snakes. The principal food of many snakes consists of smaller snakes
of their own kind or of related species.

Minnows and other small fish can usually be obtained locally by
the use of dip nets or small seines, or they can be purchased from
dealers.

Shrimp of various sizes, from the large kinds commonly used for
human food, down to the minute forms, are excellent food for various
animals. They can be used either fresh or dried. Large shrimp,
CARE OF CAPTIVE ANIMALS—-WALKER S24

when used as food for birds that are accustomed to feeding on the very
small kinds, should be crushed or ground and given in shallow water.
Dried shrimp can be obtained from dealers in pet foods.

Crabs, crayfish, and other Crustacea of numerous kinds, including
lobsters, are eaten by many animals. They can be fed fresh, or the
dried meat can be soaked or mixed with other foods. Crab scrap,
the refuse remaining from the commercial packing of crab meat, con-
tains some meat mixed with a considerable quantity of crab shell.
This material is used by some zoos with success. It is probable that
the chitinous material of the shells contains valuable constituents
necessary for certain animals. In particular, it may assist in keeping
pink in the plumage of flamingos and roseate spoonbills. This mate-
rial when fed to such birds must be finely ground and placed in water.

Fish, canned, dried, or frozen, is extensively used on fur farms and
is an excellent food for foxes and other fur bearers. The livers of
some fish are known to be as valuable as cod livers as a source of
vitamin A.

PLANT PRODUCTS

There are probably only a few kinds of plants that do not produce
material consumed by one or more animals at some time during the
year, and practically every portion of the plant is used—buds, flowers,
seeds, seedpods, leaves, twigs, bark, roots, and the various fleshy roots
and modified underground stems that are rootlike in appearance. Such
material is generally readily accessible and for the most part can be
freely offered to animals. If animals generally have had a satisfac-
torily varied diet and do not have some particular craving due to a
dietary deficiency that prevents them from using customary good
judgment, they will rarely eat plant products that are not good for
them.

Bananas are perhaps the most universally accepted of all foods.
Many animals that have never had an opportunity to become
acquainted with them eat them freely at the first opportunity. Bananas
should be well ripened, preferably to the point of the skins becoming
freely marked with brown or black. Most animals do not eat the
skins, but there is no harm in giving the animal the whole fruit.

Oranges, prunes, apples, figs, grapes, plums, melons, apricots, and
practically any fruit that is available will be eaten, fresh or dried,
by some animals. Raisins are particularly convenient.

Seeds of a great variety are excellent food, and relished by many
animals. The seeds most readily available in the United States are
the common grains—corn (cracked), wheat, oats (whole, crushed, or
rolled), rye, barley, Kaffir corn, milo maize, hemp, canary, millet, and
cooked rice. Sunflower seeds are especially enjoyed, but are too rich
328 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

and fattening to be the major portion of a diet. Soybean meal, beans
(cooked), and other leguminous products are excellent foods.

Wheat middlings, a byproduct of the manufacture of white flour,
is largely composed of wheat germ. It is, therefore, an excellent
material to put into bread and mashes, and to use otherwise.

Nuts are particularly good food for many animals. Such hard nuts
as walnuts and hickory nuts, and somewhat softer nuts such as pecans,
hazel nuts, or filberts, are especially valuable in providing such animals
as squirrels with a means of wearing down their incisor teeth. How-
ever, if the teeth have grown to much more than normal length before
the nuts are given to the animals, it may be impossible for the cutting
edges to come to bear on the nuts. This will make it necessary to
cut the teeth to give the animal itself a chance to keep them worn down.

Acorns, which grow throughout much of the world, are relished by a
surprisingly wide variety of animals, including squirrels and other
rodents, skunks, hogs, deer, bears, and many more.

Peanuts (not only the unroasted nuts, but also the roasted and the
salted ones) are relished by great numbers of animals. The seeds of
cherries, peaches, and almonds can be safely offered to animals.

Germinating grain and the young green grain plant are particularly
rich in vitamins A and E. Many animals are very fond of this food,
which can readily be supplied them by germinating the grain in pans
or boxes containing a little moist earth or sand, or merely with moist
cotton. A new pan of germinating or growing grain can be placed in
the cage each day, or as often as is necessary.

Many waterfowl, particularly geese, normally are grass eaters.
They therefore relish lawn clippings and some of the common garden
weeds. A suitable substitute for fresh material of this kind can be
supplied by slightly soaking bright alfalfa hay and chopping it up
into short lengths. Chopped hay is especially valuable in the winter,
when green food is not readily available.

Alfalfa leaf meal is now available through poultry and livestock
feed houses. It is an excellent food for many animals that habitually
eat hay, and for a great many that eat only a small amount of dried
vegetation.

Hay of the various leguminous plants (especially alfalfa, clover, soy-
bean, cowpea, etc.) is particularly high in protein and vitamin A and
is very nutritious.

If several different kinds of hay of first-class quality can be obtained
and offered to the animals, the best results will ordinarily be obtained.
However, if several different kinds are not available, it is possible to
do very well with hay that is well cured but which contains a mixture
of weeds, grass, clover, and other legumes. The refuse left by the
animals after they have picked through this should be carefully
CARE OF CAPTIVE ANIMALS—WALKER 329

examined to ascertain what proportion of it is not acceptable to them,
and if the proportion seems unduly high, efforts should be made to
obtain a different mixture.

It is very important that hay should not be moldy or musty, and
that it does not contain the so-called foxtail and other grasses and
grasslike plants (Hordeum, Bromus, and others) that have seeds bear-
ing barbed awns that penetrate the mouths of the animals, causing bad
sores which frequently lead to serious ulcers, and occasionally permit
infectious organisms to enter through the injuries.

The custodian of animals that will eat any green food should be
constantly alert to obtain the wide variety that is available through-
out the year. In this category are lawn clippings, comprised mostly
of grass and clovers, weeds from vacant lots, roadsides, and fields,
leaves, twigs, and small branches of woody plants. Small branches
are particularly desirable during the winter, when grass, clover,
weeds, and leaves are not readily available. It should be borne in
mind that great numbers of animals browse and make such coarse
vegetation a considerable portion of their diet.

Root crops such as beets (red and sugar), sweet potatoes, and yams
(raw and cooked), carrots, potatoes, parsnips, and others are valuable
foods and constitute a convenient means of supplying almost all
animals with fresh green food that they like.

Cabbage, lettuce, kale, spinach, celery, and other such garden prod-
ucts are good, and can usually be obtained.

A food mixture that meets the requirements of many animals is
composed of chopped vegetables such as beets, carrots, sweet potatoes,
cabbage, kale, crushed oats, and bread.

In the Tropics there are many fruits, vegetables, leaves, and stems,
insects and other animals that are readily available. Such are not
mentioned herein because few of them can be obtained in the Tem-
perate Zones where most captive animals are kept.

Persons who have access to the seacoasts might well try out some
of the algae (such as the so-called sea lettuce and the coarser kelps)
as elements in food mixtures calling for green food. This material
is found in the stomachs of many animals, and the extent to which
it is taken intentionally is not known. It is known, however, that
sea lettuce is used by aborigines. The seaweeds are rich in iodine,
a good preventative of thyroid disturbances.

Water, fresh, clean, and pure, should with few exceptions always
be accessible. Various animals in the wild have developed many
different ways of satisfying their requirements for water. Some
can and will drink freely from pans of water; others might die for
lack of water, even when there was plenty in their pans. Certain
lizards, for example, take water through their skin, and need to be
330 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

sprinkled occasionally or dipped in water. Some of the little desert
mammals apparently do not know how to drink water from a con-
tainer, as they are accustomed to obtaining only occasional drops
of dew or rainfall from leaves and stems. Their food may be
sprinkled with a little water so that they can get a few drops at a
time. Animals that inhabit arid regions usually obtain most of the
moisture for their systems either by manufacturing it from dry seeds
they eat, or from the vegetation. In captivity, they will obtain much
of their required moisture from fresh vegetation, but they should
also from time to time be offered a wisp of cotton saturated with
water. They may be supplied with water from a little glass sipping
tube somewhat like a medicine dropper, with the point bent in U shape
so that it operates as a fountain, but will give out the water only a
drop at a time as the animal takes it.

It is entirely possible that the general lack of success in keeping
various marine animals in captivity has been due to the failure of the
captor to supply them with salt water of suitable composition. Some
are accustomed to living alternately in salt and fresh water a part of
each year; others spend their entire lives in either. Some appear to
require salt water either for drinking or for its healing and curative
properties. However, many marine animals appear to adapt them-
selves gradually to fresh water.

Very satisfactory artificial sea water can be made by dissolving 314
pounds of Turks Island salt in 100 pounds of fresh water.

Minerals essential for building body tissues will ordinarily be
obtained from the food if the diet is sufficiently varied and the animals’
glands are functioning properly. It is, however, often desirable to
supply calcium in the form of calcium phosphate, ground bone, or
old dried bones on which the animals may chew.

Enough iodine can usually be supplied in iodized or rock salt if
the animal will take it. If not, iodine can be given in organic form,
or with the feed.

Salt requirements seem to vary widely. Salt appears to be essen-
tial to the welfare of cattle, sheep, deer, goats, horses, and rabbits,
but is rejected by many animals. A safe plan is to offer it to almost
all, and let them accept or refuse.

Many prepared foods can be used advantageously, such as some of
the canned meats and meat mixtures. In addition, zoos and animal
keepers have developed certain other foods which are listed below,
together with formulas for two of them.

Bear bread.—The National Zoological Park uses bread made up in quantities
of about 200 pounds at a time as follows: 100 pounds of flour, 60 pounds of bran,

2 pounds of salt, % pound of yeast, and 1 pound of blackstrap molasses. This
is thoroughly mixed with water, allowed to rise, and is baked like other breads.
CARE OF CAPTIVE ANIMALS—WALKER 331

Mockingbird food.—This is made up by preparing a stock food consisting of 5
parts of zwiebach, 1 part of crissal (meat meal), 4% part of ant eggs. To this
stock food add as used: hard-boiled eggs, grated carrots, ground hemp seed, and
cod liver oil. The stock food can be made up in quantities and stored indefinitely.

Ensilage (silage) has been so extensively and successfully used in
feeding cattle and other livestock that it might well be tried as a food
for some of the wild animals kept in captivity, such as bison, antelopes,
deer, sheep, goats, and others.

The prepared fish foods are the most convenient and economical
diet for small aquarium fish that are kept in most homes.

“Ant eggs,” which are really the dried eggs of termites, are valuable
food for many insectivorous birds, and are particularly valuable when
birds of paradise are moulting and growing their new plumage. It is
entirely possible that these eggs would also be valuable for small
insectivores.

Honey is particularly enjoyed by bears.

SOURCES OF FOOD

To obtain suitable foods for various animals kept in captivity will
frequently tax the resourcefulness of the caretaker. It should be
borne in mind, however, that pet stores and animal dealers generally
carry some of the unusual types of material required. In addition to
the markets and stores that sell the usual vegetables, meats, fish, seeds,
and fruits, bakeries can supply stale bread which is still palatable and
excellent animal food. Meat-packing plants and abbatoirs can fur-
nish animal offal, some of which is particularly valuable. In poultry
markets, the viscera and heads of chickens, turkeys, and other fowl
can be obtained. Fish livers can often be obtained at fish markets,
wharves, and canneries.

Biological supply houses are also usually able to furnish articles
that are not on the ordinary market, such as frogs, tadpoles, toads,
snakes, and other wild material. Another means of obtaining food is
to solicit the help of local boys, who are almost invariably interested
and willing, for a small consideration, to obtain such material as
insects, worms, frogs, toads, salamanders, crabs, crayfish, and plants.
Valuable help can also be obtained from fishermen, hunters, and trap-
pers, who may be willing to supplement their incomes or to tell one
where and how to capture material.

CAGES AND ENCLOSURES

Animals are so varied in their needs that many different types of
cages, enclosures, shipping crates, and other devices are needed for
safekeeping and displaying them under conditions which will main-
tain them in good health. In general, all devices for restraining
332 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

animals must be made adequate as to safety, must provide ample
space for the animals to move about and obtain exercise, and should
be so constructed as to be easily cleaned. Large enclosures that are
fenced for retaining such animals as horses, zebras, deer, antelope,
kangaroos, etc., may be of almost any convenient size, depending on
the area available. They may be large pastures in which people
may walk or drive. If the general public is to view the animals from
outside the enclosure, it is preferable that the enclosures have a depth
from front to back of from 150 to 200 feet; a greater depth is likely
to permit the animals to get so far away that the public does not
obtain a good view of them. The front, where the public is to pass,
may be of any convenient length, but should not be less than 50
feet for the larger animals. The restraining barriers for enclosures
of this type can be wire fences, palisades, rock walls, or moats, or
combinations of any or all of these. The moat treatment requires
greater ground area, but is particularly effective in that there is no
obstruction of the view. If the moat is properly constructed, the
animals can be entirely secure.

The conventional cage varies from small bird cages made of wire
or partially of glass, to large cages adequate for gorillas and other
powerful or dangerous animals, The size and, to some extent, the
type of material to be used will largely be determined by the kind
of animal to be enclosed. In general, no cage should be smaller
than five times the length of the animal, although probably the
majority of animals are kept in smaller enclosures. Since maximum
visibility of the animal is particularly desirable, the cage should be
of strong material of small dimensions so that it will cause the
minimum obstruction to the visitor’s view, at the same time furnish-
ing adequate security. Glass can be used for many cages.

In constructing cages side by side, there should either be a solid
partition between them so that the animals cannot get their toes,
fingers, arms, or legs through into the adjoining cage where they might
be bitten or otherwise injured, or, if mesh partitions are used, these
should be double and far enough apart so that the animals cannot
reach into the adjoining cage.

Aquaria and tanks can vary in almost infinite degree, from the
cans or pans in which small boys frequently and sometimes success-
fully keep fishes, toads, frogs, and turtles, up to elaborate aquariums
and large tanks.

Restraining the animal by means of a collar about the neck or, in
cases of some monkeys, a belt immediately in front of the hips, or a
strap on the legs of birds is frequently practiced. Before leaving
an animal entirely unwatched in the early stages of making it secure
in this manner, it is well to make certain the animal does not become
entangled in the chain or leash attached to the collar or belt. Some
CARE OF CAPTIVE ANIMALS—WALKER 333

animals regularly become entangled, with the result that they strain
or injure themselves. Others appear to learn quickly how to avoid
such troubles.

When animals are so restrained, it is particularly important that
the chain be short enough so that it cannot become entangled with
such objects as pegs in the ground, limbs in trees, crossarms on posts,
or other obstructions.

If careful attention is given to choosing species that will not harm
each other, and sufficient space and suitable conditions are provided,
very attractive and interesting groups can be maintained. For
example, in a large cage or outdoor enclosure with pools or other
natural features, several different species of birds (see pl. 4, fig. 1),
reptiles, and mammals can be exhibited if properly selected. Large
cages with many individuals of a single species afford considerable
activity; and if belligerent individuals are eliminated, such groups
frequently do well and multiply, if provided with the proper facilities
for nesting or rearing young.

Heed should always be given to placing cages, aquaria, or chained
animals where conditions can be comfortable regardless of the weather
and without too much dependence on the thoughtfulness of caretakers.

Modern steel alloys, particularly the so-called stainless steel of the 18
and 8 group, are exceptionally good material for cage construction, as
they are very strong and do not corrode under contact with excretions
and secretions of the animals. The dull finishes are preferable, as they
are less conspicuous to the eye. Electric welding is particularly desir-
able in the construction of such cages, as it provides a maximum of
strength with a minimum bulk of material. The aluminum alloys
should be avoided, as all that have come to my attention when used for
making cages have been subject to very rapid corrosion from the ex-
cretions and secretions of the animals. When in contact with steel,
this action is still further accelerated.

In regard to all cage and paddock construction there should con-
stantly be borne in mind the fact that there must be no sharp projec-
tions about the cage on which animals can hurt themselves. Ends of
wires should be carefully bent or otherwise guarded to prevent animals
from injuring themselves or leaving tufts of hair or fur on them. If
there is to be more than one animal in an enclosure, it is well to avoid
having any of the walls come together at angles less than 90°. Angles
of about 135° are to be preferred as they will provide no narrow cor-
ners into which one animal can drive another and harm it. The same
idea should be borne in mind in constructing shelter houses for the
larger hoofed animals.

Practically every enclosure should have some kind of a shelter or
nest box. Houses may be built in the corner of the yards for large
334 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

animals, or dens just outside the cage with an opening into it, or for
smal] creatures, nest boxes placed in the cage.

It is desirable to provide the most natural type of surroundings
possible. Well-drained earth, sand, or gravel surfaces for animals
that are not vigorous diggers should be provided. Burrowing animals
can often be provided with soil in enclosures having cement or brick
walls, and bottoms several feet below the ground level. These are
good for such animals as badgers, skunks, prairie dogs, and many
others.

Cement floors are extensively used, but in many respects are very
bad for animals. It is to be hoped that more resilient, less absorbent,
less heat-conductive material will be found and generally adopted.

It is preferable not to ship male deer when they have large antlers,
but if this cannot be avoided, due heed should be given to providing
ample protection so that the animal cannot get into situations in which
it will harm itself, or from which it cannot extricate itself. Never
ship deer while the antlers are in the velvet if it can possibly be avoided.

Shipping containers should be carefully constructed to make certain
that there are no sharp or rough places inside on which the animals
can injure themselves. Furthermore, there must be no point at which
the animal can get its hands or feet out through cracks, or it may
break its legs or strike at other animals or transportation employees.
The bottoms of crates should be so constructed that they drain quickly,
and bedding should be provided on the floor. Crates for hoofed
animals should be provided with shallow cleats or roughened suffi-
ciently to provide good footing.

Mangers or other containers for food and water should be so placed
that they can be refilled by transportation crews with a minimum
of trouble, and it is important that they be so placed that they can
readily be removed, cleaned, and put back into place after refilling.
Full instructions should be placed on the outside of the crate as to
the care of the animal—that is, as to range of temperature at which
it should be maintained, whether it is to be kept away from steam
pipes or must be kept warm, not to leave in the hot sun, the kinds of
food, quantities, and times it should be fed and watered and, if the
trip is a long one, full instructions relative to cleaning the cage. Cages
intended for long trips should be provided with so-called foot boards
or long, narrow, clean-out doors at the bottom which will permit keep-
ing the cage clean without allowing the animal to escape. Such doors,
however, must be so attached that they can readily be unfastened and
fastened by the caretakers, and so secured that the animal cannot get
its legs out through them.

In place of foot boards, a false movable bottom like a very shallow
drawer can be used for animals that are not heavy or do not stand
on the floor all the time.
CARE OF CAPTIVE ANIMALS—-WALKER 30D

In general, only a single animal should be placed in a shipping
crate or compartment in a crate. Often animals that would get
along nicely together in large quarters under normal quiet sur-
roundings will fight and injure each other when placed in close
quarters and subjected to the irritations and excitement of transpor-
tation. Many entirely unnecessary losses occur by crowding animals
together under such conditions. If two animals are accustomed to
being together and they are especially fond of each other, it is some-
times safe to send them in this manner. A safer way, however, of
permitting them to have the benefit of companionship and at the
same time not take risks on their fighting, is to place them in the same
crate with a partition between. The partition should be of such
small mesh that the animals cannot get their toes, tails, or ears into
the adjoining compartment where they might be injured.

The size of the crate for shipping animals is subject to great
variation, depending upon the kind of animal and the length of the
trip. In all cases, however, the crate should be large enough so
that the animal can take its normal position without being crowded.
Under no circumstances should the crate be so small that the animal
must be shoved into it and compelled to hold itself in a strained
position. It should be unnecessary to mention such a subject, but
occasionally it is found that animals have actually been shipped
under such conditions. The larger animals, such as horses, cattle,
and large antelope, are most often shipped in crates that are slightly
more than the length of the animals, and sufficiently high so that the
animal does not injure its head against the top, and but little wider
than the body so that the animal cannot turn around in it. However,
if the animal is to go on a long trip, it is desirable that the crate be
large enough so that it can move about freely. In some instances,
animals in narrow crates have thrown themselves over backwards,
landed on their back and been unable to get up.

Most of the small mammals, reptiles, amphibians, and some birds
regularly take shelter if they have the opportunity to do so. It is
therefore an excellent plan to provide in the shipping crate a small
box with appropriate nest material so that the animal can go into it
and feel secure and sheltered. This greatly facilitates cleaning the
cage, for the animal will soon learn to stay in the box while the cage
is being cleaned, or if it does not do this, it is an easy matter to close
the entrance to the box while such work is being done. Pains should
be taken to make certain that animals can keep themselves clean and
dry. This is sometimes accomplished by providing a shelf slightly
above the floor, on which the animal can repose much of the time, or
by furnishing a wire-mesh bottom to the cage. Occasionally such
animals as beavers and other semiaquatic creatures are shipped with
336 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

water, but without opportunity to dry themselves. This often results
fatally.

Exterior handles should be provided on shipping crates so that
transportation crews will have no difficulty handling the containers.
Express charges are by weight, so shipping containers should be as
light as possible consistent with strength and adequate size.

MEDICAL AND SURGICAL CARE

In spite of the extensive studies that have been made of human ail-
ments by the medical and allied professions, much remains to be
learned about these ailments, and how they should be treated. It
should be borne in mind that great numbers of people, with vast
resources at their command, have participated in these studies, and
their subjects—other human beings—have been able to cooperate with
the research workers by telling of their ailments and otherwise facili-
tating the study. With wild animals the problem is radically dif-
ferent. We must assume that they are subject to more or less the same
general types of ailments that their human relatives suffer; but, nat-
urally, every one of the thousands of different kinds of animals has
its own particular reactions to its own particular ailments.

Very little has been done in the study of animal diseases, except as
to fur-bearing and domesticated species. Because the subjects cannot
cooperate by describing their symptoms we must assume, for all prac-
tical purposes, that we know very little about the details of their ail-
ments, and the precise medical and surgical treatment that should be
given. This emphasizes the importance of preventive measures to
keep captive animals fit, rather than depending on medical or surgical
treatment after ill health has set in. Proper feeding and the preven-
tion of undue exposure to contagion or injury will go far in helping
us toward the desired goal.

Evidences of ill health should be constantly watched for, and any
unusual condition should be carefully observed. Diarrhea, constipa-
tion, failure to eat, excessive thirst, dullness of the eyes, unusual
lethargy, and convulsions are indications that something is wrong.
Other symptoms, such as purulent discharges from the eyes and nose,
rapid or labored breathing, ragged or rough-appearing pelage and
plumage should also be looked for. A trained observer can use these
various symptoms as guides to the probable nature of the disease.

A few treatments are now fairly well known, and can usually be
applied safely by competent veterinarians with fair chances of suc-
cess. Medicines should ordinarily be given only by veterinarians.
Sometimes, however, physicians will give advice when a veterinarian
is not available.
CARE OF CAPTIVE ANIMALS—WALKER 337

Struggling with an animal to control it while giving it medical or
surgical treatment often does more harm than can be offset by the
treatment. If treatment is essential, care and strategy should be
used. Animals can be rendered sluggish by giving certain drugs in
their drinking water. Small creatures can be anesthetized in closed
containers. Medicine can often be given in food without arousing
the animal’s suspicions.

The size of the dose of medicine should in general be proportionate
to the size and weight of the animal; that is, a small animal should
be given a small dose, and a large animal a large dose.

So-called cage paralysis probably has numerous causes. Inactivity
has been mentioned. Rickets is another frequent cause. Proper
food, sufficient sunlight, and in some cases supplementary feeding of
ricket-preventing medicines and foods will go far toward obviating
this condition.

Occasionally some mammals lose their hair gradually or fairly rap-
idly and do not grow new coats. A corresponding condition some-
times exists in birds. The cause of this loss of hair and feathers is
not definitely known, but in some instances it is caused by deficiency
in diets, though just what dietary measures can be used to prevent it
is, in the majority of cases, still uncertain.

Some birds, particularly parrots, develop the habit of plucking
their own feathers and eating them, or plucking the feathers of their
cage mates. Apparently this indicates a dietary deficiency, which
has been remedied in some cases by giving salt, fat, bones, and meat.
On other occasions such methods have been without beneficial effect.

The incisor teeth of rodents in captivity are often found to be so
long the animal cannot eat. In such cases, it is necessary to cut the
overgrown teeth to a proper length. These teeth grow continuously
throughout the life of the animal, and the animal will usually keep
them worn down if it has plenty of wood, nuts, or other hard mate-
rials to gnaw. If one of these chiseling teeth is broken, the opposing
tooth must usually be cut at frequent intervals.

If animals are kept on cement floors without earth or other mate-
rial over them, careful watch should be kept for corns on the soles of
the feet, or actual wearing away of the skin and flesh to the bone.
(See pl. 8, fig. 2.)

Toenails must sometimes be trimmed.

It is often desirable to render flying birds flightless so that they
can be kept on lawns or in large enclosures without wire covers. Here-
tofore this has generally been accomplished by amputating the ter-
minal joint of one of the wings. This is a more or less brutal and
disfiguring method. Another method—eutting one of the flight ten-
dons—which causes little pain and does not disfigure the bird, was
338 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

developed and described by Dr. Charles R. Shroeder and Karl R.
Koch.® Persons attempting to use this method should be certain that
they sever the proper tendon, for otherwise the birds are not rendered
flightless.

In some regions flies (Stomowys calcitrans) persistently bite the
ears of dogs, wolves, coyotes, and foxes. If the animals cannot get
into a dark den away from the insects, it is well to saturate a cloth
with a mixture of 10 parts kerosene, 1 part pine creosote, 1 part tur-
pentine, and 1 part oil of murbane, and hang it at such a location that
the animal will rub its ears on it as it walks about the cage, or spray
the animal lightly and the cage heavily with this solution, or some
other that will keep the flies away. Tar put on the edges of the
ears has a beneficial effect in preventing fly injury.

Some animal keepers have placed quinine in the drinking water
of ailing animals even though there was no specific diagnosis to show
that quinine was desirable. However, there is no evidence that
quinine is useful in the treatment of animal ailments in general.
On the contrary, pure palatable drinking water is known to be of
great value. Therefore, the indiscriminate dosing with quinine is
mentioned only to discourage the practice.

Apparently it is essential that the females of some animals eat the
placenta or afterbirth in order to start their milk flow. Many animals
do this.

SPECIFIC INSTRUCTIONS FOR THE CARE OF ANIMALS

The greatly abridged information that follows relative to the care
of mammals, birds, reptiles, and amphibians, is presented to help
inexperienced persons in caring for the animals that may fall into
their hands. The order of arrangement in each of the groups follows
a more or less widely accepted scheme of scientific classification, each
group starting with the lowest or least specialized, and going to the
highest or most specialized.

In the case of animals that are more or less regularly kept in cap-
tivity or that are known to have been successfully kept, the instruc-
tions are specific and very abridged. In the case of those that are
not known to have been kept in captivity, or only rarely or with poor
results, information will be given about their known habits in the
wild in the hope that this may furnish clues to successful handling.

MONOTREMES: EGG LAYERS (MONOTREMAFA )

ECHIDNAS or SPINY ANTBATERS (Echidnidae). Primitive burrowing, egg-
laying mammals, inhabitants of Australia and Tasmania. Feed mainly on

® Journ. Amer. Vet. Med. Assoc., vol. 97, No. 761, pp. 169-170, August 1940.
CARE OF CAPTIVE ANIMALS—WALKER 339

insects. Rarely kept in captivity, but one has lived for 38 years in the Phila-
delphia Zoo on a diet of one raw egg and one pint of milk daily, with one
teaspoonful limewater added to the milk. The yolk of the egg is unbroken when
placed in a shallow dish separate from the milk.

PLATYPUS or DUCKBILL (Ornithorhynchidae). A primitive egg-laying
mammal of Australia, now rare in the wild, and almost never kept in cap-
tivity. Inhabits streams, and burrows in the banks. Feeds on small mollusks
and probably on water insects. One captured young was kept 4 years on a
diet of tadpoles, worms, grubs, beetle larvae, duck eggs beaten up and placed
in a vessel of boiling water until the mixture boiled up like milk, then fed
in water. The platypus lacks teeth, so apparently needs fine grit with its food.

MARSUPIALS: MOSTLY POUCHED MAMMALS (MARSUPIALIA)

OPOSSUMS, MOUSEH-OPOSSUMS and WATER OPOSSUMS (Didelphiidae).
Almost omnivorous. Should be fed on meat, insects, milk, bread, eggs, green
corn, fruit, vegetables, green leaves, and honey. The smaller kinds are so mouse-
like in appearance that they are frequently mistaken for rodents, but they have
sharp-pointed noses and lack gnawing teeth.

DASYURES (Dasyuridae). Almost omnivorous animals of varied habits.
Should be offered meat, insects, eggs, bread, bananas and other fruit, some green
vegetation, seeds, grain.

TASMANIAN WOLF (Thylacinidae). Feed meat, supplemented with bread,
fruit, vegetables, milk, and eggs.

BANDED ANTEATER (Myrmecobiidae), An insect eater not known to have
been successfully kept. Try meat, eggs, milk, bread, fruit, and soft or soaked
seeds.

BANDICOOTS (Peramelidae). The feeding habits of these marsupials are
varied and little known, some of the animals being very rare. Offer grass, clover,
and other green vegetation, hay, seeds, meats, insects, bread, and eggs.

MARSUPIAL MOLE (Notoryctidae). Mainly insectivorous, but probably also
eats bulbs and fleshy roots and stems. Offer insects, meat, bread, vegetables, green
vegetation, seeds soaked in water.

CAENOLESTES (Caenolestidae). Extremely rare and little-known inhabit-
ants of Andes. Not known to have been kept in captivity. Try same diet as for
opossums.

PHALANGERS (Phalangeridae). This group contains some specialized feeders,
but most of its members eat fruit, honey, and vegetation. The koala, or Aus-
tralian bear, eats almost nothing but eucalyptus leaves. The smaller kinds are
known to eat petals of flowers, flower nectar, and insects. If feeding habits are
not definitely known, offer wide variety of green vegetation, fruits, bread, in-
sects, and honey.

KANGAROOS and WALLABIES (Macropodidae). Give them grass, clover,
weeds, leaves and twigs of trees, vegetables, grain, hay, bread.

WOMBATS (Phascolomyidae). Burrowing, herbaceous feeders. Offer vegeta-
bles, grain, grass, clover, weeds, and hay.

EDENTATES (Edentata), HAIRY ANTHATERS (Myrmecophagidae). In the
wild, these animals feed almost exclusively on ants or termites, perhaps supple-
mented with other small insects. In captivity, individuals sometimes do fairly
well on a diet of mealworms and raw eggs and milk stirred up together. Will
not survive chilling.

SLOTHS (Bradypodidae and Choloepodidae). Tropical inhabitants of trees.
Leaves, buds, twigs, and fruit furnish almost all of their food. The three-toed

4305774223
340 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

sloth (Bradypus) has not generally been successfully kept in captivity, but the
two-toed sloth (Choloepus) thrives on a diet of lettuce, bananas, leaves, and
twigs. They like to go into the water to bathe, but are easily killed by chilling.
Sloths hang beneath limbs and cannot stand upright. Therefore, they should be
provided with substantial limbs or vines on which to climb.

ARMADILLOS (Dasypodidae, Euphractidae, Chlamyphoridae, and Tolypeu-
tidae). Powerful diggers that feed almost exclusively on insects and perhaps to
some degree on carrion. Some of them have been very successfully kept when
fed mealworms, ground meat, eggs, and milk. Some are so nearly toothless as to
be unable to tear pieces of meat. Armadillos probably thrive best when permitted
access to the ground, but the walls and bottom of the cage in which they are to
burrow must be of well-constructed cement. They cannot survive cold weather.

PANGOLINS (Manidae). Large-scaled inhabitants of Africa and southern
Asia. Powerful burrowers. Feed mainly on insects, termites, and ants. Have
not generally been successfully kept in captivity, although some have done fairly
well when fed on mealworms, ground meat, milk, and eggs. One very young
animal thrived in the hands of a sailor for more than a month on a diet of green
beans that had been chewed by the sailor. It also received some canned milk.

CLOVEN-HOOFED ANIMALS (ARTIODACTYLA)

CATTLE, SHEEP, GOATS, OLD WORLD ANTELOPES (Bovidae). Feed
grass, clover, weeds, leaves and twigs of trees, chopped vegetables, grain, and
hay. Keep rock salt constantly before them.

AMERICAN PRONGHORN ANTELOPE (Antilocapridae). Feed grass, clover,
alfalfa, weeds, grain, hay, chopped vegetables, and rock salt. Do not generally
thrive in captivity, especially in the eastern United States. Possibly large en-
closures and a wide variety of food might give better results in keeping them.

GIRAFFE and OKAPI (Giraffidae). Browsing animals, but giraffe are suc-
cessfully kept on a diet mainly of hay, chopped vegetables, grain, green vegeta-
tion, and rock salt. The few okapies that have been taken into captivity have
been fed a wide variety of green vegetation, hay, grain, and vegetables. Probably
require Salt.

DEER, ELK, MOOSE (Cervidae). Feed grass, clover, weeds, leaves and twigs
of trees and shrubs, hay, grain, chopped vegetables, and rock salt. Moose (Alces)
forage extensively in swamps and stream bottoms, consuming lily roots and
leaves, grasses, leaves, and twigs. Have not generally done well in captivity.
Caribou and reindeer (Rangifer) do not require the so-called reindeer mosses
(lichens, Oladonia), although they of necessity feed on them extensively on
their northern ranges.

MOUSE DEER, WATER DEER OR CHEVROTAIN (Tragulidae). Feed grass,
clover, weeds, leaves and twigs of trees and shrubs, hay, grain, chopped vege-
tables, and rock salt. Keep warm.

CAMELS and LLAMAS (Camelidae). Feed green vegetation, chopped vege-
tables, hay, grain, and rock salt.

HOGS and PIGS (Suidae). Feed chopped vegetables, grain, grass, weeds,
leaves and twigs of trees, acorns and other soft nuts, meat, and bread. Some
must be kept warm.

PECCARIES, (Tayassuidae). Same care as hogs.

HIPPOPOTAMI and PIGMY HIPPOPOTAMI (Hippopotamidae). Feed grass.
clover, weeds, hay, and a mixture of chopped vegetables and grain.
CARE OF CAPTIVE ANIMALS—WALKER 341

ODD-TOED HOOFED ANIMALS (PERISSODACTYLA )

HORSES, ZEBRAS, and ASSES (Equidae). Feed grass, clover, weeds, leaves
and twigs of trees, chopped vegetables with grain, hay, and rock salt.

TAPIRS (Tapiridae). Feed wide assortment of green vegetation, chopped vege:
tables with grain, hay, and salt. Tropical animals; require warmth, but some indi«
viduals have thrived outdoors in northern climates. Give them a good-sized pool
of warm water.

RHINOCEROSES (Rhinocerotidae). Grazers and browsers in the wild. Feed
wide assortment of green vegetation, hay, chopped vegetables, grain, and rock
salt. They enjoy mud wallow or shower. Avoid chilling.

ELEPHANTS (PROBOSCIDEA )

ELEPHANTS (Elephantidae). Feed wide variety of green vegetation, hay,
bread, vegetables, grain, and salt. Will survive moderate cold.

HYRACES (HYRACOIDEA )

HYRACES or OLD WORLD CONIES (Procaviidae). Small creatures sup-
posedly related to the elephants. One group lives in trees, the others live
mainly around cliffs and rocks. Feed grass, clover, leaves and twigs of trees, hay,
chopped vegetables, grain.

SIRENIANS (SIRENIA)

SIRENIANS or SEA COWS, MANATEE (Trichechidae) and DUGONG (Du-
gongidae). Marine inhabitants of tropical seas, feed on marine and brackish-
water vegetation. Offer lettuce, kale, and other fairly soft green foods if marine
and brackish-water vegetation is not available. Must have tank of warm
water. Will not survive chilling. Have not generally been successfully kept.

WHALES, PORPOISES, AND DOLPHINS (CETACEA)

WHALES, PORPOISES, and DOLPHINS. Mostly large marine mammals,
some of which are specialized feeders. Only a few of the smaller porpoises
are known to have been kept in captivity for short times. Occasionally porpoises,
dolphins, and belugas or white whales are kept in tanks and fed mainly on fish.

FLESH EATERS (CARNIVORA)

LIONS, TIGERS, LEOPARDS, JAGUARS, PUMAS, and SMALLER CATS
(Felidae). Feed meat, viscera of animals, skin, hair and feathers, milk. The
smaller ones will thrive best on whole chickens, pigeons, rabbits, guinea pigs,
mice, rats, and milk. Some of the cats will take bananas and other fruits, also
bread and vegetables. The fossa of Madagascar is so rare that it is seldom seen
in captivity. Little is known of its habits or the best care for it. Try same
treatment as for medium-sized cats.

CIVETS, GENETS, BINTURONGS, and their relatives (Viverridae). Feed
mice, rats, birds, meat, including skin, hair, feathers, and glands, liberally supple-
mented with fruit, vegetables, bread, milk, and eggs. Certain animals of this
group normally feed mainly on fruits and other vegetation, and apparently all of
342 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

them use considerable fruit. They are all tropical and subtropical animals that
require protection against cold.

MONGOOSES and their relatives (Herpestidae). Feed meat with skin, hair,
feathers, and glands; small birds, mice and rats are particularly good. Some
of this family are especially fond of snakes, and others like crustaceans, such
as crayfish, shrimp, and crabs. Also offer fruit. Tropical and subtropical
animals that require protection against cold. The importation of mongooses
into the United States is prohibited by law.

HYENAS (Hyaenidae). Feed the large brown, spotted, and striped hyenas
meat with skin, hair, feathers, and plenty of bones. The aardwolf has weak
jaws and small teeth, and is primarily an insect eater. Feed it cooked ground
meat, insects, eggs, and try mice and small birds.

DOGS, WOLVES, COYOTES, and FOXES (Canidae). Feed meat with skin,
hair, feathers, bones, and viscera; also fruits, vegetables, bread, milk, and eggs.
Much has been written about the care of dogs and foxes. (See bibliography.)

CACOMISTLE, RINGTAIL or BASSARISCUS (Bassariscidae). Feed meat,
mice, small birds, insects, and some fruit and green vegetation.

RACCOONS, COATIMUNDIES, KINKAJOUS (Procyonidae). The kinkajous
will thrive best on fruit, boiled sweet potatoes, eggs, and some meat, including
mice and small birds. Raccoons and coatimundies will eat meat, fish, frogs,
occasionally snakes and lizards, fruit, bread, and some vegetable materials, such
as corn in the milk, acorns, and boiled sweet potatoes. Kinkajous and coati-
mundies are tropical animals and should not be subjected to chilling.

PANDAS and LESSER PANDAS (Ailuridae). Feed the lesser pandas meat,
eggs, bread and milk, fruit, honey, bamboo, grass, clover, and other green vege-
tation. The large panda is generally supposed to feed mainly on bamboo, but
is apparently almost omnivorous, and should be offered a wide variety of vege-
tation and fruit, milk, and some meat.

BADGERS, MARTEN, SABLH, SUN BADGERS, SKUNKS, OTTERS, and
their relatives (Mustelidae). These carnivores eat a wide variety of food.
Feed whole mice, rats, birds, meat with hair, feathers, viscera, and bones,
insects, fruit, some green food, soft nuts, bread, milk. Many of these animals
consume quantities of insects and crustaceans; also some fish, frogs, and
snakes. Otters have been generally supposed to feed mainly on fish and crus-
taceans, but the most succcessful otter keeper has found that they thrive best
with a wide variety, such as crayfish, frogs, snakes, worms, insects, and a
limited amount of fish. Sea otters have not been kept in captivity. They feed
mainly on sea urchins (Echinodermata), mollusks (Mollusca), and small
amounts of crab, mussel, fish, as well as other marine animals and some marine
plants.

BEARS (Ursidae). Omnivorous. Feed meat with skin, hair, feathers, viscera,
and bones, insects, fish, liberally supplemented with fruits, grass, clover, and
other vegetation, including acorns and other soft nuts, bread, milk. Fond of
honey and other sweets, which may be given in moderation. In temperate and
cold regions they should be permitted to hibernate quietly in a secure den suffi-
ciently insulated and provided with bedding so that there is no danger of their
being subjected to freezing temperature. Captive bears in general do not raise
their young (which are born while the mother is in hibernation) unless they
can have such conditions.

SEALS, SEA LIONS, WALRUSES (PINNIPEDIA )

SEA LIONS, SHEA BEARS, EARED SEALS, AND FUR SEALS (Otariidae).
Feed almost exclusively on fish and squid. Sea lions fed on fish are readily kept
in capitivity. Fur seals have not generally thrived. Should have large pool.
CARE OF CAPTIVE ANIMALS—WALKER 343

WALRUSES (Odobenidae). Walruses mainly eat clams and other mollusks—
possibly other sluggish marine animals and perhaps some plants. Have not
generally been successfully kept in captivity, although young animals have
survived on milk and fish for a few months.

EARLESS or HAIR SEALS (Phocidae). The crab-eating seal of the Antarctic
feeds mainly on small crustaceans, but has survived for a few months in cap-
tivity when fed small pieces of fish. The remaining seals are primarily fish
feeders, and do well on a purely fish diet, although some will occasionally take
birds and warm-blooded animals. Should have pool.

RODENTS OR GNAWERS (RODENTIA)

TREE SQUIRRELS, “FLYING” SQUIRRELS, CHIPMUNKS, SPERMO-
PHILES, MARMOTS, and PRAIRIE DOGS (Sciuridae). Feed a wide variety
of vegetable material, such as nuts, acorns, tree seeds, bark, twigs, leaves, fruit,
green grass, clover, weeds, roots such as beets, carrots, sweet potatoes, and dried
materials such as hay, grains, seeds. Some meat and bones with or without
meat should be constantly available for them to gnaw to wear down their teeth.
Insects are relished by many. Young squirrels and others of this group have
been successfully raised with cats as foster mothers. Numerous requests are
received as to how to raise young squirrels. No known method is well tested;
but the following formula for human babies has been used with excellent suc-
cess in some instances: 3 parts whole milk (unpasteurized), 1 part prune juice,
1 part water, a very small amount of calcium gluconate or other invert sugar.
A little beaten egg is added about every other day; and it has been suggested
that the addition of a very small amount of the vitamin B group and a drop
of viosterol might improve the formula. Very young squirrels should be fed
about every 2 hours with an eye dropper or a doll nursing nipple. When they
are ready to take some solid food, give uncooked rolled oats, seeds of niaple
and elm and other soft seeds, also lettuce, grapes and other fruit, carrots, bread,
and, later, nuts.

Some squirrels are tropical and will not stand chilling. Others are hardy.
Always provide nest boxes with plenty of nesting material; likewise trees and
branches with rough bark, and exercise wheels.

POCKET GOPHERS (Geomyidae). Feed green or dried grass, clover, weeds,
vegetables such as carrots, Sweet potatoes, beets, seeds, bone, and wood on which
to gnaw. These rodents are burrowers that rarely come to the surface of the
ground. Unless they have dirt in which to dig, they generally do not thrive.

KANGAROO RATS, POCKET MICH, and SPINY MICE (Heteromyidae).
Feed assorted seeds, small amounts of vegetables, green and dried vegetation,
and bread. All of them should have fine, clean sand constantly before them
with which to keep their fur in good condition. They enjoy running exercise
wheels. Several members of this group become delightful pets.

BEAVERS (Castoridae). Feed twigs and limbs of a wide variety of trees and
shrubs, but preferably of aspen or cottonwood; also grass, clover, weeds, bread,
and vegetables. Should have a tank of water, but must have a well-drained
place on which to dry their fur and also a nest den. They must have plenty
of wood on which to gnaw to keep their incisors worn down. Even then, the
teeth of captive beavers sometimes require cutting.

DORMICE (Muscardinidae). Feed same food as listed for squirrels and mice.

MOUSELIKE CREATURES (Cricetidae). This family contains many attrac-
tive and interesting little rodents whose combined ranges embrace almost the
entire world. The habits of many cricetines are not well known, but some of
these animals can be successfully kept when fed with a considerable variety
344 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

of seeds, vegetables, green vegetation, fruit, and meat, and supplied with bones,
wood, cardboard, and other material for keeping their teeth worn down. Nest
boxes should be well supplied with nest material. Animals from the Tropics
should not be subjected to chilling.

MALABAR SPINY MOUSE (Platacanthomyidae). Little-known inhabitants
of southern India and Cochin China, and not known to the author to have
been kept in captivity. Try same food as for Cricetidae.

BAMBOO RATS (Rhizomyidae). Feed vegetables, green leaves and stems,
hay, seeds, fruit. Must have wood or bones to gnaw. May consume some meat.
Inhabitants of the Tropics; should not be subjected to chilling.

MOLE RATS (Spalacidae). Same care as for bamboo rats.

MICE and RATS (Muridae). This very large family contains, in addition
to the well-known house mice and house rats, many attractive and interesting
animals that inhabit most of the Old World. The habits of some kinds are
little known, but many have been successfully kept by the same care as out-
lined for the mouselike creatures (Cricetidae). Those from the Tropics should
not be subjected to chilling.

AFRICAN DORMICE (Graphiuridae). Not known to the author to have been
kept in captivity. Try same materials suggested for Cricetidae—the mouselike
rodents.

MOUNTAIN BEAVER, SEWELLEL (Aplodontiidae). Almost all of the nu-
merous efforts to keep it in captivity have resulted in prompt failure. In the
wild the animal inhabits a very humid region and feeds on a wide variety of
vegetation, burrowing into hillsides for shelter, but spending much time on the
surface of the ground or in low vegetation.

LARGE AFRICAN “FLYING” SQUIRREL (Anomaluridae). Not known to
the writer to have been kept in captivity. Try foods similar to those of tree
squirrels.

DWARF or LONG-TAILED AFRICAN “FLYING” SQUIRREL (Idiuridae).
Not known to the writer to have been kept in captivity. Try foods similar to
those of tree squirrels and mouselike creatures.

JUMPING MICE (Zapodidae). Feed seeds, green vegetables, grass, clover;
provide with plenty of nest material. Must be given facilities for hibernating in
winter.

JERBOAS and their relatives (Dipodidae). Weed assorted seeds, bread, and
small quantities of green vegetation such as lettuce, and vegetables. Should
have fine, clean, dry sand constantly available to keep fur in good condition.

AFRICAN JUMPING MICE or GUNDI (Ctenodactylidae). Not known to the
author to have been kept in captivity. Try same treatment as that recommended
for the Cricetidae—mouselike and ratlike creatures.

AFRICAN JUMPING HARE (Pedetidae). Feed vegetables, lettuce, grass,
clover, and other greenery; also grains and hay.

CAPE MOLE RATS, or NAKED SAND RATS (Bathyergidae). Feed vege-
tables, lettuce, grass, clover and weeds, seeds, and plenty of live roots; also give
them bones and woody plant stems on which to wear down their teeth. These
are burrowing rodents of the Tropics, some of them practically naked. They
should have soil in which to burrow and a uniformly warm temperature.

OLD WORLD PORCUPINES (Hystricidae). Feed vegetables, greenery, some
hay, and keep well supplied with wood and bones so they can keep their teeth
worn down. Animals of the Tropics; should be fairly warm. Unlike the Amerzi-
can porcupines, they are not tree climbers.

AMERICAN PORCUPINES (Erethizontidae). Feed vegetables, grain, and a
wide variety of twigs and leaves, and, for the North American porecupines, there
CARE OF CAPTIVE ANIMALS—WALKER 345

should be a generous inclusion of spruce, fir, and pine twigs. Should have heavy
trees and limbs to climb.

SPINY RATS (Hchimyidae). Feed the same as mouselike creatures
(Cricetidae).

AFRICAN ROCK RATS (Petromyidae). Not known to the author to have been
kept in captivity. Try feeding like Cricetidae.

NUTRIA or COYPU (Myocastoridae). Feed grain, vegetables, green vegeta-
tion, hay, including an abundant supply of twigs and limbs so that they may keep
their teeth worn down. They need a pool in which to swim and dry land on
which to sun themselves; also a nest box. Now being extensively raised in cap-
tivity for their fur. i

HUTIAS or TREE RATS (Capromyidae). Feed grain, vegetables, green mate-
rial including twigs and branches so that they may keep their teeth worn down.
Should have heavy, rough-barked trees and branches on which to climb.

AFRICAN POUCHED RATS (Thryonomyidae). Feed similarly to Muridae
and Cricetidae. pote!

BRANICKS RAT (Dinomyidae). Very rare, but can probably be kept in
captivity by being fed chopped vegetables, grain, green vegetation. Possibly will
eat some dried green material such as alfalfa hay.

PACAS (Cuniculidae). Feed vegetables, green material (including twigs and
limbs), hay, grain, and meat. Supply bones for gnawing.

AGOUTIS (Dasyproctidae). Feed vegetables, green material, dried vegeta-
tion. Supply wood and bones for keeping their teeth worn down.

VISCACHAS and CHINCHILLAS (Chinchillidae). Feed grains, vegetables,
green vegetation. Supply wood and bones for gnawing.

SOUTH AMERICAN CHINCHILLA RATS (Abrocomyidae). Try feeding
same as Cricetidae.

GUINEA PIGS and CAVIES (Caviidae). Feed grain, vegetables, greenery,
hay, meat. Supply bones for gnawing.

CAPYBARA (Hydrochoeridae). Feed grain, vegetables, green material, and
meat. Supply wood and bones for gnawing. Should have pool of warm water
in which to bathe. A tropical animal and should not be subjected to chilling.
The largest of living rodents.

HARES, RABBITS, AND PIKAS (LAGOMORPHA)

HARES and RABBITS (Leporidae). Feed vegetables, green vegetation, hay,
grain, and salt. Certain animals of this group are now extensively raised,
while other wild ones are almost never successfully kept in captivity. Scrupu-
lous cleanliness, and the keeping of the animals in coarse-mesh wire-bottom cages
or in large pens, might facilitate the successful keeping of some of the more
delicate kinds. (See bibliography.)

PIKAS (Ochotonidae). Animals of the higher mountains of the Northern
Hemisphere. They have not been much kept in captivity. Try same methods
as outlined for rabbits and hares.

AARD-VARK (TUBULIDENTATA)

AARD-VARK (Orycteropidae). Feed insects (such as mealworms), milk, and
eggs.

INSECTIVORES (INSECTIVORA )

Many of the insectivores are very small, nervous creatures that have not been
successfully kept in captivity. Some of them must eat almost continuously or
346 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

they will starve to death. Therefore, food and water should be left before them
almost constantly.

TREE SHREWS (Tupaiidae). Feed insects, such as mealworms, waxmoths
and larvae, ground meat, eggs; also try ripe bananas, and other fruits. Tropical
animals that will not survive chilling.

ELEPHANT SHREWS (Macroscelididae). Feed mealworms and other
insects; also meat. Try eggs, ripe bananas, and earthworms. ‘Tropical animals.
Must not be chilled.

GOLDEN MOLES (Chrysochloridae). Feed insects, earthworms, meat, eggs;
also try green material, vegetables, and fruit.

HEDGEHOGS (Erinaceidae). Feed mealworms, ground meat, earthworms,
milk, eggs; may take some fruit and green food.

MOLES (Talpidae). Feed mealworms, earthworms, ground meat, eggs, milk;
make available small quantities of seeds that have been soaked in water, and
small quantities of green vegetation and vegetables. Moles are burrowing
animals, and apparently soon fret themselves to death if they cannot burrow
or at least keep themselves well sheltered from light. They are most likely to
thrive if the soil is slightly moist, but not wet.

SHREWS, WATER SHREWS, SUN SHREWS (Soricidae). Feed mealworms,
earthworms, ground meat, milk, rolled oats, eggs, nut meats; offer thoroughly
ripened bananas, tender green vegetation, vegetables, seeds soaked in water.
Shrews are burrowers, mostly inhabiting moist locations. They should be given
water in which to bathe or swim, and moist moss in which to seek shelter, but
should have a dry nest.

SOLENODONS (Solenodontidae). Feed insects, mealworms, earthworms,
ground meat, eggs, milk. Burrowing animals that probably thrive best if pro-
vided with soil in which they can burrow. Should not be subjected to chilling.

TENREC (Tenrecidae). Not known to have been kept long in captivity. Try
feeding same as shrews.

COLUGO (GALEOPITHECIA )

COLUGO or FLYING LEMUR (Galeopithecidae). Not known to the author
to have been successfully kept in captivity. Presumably omnivorous. Offer
insects, ground meat, eggs, milk, bread, thoroughly ripened bananas, and other
fruits; also good assortment of green vegetation. Inhabitants of the Old World
Tropics. Chilling must be avoided.

BATS AND FLYING FOXES OR FRUIT BATS (CHIROPTERA)

FRUIT BATS or FLYING FOXES (Pteropidae). Feed bananas, oranges, and
a wide variety of fruits. Perhaps will take some meat and eggs. The importa-
tion of fruit bats into the United States is prohibited by law.

INSECTIVOROUS BATS ‘(Rhinopomidae, Emballonuridae, Noctilionidae,
Nycteridae, Megadermidae, Rhinolophidae, Hipposideridae, Phyllostomidae,
Natalidae, Furipteridae, Thyropteridae, Myzopodidae, Verpertilionidae, Mysta-
copidae, Molossidae). Mainly small insectivorous bats, most of which occur in
the Tropics, although some of them range extensively through the Temperate
Zones ‘and even into the sub-Arctic region. Very few have been kept in cap-
tivity; but the success that has attended the keeping of some kinds indicates
that others might be kept by similar methods. The author kept a big brown
bat (Hptesicus) in his home. The animal was shut in a cage during the day-
time, but each evening it was given an opportunity to fly about the rooms.
CARE OF CAPTIVE ANIMALS—WALKER 347

Others of the same genus have been kept in the National Zoological Park for
more than 2 years. The author’s bat and those kept in the National Zoological
Park have been fed almost exclusively on mealworms. Other people have had
fair success when they fed various insects or meat. Cheese, cream, and dog
food have likewise been found satisfactory. It would be a good plan to offer
well-ripened bananas and other soft fruit to any captive tropical bat as some of
them probably consume such material in the wild, in addition to their principal
diet of insects. Some of the insectivorous bats are known to be carnivorous,
killing and eating other bats and small birds. Some also eat flower petals.
Water should be available at all times, as they drink frequently and copiously.
A slightly moist atmosphere appears to be favorable to all bats, and many are
inhabitants of the exceedingly humid Tropics. If the bat is to remain active,
the temperature should not fall much below 70°, as bats either hibernate or
migrate to avoid cold weather. If they are to hibernate, they should be
maintained in a temperature of between 40° and 50° with very high humidity.

VAMPIRE and FALSE VAMPIRE BATS (Desmodontidae). Can be success-
fully kept when fed defibrinated blood, or fresh uncoagulated blood. Keep in
uniformly warm temperature.

FISH-HATING BATS (Noctilionidae). Bats of this family catch small fish
and perhaps insects from the surface of the water. Try feeding tiny fish or
small pieces of fish, insects, meat. They may also eat some fruits.

LEMURS, MONKEYS, APES (PRIMATES)

Most monkeys do not survive chilling, but a few can withstand moderate
winter weather. Some individuals of species from the Tropics become hardy
and spend much time outdoors in winter if they are given the opportunity.

AYE AYE (Daubentoniidae). An inhabitant of Madagascar, uncommon in.
the wild and exceedingly rare in captivity. Apparently feeds mainly on insects,
but probably also eats fruit. Natives say it eats bamboo. Try feeding insects,
ground meat, eggs, fruit, leaves.

TARSIUS (Tarsiidae). Feeds mainly on insects, and probably also eats fruit.
Try feeding insects, meat (raw and cooked), eggs, fruit, some soft green leaves
such as lettuce.

LORIS, SLOW LORIS, POTTO, GALAGOS, and LEMURS (Nycticebidae).
Apparently omnivorous in the wild. Feed insects, meat both raw and cooked,
eggs, fruit, green vegetation, Seeds, milk, bread.

MARMOSETS (Callitrichidae), HOWLING MONKEYS (Alouattidae), NIGHT
MONKEYS (Aotidae), CACAJOUS, OUKARIS, SQUIRREL MONKEYS, SPIDER
MONKEYS, WOOLLY MONKEYS, CAPUCHINS (Cebidae), BABOONS,
MACAQUES, VERVETS, GRIVETS, PATAS, LANGURS, and COLOBUS (Cer-
copithecidae). Almost omnivorous in the wild. Feed the widest possible
variety of fruits, vegetables, lettuce, cabbage, kale, sweet potatoes and other
root vegetables, meat (cooked and raw), eggs, bread, milk, leaves, seeds and nuts
that are not too hard for them to open. The langurs and colobus monkeys are
primarily leaf eaters and will consume a higher proportion of leaves of a wide
variety than most of the other monkeys. It is well to vary the diet from day
to day.

GIBBONS (Hylobatidae), ORANGS, CHIMPANZEES, and GORILLAS
(Pongiidae). Feed similarly to the preceding families. Young animals should
be given practically the same care as babies and young children.
348 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941
BIRDS
OSTRICHES (STRUTHIONIFORMES, STRUTHIONIDAE)
RHEAS (RHEIFORMES, RHEIDAE)
CASSOWARIES AND EMUS (CASUARIIFORMES; CASUARIIDAE, DROMICEIIDAE)

Birds that are members of the four groups listed above can be kept under
essentially uniform treatment. They eat vegetables, sweet potatoes, carrots,
white potatoes, apples, and some form of green food such as kale, cabbage, or
alfalfa hay, ground or cut into pieces about the size of a man’s thumb. To
such mixture may be added “bear bread” cut in 1-inch cubes; also small stones
and oyster shell as grit. Supply water for drinking. Emus enjoy bathing and
should have a pool of sufficient size. Ostriches are fond of dust baths.

KIWIS (APTERYGIFORMES, APTERYGIDAE)

Nocturnal birds. Feed in the evening by burying mealworms or small strips
of meat (the size of an earthworm) in the soil on the floor of the cage. The
bird probes for its food. This method is used in the Zoo in Wellington, New
Zealand.

TINAMOUS (TINAMIFORMES, TINAMIDAE)

Feed grain, ground bread, green food, mealworms, and a pinch of ground
meat.

PENGUINS (SPHENISCIFORMES, SPHENISCIDAE)

Specialized feeders; some eat small Crustacea (Euthosia), which form a red
thin scum on the Antarctic Sea (Ross Sea) known as krill to the whalers; this
feed is impossible to supply or imitate in captivity. The large and medium-
sized penguins do fairly well when fed fish cut into strips about 3 inches long
and 14-inch wide, with the vertebrae removed. It is desirable to soak the fish
occasionally in cod liver oil. The jackass penguin will eat some oyster shell.
The Antarctic penguins are accustomed to very low temperature and all of
them appear to be particularly susceptible to respiratory infections. It is
therefore desirable to provide them with artificially cooled rooms (pl. 2, fig. 2),
the air of which is frequently changed by the introduction of air that has been
filtered to free it of dust and micro-organisms, and from which most of the
moisture has been removed. This type of care should be provided continuously
from the time the birds are brought to temperate regions. The throat infection
to which penguins are subject is caused by mold of a type that grows freely
on hay and straw. Such bedding should be kept away from them until they
are in their permanent quarters and even then should be introduced only
when needed as nesting material and only after it has been subjected to treat-
ment that will kill the spores of the plant. The black-footed or jackass pen-
guins do fairly well in captivity in the Temperate Zone without elaborate
facilities for their care. They appear to thrive best in temperatures ranging
from about 55° to 60°. The Galapagos penguins do not require artificial cool-
ing, as they are accustomed to live on desert islands at the Equator.

1° Cod liver oil should be supplied to practically all birds that are kept indoors.
CARE OF CAPTIVE ANIMALS—WALKER 349

LOONS (GAVIIFORMES, GAVIIDAE) ; GREBES (COLYMBIFORMES, COLYMBIDAB)

In the wild these birds eat mainly fish and small aquatic animals. Although
common in the wild, they are so rare in collections as to indicate that the
proper procedure for successfully keeping them has not been hit upon. It is
possible that if they were supplied with large tanks or pools in which they
could feed on small live fish, and perhaps were given some finely chopped or
ground green material, such as lettuce or kale, they might be kept successfully.
Most of the loons that are brought into zoos have been captured on the ground
where they have failed in making migrations. Therefore, it is possible that
these captives are injured or in poor health. If healthy birds were captured,
or young taken, they might be kept successfully.

ALBATROSSES, SHEARWATERS, PETRELS, AND THEIR ALLIES
(PROCELLARIIFORMES )

These are oceanic birds that fly a great deal and obtain minute crustaceans
and perhaps other small life from the surface of the ocean. The albatrosses
are, to Some extent, scavengers and will devour refuse from ships’ galleys after
the manner of gulls. They are almost never kept in captivity. If one would
attempt to keep these birds in captivity, he should provide them with a pool
of salt water in which to swim, and offer them meat, shrimp, crab meat, cray-
fish, or other Crustacea, all finely ground, fed to them on the water. They might
be induced also to take other foods, as is suggested by the observations that the
albatross will feed on ships’ refuse. It should be remembered, however, that
the mouths of all the birds of this group are small, and food for them must
be in very small pieces.

TROPIC-BIRDS, PELICANS, GANNETS, FRIGATE-BIRDS (PELECANIFORMES)

TROPIC-BIRDS (Phaethontidae). Feed small fish, or strips of fish, dipped
in cod liver oil. Provide them with a pool of water. Do not allow to be chilled.

PELICANS (Pelecanidae). Thrive on a wide variety of fish, either small
ones weighing about a pound, or pieces of large fish cut up. They take the fish
freely from the hands or when tossed to them, and will also take them from
the water. The average pelican will eat from 3 to 4 pounds of fish a day, but
care must be taken to prevent them from overeating and 1 day’s fast a week
is desirable to keep them in good condition. Pelicans should have a good-
sized pond for swimming and bathing, and some ground area. They will nest
and rear young. Do not subject to freezing.

BOOBIES and GANNETS (Sulidae), CORMORANTS (Phalacrocoracidae),
SNAKE-BIRDS (Anhingidae). Feed small fish whole thrown into the water,
or pieces of larger fish cut into strips roughly an inch in cross section and 3
to 4 inches long. Provide with pools or tanks with a little land to rest upon.

FRIGATE-BIRDS (Fregatidae). Powerful fliers of the high seas, rarely kept
in captivity. Most likely to thrive if kept in a large flight cage containing a
pool of water. Can be fed on the wing by tossing to them fish which they will
eatch in midair. If such a cage cannot be provided, it is sometimes necessary
to hand-feed them, or they may take the fish from the surface of the water.

HERONS, STORKS AND THEIR ALLIES (CICONIIFORMES)

HERONS, BITTERNS (Ardeidae). Feed fish, frogs, meat, mice, some
ground bread and green food. These are wading birds that obtain much of
350 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

their food in the shallow water of streams and ponds. If pinioned, they can
be kept in fenced enclosures with pools, or they may be kept in cages.

WHALE-HEADED STORKS (Balaenicipitidae). Habits and food similar
to the above.

HAMMERHEADS (Scopidae), STORKS and JABIRUS (Ciconiidae), IBISES
and SPOONBILLS (Threskiornithidae). Should be given a wide variety of
food, including fish, meat, ground bread, finely chopped green vegetation and
vegetables. These birds are waders, but they will take their food from solid
surfaces. They can be kept pinioned in fenced enclosures, or in cages.

FLAMINGOES (Phoenicopteridae). Specialized feeders that obtain their
food while wading in shallow water. They subsist mainly on small Crustacea
and other minute animals found in swampy regions. Can be successfully kept
in captivity on a mixture of bran, rice, wheat, bread crumbs, crab meat, crab
scrap or ground shrimp, and bone meal. These materials should be in small
particles mixed together and fed in shallow water so that the birds can obtain
it by straining it out as they pump the water through their beaks.

SCREAMERS, DUCKS, GEESE, SWANS (ANSERIFORMES)

SCREAMERS (Anhimidae). Feed mixture of grains, bread crumbs, chopped
green vegetation and vegetables, with a small amount of ground meat. Can
be kept in large fenced enclosures if pinioned, or in cages. Should have ponds
in which to wade and swim.

DUCKS, GEESH, and SWANS (Anatidae). Require same food as the scream-
ers, but take less meat. A flock consisting mainly of geese and swans should
be fed proportionately more green food than is required by the ducks. Should
have good-sized ponds or pools. Mergansers are fish-eating ducks that thrive
best if they are given a plentiful supply of small live fish to catch. Will some-
times survive on a diet of fish cut in small strips and meat finely ground or cut.
The sea ducks, such as the eiders, scooters, and harlequins, consume a consider-
able variety of small animal life and also some vegetable material. Not gen-
erally kept in captivity ; but with care might survive on fish, meat, crab scraps, or
shrimp, clams, bread crumbs, some soaked grain and green material, all ground
together. Should have large, deep pools in which to dive.

VULTURES, HAWKS, FALCONS (FALCONIFORMES)

All the birds of this order will eat either meat or fish or both. The larger
kinds can be fed meat in large pieces or on large bones. The smaller kinds
thrive best on whole small animals, such as rabbits, pigeons, mice, or sparrows,
and the larger ones should have such food at frequent intervals, in order to
obtain the fur, feathers, and viscera, which appear to be essential to their
welfare. Bald eagles are particularly fond of fish. Vultures thrive on fresh
meat, and there is no reason to give them spoiled meat. Ospreys feed almost
exclusively on fish.

MEGAPODES, CURASSOWS, PHEASANTS, HOATZINS, CHICKENS, TURKEYS,
GROUSE, PEACOCKS, QUAILS, GUINEA-FOWL (GALLIFORMES)

Feed a mixture of grains, green feed, ground meat, and fruits, especially
bananas. Mealworms and other insects and mice are relished. Supply crushed
shell, coarse sand, or fine gravel for grit. Dust baths should be provided. Size
CARE OF CAPTIVE ANIMALS—WALKER S01

of enclosures can range from cages to yards with moderate-height fences, pro-
vided the birds are pinioned. Ample ground area for exercise is desirable; also
plenty of sunshine. Some of these birds are hardy inhabitants of rigorous
climates; others are natives of the Tropics and cannot survive cold weather.
There is an extensive literature regarding the raising of many of these birds.
See bibliography for a few citations.

CRANES, RAILS, AND ALLIES (GRUIFORMES)

BUSTARD-QUAILS (Turnicidae), COLLARED HEMIPODES (Pedionomidae).
Feed same as cranes, rails, coots, and gallinules.

ROATELOS and MONIAS (Mesoenatidae). Feed same as cranes, rails, coots,
and gallinules.

CRANES (Gruidae). Feed a mixture of grain, chopped or ground leafy mate-
rial and vegetables, bread crumbs and meat. They also enjoy mice, lizards,
and insects, and some take a small amount of fish.

LIMPKINS (Aramidae). Same as above.

TRUMPETERS (Psophiidae). Feed same as poultry. They easily become tame
enough to eat out of one’s hand.

RAILS, COOTS, GALLINULES (Rallidae). Feed finely cut or ground mixture
of meat and fish with a small amount of grain, plenty of green feed, and bread
crumbs. They are not primarily grain feeders nor fish eaters, so there must be
a plentiful supply of green food and all of the material should be finely divided,
as the mouths of the birds are small. Some swim and wade extensively, so
should have ponds. Others prefer to perch and spend little time on the ground
or water.

SUN-GREBES (Heliornithidae). Give same food as for Gruiformes, but it
should be ground or chopped more finely.

KAGUS (Rynochetidae), SUN BITTERNS (Eurypygidae). Feed fish and a
mixture of meat, green vegetation, bread crumbs, mice, mealworms, and small
pieces of bone.

CARIAMAS (Cariamidae). Feed grain, meat, bonemeal. Mice and young
or small birds, such as sparrows, are essential for the fur and feathers.

BUSTARDS (Otididae). Feed meat and a mixture of green feed, bread, and
grain. The birds of this order can be kept in cages, but thrive best in large
outdoor runs.

SHORE BIRDS, GULLS, AND AUKS (CHARADRIIFORMES)

JACANAS (Jacanidae). Tropical marsh birds that probably feed mainly
on insects, insect larva, small fish, and green material. No information is avail-
able to the author as to the keeping of these birds in captivity. Try mealworms,
and finely ground meat, green vegetation, and shrimp.

PAINTED SNIPE (Rostratulidae). Feed the same as rails. These birds
probe in the earth to find their food. Worms are essential.

OYSTER CATCHERS (Haematopodidae). They frequent ocean beaches,
where they pick up a wide variety of small animal life and perhaps some plant
Material. In captivity feed small pieces of fish, worms, bread crumbs, green
leafy vegetation.

PLOVERS, TURNSTONE, and SURFBIRDS (Charadriidae). Inhabitants
of seacoasts and streams, lakes, and ponds. Some live on the drier uplands.
Offer a wide variety of fish, meat, grain, green food, bonemeal, crab meat,
302 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

crab scraps, or shrimp—all ground, as the mouths of the birds are rather small.
Mealworms are particularly relished by the birds.

SNIPE, WOODCOCK, and SANDPIPERS (Scolopacidae). The feeding hab-
its of the snipe and sandpipers are somewhat similar to those of the plover and
the turnstones. Woodcocks are specialized feeders that in the wild live largely
on earthworms obtained by boring into the ground with their long beaks which
have flexible tips that open in the ground, grasp the worm, and pull it out.
They are rarely kept in captivity, but a few have survived when fed mealworms
or earthworms in earth. Finely cut strips of meat, mealworms, and earth-
worms might be placed in earth to tempt them.

AVOCETS and STILTS (Recurvirostridae). These heautiful birds inhabit
the shores of shallow lakes and alkali ponds. They feed on minute animals
such as tiny shrimp, brine shrimp, and other forms; probably they take some
plant food as well. They are not known to the author to have been kept in
captivity; but it seems probable that they might survive if given mealworms,
meat, fish, shrimp, crab, and a variety of green material finely ground and fed
in water. The birds spend much time wading and swimming and should be
provided with shallow pools and plenty of ground on which to exercise.

PHALAROPES (Phalaropodidae). These little swimming, snipelike birds
might thrive on the same mixture suggested for avocets and stilts, but they
have rarely, if ever, been kept in captivity.

CRAB-PLOVERS (Dromadidae). Feed same as shore birds.

THICK-KNEES (Burhinidae). Feed a mixture of ground or finely chopped
fish, meat, seeds, bread, green vegetation and mealworms.

PRATINCOLES and COURSERS (Glareolidae). Feed same as shore birds.

SEED-SNIPES (Thinocoridae). Feed same as shore birds.

SHEATH-BILLS (Chionidae). The birds of this family have not to our
knowledge been kept in captivity. They inhabit the southern shores of the
Southern Hemisphere and their habits appear to be somewhat between those
of the gulls and petrels. It is possible that they could be successfully kept by
offering them mixtures of ground or finely chopped meat, fish, mealworms,
shellfish such as clams, crabs, shrimp, and some green food, fed on or in
shallow water. They should have pools in which to bathe and swim.

SKUAS and JAEGERS (Stercorariidae). Feed small pieces of meat, mice,
small rats, small birds, and fish. They should have a pool in which to bathe.

GULLS and TERNS (Laridae). Feed fish, mice, fruit, meat, bread. Pool
for bathing.

SKIMMERS (Rynchopidae). Feed fish and meat. Should have plenty of
water for bathing and swimming, and some shore space.

AUKS, AUKLETS, and MURRES (Alcidae). These are heavy-bodied, small-
winged seacoast birds that obtain fish and perhaps other food from the sea
and usually nest on ledges, in crevices, or in burrows in the ground or under
rocks. They are rarely kept in captivity, but should not be difficult to keep.
It is suggested that they be fed small strips of fish, squid, and perhaps some
shellfish, meats, and shrimp. Young tufted puffins thrived when they were
fed from the hand with strips of fish from %4 to ¥% inch in diameter and
2 to 4 inches long that had been dipped in salt water.

The birds should be provided with a pool in which they can swim and dive,
and with rocks or ground on which they can rest. They do not need much
land on which to exercise. They are not able to take off on the wing from the
small areas in which they will normally be enclosed so they can be kept in
open-top enclosures, as well as in cages.
CARE OF CAPTIVE ANIMALS—WALKER 353

SAND-GROUSE, PIGEONS, DOVES (COLUMBIFORMES)

SAND-GROUSE (Pteroclidae). Despite its name, the sand grouse is closely
related to the pigeons and doves, both in structure and habits. Like these
birds, it will thrive on a mixture of grain and green food. It should be
given plenty of gravel or grit.

PIGEONS and DOVES (Columbidae). Grain, small amounts of green leafy
vegetation, fruit, and grit are needed by these birds. Many of the tropical pigeons
are fruit eaters and should be supplied with grapes, bananas, apples, small pieces
of oranges, etc. Raisins might be given if no other fruit is available.

LORIES, PARROTS, AND MACAWS (PSITTACIFORMES)

These birds will eat a considerable variety of food and will thrive on a diet
mainly of sunflower and other seeds (such as canary and hemp seed), fruits
(such as apples and bananas), bread, carrots, some green food, and some
ground meat. Lories, being primarily fruit eaters, will not consume many
seeds or much bread. They should have a plentiful supply of fruit, honey,
milk, and bread.

All the birds of this group should have limbs or wood on which to bite so
that they may keep their beaks properly worn down. Some parrots enjoy
bathing, but the grass parakeet (Melopsitiacus) prefers to roll in wet grass
and does not ordinarily bathe in water. Occasionally parrots take to plucking
their own feathers to such an extent that they become naked. This probably
indicates a dietary deficiency. On occasions it has been remedied by feeding
meat and fat or by giving them an opportunity to chew on bones.

In other cases, these methods have been useless. These birds may be kept
in moderate-sized cages either alone or in small groups, or in large cages with
a variety of other birds. Their cages should be strongly constructed, as they
have powerful beaks and will frequently bite persistently at a single place in
the cage covering.

Most of these are birds of the Tropics with the exception of a few such as
the kea of the high mountains of New Zealand and the grass parakeet (also
called budgerigar). These two birds can be kept outside throughout the year
in a climate such as that of Washington, D. C. Others must be carefully
safeguarded against cold.

PLANTAIN-EATERS AND CUCKOOS (CUCULIFORMES)

PLANTAIN EATERS (Musophagidae). These thrive on bananas, raisins,
oranges, grapes, apples, bits of boiled egg, ground meat, mealworms, and
mockingbird food.

CUCKOOS, ROADRUNNERS, ANIS (Cuculidae). These birds are insecti--
vorous and carnivorous in their native haunts. The cuckoos should be fed
mealworms, ground meat, boiled egg. The roadrunner eats mice, lizards, small
birds, and insects, and when these cannot be given, it can be supplied with
small pieces of meat and hard-boiled egg.

OWLS (STRIGIFORMES)

BARN OWLS (Tytonidae), OWLS (Strigidae). These are nocturnal birds
of prey, and should be fed in the evening. To this rule the snowy owl is an
exception. This bird may be fed either in the evening or during the day.
304 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Owls should be supplied with small mammals such as mice and rats, or with
birds, such as small chickens. A number of the smaller owls eat insects. They
will also eat meat, preferably fragments left on the bone, from which they
may tear it off. It is important, however, that they be given plenty of small
animals that can be swallowed whole in order that the owls may have the
skin, feathers, bones, and viscera. These birds should not be exposed to bright
light. It might be possible to reverse their normal round of activities, if they
were given very subdued light during the daytime and artificial light at night.
They should have an opportunity to get into a box or other cavity or a dark
corner to sleep.

OIL-BIRDS AND GOATSUCKERS (CAPRIMULGIFORMES )

OIL-BIRDS (Steatornithidae). Feed mealworms, ground meat, small rodents,
Insects, reptiles, and possibly hard-boiled eggs.

FROGMOUTHS (Podargidae). A frogmouth has been kept in the National
Zoological Park by feeding it one mouse a day. If mice are not available,
other food might be offered it, such as mealworms, ground meat, small rodents,
insects, reptiles, and possibly hard-boiled eggs.

POTOOS (Nyctibiidae). Same as above.

OWLET-FROGMOUTHS (Aegothelidae). Same as above.

GOATSUCKERS (Caprimulgidae). These birds live by capturing insect
prey when on the wing. They are rarely kept in captivity, although a nestling
nighthawk that was brought to the National Zoological Park thrived for several
years on a diet of mealworms, mockingbird food, and ground meat rolled into
small balls. A similar diet might be successful with others of this group and
some of the related forms.

SWIFTS AND HUMMINGBIRDS (MICROPODIFORMES )

SWIFTS (Micropodidae). Like the goatsuckers, these birds obtain all their
insect food on the wing. They might be successfully kept on food similar to
that listed under goatsuckers. Outside cages lighted at night to attract insects
have been suggested.

CREST SWIFTS (Hemiprocnidae). Same as above.

HUMMINGBIRDS (Trochilidae). Hummingbirds can be kept in captivity
fairly successfully on a mixture of 1 teaspoonful of Mellon’s baby food, 2
teaspoonfuls of honey, 1 teaspoonful evaporated milk, 1 drop of beef extract,
and 4 teaspoonfuls of water. A convenient feeder is shown in the accompany-
ing diagram (pl. 7, fig. 1). Food containers should be so constructed that
these birds can get only their bills in to reach the food. They should also
have the opportunity of capturing fruit flies, which can usually be made avail-
able to them by leaving a bit of fruit such as a banana in the cage to attract
the flies. They will bathe under a fine shower if it is available. They are so
small that glass fronts to the cages are desirable. Wire fabric of about 14-inch
mesh can be used on the sides, back, and top. Sunshine or ultraviolet light
is necessary in winter.

COLIES (COLITFORMES)

COLIES (Coliidae). These birds can be successfully kept on a diet of
fruit such as bananas, grapes, raisins, oranges, small bits of meat, hard-boiled
eggs, mockingbird food, and mealworms.
CARE OF CAPTIVE ANIMALS—-WALKER 305

TROGONS (TROGONIFORMES )
Trogons (Trogonidae). These can be kept on the same diet as the colies.
KINGFISHERS, BEE-EATERS, ROLLERS, AND HORNBILLS (CORACIIFORMES)

KINGFISHERS (Alcedinidae). The North American kingfisher can be fed
a diet almost entirely of fish. The tropical kingfishers and those of the other
parts of the world feed on a wide variety of animal life such as large insects,
lizards, and fish. The kookaburra of Australia is included in this group. They
should be fed mice, worms, lizards, and small birds, such as finches. The birds
vary greatly in size, and the smaller kingfishers cannot, of course, take full-
grown mice or lizards.

TODIES (Todidae). May be fed hard-boiled eggs, small bits of meat, meal-
worms, bananas, oranges, and raisins.

MOTMOTS (Momotidae). Same as for todies.

BEE-EATERS (Meropidae). In the wild, these birds eat insects and are
particularly fond of bees, apparently suffering no ill effect from stings. In
captivity, they should be offered as wide a variety of insects as can be obtained,
such as mealworms and grasshoppers, as well as finely ground meat, boiled
egg, and mockingbird food.

ROLLERS (Coraciidae). Same as for motmots.

CUCKOO-ROLLERS and GROUND-ROLLERS (Leptosomatidae). Mostly
insectivorous. Feed mealworms, grasshoppers, meat, beiled egg, mockingbird
food.

HOOPOES (Upupidae). The hoopoes will thrive on the same food recom-
mended for the bee-eaters.

WOOD-HOOPOES (Phoeniculidae). Feed same as bee-eaters (Meropidae).

HORNBILLS (Bucerotidae). Hornbills thrive on a diet of mockingbird food
rolled with boiled rice into balls about the size of marbles; also balls of meat,
bananas, grapes, oranges, apples, pears, boiled egg. Mice, lizards, or small
birds are essential to their welfare.

JACAMARS, BARBETS, TOUCANS, AND WOODPECKERS (PICIFORMES)

JACAMARS (Galbulidae). Feed insects, mealworms, mockingbird food, boiled
eggs.

PUFF-BIRDS (Bucconidae). Same as above.

BARBETS (Capitonidae). These birds will thrive on the same diet as that
recommended for hornbills. Balls of food must be made much smaller than
those given to the hornbills.

HONEY-GUIDES (Indicatoridae). Feed insects, mealworms, mockingbird
food, boiled eggs.

TOUCANS (Ramphastidae). They thrive on the food recommended for horn-
bills. Make the balls of food smaller.

WOODPECKERS and PICULETS (Picidae). Rarely kept in captivity. In
the wild they feed on insects, ants, fruit, acorns, and some other plant food.
In captivity they can be given mealworms, meat, suet, fruit, and should be
offered some bread, grain, hard-boiled eggs, and mockingbird food. Most of
these birds regularly cling to the sides of trees and should have rough-barked
limbs in a more or less vertical position to which they may cling. They will
also perch crosswise on larger limbs, but do not care for small perches.

430577—42 24

306 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

PERCHING BIRDS (PASSERIFORMES)

BROADBILLS (Hurylaimidae). Feed fruit, bananas, oranges, apples, grapes,
boiled eggs, mockingbird food.

WOOD-HEWERS (Dendrocolaptidae), OVENBIRDS (Furnariidae), ANT-
THRUSHES (Formicariidae), ANT-PIPETS (Conopophagidae), TAPACULOS
(Rhinocryptidae). The birds of these families are known as soft-billed birds,
and will eat fruit, mockingbird food, boiled egg, and mealworms and other
insects. Live worms and insects are essential.

COTINGAS, BELL-BIRD, COCK-OF-THE-ROCK (Cotingidae), MANAKINS
(Pipridae). Feed fruit, boiled egg, mockingbird food.

TYRANT FLYCATCHERS (Tyrannidae). Aerial feeders in the wild, and
difficult to keep in captivity. Feed mealworms, ground meat, boiled egg,
mockingbird food. Insects are almost essential.

SHARP-BILLS (Oxyruncidae), PLANT-CUTTERS (Phytotomidae). Same
as above.

PITTAS (Pittidae). Feed mealworms and any other available insects, mock-
ingbird food, and ground meat. The floor of the cage should be covered with
soft material, as their feet are tender.

NEW ZEALAND WRENS (Acanthisittidae), ASITIHS (Philepittidae). Feed
insects, mealworms, mockingbird food, boiled egg.

LYRE BIRDS (Menuridae). Feed fruit, insects, seeds, and green vegetation.
They spend much of their time on the ground.

SCRUB-BIRDS (Atrichornithidae). Soft-billed birds. Feed the same as
thrushes.

LARKS (Alaudidae). Feed mockingbird food, mealworms, boiled eggs,
ground meat, fruit, lettuce.

SWALLOWS (Hirundinidae). Give them mealworms and any other avail-
able insects, also ground meat. Try bread, soft, well-ripened fruit, and cheese.
These birds are rarely kept in captivity, and no method is known to be par-
ticularly successful with them.

CUCKOO-SHRIKES (Campephagidae). Soft-billed birds. Feed meat, mock-
ingbird food, insects boiled egg.

DRONGOS (Dicruridae), OLD WORLD ORIOLES (Oriolidae). Feed meal-
worms and other insects, ground meat, mockingbird food, fruit, boiled egg.
Insects are essential.

CROWS, MAGPIES, JAYS (Corvidae). These omnivorous birds thrive in
captivity if given a wide variety of meats, soaked grain, bread, fruit, vegetable
material. They enjoy mealworms, insects, and mice; some of them will eat
small birds.

BIRDS OF PARADISE (Paradiseidae). Feed mockingbird food with liberal
addition of grated carrots and boiled eggs, apples, raisins, bananas, oranges,
meat, insects. When the birds are growing new plumage, they apparently
become greatly exhausted. At such times they should have ant eggs and plenty
of insects.

PARROT-BILLS, SUTHORAS (Paradoxornithidae). Soft-billed birds. Feed
same as thrushes.

TITMICE (Paridae), NUTHATCHES (Sittidae). Feed mockingbird food,
boiled eggs, ground meat, mealworms, seeds, soft nuts, bread, meat, insects.

CORAL-BILLED NUTHATCHES (Hyposittidae). Soft-billed birds. Feed
mealworms and other insects, ground meat, bread, fruit, and tender green
leaves.
CARE OF CAPTIVE ANIMALS—WALKER 357

CREEPERS (Certhiidae). Feed mealworms, other insects, and ground meat.

WREN-TITS (Chamaeidae). Soft-billed birds. Feed same as thrushes.

BABBLING THRUSHES (Timaliidae). Feed mockingbird food, mealworms,
and other insects, ground meat, fruit, lettuce, raisins, grapes.

BULBULS (Pycnonotidae). Fruit, insects, mockingbird food, ground meat,
bread crumbs, boiled eggs, canary seed.

DIPPERS (Cinclidae). Not known to the author to have been kept in
captivity. Frequent streams, into which they dive to capture aquatic insects.
Try feeding mealworms, waxworms, and any other insects available, and ground
meat. Also lettuce and soft green vegetation. Should have water in which
to bathe; preferably a continuous shower falling into a small stream or pool,
which might make them feel more at home.

WRENS (Troglodytidae), MOCKINGBIRDS and THRASHERS (Mimidae),
THRUSHES (Turdidae). Feed fruit, mockingbird food, boiled eggs, meal-
worms and other insects, ground meat, some green food, bread crumbs.

OLD WORLD WARBLERS (Sylviidae), KINGLETS (Regulidae), OLD
WORLD FLYCATCHERS (Muscicapidae), ACCENTORS, HEDGE-SPARROWS
(Prunellidae), WAGTAILS, PIPITS (Motacillidae),WAXWINGS (Bombycil-
lidae). Feed mealworms or any other insects available, and ground meat.
Also try soft, well-ripened fruit and a small amount of bread crumbs. Rarely
kept in captivity, and no well-proved diets are known to the author.

SILKY FLYCATCHERS (Ptilogonatidae). Aerial feeders. Try mealworms
and any other insects, also mockingbird food, boiled eggs, and ground meat.

PALM-CHATS (Dulidae), WOOD-SWALLOWS (Artamidae), VANGA
SHRIKES (Vangidae). All insect eaters. Feed soft food, meat, mealworms,
flies, small animals.

SHRIKES (Laniidae). Feed mealworms and any other insects available,
also meat, mice, small birds, mockingbird food, boiled eggs, bread. lettuce.

WOOD-SHRIKES (Prionopidae), PEPPER-SHRIKES (Cyclarhidae),
SHRIKE-VIREOS (Vireolaniidae). All insect eaters. Feed soft food, meat,
mealworms, flies, small animals.

STARLINGS (Sturnidae). Feed the same as crows and jays.

HONEY-EATERS (Melithreptidae), SUN-BIRDS (Nectariniidae), FLOWER-
PECKERS (Dicaeidae), WHITE-EYES (Zosteropidae). Feed mealworms and
other insects, ground meat, mockingbird food, boiled egg, fruit. Some of these
birds like honey.

VIREOS (Vireonidae). Feed mealworms and other insects, ground meat,
fruit, mockingbird food.

HONEY-CREEPERS (Coerebidae), HAWAIIAN HONEY-CREEPERS (Dre-
panididae). Feed fruit, such as oranges, bananas, apples, with honey, meal-
worms and other small insects. If flowers are in the cage, they will thrust
their long, curved beaks into the flowers to obtain the nectar. Orange and
pineapple juice in small tubes might be accepted.

WOOD-WARBLERS (Compsothlypidae). Insect eaters in the wild. Feed
mealworms, small insects, ground meat, and well-ripened soft fruit. Rarely
kept in captivity, and no tested diet is known to the author.

WEAVER FINCHES (Ploceidae), BLACKBIRDS, TROUPIALS (lIcteridae).
Feed seeds, bread, fruit, green vegetation, vegetables, mealworms and other
insects, and ground meat.

SWALLOW-TANAGERS (Tersinidae). Feed mockingbird food, boiled eggs,
fruit, mealworms and other insects.
358 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

TANAGERS (Thraupidae). Feed soft ripe fruit, such as bananas and
oranges, mockingbird food, mealworms and other insects, boiled eggs, and
lettuce.

PLUSH-CAPPED FINCHES (Catamblyrhynchidae). Feed mockingbird
food, boiled eggs, mealworms and other insects, green vegetation, seeds, and
fruit.

GROSBEAKS, FINCHES, BUNTINGS (Fringillidae). Feed assorted seeds,
fruit, lettuce, and other green vegetation, mealworms, ground meat.

REPTILES

Reptiles are known as cold-blooded animals because their temperature fluctuates
with that of their surroundings. They are mainly creatures of warm climates,
and must be kept warm to be active. When the temperature gets low, they
become sluggish and torpid, like other hibernating animals. If they are con-
tinuously subjected to daily warming and nightly chilling, they will refuse to
eat, and, while they mey be active during the daytime, they will become weak
and presently die. It is therefore important that they be given a fairly constant
and uniform temperature within the range preferred by the species. In general,
the temperature for reptiles should not go below 70° and the animals will be
more active and interesting at a temperature of 80° to 90° or upward. Cages
for reptiles should be provided with some means of warming such as electrical
heating units controlled by thermostats, or other devices that will aid in main-
taining a fairly constant temperature at all times. A convenient means of
providing uniform temperature for those animals that burrow is a thick layer
of sand that can be warmed and that will retain the heat.

Almost all reptiles need plenty of sunshine, or the substitute, ultraviolet light.
However, they cannot endure extremes of either light or heat.

Most snakes drink frequently and should be provided with water. Some
lizards drink, others do not even though there is an abundance of water avail-
able, as nature has provided that they shall take moisture through their skins.
These animals should be sprinkled with water occasionally, or placed in a shallow
pan of water.

The shedding of skin by snakes and lizards is facilitated if the animals have
access to water in which to soak. In some instances, gentle manipulation assists
shedding.

Some reptiles and amphibians will not notice food that is not moving. There-
fore, if an individual will not eat when all other conditions seem to be suitable,
try impaling the food on a stick and moving it about in front of the animal.
This procedure is sometimes successful.

ALLIGATORS, CROCODILES, CAIMANS AND GAVIALS (LORICATA 5; CROCODYLIDAE)

All of these thrive on fish or meat, or both. If the temperature is maintained
at 75° to 100°, and they refuse to eat at least once a week, they can sometimes
be tempted by placing the fish or meat on the end of a stick and annoying
them until they snap at the food. By this method they can sometimes be
induced to eat freely. Provide with a pool of water of about air temperature
into which the food can be thrown. There should be earth or rocks upon which
they may climb to bask in the sunshine or the rays of powerful electric lights.
They are not particularly active and do not require much space to exercise.
CARE OF CAPTIVE ANIMALS—-WALKER 359

TURTLES, TORTOISES, AND TERRAPINS ( TESTUDINATA )

The baby turtles often sold with gaudily painted shells never develop properly,
as the paint stunts their growth and eventually kills them. The paint may
be removed by swabbing with turpentine or alcohol, but these fluids should
not be allowed to come in contact with the young turtle’s skin.

LEATHERBACK TURTLES (Dermochelidae). Feed fish. They must have
fair-sized tanks of salt water of about 85° to 95° Fahrenheit. In the wild state,
they come out of the water only to lay their eggs, so will not need any area
above the water unless the females are to be encouraged to lay their eggs in
the sand. They may be kept for a limited time in fresh water, but where
so kept they usually succumb within a short time. See formula on page 330 for
making salt water. Water should be changed sufficiently often to keep the
tank from becoming cloudy, but need not be changed as often as for some other
animals.

If whitish films develop around the eyes, it is ordinarily a fungus growth
and is usually fatal. Sometimes this condition can be controlled by the following
methods:

Add enough potassium permanganate to the waiter to give a slight tinge of
color. The animals should be placed in this for 3 days, then in plain salt water
for 1 day, changing again to the permanganate bath for 3 days, next remaining
for 9 days in clean salt water, again 3 days in the permanganate water, then
finally remaining in salt water. This latter method is used in some aquaria to
kill various invertebrates as well as fungi.

Another method is to add about 1 ounce of tincture of iodine to each 10
gallons of water in the tank.

Chlorine in the proportion of % to 2 parts per million of water will also
kill fungi. Care should be exercised not to make the solution so strong as to
injure the turtles or fish.

SNAPPING TURTLES and ALLIGATOR SNAPPERS (Chelydridae). Feed
fish or meat. Provide with sufficient water in which to swim, and earth, sand,
or rocks on which they can rest when out of the water.

MUSK or MUD TURTLES (Kinosternidae). Feed fish and meat. They
should have water in which to swim and some ground, rocks, or other space
above the water on which to rest.

LARGE-HEADED CHINESE TURTLE (Platysternidae). Will eat meat,
Snails, worms, and fish. Usually lives in mountain streams. Nocturnal.

BOX TURTLES, LAND TORTOISES, and many FRESH-WATER TURTLES
(Testudinidae). The land forms need plant food such as lettuce, kale, bananas,
melons, prickly pear cactus, mushrooms, tomatoes, and occasionally a little fish
or ground beef and soft bread. The aquatic types should be fed fish, meat,
insects, shrimp, some green vegetation, fruit, and bread. Provide sufficient
water in which to swim, and space to roam about out of the water. Some
of the dry-land forms do not swim, and will drown in water. If one is not
certain of the swimming or water requirements of this group, it is well to
provide the cage with a tank with sloping edges so that the animal can readily
climb out of water. The dry-land forms enjoy soaking in shallow water, as
they may obtain their water in this manner rather than through drinking.

SNAKE-NECKED TURTLES (Pelomedusidae). Fish, meat, and insects should
be offered; also occasionally lettuce, bananas, and bread, until one is certain
the individuals he has will or will not take it. Since they are semiaquatic,
they should have water in which to swim; also a fair amount of area outside
360 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

the water. It is said that some of these turtles cannot swallow unless they
have their heads beneath the water. The writer has seen them take cockroaches
beneath the water to swallow them.

WATER-TURTLE OF NEW GUINEA (Carettochelys). Habits unknown.
Supposedly like those of other fresh-water turtles. (See Testudinidae—aquatic
types. )

SOFT-SHELLED TURTLES (Trionychidae). Fish and meat appear to be
adequate foods. These turtles spend most of their time in the water or mud,
but enjoy sunning themselves, so in addition to an ample swimming tank, they
should have a place to rest above the water.

LIZARDS AND SNAKES (SQUAMATA)
LIZARDS (SUBORDER SAURIA)

GECKOES (Gekkonidae). Tropical animals. Keep warm. Feed cock-
roaches, mealworms, and other insects.

CAT-EYED GECKOES (Eublepharidae). Nocturnal. Feed insects.

BARK GECKO (Uroplatidae). Habits presumably same as those of the true
geckoes. Try similar food.

“WORM” LIZARD (Pygopodidae). Habits not known. Try feeding earth-
worms, enchytrae, and insects.

AGAMAS and their allies (Agamidae). Ground-dwelling and arboreal. Feed
insects, fruit, meat, tender green leaves.

IGUANAS and their allies (Iguanidae). Small species eat insects and small
invertebrates. Large forms devour birds and small mammals, and rob birds’
nests. The marine iguana of the Galapagos Islands feeds on seaweed. The com-
mon iguana of tropical America is largely herbivorous. Feed fruit and green
vegetation. The chuckwalla of the southwestern United States eats cactus
and other flowers. Feed flowers, buds, and green vegetation. Some desert
forms, such as the horned lizard (horned “toad”), need sand in which to burrow.
Feed ants and other insects.

XENOSAURUS (Xenosauridae). Related both to the Iguanidae and the
Anguidae. Food habits are presumably the same.

ZONURUS (Zonuridae). Feed ground meat, boiled egg, and lettuce.

SLOW-WORMS, ALLIGATOR LIZARDS, and their allies (Anguidae). The
burrowing forms feed on small earthworms, enchytrae, and possibly slugs.
The more active terrestrial ones catch insects. Feed enchytrae, mealworms,
waxworms, other insects, and meat.

“WORM” LIZARD (Anniellidae). Burrowing. Feeding habits probably sim-
ilar to Anguidae. Provide with earth.

GILA MONSTERS (Helodermatidae). Feed eggs mixed with raw chopped
beef. Will sometimes take mice.

MONITORS (Varanidae). Feed mice, rats, lizards, snakes, fish, birds, meat,
eggs. Extremely voracious.

NIGHT LIZARDS (Xantusiidae). Feed same as Teiidae (next family).

RACE-RUNNERS and their allies (Teiidae). The small species eat insects,
mealworms, grubs, grasshoppers, crickets, and other invertebrates of suitable
size. Large ones, such as the tegus, devour young chickens, eggs, raw meat,
and rats.

“WORM” LIZARDS (Amphisbaenidae). Burrow in sand or soil. Feed earth-
worms, enchytrae, and raw beef.
CARE OF CAPTIVE ANIMALS—WALKER 361

WALL LIZARDS (Lacertidae). Insectivorous. Some are cannibalistic.
Feed insects, meat, boiled eggs, and lettuce.

GERRHOSAURUS (Gerrhosauridae). Presumably insectivorous. Try meal-
worms, waxworms, small mice, and lettuce.

SKINKS (Scincidae). Feed insects, worms, slugs, meat, and fruit. The
stump-tailed lizard is known to eat meat, lizards, and snakes. The smaller
species are satisfied with insects and slugs.

ANELYTROPSIS (Anelytropidae). Feeding habits not known to the author.

DIBAMUS (Dibamidae). Blind, subterranean. Try enchytrae, earthworms,
and soft insects. Provide earth in which it can burrow.

CHAMELEONS (Chamaelontidae). Feed grasshoppers, crickets, spiders, flies.
Provide plants or limbs on which the animal may climb.

SHINISAURUS (Shinisauridae). Feeding habits not known to the author.

SNAKES (SUBORDER SERPENTES)

BLIND SNAKE or WORM SNAKE (Typhlopidae). Burrows. Feed earth-
worms, enchytrae, soft insects, mealworms, fly larvae, maggots, and waxworms.
Provide earth in which it can burrow.

BLIND SNAKE or WORM SNAKE (Leptotyphlopidae). Same habits as
Typhlopidae.

SHIELD-TAILED SNAKE (Uropeltidae). Burrows. Feed on earthworms,
enchytrae, and insect larvae.

SUN-RAY SNAKE (Xenopeltidae). Eats other snakes. Provide earth for
burrowing.

BOAS and PYTHONS (Boidae). Feed mice, rats, rabbits, pigs, pigeons, and
chickens. Some will eat other reptiles.

ANILIUS (Anilidae). Eats other snakes. Provide earth in which to burrow.

COLUBRID SNAKES (Colubridae). About 1,200 different species. This family
includes most of the harmless snakes, as well as venomous rear-fanged serpents.
Feed mice, rats, small birds, eggs, insects, frogs, toads, and fish.

COBRAS, CORAL SNAKES, KRAITS (Elapidae). Feed mice, rats, birds,
snakes. The coral snake eats smaller snakes and baby mice.

SEA SNAKES (Hydrophidae). These snakes inhabit tropical seas. Feed eels
or strips of fish. Keep in tanks of warm salt water.

CHUNK-HEADED SNAKES (Amblycephalidae). Feed snails and slugs. If
these are not available, try mealworms, waxworms, baby mice, and meat.

TRUE VIPERS (Viperidae). Feed mice, small rats, and small birds.

RATTLESNAKES, WATER MOCCASINS, COPPERHEADS, FER-DE-LANCE,
BUSHMASTER (Crotalidae). Feed mice, small rats, small birds. Moccasins
also take fish.

AMPHIBIANS

Amphibians are cold-blooded but do not require such high temperatures as
reptiles and cannot endure drying conditions, for their skin is moist and evapora-
tion takes place rapidly. They will dry up and die if they do not have water,
mud, moist vegetation, or other similar materials in which to harbor. Tempera-
tures for salamanders generally should not exceed 90°, and many of these animals

thrive best under temperatures of about 70°. Some will remain active in tem-

peratures as low as 40°, but below that point will become torpid, as for hibernation.
Shade is necessary.
362 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Tadpoles (immature stage of most amphibians) are aquatic. They feed on the
green scum and microscopic plant life found in standing water. This material
must be provided if they are to survive in aquaria.

FROGS AND TOADS (SALIENTIA )

NEW ZEALAND FROG (Liopelmidae). Semiaquatic. Should have both
water and a bank of mud or sand on which they can come out. Feed earthworms,
small insects, scraps of raw beef moved about in front of them.

DISCOGLOSSUS (Discoglossidae). Eats earthworms dropped into water.
Semiaquatic, so should have pool and mud bank.

SURINAM TOAD and its allies (Pipidae). Feed scraps of raw fish or meat and
mealworms dropped into water. Aquatic, so must have tank of water.

PELOBATES and its allies (Pelobatidae). Feed worms, slugs, and insects,
especially beetles. Burrows, so should have Soil in cage.

TOADS and their allies (Bufonidae). Must have moist soil and water. Feed
mealworms, cockroaches, or any crawling insects, spiders, and earthworms. Some
keepers have observed that where two or more species of toads or frogs have
been put together, there have been unusual losses. This suggests that it may be
advisable to keep each species to itself.

TOADLIKE AMPHIBIANS (Brachycephalidae). A mixed group. Feed as
for Ranidae (below).

TREE TOADS (Hylidae). Feed soft-bodied insects, preferably alive, and pro-
vide plants in the cage so that the animals can rest on the foliage.

TRUE FROGS (Ranidae). Feed live insects to the small and medium-sized.
Some of the larger frogs will take small mice.

ASIATIC TREE TOADS (Polypetidae). Give same food as Hylidae.

NARROW-MOUTHED TOADS (Brevicapitidae). Feed earthworms, slugs,
ants, and other small invertebrates. Burrows, so should have soil in cage.

SALAMANDERS (CAUDATA)

COECILIANS (Coeciliidae). Legless, wormlike creatures that live in the
moist soil, mud, or swamps of the Tropics. Try earthworms, enchytrae, and soft-
bodied insects.

HYNOBIUS (Hynobiidae). Try earthworms, enchytrae, and small incects.

GIANT SALAMANDER, HELLBENDER, and allies (Cryptobranchidae). In-
habit clear streams of fairly cool water. They possess neither lungs nor gills and
obtain the necessary oxygen from the water through their skins. Therefore, they
should be provided with well-aerated water in a pool or tank. Feed worms,
insects, meat, liver, boned fish.

SPOTTED SALAMANDER and allies (Ambystomidae). Feed earthworms,
enchytrae, mealworms, waxworms, and soft-bodied insects.

MUD-“EEL,” BLIND EEL, CONGO SNAKE (Amphiumidae). Inhabitants of
sluggish, warm streams, where they spend much time in the mud. Provide with
mud in the bottom of the aquarium, if possible, and feed mealworms enchytrae,
soft-bodied insects, and small particles of meat.

SLIMY SALAMANDER and allies (Plethodontidae). Must have moist soil and
water. Feed earthworms, enchytrae, slugs, small insects, and small pieces of
meat moved in front of them on the end of a straw.

CAVE SALAMANDERS (Proteidae). The white or colorless cave salamander
cof the United States and Europe (Proteus) is accustomed to cool water in almost
CARE OF CAPTIVE ANIMALS—WALKER 363

total darkness. Feed sparingly on enchytrae, ground shrimp, daphnia, waxworms,
cr bits of raw meat. Nectwrus, the two North American colored forms, inhabit
warm, sluggish streams. Feed fish eggs, enchytrae, mealworms, small bits of fish,
and acquatic insects.

SIREN (Sirenidae). Feed small fish, fish eggs, tadpoles, aquatic insects or their
larvae, enchytrae, earthworms. Aquatic, so should have pool of water.

FISH

Fish kept in captivity for exhibition purposes may be roughly divided into two
classes, as follows:

Small, mainly tropical fish, often beautiful, brilliantly colored creatures, can be
kept in small aquaria without inconvenience, and sometimes add real beauty to
the home. Great interest has been taken in so-called tropical fish raising, and
Some excellent publications have been issued on the subject. (See bibliography.)

Larger fish require large tanks with special provisions for aeration, filtering,
cooling or warming the water, and to keep them involves numerous problems
which only a large aquarium could undertake. It is therefore not advisable to
attempt to treat the keeping of fish in this work.

Such large aquaria as the John G. Shedd Aquarium, Chicago, the Aquarium of
the New York Zoological Society, New York City, the Steinhardt Aquarium, San
Francisco, the Regents Park Aquarium operated by the Zoological Society of
London, and numerous others have issued publications relative to the raising of
fish. The United States Bureau of Fisheries, now a part of the United States
Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior, has issued many publica-
tions relating principally to commercial fish. In addition, many facts are con-
tained in articles and reports issued through various biological laboratories.

INVERTEBRATES

There are a vast number of invertebrates, including protozoa, worms, soft-
bodied marine forms, crabs and crayfish, insects and mollusks that are attractive
to many people. Many of these make interesting and sometimes beautiful exhibits,
but a discussion of their care is beyond the scope of this paper. Information
regarding the keeping of such creatures can be obtained from entomologists or
other biologists. The raising and study of such forms can be a fascinating work
or hobby for persons who are interested.

LITERATURE RELATING TO THE CARE OF ANIMALS

A vast amount of material on the subject of animals and their
care has been written. It is not possible to give here even a reason-
ably complete list of such literature. Governmental agencies of
practically all countries throughout the world have issued publica-
tions on domestic and wild animals. In our own country, the United
States Fish and Wildlife Service, of the Department of the Interior,
has many bulletins and leaflets on North American birds, mammals,
reptiles, amphibians, and fish, some of which treat of the raising of
fur-bearing animals, certain birds, fish, and invertebrates. Scientific
societies and various research agencies have put out many excellent
works. Natural histories and similar works—dealing specifically
364 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

with certain animals, groups of animals, or the animals of certain
regions—and encyclopaedias contain much information of value to
those interested in the care of animals. Periodicals on fur farming,
aviculture, and general natural history contain many articles of
interest to one keeping pets. A few of these works are cited below,
not because they are necessarily the best, but because they are readily
accessible, or known to the author to be useful.

SELECTED BIBLIOGRAPHY

MAMMALS

PUBLICATIONS ON FUR AND FUR ANIMALS. Fish and Wildlife Service
Leaflet No. 38-1024, U. S. Department of the Interior, 1940.

BIBLIOGRAPHY ON FUR BREEDING. Imperial Bureau of Animal Genetics,
The University, Edinburgh, Scotland, 1931. Mimeographed; fairly com-
plete to 1930. Supplements to be issued.

CARE AND HANDLING OF DOGS. By J. L. Leonard. Garden City Publish-
ing Co., New York, 1928.

A PRACTICAL CAT BOOK FOR AMATEURS AND PROFESSIONALS. By
Ida M. Meller. Chas. Scribner’s Sons, New York, 1939.

RABBIT PRODUCTION. Farmers’ Bulletin No. 1730, U. S. Department of
Agriculture, 1939.

MINK RAISING. Fish and Wildlife Service Leaflet No. 191, U. S. Department
of the Interior, 1941.

DISEASES OF FUR ANIMALS. Farmers’ Bulletin No. 1777, U. S. Department
of Agriculture, 1937.

ELEPHANTS AND THEIR DISEASES. By G. H. Evans. Superintendent of
Government Printing, Rangoon, India, 1910.

THE CAMEL, ITS USES AND MANAGEMENT. By Maj. A. G. Leonard.
Longmans, Green and Co., New York, 1894.

WILD ANIMALS OF NORTH AMERICA. By EH. W. Nelson. Jn National
Geographic Magazine for November 1916 and May 1918, National Geo-
graphic Society, Washington, D. C.

LIFE HISTORIES OF NORTHERN ANIMALS. By E. T. Seton. 2 vols.
Chas. Scribner’s Sons, New York, 1909.

FIELD BOOK OF NORTH AMERICAN MAMMALS. By H. E. Anthony.
G. P. Putnam’s Sons, New York, 1928.

AMERICAN ANIMALS. By Witmer Stone and W. E. Cram. Doubleday, Page
and Co., New York, 1920.

AMERICAN MAMMALS. By W. J. Hamilton. McGraw Hill, New York, 1939.

NATURAL HISTORY OF ANIMALS (Mammals). By George Jennison. Mac-
millan Co., New York, 1927.

THE NATURAL HISTORY OF SOUTH AFRICA (Mammals). By F. W. Fitz-
simons. 4 vols. Longmans, Green and Co., New York, 1920.

BIRDS

PUBLICATIONS ON CAGE BIRDS. Processed leaflet of the Fish and Wildlife
Service No. 3-173, U. S. Department of the Interior, 1940.

AVICULTURE (issued monthly). Published by the Avicultural Society of
America, Chicago.
CARE OF CAPTIVE ANIMALS—WALKER 365

THE AVICULTURAL MAGAZINE (issued monthly). Stephen Austin and Sons,
Ltd., Hertford, England.

CANARIES: THEIR CARE AND MANAGEMENT. Farmers’ Bulletin No. 1327,
U. S. Department of Agriculture, 1923.

HINTS ON THE CARE OF PARROTS. Processed leaflet of the Fish and Wildlife
Service No. 3-521, U. S. Department of the Interior, 1934.

PARROTS IN CAPTIVITY. By W. T. Greene. G. Bell and Sons, London,
1884-1887.

THE BOOK OF THE PIGEON. By C. A. Naether. David McKay, Philadel-
phia, 1939.

ORNAMENTAL WATERFOWL. By R.E. Hubbard. Simpkins, Marshall, Ham-
ilton, Kent and Co., London, 1907.

PROPAGATION OF AQUATIC GAME BIRDS. Farmers’ Bulletin No. 1612,
U. S. Department of Agriculture, 1930.

FOOD OF GAME DUCKS IN THE UNITED STATES AND CANADA. Technical
Bulletin No. 634, U. S. Department of Agriculture, 1939.

DISEASES OF UPLAND GAME BIRDS. Farmers’ Bulletin No. 1781, U. S.
Department of Agriculture, 1937.

A MONOGRAPH OF THE PHEASANTS. By Chas. W. Beebe. Rublished under
the auspices of the New York Zoological Society by Witherby and Co., London,
1918-1922.

LIFE HISTORIES OF NORTH AMERICAN BIRDS. By A. C. Bent. U. S.
National Museum Bulletins Nos. 107 (1919), 118 (1921), 121 (1922), 126
(1923), 130 (1925), 185 (1927), 142 (1927), 146 (1929), 162 (1932), 167
(1937), 170 (1938), 174 (1939), 176 (1940).

BIRDS OF THE WORLD. By F. H. Knowlton. H. Holt and Co., New York,
1909.

REPTILES AND AMPHIBIANS

THE HABITS AND ECONOMIC IMPORTANCE OF ALLIGATORS. By Rem-
ington Kellogg. Technical Bulletin No. 147, U. S. Department of Agriculture,
1929.

TURTLES OF THE U. S. AND CANADA. By C. H. Pope. A. A. Knopf, New
York, 1939.

SNAKES OF THE WORLD. By Raymond L. Ditmars. Macmillan Co., New
York, 19381.

SNAKES ALIVE AND HOW THEY LIVE. By C. H. Pope. Viking Press, 1937.

THE AMERICAN CHAMELEON AND ITS CARE. Processed leaflet of the Fish
and Wildlife Service No. 92, U. S. Department of the Interior, 1937.

REPTILES OF THE WORLD. By Raymond L. Ditmars. Sturgess and Walton
Co., New York, 1910.

THE FROG BOOK. By Mary C. Dickerson. Doubleday, Doran and Co. Inc.,
New York, 1931.

THE TOAD. Processed leaflet of the Fish and Wildlife Service No. 3-664,
U. S. Department of the Interior, 1922.

REPTILES AND AMPHIBIANS. By Thomas Barbour. Houghton-Mifflin Co.,
New York, 1926.

FISH

THE AQUARIUM (a periodical). Innes Publishing Co., Philadelphia.

AQUATIC WORLD (a periodical). Roth Press, Baltimore, 1917-1941.

TROPICAL FISH. By L.Q. Mann. Leisure League Book No. 6, Leisure League,
New York, 1934.
366 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

EXOTIC AQUARIUM FISHES. By Wm. T. Innes. Innes Publishing Co.,
Philadelphia, 1935.

TROPICAL FISHES FOR THE HOME: THEIR CARE AND PROPAGATION.
By F. H. Stoye. Frederick H. Stoye, Sayville, N. Y., 1935.

GOLDFISH: THEIR CARE IN SMALL AQUARIA AND PONDS. By F. C.
Fearnow. Appendix 7, Report of the Commissioner, Bureau of Fisheries,
U. S. Department of Commerce, 1924.

GOLDFISH VARIETIHS AND TROPICAL AQUARIUM FISHES. By Wm. T.
Innes. Innes Publishing Co., Philadelphia, 1931.

GENERAL

WILDLIFE REVIEW (issued at irregular intervals). Fish and Wildlife Sery-
ice, U. S. Department of the Interior.

PUBLICATIONS OF INTEREST TO GAME BREEDERS. Fish and Wildlife
Service Leaflet No. 182, U. S. Department of the Interior, 1941.

COPEIA (a periodical). American Society of Ichthyologists and Herpetologists,
Museum of Zoology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich., 1918-1941.

MANAGEMENT OF ANIMALS IN CAPTIVITY IN LOWER BENGAL. By
R. B. Senyal. Bengal Seceariat Press, Calcutta, 1892.

ANIMALS AS FRIENDS AND HOW TO KHEP THEM. By M. Shaw and J.
Fisher. E. P. Dutton and Co., Inc., New York, 1940.

PETS, THEIR HISTORY AND CARE. By L. S. Crandall. Henry Holt and
Co., New York, 1917.

ALL ABOUT PETS. By Margery Binaco. Macmillan Co., New York, 1929.

OUR SMALL NATIVE ANIMALS: THEIR HABITS AND CARE. By Robert
Snediger. Random House, New York, 1939.

THH BOOK OF WILD PETS. By Clifford B. Moore. G. P. Putnam’s Sons,
New York, 1937.

THE PET BOOK. By A. B. Comstock. Comstock Publishing Co., Ithaca,
N. Y., 1930.

MEDICAL CARE OF ANIMALS IN THE ZOO. By W. R. Blair. Scientific
Monthly, vol. 35, pp. 454-457, November 1932,;.also quoted in Literary
Digest, vol. 117, pp. 28 ff., January 14, 1933.

DISEASE IN CAPTIVE WILD MAMMALS. By Herbert Fox. J. B. Lippincott
Co., Philadelphia, 1923.

ROYAL NATURAL HISTORY. Edited by Richard Lydekker. F. Warne and
Co., London and New York, 1849-1915.

THE AMERICAN NATURAL HISTORY. By W. T. Hornaday. Chas. Scrib-
ner’s Sons, New York, 1914 edition.

THE RIVERSIDE NATURAL HISTORY. By J. S. Kingsley. Houghton-
Mifflin Co., New York, 1888.

THH CAMBRIDGE NATURAL HISTORY. By H. Evans. Macmillan Co.,
New York, 1900.

FAUNA OF BRITISH INDIA. Taylor and Francis, London, 1888-1928.

Note: Requests for Farmers’ Bulletins, Technical Bulletins, and processed
leaflets prepared by the former Biological Survey, U. 8. Department of Agri-
culture, and Bulletins prepared by the former Bureau of Fisheries, should be
addressed to the U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior,
Washington, D. C.
Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Walker PLATE 1

1. A choice specimen of American mink running a ferris-type wheel in its glass-fronted cage. A small
stump and limb on which the animal can climb is behind the wheel.

2. Two big-eared cliff mice running on an inclined disk wheel while a third beneath the wheel watches the
photographer.

All photographs taken by the author unless otherwise indicated.
Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Walker

PLATE 2

2. Syrian hamster coming out of a te

lescoping type of nest box, showing wire fabric slide used to close the
entrance when desired.

2. Three emperor penguins, one gentoo penguin, four jackass or black-footed penguins, and two kelp gulls
in glass-fronted cool room in the National Zoological Park. The glass front is of two layers of glass with
a dead air space between. A temperature of about 50° is maintained.
OE TRO DLE LENE a NA ee

Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Walker PLATE 3

1, Plains pocket mouse with fur in good condition as the result of cleaning her coat in very fine dry sand

Re Bar ee EEE
Sa be 3 .

Rs.

2. Plains pocket mouse with fur beginning to show bad condition, owing to having been on coarse sawdust
for 72 hours. The cracked appearance in the fur is the result of the sticking together of the hairs, partly
by the oily secretion of the skin and partly by the resinous material in the sawdust.
Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Walker PLATE 4

i. Scene in flight cage in bird house, National Zoological Park, showing Chilean flamingoes, demoiselle

cranes, scarlet ibis, Egyptian ibis, white ibis, black-billed tree ducks, Chilean pintail, gallinules, Ameri-
ican coot, European oyster catchers, fireback pheasant, Chilean lapwing, sun-bittern, wood pigeon,
golden pheasant, New Zealand mudhen.

2. Waterfowl on one of a series of four ponds, National Zoological Park. About 30 species of waterfow]
are usually in this enclosure. Whistling swans, snow geese, blue geese, Hutchins geese, pintail ducks,
canvasbacks, mallards, blue-wing teal, wood ducks, Pekin ducks, and coots appear in this scene.
‘qeour & Aq oljqnd 94} Woy poyeredos
“TT ‘osvo1qgo ‘00Z pleyyoolg Ul YOM Yoo [eIOyyie uo Sleoq UMOIG BYSVTV % “yled [Bolsojooz [VUOIYeN UI UrejJUNOUT [BIOYyIyIe ye dooys AIeqieq JO spepnoy ‘|

G§¢ 31LV1d J9x[e@A\—' | p6| ‘Woday ueruosyqiwig
Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Walker PLATE 6

Sia ade Sd

1. Woodchuck or marmot that was almost nude for several years, apparently because of a dietary deficiency.
After 4 months on a suitable diet it grew a heavy coat of hair. Photograph by C. P. Richter.

2. Pinche tamarin in glass-fronted cage in small-mammal house, National Zoological Park.
‘pepeeu ueyM

Sooul fF pue J0joul

Ip Ul YOULT YNOGY “eqn Jopsej pllqsulMIUINyAL ‘fT

—t ‘yioday urluosyzrU
L3iLWvW1d 2251®A\—' 1461 Pe PEL PES

Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Walker PLATE 8

1. Skull of marmot or woodchuck with both upper and lower incisors grown so long that the animal could
not gnaw or eat normally. The left upper incisor had penetrated the roof of the mouth.

9

2. Left, end of tail of coypu or nutria, probably originally injured by fighting, but worn to the bone at the
tip by dragging on concrete; right, foot of ring-tailed monkey or capuchin, showing area on bottom of
heel from which the skin and flesh had been worn to the bone as a result of walking on the concrete floor.
The animals give no evidence of pain caused by such injuries.
Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Walker PLATE 9

bect

=< pe. oe

1. Malayan porcupines gnawing on a freshly cut tulip tree limb about 20 inches long and 4 inches in diam-
eter. Within 10 hours, the five porcupines in this cage had reduced the limb to a mass of chips and a
spindle-shaped piece about a foot long and not more than 2 inches in diameter at its largest point.

2. Binturong on artificial rock work in Brookfield Zoo, Chicago, Ill., separated from the public by a moat
and a low, irregular imitation rock wall.
Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Walker

PLATE 10

Reptile pool in yard enclosed by moat, low fence, and guard rail, in front of reptile house, National Zoo-

logical Park.
|
}
t

Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Walker PLATE 11

1. Three gaboon vipers in glass-fronted cage in reptile house, National Zoological Park. A small pool is

immediately beyond the snake closest to the glass in front.

ae

2. American alligators in glass-fronted room in reptile house, National Zoological Park. A skylight com-
prises almost the entire roof. Both plants and alligators thrive in the temperatures of 80° to 100°, and
the high humidity that prevails in this enclosure.
Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Walker PEATE SI2

1. Horned lizards and fence lizards in cage with clear-glass front, pebble-glass sides, back, and top, a small
cactus, and an artificial rock with a hollow in the top for water.

2. Argentine horned frog in cage in reptile house, National Zoological Park. The sides and back of the
cage are of pebble glass, with front of clear glass. A small pool shows in the background.
THE INFLUENCE OF INSECTS ON THE DEVELOPMENT
OF FOREST PROTECTION AND FOREST MANAGEMENT?

By F. C. CraIcHEAD

Principal Entomologist, Division of Forest Insect Investigations, Bureau of
Entomology and Plant Quarantine

[With 12 plates]

Forty years ago, when the idea of forest conservation was acquir-
ing momentum, few people realized that insects were in any manner
a part of this picture. Today, with our coordinated Federal, State,
and private organizations for the protection of our forest properties,
over a million dollars are expended annually in measures designed
to protect these forests from insect depredations. At the same time
the cooperative efforts of a group of highly trained entomologists,
pathologists, and foresters are devoted to the development of plans
for growing new timber crops so as to circumvent the numerous forest
pests of our second-growth forests.

EARLY INSECT OUTBREAKS

There are historical records of several destructive insect outbreaks,
both bark beetles and defoliators, in earliest colonial times. These
early affairs appear to have been regarded as more beneficial than
injurious, coming as they did when the dense forests were a handicap
to settlement and farm expansion.

Probably the first insect outbreak that aroused sufficient concern
among lumbermen to give rise to technical investigation occurred in
West Virginia, Virginia, and Maryland from 1890 to 1892 from
attacks of the southern pine beetle (Dendroctonus frontalis Zimm.)
A. D. Hopkins (1899) studied this outbreak in great detail and
reported on it in a publication of the West Virginia Agricultural

1 Investigations on forest insects by the Bureau of Entomology and Plant Quarantine
are carried on at nine field laboratories. Their leaders and locations are as follows: R. C.
Brown, New Haven, Conn.; C. W. Collins, Morristown, N. J.; J. C. Evenden, Coeur d'Alene,
Idaho; C. H. Hoffman, Ashville, N. C.; F. P. Keen, Portland, Oreg.; H. J. MacAloney,
Milwaukee, Wis. ; J. M. Miller, Berkeley, Calif. ; D. E. Parker, Columbus, Ohio; T. E. Snyder,
New Orleans, La. Substations are also located at Saucier, Miss., Miami and Hat Creek,
Calif., Cass Lake, Minn., La Grande, Wash., and Beltsville, Md. Many unpublished reports
from these laboratories were drawn upon for the factual material used in this presentation.

367
368 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Experiment Station. In an area of over 75,000 square miles a large
percentage of the pine and spruce was killed. A few years later,
around 1900, the eastern spruce beetle (D. piceaperda Hopk.) was
responsible for extensive depredations in the forests of Maine. Here
again Hopkins (1901), collaborating with Austin Cary (1900) of
the Forest Service, made a study of the conditions. Just prior to and
during the Maine outbreak, 1895-1905, the Black Hills beetle (D.
ponderosae Hopk.), which was not known to science at this time,
destroyed more than a billion feet of timber in the Black Hills
National Forest in South Dakota (Hopkins, 1902). This outbreak
crystallized the realization that more technical knowledge was needed
concerning these destructive bark beetles, and resulted in a small
appropriation of $5,800 for the Bureau of Entomology for forest
insect investigations and an allotment of $2,700 in 1906 for the control
of this outbreak.

WESTERN BARK BEETLES

Recent outbreaks of bark beetles have been even more widespread
and spectacular. To quote from a recent unpublished report of
F. P. Keen, in charge of our Portland, Oreg., laboratory:

The ponderosa pine forests of the Pacific States have suffered a continuous
and serious drain from western pine beetle attack for the past 20 years or
more, while in the Rocky Mountain region sporadic outbreaks of the Black
Hills beetle have taken a heavy toll of this species of pine in many local
areas. Most spectacular of all has been the destruction of lodgepole pine for-
ests in the northern Rocky Mountain region and local areas in the Cascades
from uncontrolled outbreaks of the mountain pine beetle. Sugar pine [pl. 2,
fig. 1; pl. 4], western white pine, and other species of pine are from time to
time also Seriously damaged by pine beetles.

Records from annual surveys in the Klamath region of southern Oregon
and northeastern California show that on an area of 4,300,000 acres 5,273,000,000
board feet of ponderosa pine timber, representing 17.5 percent of the stand,
was killed during the 20-year period 1921 to 1940 inclusive. This, of course, is
not all a direct loss, as some of it was offset by growth. In portions of this
region from 60 to 90 percent of the stand was destroyed. The western pine
beetle (Dendroctonus brevicomis Lec.) was a major factor in this mortality.
[BE 2a ten2

An outbreak of the Black Hills beetle (Dendroctonus ponderosae Hopk.) on
the Kaibab Forest of northern Arizona between 1917 and 1926 is a good example
of the potential destructiveness of this species. During this outbreak it was
estimated that 300,000,000 board feet of timber, representing 12 percent of
the stand, was killed. In the heaviest centers of infestation, on areas 1,000 acres
or more in extent, all trees down to those 2 inches in diameter were killed.
Large openings in the forest, with remains of fallen snags showing the markings
of beetle galleries, attest the fact that similar outbreaks have occurred in the
past and may occur from time to time in the future.

Outbreaks of the mountain pine beetle (Dendroctonus monticolae Hopk.) in
lodgepole pine forests as described by Evenden [1940] are the most devastating
INSECTS AND FOREST MANAGEMENT—CRAIGHEAD 369

of all in respect to extent and completeness of kill, although this tree species
is not so valuable as several other species of pine. In the northern Rocky
Mountains an outbreak originating in the Bitterroot Valley in 1922 swept down
the Continental Divide and laid waste lodgepole pine forests over thousands
of square miles. Estimates placed the total destruction at 7,250 million board
feet, with more than 36,000,000 trees having been killed in one national forest

alone. ([Pl. 5, fig. 2.]

Taking the pine forests of the western States as a whole, recent estimates
place the annual mortality associated with bark beetles at 2.8 billion board
feet. The magnitude of this yearly figure can best be visualized by comparing
it with the 4.4 billion board feet of lumber produced by all western pine saw-
mills and the 1.4 billion board feet of saw timber killed by forest fires
throughout the entire United States in 1936.

DEFOLIATING INSECTS

Defoliating insects have been even more destructive than bark
beetles. The larch sawfly (Zygaeonematus erichsonii (Hartig)) had
practically wiped out larch as a commercial species in the eastern
States and Canada by 1910 (Hewitt, 1912) and is now attacking
stands west of the prairies. The spruce budworm (Cacoecia fumi-
ferana (Clem.)) has repeatedly invaded our forests. (PI. 9, fig. 2.)
An exceptional outbreak in the northeastern States and Canada
(Swaine and Craighead, 1924) ravaged the spruce and fir forests for a
period of 10 years (from 1910 to 1920), and it has been estimated that
in spruce-fir types of Maine, Ontario, Quebec, and New Brunswick
from 40 to 70 percent of this timber was destroyed, i. e., the equiva-
lent of more than 25 years’ pulpwood supply for current annual
American paper requirements (Senate Document 19). Certain
species of defoliators, even if they do not kill the timber, cause a ces-
sation or reduction of growth which may increase the rotation period
of the stand from 5 to 10 years or more. Such defoliations may be
local and confined to a single species of tree or they may spread over
enormous areas involving several species. The most recent outbreak
of the Pandora moth (Coloradia pandora (Blake)) in the ponderosa
pine stands of southern Oregon (pl. 7, fig. 2; pl. 9, fig. 1) occurred be-
tween 1918 and 1925 and covered approximately 400,000 acres (Pat-
terson, 1929). Growth measurements from plots in this area showed
that for a period of 11 years the normal forest growth was reduced an
average of 32 percent, or suffered a loss of increment of approximately
100 million board feet. The spruce sawfly (Diprion polytomum
(Htg.) (pl. 10, fig. 2)) has more recently threatened the spruce forests
of the New England States and Canada. In the Gaspé Peninsula in
Canada it has already (1940) killed 10,000,000 cords of spruce (Balch,
1941). Late in 1940 it was suddenly checked by a disease which
decimated its number throughout its range.
370 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941
FIRE AND INSECT RELATIONS

Insect outbreaks are occasionally of more importance because of
the fire menace they create than because of the value of the timber
killed. This condition is described in “A National Plan for American
Forestry” (Senate Document 12, 1933), as follows:

When extensive outbreaks of insects develop in forest types composed chiefly
of one species of tree, a high percentage of the stand may be destroyed. These
standing dead trees go down in the course of a few years, making an almost
impenetrable tangle of logs and tops. Under proper conditions a flash of
lightning may set off the mass, resulting in a widespread conflagration almost
impossible to fight. Past experience has shown that epidemics of the mountain
pine beetle in lodgepole have been followed by fires more often than not.
[Pl. 5, fig. 1.]

The old snags of insect-killed trees scattered throughout our mature forests,
which average for SOme areas as many as 10 per acre, stand for many years
and greatly increase the cost, difficulty, and danger in fire control. Snag
felling is required in many sales of national forest timber, and many private
operators have already adopted this regulation. The increased cost of control
of fires which have spread from burning snags within fire lines would alone
justify insect control even at a high cost.

It should be understood that in making any comparisons between
losses from insects and from fire, a certain percentage of this destruc-
tion by insects occurs in what are called normal or endemic in-
festations in timber stands of such low commercial value that an
expenditure for control would not be warranted. Such losses are
inevitable and are in most cases offset by the annual increment of the
stand. Also, as stated in Senate Document 12,

Forest fires, beside destroying variable amounts of mature timber, kill all
the smaller trees and reproduction, and repeated fires leave the land in a
totally unproductive condition for generations to come. Forest insect epidemics,
on the other hand, destroy only the mature timber and not only leave the

regeneration already existing in a better condition for rapid growth but
frequently induce copious reproduction.

SCENIC AND PROTECTIVE VALUES

The preceding citation of insect damage in commercial timber is

only a part of the picture. To quote again from Senate Document
12,

The importance of the forest cover in national parks, game preserves, and
recreational areas cannot be estimated in monetary values. Here aesthetic
and protective values far outweigh those of commercial timber. One of the
greatest attractions in these areas is a green forest cover on which much of
the natural beauty of the parks is dependent. The trees also give protection
to the birds and animals.

Insect depredations which mar the scenic value or destroy the
protective values of the forest cover in these parks and recreational
-~

preoney  y

INSECTS AND FOREST MANAGEMENT—CRAIGHEAD 371

areas have in late years become of even greater moment than those
involving only commercial timber.

DEVELOPMENT OF BARK BEETLE CONTROL

As our reserve supplies of timber became depleted from utilization,
fire, and insects, and recreational activities continued to spread into
more and more remote areas, private timberland owners and Federal
administrators of timbered areas became more conscious of the need
of any action that would delay part of this depletion. A short
sketch of this work is of interest.

The first control project, as mentioned previously, was initiated
on the Black Hills National Forest in South Dakota in 1906,
when $2,700 was expended in an effort to check an epidemic
of the Black Hills beetle. Since then many projects have been car-
ried out, some of them covering areas of more than 1,000,000 acres.
Up to the present time (fiscal year 1941) approximately $8,000,000
has been expended in the control of bark beetle infestations, mainly
in reserves of timber which are being held until conditions warrant
logging and marketing of the lumber.

The annual expenditures from 1906 to 1921 were small—rarely
ever $20,000 and usually much less. Since 1922, with the fuller
appreciation of the importance of insect losses, increasing amounts
have been spent each year for the protection of valuable timber
stands. From regular appropriations the Forest Service has spent
$100,000 to nearly $200,000 annually, the Park Service from $40,000
to $50,000, and the Office of Indian Affairs from $10,000 to $20,000.

During late years it has been possible to meet the needs for forest
insect control more adequately by means of increased funds avail-
able to land-managing agencies through emergency legislation and
Civilian Conservation Corps labor. During the fiscal year 1937, and
for several years since, nearly a million dollars or its equivalent in
manpower was utilized in insect control work on Federal lands.

As control work proceeded, year by year the need for competent
technical advice became more and more apparent. Trained men were
needed to appraise the character of the insect infestations, to make
recommendations to the timberland owners or administrators, and to
direct technical features of control. This resulted in the development,
within the Bureau of Entomology, of a service for these purposes.
The objectives of such a service were set forth in a memorandum by the
Secretary of Agriculture dated February 16, 1920, covering the re-
sponsibilities of the Bureau of Entomology and the Forest Service.
In time this understanding has been interpreted as applying to all
other Federal agencies managing timberlands. Briefly, the instruc-
tions stated that the Bureau of Entomology shall be responsible for

4305774225
372 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

surveys, for making specific recommendations on the need of con-
trol work, and, when necessary, for the technical direction of con-
trol. This service was extended to private owners as well. A fine
spirit of cooperation between the several national agencies manag-
ing timberlands, namely, the Forest Service, the National Park Serv-
ice, the Office of Indian Affairs, and the Bureau of Entomology
(lately the Bureau of Entomology and Plant Quarantine) has facil-
itated this plan.

Gradually these surveys have been developed to cover many of
the more important timber types in the western States although
the job is still far beyond the appropriations available. During 1940
the Bureau of Entomology and Plant Quarantine covered in these
surveys over 23 million acres in all types of forests. Much of the
country was covered by general reconnaissance surveys, while certain
areas required intensive detailed estimates. These results were re-
ported to the agencies administering these timberlands and in many
cases recommendations for control were suggested and carried out.

As this control program increased, it stimulated new ideas and
technique and provided large-scale tests for these developments.

To quote Craighead et al. (1931),

Control methods necessarily must be based upon information regarding the
seasonal history and habits of the insects, and also, until thoroughly tried out
in practice, upon certain conceptions and theories. Each species of bark beetle
presents its own special problem, and even the same species may present prob-
lems which differ in different regions.

Control of bark beetles is admittedly expensive. (PI. 3; pl. 6; pl.

7, fig.1.) According to Craighead (1938),
It involves the spotting of infested trees in the forest, followed by felling,
barking, and often burning of the bark to destroy the beetles and thus pre-
vent new broods from emerging from infested trees and attacking nearby
green trees. Usually the largest trees in the forest are attacked and the labor
required for spotting, felling, barking, and burning costs from $2 to $20 per
tree, depending on its size, accessibility, type of timber, and other factors.
Such costs are a limiting factor in the application of control, as frequently
the expenditures run too high to make control economically feasible. In recent
years several new methods have greatly reduced these costs.

The so-called solar-heat method was tested out on a large scale
in lodgepole areas in Oregon by Patterson (1930) and found to be
successful under certain conditions. It consists of simply felling the
tree and exposing the trunk to full sunlight, later turning the log
to expose the underside. The heat generated under the bark by the
direct rays of the sun is sufficient to kill the brood. In California
the thick bark of yellow pine and sugar pine is first peeled and then
spread out in the sun.

About 1926 a method was devised for burning the infested bark from
standing lodgepole pines. It was tested on several large projects in
INSECTS AND FOREST MANAGEMENT—CRAIGHEAD S10

southern Idaho and proved to be effective and economical. (Arrivee,
1930.)

The possibility of injecting chemicals into the sap stream of the
tree and thus preventing the development of the bark beetle broods
and doing away with the costly operations of felling and barking
or burning the tree for the control of bark beetles has been experi-
mentally tested during the last few years. There appears to be some
promise in this field, both from control and salvage standpoints,
but it has a practical difficulty in that treatment is necessary shortly
after the beetles attack, i. e., before the blue stains in the sapwood
cut off conduction. (Craighead and St. George, 1938.)

One of the disadvantages of bark beetle control has been the
loss of the lumber from the trees that are treated. Studies by Keen
(1931) of the salvage possibilities of beetle-killed timber have led
to some practical methods of treating this problem. He says:

A great deal of attention has been devoted by our entomologists in the last
few years to the use of so-called salvage methods of control, and the Forest
Service and private timberland owners have cooperated heartily. In the pon-
derosa pine types of eastern Oregon and northeastern California when the
terrain permits caterpillar logging, prompt spotting and salvage of these trees
is feasible. [PI. 3, fig. 1.]

It has long been desirable to have a method of treating infested
trees through the summer period, one that would be quick in action
and avoid the use of fire, which is so dangerous at that time of year.
After considerable experimentation several penetrating sprays were
developed which, when applied to the trees, promise to meet this
need effectively. The most satisfactory chemical is orthodichloro-
benzene carried in light fuel oil. This method is particularly well
suited to the control of mountain pine beetle broods under the thin
bark of lodgepole and white pines in the Rocky Mountain regions.
(Salman, 19388.)

The lethal effect of low winter temperatures has been taken advan-
tage of to call off control work on projects already under way when
temperatures dropped to a sufficiently low level to destroy the broods.
(Miller, 1981; Keen, 1937.)

RESULTS OF BARK BEETLE CONTROL

A review of the control work against bark beetles in our forests
and an appraisal of its values were summarized by Craighead, Miller,
Keen, and Evenden in 1931. It should be explained here that con-
trol work is carried out only against a small percentage of the out-
breaks. In inaccessible timber, where new trees will replace those
destroyed before the area is logged or where commercial values do
not warrant large direct expenditures, control is seldom undertaken
374 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

unless recreational or scenic values are at stake or unless outbreaks
in remote areas threaten commercially valuable stands. In general
only where utilization is anticipated in the next 10 to 25 years is
control economically feasible.

The results might be said to be more or less in direct proportion
to the aggressiveness of the beetle. The Black Hills beetle, which
appears to be one of the most destructive of all species of Dendroc-
tonus, seems to build up into aggressive outbreaks rather suddenly
and, after locally killing extensive areas of timber, disappears quite
as rapidly. Control efforts against this species have been uniformly
successful if thoroughly applied. The southern pine beetle is
equally as aggressive. Its outbreaks have been definitely shown to
be tied in with deficiencies in rainfall extending over a period of sev-
eral months. Direct control is, however, more difficult here because
of the short duration of many outbreaks. The mountain pine beetle
in lodgepole pine behaves much like the Black Hills beetle and has
wiped out tremendous volumes of mature timber. Here, again,
control work has been successful when persistently applied. On the
other hand, this beetle’s activities in the white pine type of the north-
ern Rocky Mountain region and the sugar pine type of California
are quite different. The western pine beetle in the ponderosa pine
type of Oregon and California may be classed as the least aggressive
of all these species, in that it seems to show a definite predilection
for certain weakened trees and its activities appear to run in cycles
associated with definitely unfavorable weather. This correlation
has been frequently noted and recently developed by Keen in a study
of tree growth, precipitation, and bark beetle activities. The climatic
influences that dominate the growth pattern undoubtedly have a
direct effect on the insects. (Keen, 1937.)

CONTROL OF FOREST DEFOLIATORS

Even greater efforts have been expended against some defoliating
insects. The gypsy moth is a European insect which reached eastern
Massachusetts in 1869. Some 20 years later it had become well-
established and attracted popular attention because of its widespread
defoliation of hardwood trees. The State of Massachusetts undertook
control work, which continued until about 1899. Then there was a
period when no work was done and the insect increased rapidly.
In 1905 the Federal Government stepped into the picture in an effort
to prevent its spread to other States to the south and west. Since
that time more money has been spent on the control of the gypsy moth
than has been spent on all other forest insects combined. In 1984,
total expenditures, State and Federal, to date were approximately
$40,000,000. Since then, through C. C. C. and relief funds, some $20,-
INSECTS AND FOREST MANAGEMENT—CRAIGHEAD 375

000,000 additional has been spent. This is obviously out of all propor-
tion to the immediate damage in the infested area, notwithstanding
the fact that in the early days of the gypsy moth, before it had been
acclimated to behavior more or less like that of a native insect, it
did cause tremendous destruction of oaks and associated pines in
eastern Massachusetts. It was the danger that it might spread south
and west throughout the eastern hardwood regions that warranted
large-scale, continued effort.

Aside from the value of local suppression and prevention of spread
of the gypsy moth, this program developed many features of inesti-
mable value in the control of forest, shade, and fruit-tree insects.

Spraying of woodland areas has developed into something of a
“big business” with a scientific background. Modern high-pressure
spraying machines and other equipment have been evolved to meet
the necessity. This technique now has wide application in all parts
of the country. The adaptability of the autogiro (pl. 10, fig. 1) for
applying arsenicals over forested areas has been demonstrated, and
this type of equipment bids fair in time to supplant completely the
use of ground machinery. It may lower the cost of the application of
insecticides to such a figure that it will be economical to protect forest
lands on the basis of the value of the threatened stand rather than
on the additional threat of spread to, and destruction of, forest in
other areas. Lead arsenate, one of the most widely used arsenicals,
was developed commercially.

For many years an extensive program of parasite introduction was
carried on in an effort to establish the principal insect enemies of the
gypsy moth in this country. Most of the important foreign parasites
are now firmly established here and several of them have spread
throughout the gypsy moth infested region. This was the first large-
scale undertaking of this kind, and the knowledge gained has served
as a basis for studying parasites of a large number of injurious
insects.

Many other destructive outbreaks of defoliators have occurred from
time to time in our forests but most of these developed unobserved
to such magnitude and declined with such abruptness that it has
been impossible to organize a control campaign. Suppression work
on many smaller direct-control projects in scenic and recreational
areas in our national parks and national forests have been carried out
during this period and will undoubtedly be conducted more frequently
in the future as the use of these recreational areas increases and costs
of application are reduced.

CONTROL OF VECTORS OF THE DUTCH ELM DISEASE

The Dutch elm disease can logically be referred to here inasmuch
as its spread is entirely due to insect vectors, chiefly the small bark
376 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

beetle Scolytus multistriatus (Marsham) (pl. 11), introduced from
Europe, and a native bark beetle, Hylurgopinus rufipes (Kich.).
Without these associates the disease could do no damage. In this
case, contro] emphasis has been placed on the disease, although actu-
ally the case is a close parallel to our bark beetle problems, where
several species of Ceratostomella, or blue stains, are introduced by
Dendroctonus into the stems of pine and spruce to bring about their
destruction. More and more the control of this disease is becoming
a problem in the control of the vectors.

Scolytus was introduced from Europe many years ago and is
widely distributed. When the disease first appeared in 1930 a survey
showed that it was well established in New Jersey and that a few
outlying infections existed. An eradication program was undertaken
in 1935. At the present time over $25,000,000 has been spent.

As in the case of the gypsy moth control campaign, this large
intensive campaign has perfected methods, particularly in scouting
and chemical control, suitable for application to future similar
emergencies that may arise.

RESUME ON DIRECT CONTROL

Thus during a period of some 40 years, beginning at a time when
many of the most destructive of our forest pests were still new to
science, the threat of insects to our reserve timber stands, their
capacity in marring scenic and recreational values, their destruction
of second-growth forests, and their importance as a fire menace have
become widely appreciated, and highly specialized organizations for
the prevention or control of these losses have been developed.

During this period more than $100,000,000 has been spent and in
recent years $5,000,000 to $10,000,000 annually has been utilized in
protective measures. The annual expenditures by the United States
Forest Service for fire protection is approximately $15,000,000.

PROTECTION THROUGH MANAGEMENT

The foregoing discussion presents a broad picture of insect activi-
ties in our forests and of man’s efforts to counteract their destructive
tendencies where the timber stands are of sufficient value to warrant
direct expenditures for control. Such effort has been based on the
theory that the necessary expenditures are justified because of the
greater value of the green timber saved by this action or because
of the recreational values involved.

Gradually, while this was going on, entomologists and foresters
were thinking of the future, toward a time when methods for growing
timber crops so as to avoid insect losses could be substituted for
|

INSECTS AND FOREST MANAGEMENT—CRAIGHEAD old

artificial control. Definite suggestions along these lines were
expressed very early by Hopkins (1909a) :

The desired control or prevention of loss can often be brought about by the
adoption or adjustment of those requisite details in forest management and
in lumbering and manufacturing operations, storing, transportation, and utiliza-
tion of the products which at the least expenditure will cause the necessary
reduction of the injurious insects and establish unfavorable conditions for their
future multiplication or continuance of destructive work.

Curiously enough the principles for growing or handling forests
to avoid insect attack are best learned from the study of the insects
themselves. As mentioned previously, insect losses are only serious

‘when they interfere with man’s need. For generations certain types

of forests have been destroyed by insects and rebuilt through growth,
and this process is still going on unnoticed and of little concern to
man in the more remote areas. Nature also uses insects for the
removal of certain shade-intolerant or temporary species of trees
from the forest, thus hastening the arrival of the climax type.

Many excellent examples of such activities have been observed and
recorded. The first might be illustrated by the activities of the Black
Hills beetle on the Kaibab Plateau, an area relatively undisturbed by
man. To quote Craighead (1924):

This beetle has been present in this forest, killing enormous quantities of
timber, probably since the forest has been in existence, although absolute
records can only be dated back 400 years. The activities of these beetles have
been almost continuous with intermittent periods of greater epidemicity * * *
Generally speaking, the forest consists of a densely stocked immature stand.
Stands of old mature timber are very limited in extent * * * These beetles
have in reality been putting into effect a form of management—cutting by a
group system the annual increment of the forest for hundreds of years in the
past and providing at the same time good conditions for reproduction. But
little study is needed to convince one that this system has been highly successful
from the standpoint of producing rapid growth and fully stocked stands.

An illustration of the action of insects in effecting natural forest
succession is provided by the 1910-20 spruce budworm outbreak in
eastern Canada and the northeastern part of the United States, as
described by Swaine and Craighead (1924) and by Graham and Orr
(1940). This outbreak was one phase of a slow process of natural
forest succession over extensive areas. The temporary types, com-
posed largely of aspen and birch, were gradually replaced by mix-
tures of balsam fir, spruce, and red and white pine. The forest tent
caterpillar (Mfalacosoma disstria Hbn.) probably aided in this con-
version by killing some of the aspen and birch and thus releasing
the coniferous understory. By the time the fir and spruce reached
maturity they formed a considerable part of the upper crown canopy
and thus made conditions favorable for an outbreak of the spruce
budworm. The budworm killed most of the mature fir and some of
378 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

the spruce. The eastern spruce beetle was also a factor in killing |
overmature spruce. Insects were thus important in the production _
of the extensive stands of white pine of early logging days—giant
trees 800 or more years of age overtopping a spruce-fir-hardwood
understory.

The application of entomological knowledge to forest management
must go hand in hand with practical developments in forest utiliza-
tion. Many schemes have been suggested for handling timber stands,
particularly second growth, to avoid some specific insect damage.
Many of these may eventually be applied but most of them are still
impractical because of economic considerations.

FROM DIRECT BARK BEETLE CONTROL TO SELECTIVE LOGGING OF
SUSCEPTIBLE TREES

Probably the most persistent effort in the application of entomo-
logical knowledge to the management of timber stands has been
expended for the prevention of bark beetle losses in the ponderosa
pine type of California and Oregon.

During the period of increasing control work, while we were utiliz-
ing our overmature reserves of timber, many of the disadvantages
of direct control became apparent, particularly the costliness and
the variability of the results and the fact that much of the timber
treated could seldom be utilized but had to be left in the woods to
decay.

That the western pine beetle (pl. 1) should have been one of the
first insects for which definite suggestions were made for substituting
management for direct control is easily understood. Extensive stands
of increasingly valuable timber were at stake, losses in the best-quality
timber were increasing, biological studies and control efforts were
pushed more energetically than for any other beetle, and, most impor-
tant, it was realized early in the study of this species that it showed a
decided preference for trees with certain recognizable characteristics
and that advantage might be taken of this preference in marking
timber sales.

Hopkins (1909b) notes the preference of this beetle for “larger, best
matured trees.”

Pearce (1920) pointed out that “beetle activities in our pine forests
not only represent a serious economic loss but must be taken into con-
sideration in planning for sustained yield.”

Craighead (1925a) expressed this idea as follows:

Generally speaking, the western pine beetle appears to prefer overmature, slow-
growing, decadent trees, particularly those on poorer sites * * * There ig no
doubt, however, that successful management of the western yellow pine is just

as intimately tied up with this beetle problem as it is with fire or with the
silvical characteristics of the tree and that the beetles’ ability to increase in

INSECTS AND FOREST MANAGEMENT—CRAIGHEAD 379

numbers is conditioned by physiological changes in the trees brought about by
deficiency in rainfall or opening of the stand which allows greater desiccation.

Person (1928) was the first to give this predilection of the beetle for
certain trees a definite terminology, using “tree susceptibility” and
“beetle selectivity.” His work showed that

* * * tree selection, as used in this paper, is not intended to mean a con-
scious selection of certain trees by the insects, but rather that trees having certain
characteristics are more apt to be killed by the western pine beetle than trees
which do not have them.

The preference of the western pine beetle for the slow-growing trees varies
with the area and the status of the infestation, being more marked under endemic
or increasing conditions than under decreasing epidemic conditions.

The slow-growing trees, which are of least value for producing wood, are the
trees most likely to be killed by the western pine beetle. If these trees can be taken
out in the earliest cutting of timber the condition of cut-over areas will be
materially improved from the standpoint of insect damage and of subsequent
growth.

In a later paper (1931) Person states:

Any increase in our knowledge of how the western pine beetle selects the trees
which it kills will make it possible to reduce this Joss by leaving on our cut-over
areas only such trees as will have the best chance of surviving until the next cut.

A greater knowledge of tree attractiveness and stand susceptibility will
make it possible to determine the probability of insect loss when the logging
plan is first drawn up, before the insect loss occurs, thus obviating the necessity
of later changes, which are usually costly.

Dunning (1928), in presenting a tree classification for western yellow
pine, recognized the importance of bark beetles as a mortality factor.
To quote: “The greatest single cause of mortality was bark beetles
(Dendroctonus) which killed 61, or 35 percent, of the 172 trees and
accounted for 50 percent of the basal-area loss.” He also comments
on the possibility of using in management, the selectivity shown by
these beetles, stating that “The elimination of susceptible trees in cut-
ting would doubtless lessen endemic insect damage, the most important
cause of loss on cut-over areas.”

In presenting an appraisal of control, Craighead, Miller, Keen, and
Evenden (1931) point out that the results of control work against the
western pine beetle have “not been spectacular or outstanding * * *
and the benefits only temporary. * * * Such (control) work may
be combined with selective logging to remove susceptible trees and
produce better growth conditions in order to give permanent pro-
tection for long periods.”

Further developments with this idea were reported in 1933 (Senate
Document 12) following actual experimental tests in removing
beetle-susceptible trees (fig. 1) :

Much progress has been made in recent years toward establishing sustained

yield on both Federal and private timberlands in the ponderosa pine type of
California and Oregon. The management of these stands is based on an initial
380 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

partial cutting, leaving a sufficient reserve of timber for future growth, so as
to enable a second cutting in from 380 to 40 years. Bark beetle losses in these
stands reserved for future growth have in certain areas not only offset all inere-
ment, but have reduced the original forest capital from 1 to 15 percent. Recent
experiments have indicated the possibility of avoiding this loss by removing
insect-susceptible trees in the initial cutting. These susceptible trees are those
of slower growths which can be detected at the time of marking the timber for
sale. Recent sales have been marked on this plan.

RISK CLASSES FOR PONDEROSA PINE

vm
Tega
7

Low Risk High Risk

FieuRE 1.—Touched-up photographs to illustrate types of ponderosa pine sus-
ceptible to bark beetle attack. Lowered vigor and resistance and greater
susceptibility indicated by higher numbers. (Salmon and Bongberg.)

Keen (1936) was the first definitely to classify ponderosa pine on
the basis of susceptibility to bark beetle attacks. He proposed a
classification based on age and vigor (crown size, shape, and density)
that has served very well for this purpose and has been widely
adopted by foresters for other purposes as well (fig. 2). He says:

Once the type of tree most likely to be killed can be recognized with a fair
degree of certainty, it is possible to make partial cuttings of beetle-susceptible
trees, either for the purpose of salvaging valuable high-risk trees before they

are damaged by beetle attack or for the silvicultural objective of reducing mor-
tality and increasing net growth.

381

a
<
rs
S A
< rd
an} re) 3
o Ee
| S
=|
H ie ,
a Fr} :
ic) 7)
Ss <6
= = Be) :
O ev ge a
< w &
Z Ww < :
am w
a ae ,
uJ
Bes :
= re"
fe << :
i) 6”
em c 7
A Qa
Z 5 7
< o e
AS
. R
5
: y
nN
< §
Oo
a

382 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

These studies have revealed that the risk of being killed by western pine
beetles is distinctly greater for trees of certain types than it is for other trees
in the same stand. In general, the trees more susceptible to attack are the
weaker, less vigorous individuals and, to a certain degree, those more advanced
in age. The problem, therefore, is one of recognizing the combination of char-
acters which indicates susceptibility.

Silvicultural management of our ponderosa pine forests should eventually
lead to the solution of the present pine beetle problems. Although forest manage-
ment may not eliminate all future bark beetle troubles, it is at least a step in
the right direction of improving the chances of ponderosa pine stands to escape
such injury.

The practicability of Keen’s scheme was quickly recognized, and
actual marking of timber sales by this classification was carried out
in Oregon and Washington and adaptations of the system were used
by foresters in the Southwest and in the Rocky Mountain regions.
The results were good and led to further study and refinement of the
characteristics of “bug trees.”

About this time thought along these lines had crystallized suffic-
iently to demand further experimental plots for testing the possibili-
ties of marking beetle-susceptible trees. In 1936, on the Blacks
Mountain experimental area, the California Forest Experiment Sta-
tion set aside certain areas for use of the Berkeley laboratory of the
Bureau of Entomology and Plant Quarantine, and Bongberg and
Salman marked the “bug trees” on the basis of their ideas of the
characteristics that indicate susceptibility. After 4 years the results
of this work have been highly satisfactory and are being applied by
private interests and the United States Forest Service in Oregon and
California. Salman and Bongberg (1941) have shown that on these
experimental areas they were able to mark and remove before attack
85 percent of the trees that would have been destroyed by bark beetles
from comparison with the losses on adjacent areas.

Thus after many years of direct-control efforts against the western
pine bettle and the testing of several methods for marking and cut-
ting of ponderosa pine on Federal and private lands in an effort
to obtain sustained yield, we are now anticipating nature’s ruthless
but effective method—selection by climate and beetles. For many
years this selection system has been going on before our eyes but
only recently have we seen it—no doubt, we still see only a part of
it. It is still too early to predict the success of this method, aptly
phrased “beating the bettle to it.” Theoretically it looks good. If
we remove the susceptible trees before the beetle broods develop
in them, it seems reasonable to believe that beetles cannot increase in
numbers and become aggressive to the point of killing nonsusceptible
trees. In practice, success will depend on several considerations.
Logging methods and terrain, as well as the lumber demand, will
INSECTS AND FOREST MANAGEMENT—CRAIGHEAD 383

govern the size of the cut. The “beetle system” will demand low-
volume removals at frequent intervals in most stands. Can we mod-
ify our usual cutting practices so as to remove more frequently the
susceptible crop of trees? Under favorable weather and beetle con-
ditions, as have recently prevailed, it seems possible to do this with
a light cut every 5 years or so. Under adverse conditions, such as
prevailed 10 to 15 years ago, it would have been necessary to remove
25 to 50 percent of many stands in a few years.

This discussion pertains to overmature and usually understocked
stands. It does not consider the conditions that will prevail once
these stands have been removed and abundant reproduction occupies
the ground. Obviously the competition in these younger stands will
offer conditions favorable to group attacks by the bark engravers
(Ips) and the mountain pine beetle, even if the western pine beetle
is not abundant, and judicious thinnings will be required to prevent
the excessive opening of the stands by large group attacks, thus
bringing about local understockings or conversion of type to less
desirable species (Craighead, 1936; Eaton, 1941). Pearson and
Wadsworth (1941) recognized this need in their experimental work
with ponderosa pine on the Colorado Plateau and show preliminary
favorable results from thinnings by poisoning and pruning of crop
trees.

This marking and removal of low-vigor trees has been recom-
mended and applied only to the east-side ponderosa types of California
and Oregon. In the west-side types of more vigorous growth, beetle
outbreaks are less important. They occur in definite short periods
and die out as suddenly as they develop.

THEORIES OF BARK BEETLE SUSCEPTIBILITY

As indicated in the preceding discussion, the susceptibility of cer-
tain trees to bark beetle attack has been recognized for a number of
years. Various explanations have been advanced for this suscepti-
bility. Some of these are published and others are developed in
reports and correspondence in the files of the Division of Forest Insect
Investigations. A thorough understanding of what makes these trees
susceptible to bark beetle attack would aid materially in the applica-
tion of preventive measures.

Observations in the field have shown that mortality in the ponderosa
pine type varies tremendously from periods of low (endemic) loss
to periods of excessive (epidemic) loss; that during certain periods
many trees die with few or no insects present; that others may be
infested by wood borers only; and still others are attacked by bark
beetles which introduce blue-staining fungi into the sapwood, thus
cutting off the transpiration stream between the roots and the crown.
384 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

This same picture applies more or less to all bark beetle outbreaks
in all parts of the United States.

It is obvious that any satisfactory explanation for the susceptibility
of trees to bark beetle attack must also explain all the observed facts
during the ups and downs of these outbreaks. It is the writer’s
opinion that the condition is induced primarily by lack of moisture,
chiefly from drought but also from excessive competition within
the stand. It is probable that in the case of ponderosa pine, as with
other trees, the roots are first affected.2, Then, in turn, the foliage
thins out to compensate for a reduced root system. The topmost
branches often die. Certain insects that kill the twigs (such as scale
insects and the birdseye pine midge, Retinodiplosis sp., pl. 8, fig. 1)
may bring about additional defoliation. This all results in the manu-
facture of less food and consequently narrower rings, which in turn
may reduce the volume of conduction, all of which contributes to
lowered vigor to the point where many trees cannot recover.

Thus it could be that under adverse conditions many trees die
from the effects of the physical environment without insect attack;
others are attacked by borers which in themselves are not very
important—at least no sound physiological explanation of the effects
of their attack has been offered—but are only symptoms of a deeper
malady. These “predisposing insects” of Graham (1939, p. 226),
Keen and Salman (1941), and West (1941), with their special senses
can recognize this moribund condition before we can, and act
accordingly. Such insects appear to be the principal factor only
because they are immediately associated with visual symptoms of
death. Others of these trees in slightly better condition do not
fade (die) until conduction is completely and quickly cut off by
blue-staining fungi introduced into the sapwood by bark beetles
(Nelson and Beal, 1929). This theory implies that many trees go
out of the stand from the effects of an adverse physical environment
and may serve as hosts to numbers of borers and other insects,
whereas other trees less seriously affected by drought serve as suitable
host material for breeding up large populations of bark beetles. It
is conceivable that the lowered water content and possibly higher
oxygen content of the wood associated with drought (Nelson, 1934;
Caird, 1935) are necessary for development of the blue stains, which,
in turn, condition the tree for optimum development of bark beetle
broods (Leach, Orr, and Christensen, 1934).

From this it should by no means be inferred that these bark
beetles cannot by their attack kill healthy trees. The aggressiveness

7 Secrest, MacAloney, and Lorenz (1941) have shown that the foliage of drought-affected
hemlocks may remain green several years even when the tree has a dead root system

(apparently sustained by stored food in the trunk and moisture received through the
dead roots).

INSECTS AND FOREST MANAGEMENT—CRAIGHEAD 385

of the beetles depends on their abundance, as they kill by gregari-
ous attack, introducing into the active sapwood fungi that cut off
conduction. When they become abundant their gregarious attack
will kill trees that are apparently in full vigor and which show no
characteristics of susceptible trees, but as the condition of the border-
line trees improves with increased moisture more bettles are required
to kill a tree, poorer broods develop, and the insects decrease in
abundance and consequently are of decreasing importance,

This theory appears to be supported by evidence collected from
other insect outbreaks and drought periods in the more humid parts
of the United States. That such comparisons are not too far-
fetched is supported by the following recent statement by Pearson
and Wadsworth (1941) :

Notwithstanding local variations in size and growth rate, ponderosa pine
behaves in much the same way wherever it is found. There is also more in
common between different species in widely separated regions than foresters
generally realize. The influence of light and shade and of root competition,
though differing in degree, is fundamentally the same whether one is dealing
with ponderosa pine in Arizona, with pines in the South, or the Lake States,
or with Douglas-fir in the Pacific Northwest.

The southern pines (shortleaf, loblolly, and longleaf) have from
time to time been subjected to sharp local droughts which have
killed large volumes of timber. Outstanding among these was the
summer drought of 1924 in Texas and Louisiana, when a deficiency
in precipitation of some 15 inches, occurring from June to January,
resulted in the destruction of over 100,000,000 board feet of timber.
Although /ps were prevalent in the dying trees, much of the timber
was very lightly infested. (St. George, 1925.)

A few years later Cary (1932) reports a similar drought in
Florida and Georgia extending through 7 months, which destroyed
nearly as much pine timber. The southern pine beetle was notably
absent in these occurrences, as outbreaks are rare in longleaf and
slash pines, although this insect does attack these species. Personal
experience in both these cases was very convincing as to the greater
effect of drought and the secondary importance of the associated
insects,

Blackman (1924) showed that the attack of the hickory bark
beetle was dependent on a moisture deficiency and that the attacking
insects were destroyed when normal rainfall was resumed. Craig-
head (1925b) analyzed a series of outbreaks of the southern pine
beetle in shortleaf pine and found that the same conditions held.
Subsequent observations have upheld this evidence and have per-
mitted issuance of warnings when precipitation has dropped below
normal,
386 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

For some time it had been recognized that a more systematic
study of the interrelationship of tree susceptibility and climate was
necessary in the ponderosa pine type. Any direct connection between
timber losses and deficiency of precipitation has been much more
difficult to establish in the ponderosa pine type because of the lack
of adequate records in the timber areas and the apparent adjustment
of this pine to the rainless summers of the region. Three years
ago at our Berkeley laboratory R. C. Hall initiated such a field study,
establishing locations in several timber types and on several timber
sites, amply supplied with instruments to measure various environ-
mental factors. In these areas insect records and timber losses are
available over a long period of years. Already, after 3 years of
observation, very striking information (unpublished reports) has
been obtained indicating a close tie-up between climate, past timber
losses, and beetle activities, even definite variations within the
different sites of the ponderosa type.

MANAGEMENT FOR INSECT CONTROL IN SECOND-GROWTH STANDS

In the eastern States, particularly in some private forests, silvicul-
tural systems primarily designed to circumvent insect damage have
been applied in pine and hardwood stands. Such insects as the
gypsy moth, the white pine weevil, the locust borer, the turpentine
borer, and the bronze birch borer have each been the dominant factor
in shaping management plans of the forest types in which they are
active.

Fiske (1913) was probably the first in this country to realize the
possibility of controlling the gypsy moth through forest management.
He suggests taking advantage of the preference shown by the larvae
for certain species of trees and removing these, especially oak, from
the stands.

This possibility of control through adjustment of food plants stim-
ulated extensive studies by the Bureau of Entomology which were
published by Mosher (1915). Mosher classified the plants in the
regions into the following four groups: (1) Species highly favored
by all stages of gypsy moth larvae; (2) species that are favored food
for the gypsy moth after the early larval stages; (8) species that are
not particularly favored but upon which a small proportion of the
gypsy moth larvae may develop; and (4) species that are unfavored
food.

The gypsy moth develops normally and becomes destructive only
on plants of group 1.

From the germ of Fiske’s suggestion and the definite classification
proposed by Mosher, the possibility of silvicultural control gradually
gained recognition and resulted in a cooperative study between the

INSECTS AND FOREST MANAGEMENT—CRAIGHEAD 387

Forest Service and the Bureau of Entomology to obtain more specific
data and to test out theories by means of experimental plots. This
study was assigned (Clement, 1917) to Clement and Munro, who re-
ported on their work in Bulletin 484 of the United States Department
of Agriculture. They indicated certain possibilities and certain limi-
tations, chiefly economic, in the application of management to gypsy
moth control. The proposals were a little ahead of the times and no
general application resulted.

A more recent study of this problem in central Massachusetts
through cooperative efforts of the Bureau of Entomology and Plant
Quarantine, the Harvard Forest, and the Northeastern Forest Experi-
ment Station developed more specific information. First, Baker and
Cline (1936) showed that no serious defoliation occurred unless more
than 50 percent of the stand was composed of species of group 1.
Continued study led to definite recommendations by Behre, Cline, and
Baker (1936) and indicated that there are very far-reaching possi-
bilities for applying the principles of forest management to the con-
trol of the gypsy moth in the New England States, because of the
favorable conditions which existed, namely, (1) the composition of
much of the forest with regard to the distribution of favored and
unfavored food plants was suitable to work with in thinning prac-
tices; (2) there were large areas of second-growth hardwoods, many
of them with understories of conifers, which needed release; (3) the
Federal and State agencies were then spending considerable sums on
less permanent methods of control, such as spraying and creosoting
egg masses. This money would do more permanent good if diverted
to forest improvement; and (4) considerable manpower was avail-
able (at the time of writing) through C. C. C. camps and relief
organizations.

The ice is now well broken and it is likely that silvicultural meas-
ures will be given more and more emphasis and the present control
program will change from one of temporary practices, such as spray-
ing and creosoting, to one involving the permanent improvement of
forest stands. It is reasonable to believe that with such measures a
large part of the present infested area can be made relatively immune
to the gypsy moth and a considerable reduction in expenditures for
control can be effected.

These writers (Behre, Cline, and Baker, 1936) showed how the cut-
ting practices of the past 30 years and frequent fires led to the increase
of secondary types which are primarily composed of species of group
1, and thus brought about more favorable conditions for the gypsy
moth. To quote:

Thus it becomes evident that the forest types which present most favorable con-

ditions for gypsy moth attack are the direct result of a transient agriculture
and the destructive lumbering practices of the past.

430577—42——26
388 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Definite recommendations are made for treating the predominant
stands of the regions, namely, coniferous plantations, coniferous un-
derstories, mixed conifers and hardwoods, and mixed hardwoods of
commercial importance. The writers conclude:

Consideration of the history of the gypsy moth and of existing forest conditions
in New England leads to the conclusion that, in spite of all control effort to date,
epidemic outbreaks with serious defoliation may continue to occur within the
infested area.

Increasing the proportion of woodland in which conditions are unfavorable for
the development of the insect should lessen the need for artificial control and
reduce the frequency and severity of outbreaks. * * * With few exceptions,
elimination or reduction of highly favored food species will conform to desirable
silvicultural practices. Silvicultural control, therefore, has the added advantage
of serving the objectives of forest improvement.

An introduced insect may thus prove to be the dominant factor in
shaping plans for the management of large areas of New England
forest land, provided our present appraisal of its economic importance
has not been too pessimistic.

A dominant factor in shaping cultural practices for white pine in
the Northeast has been the white pine weevil. As farm lands were
abandoned a generation or more ago, they seeded in to stands of white
pine. In addition many acres were planted. Gradually it dawned on
the landowners and foresters that many apparently vigorous stands
were worthless “cabbage pines” as the result of repeated attacks of
the white pine weevil. The many desirable characteristics of this
tree, particularly its rapid growth and high-quality wood, led to
repeated investigations of the weevil problem, culminating in recom-
mendations by the Bureau of Entomology and Plant Quarantine, the
New York State College of Forestry, and Harvard Forest for growing
mixed stands of hardwoods and pine to avoid weevil damage (Mac-
Aloney, 19382) and for the reclamation of merchandise boles from
badly weeviled stands. (Cline and MacAloney, 1931, 1933, 1935.)

Continued experimental work on the Harvard Forest tracts with
pines planted among hardwood seedlings was recently verbally re-
ported to the writer by A. C. Cline, director of Harvest Forest, indi-
cating simplified measures of growing these mixtures to avoid weevil
damage (pl. 8, fig. 2). It is obvious that white pines of value cannot
be grown commercially in the Northeast unless these methods or sub-
sequent modifications of them are utilized.

Dying white and yellow birch in overmatured stands or following
logging operations or severe droughts have invariably been found
infested with the bronzed birch borer (Agrilus anwius Gory) in the
Northeast and in the Lake States. Studies of this insect (Hall, 1933)
have led to the conclusion that “changes in the physical factors of the
INSECTS AND FOREST MANAGEMENT—CRAIGHEAD 389

environment brought about through the medium of logging are often
such that trees left will succumb without the attack of either insects
or fungi, and the borer plays only the role of a secondary factor in
hastening post-logging decadence.”

Thus a study of this insect has led to a better understanding of the
silvical characteristics of these trees and the need of modification in
cutting practices.

The turpentine borer, Buprestis apricans (Herbst) (pl. 12), has
been a contributing factor in shaping plans for the management of the
turpentine groves of the South. This borer attacks the faces of
turpentined trees, riddling the entire bases of the trees with its
mines and so weakening them as to cause extensive wind throw. It
was found that only “dry-faced” or fire-scorched faces from which
the protective coating of resin had been removed were attacked.
This emphasized the value of conservative practices, such as narrow
chipping and fire protection—practices which were advocated for
obtaining better yields of gum (Beal, 1932).

LITERATURE CITED
ABRIVEB, DAVID.
1980. An adventure in bug hunting. Amer. For. and For. Life, vol. 36,
No. 2, pp. 71-73.
Baker, W. L., and Cring, A. C.
1936. A study of the gypsy moth in the town of Petersham, Mass., in 1935.
Journ. Forestry, vol. 34, No. 8, pp. 759-765.
BatcH, R. E.
1941. The spruce sawfly outbreak in 1940. Pulp and Pap. Mag. Canada,
vol. 42, No. 3, pp. 219-222.
BEAL, J. A.
1932. Control of the turpentine borer in the Naval Stores region. U. S.
Dep. Agr. Cire. 226, 18 pp.
BeEwkR:E, C. E., Cring, A. C., and BAKER, W. L.
1936. Silvicultural control of the gypsy moth. 16 pp. Massachusetts Forest
and Park Association, Boston.
BLACKMAN, M. W.
1924. The effect of deficiency and excess in rainfall upon the hickory bark
beetle. Journ. Econ. Ent., vol. 17, No. 4, pp. 460-470.
CAIRD, RALPH W.
1935. Physiology of pines infested with bark beetles. Bot. Gaz., vol. 96,
No. 4, pp. 709-733.
Cary, AUSTIN.
1900. Insect damage to spruce timber in Maine and New Hampshire. The
Forester, vol. 6, No. 3, pp. 52-54.
1932. Effect of drought on pine trees. Naval Stores Rev., vol. 42, Nos.
15,10, 18,49:
CLEMENT, G. E.
1917. Control of the gypsy moth by forest management. U. S. Dep. Agr.
Bull. No. 484, 54 pp.
390 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Cringe, A. C., and MAcALoney, H. J.
1931. A method of reclaiming severely weeviled white pine plantations.
Bull. No. 152, 11 pp. Massachusetts Forestry Association, Boston.
1933. The improvement of weeviled white pine plantations. Publ. No. 24,
11 pp. Connecticut Forest and Park Association, New Haven.
1935. Progress report of the reclamation of severely weeviled white pine
plantations. Journ. Forestry, vol. 33, No. 11, pp. 982-935.
CRAIGHEAD, F. C.
1924. The Black Hills beetle practicing forestry on the Kaibab. ‘The Forest
Worker, November, p. 74, U. S. Dep. Agr., Forest Service.
1925a. The Dendroctonus problems. Journ. Forestry, vol. 23, No. 4, pp.
340-354,
1925b. Bark beetle epidemics and rainfall deficiency. Journ. Econ. Ent.,
vol. 18, No. 4, pp. 577-586.
1936. Forest insects and forestry. Penn State Sylvan, pp. 18-19, 85, 92.
1938. Research points the way in forest insect control. Journ. Forestry,
vol. 36, No. 9, pp. 905-908.
CRAIGHEAD, F. C., Mittrr, J. M., Kren, F. P., and EVENDEN, J. C.
1931. Control work against bark beetles in western forests and an ap-
praisal of its results. Journ. Forestry, vol. 29, No. 7, pp. 1001-1018.
CRAIGHEAD, F. C., and St. Grorer, R. A.
1938. Experimental work with the introduction of chemicals into the sap
stream of trees for the control of insects. Journ. Forestry, vol. 36,
No. 1, pp. 26-34.
DUNNING, DUNCAN.
1928. A tree classification for the selection forests of the Sierra Nevada.
Journ, Agr. Res., vol. 36, No. 9, pp. 755-771.
HATON, C. B.
1941. Influence of the mountain pine beetle on the composition of mixed
pole stands of ponderosa pine and white fir. Journ. Forestry, vol.
39, No. 8, pp. 710-713.
E\VENDEN, J. C., and Gisson, A. L.
1940. A destructive infestation in lodgepole pine stands by the mountain
pine beetle. Journ. Forestry, vol. 38, No. 3, pp. 271-275.
Fiskg, W. F.
1913. The gypsy moth as a forest insect, with suggestions as to its control.
U. S. Dep. Agr., Bur. Ent. Cire. 164.
GRAHAM, S. A.
1989. Principles of forest entomology, 2d ed., 410 pp. McGraw-Hill Book
Co., New York City.
GRAHAM, S. A., and Orr, L. W.
1940. The spruce budworm in Minnesota. Techn. Bull. 142, Univ. Minne-
sota Agr. Exp. Stat., 27 pp.
HArtL, RALPH C.
1933. Post-logging decadence in northern hardwoods. Univ. Michigan School
of Forestry and Conservation, Bull. No. 1, 66 pages.
Hewitt, C. Gorpon.
1912. The large larch sawfly. Dom. Canada Dep. Agr., Bull. No. 10, ser. 2,
42 pp.
Hopxins, A. D.
1899. Report on investigations to determine the cause of unhealthy con-
ditions of the spruce and pine from 1880-1893. West Virginia Agr.
Exp. Stat. Bull. 56, pp. 197-461.
INSECTS AND FOREST MANAGEMENT—CRAIGHEAD 391

Hopxins, A. D.—Continued.
1901. Insect enemies of the spruce in the northeast. U. 8. Dep. Agr., Bur.
Ent. Bull. 28, n. s., 48 pp., 16 plates.
1902. Insect enemies of the pine in the Black Hills Forest Reserve. U. 8.
Dep. Agr., Bur. Ent. Bull. 32, n. s., 24 pp., 7 plates.
1909a. Insect depredations in North American forests and practical methods
of prevention and control. U. S. Dep. Agr., Bur. Ent. Bull. 58,
pt. 5, n. s., pp. 57-95.
1909b. Bark beetles of the genus Dendroctonus. U. 8S. Dep. Agr., Bur.
Ent. Bull. 88, pt. 1, 165 pp., illus.
Ken, F. P.
1931. Pine beetle control costs reduced through logging and salvage. U. 8.
Dep. Agr. Yearbook, pp. 428—430.
1936. Relative susceptibility of ponderosa pines to bark beetle attack.
Journ. Forestry, vol. 34, No. 10, pp. 919-927.
1987. Climatic cycles in eastern Oregon as indicated by tree rings. U. S.
Dep. Agr. Monthly Weather Reyv., vol. 65, pp. 175-188.
KEEN, F. P., and Furniss, R. L.
1937. Effects of subzero temperatures on populations of the western pine
beetle. Journ. Econ. Ent., vol. 30, No. 3, pp. 482-504.
Keen, F. P., and SALMAN, K. A.
1941. Progress in pine beetle control through tree selection. (Ms. ap-
proved July 15, 1941, for publication in Journ. Forestry.)
LEACH, J. G., Ogr, L. W., and CHRISTENSEN, CLYDE.
1934. The interrelationships of bark beetles and blue-staining fungi in the
felled Norway pine timber. Journ. Agr. Res., vol. 49, No. 4, pp.
315-341.
MacAtoney, H. J.
1932. The white-pine weevil. U.S. Dep. Agr. Cire. 221, 30 pp.
Mrtier, J. M.
1931. High and low lethal temperatures for the western pine beetle.
Journ. Agr. Res., vol. 43, No. 4, pp. 303-821, 3 figs.
MosHe_er, F. H.
1915. Food plants of the gypsy moth in America. U. 8. Dep. Agr., Bur.
Ent. Bull. No. 250, 39 pp.
NELSON, RALPH M.
1934. Effect of bluestain fungi on southern pines attacked by bark beetles.
Phytopathol. Beitschr., vol. 7, No. 4, pp. 827-353.
NELSON, RAtPpH M., and Brat, J. A.
1929. Experiments with bluestain fungi in southern pines. Phytopathol.,
vol. 19, No. 12, pp. 1101-1106.
PATTERSON, J. EH.
1929. The pandora moth, a periodic pest of western pine forests. U. S.
Dep. Agr. Techn. Bull. 137, 20 pp., illus.
1930. Control of the mountain pine beetle by solar heat. U. S. Dep. Agr.
Techn. Bull. No. 195, 20 pp., 11 figs.
PEARCE, W. J.
1920. The relation of insect losses to sustained forest yield. Journ. For-
estry, vol. 18, No. 4, pp. 406-411.
Pearson, G. A., and WADSworTH, F. H.
1941. An example of timber management in the Southwest. Journ. For-
estry, vol. 39, No. 5, pp. 484452.
392 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

PERSON, HUBERT L.

1928. Tree selection by the western pine beetle. Journ. Forestry, vol. 26,
No. 5, pp. 564-578.

1931. Theory in explanation of the selection of certain trees by the west-
ern pine beetle. Journ. Forestry, vol. 39, No. 5, pp. 696-699.

St. Grorae, R. A.

1925. The recent death of large quantities of southern pine. Amer. Lumber-

man, May, pp. 50-51.
SALMAN, K. A.

1938. Recent experiments with penetrating oil sprays for control of bark

beetles. Journ. Econ. Ent., vol. 31, No. 1, pp. 119-123.
SaLman, K, A., and BoneBere, J. W.

1941. Logging high risk trees to control forest insects in pine stands of
northeastern California. (Ms. approved August 2, 1941, for pub-
lication in Journ. Forestry.)

SEcrest, H. C., MacAtonry, H. J., and Lorenz, R. C.

1941. Causes of the decadence of hemlock at the Menominee Indian Reserva- |

tion, Wisconsin. Journ. Forestry, vol. 39, No. 1, pp. 3-12.
SENATE DocuMENT 12.
1933. The progress in forest entomology and protection against forest insects
from “A National Plan for American Forestry.” Sep. No. 28.
SwaIng, J. M., and CRAIGHEAD, F. C.
1924. Studies on the spruce budworm (Cacoecia fumigerana (Clem)). Dom, |
Canada Dep. Agr. Bull. No. 37, n. s. (techn.), 91 pp., 24 plates,
Ottawa, December.
WEsT, A. S., JB.
1941. Biological notes on two species of Melanophila. Journ. Econ. Ent.,
vol. 34, No. 1, pp. 48—45.

“Sdl19][@3 559 MOYS 0} pexIeq 901} ould vsoJopuod Jo yuNI} JaMoT ‘¢ {yYIeq 9UId BsoJopUOd Jo dOBJINS IDUUI UO SaIo][Vs 350 SUIPUTA ‘F fazIS
qoRxg “Youd oy} Ur peswous ajjooq peaq ~“Ado][VS 330 0) ddUBI}UA 4B YI Jo doRJMs UO seqny youd ‘eg {yavq UT sT[eo Tednd ut dVAIB ‘Z ‘9Z1S [BINJVU SOUT] 8 INOqY ‘af1eeq MpyY ‘1

(SINODIASYS SNNOLOOYGN3AQ) 31L33g SNIid NYSLSAM AHL

| ALW1d peeysre1gQ— | p61 *j40dey ueruosyziUSG
Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Craighead PLATE 2

sys ee

1. INFESTATION OF THE MOUNTAIN PINE BEETLE IN A VIRGIN STAND OF SUGAR
PINE.

Yosemite National Park, Calif. August 1932. The light-colored trees are recent attacks and have been
faded for only a short time.

2. PONDEROSA PINE TIMBER IN MODOC NATIONAL FOREST, CALIF., KILLED BY THE
WESTERN PINE BEETLE.

Eastside pine type. September 1932.
Smithsonian Report, 194].—Craighead PLATE 3

1. SALVAGING BEETLE-KILLED PONDEROSA PINE TIMBER ON THE SHASTA NA
TIONAL FOREST, CALIF.

The infested logs are being trucked to the mill over forest roads. July 1939.

2. BURNING THE INFESTED BARK ALONG THE BOLE OF A LARGE PONDEROSA PINE
TREE.

Stanislaus National Forest, Calif. May 1935.
Smithsonian Report, 194].—Craighead PLATE 4

A LARGE SUGAR PINE TREE RECENTLY KILLED BY THE MOUNTAIN PINE BEETLE
IN THE STANISLAUS NATIONAL FOREST, CALIF., SEPTEMBER 1935.

Usually such large trees are not killed by this beetle in a single year, two or more attacks often being suffered
before the entire stem becomes infested.
Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Craighead PLATE 5

1. INA LODGEPOLE PINE GHOST FOREST OF YOSEMITE NATIONAL PARK, CALIF.

These trees were all killed by the mountain pine beetle in an epidemic lasting only 4 years. 1915.

2. INFESTATION OF THE MOUNTAIN PINE BEETLE IN LODGEPOLE PINE.

Insect-killed trees show white in photograph. Bitterroot National Forest.
Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Craighead PLATE 6

1. TREATING WHITE PINE TREES INFESTED WITH BROODS OF THE MOUNTAIN PINE
BEETLE BY BURNING DECKS OF INFESTED LOGS.

2. TREATING WHITE PINE TREES KILLED BY THE MOUNTAIN PINE BEETLE BY PEEL
ING BARK FROM INFESTED PORTION OF BOLE.

When exposed, the insects are destroyed by ants and small mammals.
"92-8161 AO
SINAGIdg AHL NI HLOW VYOAUNVd

BAHL AG GALVIIOSAAG AIYSARS “MYVg NIHL SHL HLVANAG SG0O0OYG
‘NOD3YO NI NOILVAYSASSY NVIGNI BHL WIM OL GANYNG AGNV 110 HLIM GSAVedS
HLVWV1M S3HL NO ANId VWSOYSAGNOd °2 SANId 310d39007] GSLSSAN| S3ILSSG HYve (1

CLG

L3ailvwid peaysiery—' | $6] ‘WOdey ueruosyyiWg

“OC6L : =
“SIO ‘OUdy “BIUIOJITeQ pue WOse1Q jo suorser ould
‘sosodind Jequit} 10} ssotqqI0M ay} JNoYSNoIg} penqisjstp AT[B1IoUes SI 4T “WIAOIS UT
901} (,,eurd aseqqeo,,) poursoy Ay1ood & UT sjyNSed YOM ‘voueUT YOVq-JOS POpPOop B SUISNVS S[BUTUTIO} O44 S|TPY JSUT STYL

-WLOP IO} 939d W109 S[B.1O}B] OY JO [BIOAOS Po [LY SI [BUTUII9} 94} 109} V “(SISO7d
“SNIEGNG SHAGOSSId WASAM ANId ALIHM AHL -IGONILSY) ADGICW ANId S3HL Ad GsasnvD
A@ GQHAONLSAG 3JaYL ANId ALIHM AO YACVAT “2 35u Ll ANId VSOUSGNOd V NO ,,S9V14,, ‘1

=, . ; 77

oe eee

8 3LVv1d peaysielg— | $6] *‘qaoday UeruOsyzIUIS
Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Criaghead PLATE 9

1. PANDORA MOTH (COLORADIA PANDORA) A DEFOLIATOR OF PONDEROSA, LOGDE-
POLE, AND JEFFREY PINES IN OREGON AND CALIFORNIA.

2, VARIOUS STAGES OF THE SPRUCE BUDWORM (CACOECIA FUMIFERANA). EGGS
ON LEAF, LARVAL INSTARS, PUPAE, CAST PUPAL SKINS, AND ADULT MOTHS,
Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Criaghead PLATE 10

1. AUTOGIRO IN ACTION SPRAYING CONCENTRATED OIL-LEAD ARSENATE MIXTURE
OVER RED PINE PLANTATION INFESTED WITH NEODIPRION SERTIFER.

2. LARVAE OF THE EURCPEAN SPRUCE SAWFLY (DIPRION POLYTOMUM) MASSED
UNDER THE TREES THEY HAVE DEFOLIATED.

These larvae fall to the ground after the foliage is consumed in their search for additional food.
Smithsonian Report, 1941_—Criaghead PLATE 11

SCOLYTUS MULTISTRIATUS, THE VECTOR OF THE DUTCH ELM DISEASE.

Adult, eggs, larval tunnels, larva, pupa, exit holes and feeding scars, and point where tree is inoculated with
the disease,
Smithsonian Report, 194] —Craighead PLATE 12

1. TYPICAL WIND-THROWN STAND OF LONGLEAF PINE FOLLOWING POOR TURPEN-
TINING PRACTICES AND SUBSEQUENT ATTACK OF THE TURPENTINE BORER.

é

2. THE TURPENTINE BORER (BUPRESTIS APRICANS) ATTACKS THE BASES OF TUR-
PENTINE LONGLEAF PINES AND SO RIDDLES THE WOOD WITH THE LARVAL MINES
THAT THE TREES BREAK OFF.

GROWTH HORMONES IN PLANTS?

By KENNETH V. THIMANN

Harvard Biological Laboratories, Cambridge, Mass.

[With 2 plates]

The development of our knowledge of the plant hormones is a
very interesting example of how a piece of research which seems
purely academic may lead to results of considerable practical impor-
tance. It also demonstrates rather well the reason for the fascination
of scientific work, because one never knows quite where one is going
to be led next. Almost any research problem becomes a kind of chase,
with all the excitement of an old-time comedian’s chase, which may
embroil him in all kinds of difficulties and may finally land in the
most unexpected places.

No scientific story, of course, has a true beginning, for they all
grow out of some earlier one, but this may be regarded for the present
as beginning in 1919, when Professor Paal, in Hungary, was studying
the response of certain seedlings to light. For this work he used the
coleoptiles of the cereals, especially oats.

In a field of oats or wheat, when the crop is still young, one may
often see a thin, papery sheath at the base of the stalk. It is soon
torn open by the leaves which grow up through it, and withers early.
This delicate shoot first attracted the attention of Charles Darwin by
its extreme sensitivity to light, and since Darwin many others have
studied it. Now Paal was interested in the effect of the extreme tip
of the coleoptile on the sensitivity of the part below it. He was anx-
ious to confirm the earlier finding of Boysen-Jensen (1918), which
was that if the tip is removed, the sensitivity to light—as shown by
the curving of the coleoptile toward the source of light—was lost,
and that when the tip was replaced (not grafted but just glued on)
this sensitivity returned. He not only did confirm this, but found
something even more important. If the tip which had been cut off

1 Presented at a meeting at the Franklin Institute March 9, 1939. Reprinted by permis-
sion from the Journal of the Franklin Institute, vol. 229, No. 3, March 1940.

393
394 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

was stuck on again a little to one side, the side on which it rested
grew more than the opposite side, with the result that the plant
curved (fig. 1). No light was here involved; the curvature was dus
to the one-sided influence of the tip. Paal deduced that the growth
of the shoot was controlled by a growth substance or hormone which
was produced by the tip.

Now the idea of hormones was developed by zoologists to account
for those phenomena in which one organ influences tissues in other
parts of the body. The heroine of the dime novel, who is suddenly
confronted by the villain, or by the family ghost, turns as white as
a sheet, her hair stands on end, and her eyes widen with horror.
These effects result from her having received a dose of a hormone
(adrenalin) which is secreted in a special gland and travels about

N

Fieurt 1.—The experiment of Pafil. Left, intact seedling; center, tip removed
and replaced to one side; right, curvature resulting.

in the blood stream, causing the capillaries to contract all over the
skin and scalp. Many other hormones are known. All of them are
secreted in some part of the animal body and travel about it to exert
their effects in other parts.

In this case growth is controlled by a substance or hormone se-
creted by the tip and traveling down the side of the plant, which
responds by growing faster. In the normal plant, with the tip
symmetrically placed, all sides would receive the same amount of
the hormone and consequently would grow equally.

It was 10 years before the next step forward was taken by Went,
in Holland (1928). He found that if the tips were cut off and
placed on a jelly of agar or gelatin, this jelly acquired the property
of hastening the growth of a coleoptile stump when applied to one
side of it. The growth-promoting hormone had diffused from the
tip into the agar. The curvatures which resulted were very regular,
and Went found that under constant conditions the reaction could

GROWTH HORMONES—THIMANN 395

be used as a test for the hormone (fig. 2). Agar pieces of controlled
size were used, and the curvature of the plants measured after a
definite time. The curvature was then proportional, within certain
limits, to the amount of hormone which must have entered the agar.

Instead of placing the agar on one side of the coleoptile stump
it can be placed symmetrically on it, thus taking the place of the
tip, with the result that the coleoptile grows faster on all sides.
With a traveling microscope the straight growth can also be used
for the assay of the growth hormone. This is important in prin-
ciple, but the curvature method has certain technical advantages
for use as a routine test.

Now there are a good many natural conditions under which plants
curve. Plants are not free to move about as the higher animals
are, since their base is usually fixed. When one is confined to bed
by doctor’s orders, one’s base is similarly fixed, and about all that
one can do, when receiving visitors, is to curve in various ways.

Ficure 2.—Oat seedlings with tips removed and blocks of agar containing growth
hormone applied. Photographed 100 minutes later.

Plants curve in particular in response to light and gravity. In these
curvatures there is a characteristic difference between the response of
the shoot and that of the root. Shoots curve toward a weak light,
while the roots are either indifferent or (in some plants) curve away
from the light. Shoots curve upward away from the earth, roots
typically downward. As mentioned above, it was from studies of
the curvature toward light that the role of the growth hormone was
discovered. Naturally, therefore, it occurred to these workers that
the curvatures caused by asymmetric application of the growth hor-
mone are probably related to those due to light and gravity. Cho-
lodny, in Russia (1927), suggested that all such curvatures were due
to a displacement of the hormone within the plant, more going to
the lower side when the plant is placed horizontal, or to the shaded
side when exposed to a one-sided source of light. That this is the
correct explanation was proved in the following way: tips were cut
off and placed on two small pieces of agar so that the hormone
diffusing from the two sides would be collected in separate pieces.
On now exposing to light from one side, the agar on which the dark
side rested was found to contain more growth hormone than the
396 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

other. The amounts of growth hormone were determined by apply-
ing the agar to other plants from which the tips had previously
been removed, and measuring the curvature. In the same way tips
were placed horizontal and the agar in contact with the lower side
was then shown to have more hormone in it than that in contact
with the upper side. (See fig. 3.) These experiments have since
been repeated in a variety of plants and they leave no doubt that
this is at least the major factor in the production of such curvatures.

It was not long before chemical work on the nature of the hormone
was undertaken. This was made possible by the discovery that it is
present, in much larger quantity than in the coleoptile tip, in cultures

aT
(all

Ficure 3.—Above, light coming in direction of arrow causes more hormone to
diffuse out from the dark side, D, than from the bright side, B; below, gravity
acting on the tip placed horizontal causes more hormones to diffuse out from
the lower side, Z, than from the upper side, U.

of some bacteria and fungi, and in human urine.? K6gl and Haagen
Smit, in Holland (1931-34), isolated three active substances from
urine and also from corn seeds, while I isolated (1935) the substance
produced by the fungi and found it to be identical with one of their
compounds. Since then other active compounds have been synthe-
sized, and we now have a variety of these substances, which all have
about the same effect, though in different degree. They have been
called “auxins.”

While this work was developing we made a survey of the distri-
bution of auxin in the whole plant. It was found that it is formed
mainly in growing buds and in young leaves. This had an im-
portant sequel. As is well known, plants usually have a “leader”
or terminal bud. If this is cut off, one of the other buds begins to

?More than 10 million coleoptile tips would be required to prepare 1 milligram of the
hormone.

GROWTH HORMONES—THIMANN 397

grow and soon becomes the leader. In other words, this bud was
capable of growth all the time, but did not do so because the terminal
bud was present, i. e., it was inhibited by the terminal bud. Now
since the terminal bud produces relatively large amounts of auxin,
Skoog and I made the experiment (1934) of removing this bud and
putting in its place a supply of auxin. The buds below were then
inhibited to the same extent as they would have been by the terminal
bud. The auxin which this bud produces, then, has two functions:
it causes the stem below it to grow, and it causes the buds below it
to be prevented from growing. This is the first example of what
was later found to be very general, namely, that auxin elicits differ-
ent responses from different plant parts. Although normally it
causes the stems to grow while the buds are inhibited, it must not
be thought that this is simply a balance or a compensation of growth,
i. e., that if the stem grows the buds do not and vice versa. For we
found that it is possible by using the right conditions to prevent the
growth of the buds without causing the stem to increase appreciably
in length. In other words, the inhibition is quite independent of
other growth processes.

At the same time that this work was done we were engaged in the
study of another problem. It is known that isolated parts of stems,
i.e., cuttings, form roots under certain conditions. Generally cuttings
root better if young buds or leaves are on them. On this account
it was thought possible by van der Lek and by Went (1929) that
the formation of roots is controlled by a hormone. Went and I
(1934) soon found that certain preparations when applied to cuttings
which otherwise were not in the condition to root (having been kept
in the dark) caused rooting, and that the number of roots formed
could be made roughly proportional to the concentration of the ma-
terial used. Work was therefore begun on the purification and iso-
lation of the active root-forming hormone. It was not long before
it became clear that the richest sources of this were the same materials
which had proved the rich sources of auxin, namely urine and the
cultures of fungi already mentioned. On successive stages of puri-
fication of the root-forming hormone, its activity always went along
with the auxin activity. Finally we became convinced that the root-
forming hormone is identical with the growth hormone, auxin. This
was proved when we synthesized an auxin (indole-acetic acid, which
Ko6gl and Haagen Smit had just isolated from urine and shown to
be an auxin) and found it to be highly active in producing roots.
Furthermore, the production of roots, like the promotion of growth,
is general and not limited to special groups of plants, so that the
use of auxins by nurserymen in promoting the rooting of cuttings has
since that time become widespread. Several synthetic auxins have
been marketed for this purpose.
398 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Although the results of auxin treatment in rooting of cuttings are
in general very striking, there are some plants which do not respond
markedly even to this. Recently we have studied some of these so-
called “difficult” plants. It appears that some of them, such as
Canadian hemlock and blue spruce, may be readily rooted if care
is used and auxin in the right concentration is applied (pl. 1). Some
others, such as white pine and Norway spruce, can also be rooted,
but only when the plants from which cuttings are taken are them-
selves young (pl. 2). It is important to note that it is not the age
of the cutting which is important, but the age of the tree from which
it is taken. Occasionally, too, other substances, such as sugar, vitamin
B,, etc., when used together with auxin, promote the formation of
roots.

Ficgurn 4.--Inward curvature of slit stems in auxin solutions. Left to right:
water, 0.2, 1, and 5 mg. auxin per liter. Photographed after about 30 hours.

Another fact of some importance in the rooting of woody cuttings is
the type of shoot used. In some of the conifers it is clear that there
is a difference in response between the side shoots (laterals) and the
apical or terminal shoot. The latter, even if supplied with sufficient
auxin, roots less readily and dies more quickly than the side shoots.
Thus here again the response to auxin varies with the part of the
plant.

Perhaps the most remarkable variation within the plant is shown by
the different responses of different parts within the same section of
stem. If stems of young pea plants are slit in two and placed in auxin
solution, the two halves curl inward toward each other. The extent
of the curvature varies with the concentration of the solution, and
the reaction can thus be used as a test for the auxins (fig. 4). Many
other plants show the same phenomenon; dandelion stalks are very
responsive. The development of the curvature can best be shown
in the form of a movie, taken by lapse-time photography. The halves

GROWTH HORMONES—THIMANN 399

first curve outward, then after an hour or so the inward curvature
begins and is complete in about 20 hours.

Now in this reaction the auxin is being supplied to all the tissue,
since the piece of stem is immersed in the solution, yet nevertheless
the curvature which results shows that the tissues on the outside
grow more than those on the inside. It is evident that this phenom-
enon is quite different from those described at the beginning, in
which curvature results because the auxin is only applied to one side.
We have accumulated a good deal of evidence to prove that here
there is truly a difference in the response of the outer and inner
sides to the same auxin concentration.

Such subtle differences as this between closely appressed layers
of tissue, or those described above between the rooting response of
different parts, can now be investigated for the first time by the use
of growth hormones. These substances are a powerful tool for
studying all kinds of phenomena in plants and especially that most
obscure process of all, whose understanding is one of the most
fundamental things with which biologists are concerned, the
phenomenon of growth.

BIBLIOGRAPHY

BOoYSEN-JENSEN, P.
1913. Uber die Leitung des phototropischen Reizes in der Avenakoleoptile.
Ber. Deutsch. Bot. Ges., vol. 31, No. 10, pp. 559-566.
CHoLopry, N.
1927. Wuchshormone und Tropismen bei den Pflanzen. Biol. Zentralbl., vol.
47, No. 10, pp. 604-626.
KO6e6L, Fritz, ERXLEBEN, HANNI, and HAAGEN Smit, A. J.
1934. Uber die Isolierung der Auxine a und b aus pflanzlichen Materialen.
Hoppe-Seyler’s Zeitschr. Phys. Chem., vol. 225, Nos. 5-6, pp. 215-229.
KOcGL, Fritz, and HAAGEN SMIT, A. J.
1931. Uber die Chemie des Wuchsstoffs. Kon. Akad. Wetensch. Amsterdam,
Proc. Sec. Sci., vol. 34, No. 10, pp. 1411-1416.
KO6cL, Fritz, HAAGEN SMIT, A. J., and ERXLEBEN, HANNI.
1934. Uber ein neues Auxin (“Hetero-auxin”) aus Harn. Hoppe-Seyler’s
Zeitschr. Phys. Chem., vol. 228, Nos. 1-2, pp. 90-103.
Pad, A.
1919. Uber phototropische Reizleitung. Jahrb. Wiss. Bot., vol. 58, No. 1,
pp. 406-458.
THIMANN, KENNETH V.
1935. On the plant growth hormone produced by Rhizopus suinus. Journ.
Biol. Chem., vol. 109, No. 2, pp. 279-291.
THIMANN, KENNETH V., and SKkooc, FoLrkKE.
1934. On the inhibition of bud development and other functions of growth
substance in Vicia Faba. Proc. Roy. Soc., ser. B, vol. 114, No. B 789,
pp. 317-339.
THIMANN, KENNETH V., and WENT, F. W.
1934. On the chemical nature of the root-forming hormone. Kon. Akad.
Wetensch. Amsterdam, Proc. Sec. Sci., vol. 37, No. 7, pp. 456—459.
400 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

VAN DER LEK, H. A. A.

1925. Over de wortelvorming van houtige stekken. (With a summary in
English.) 230 pp. Wageningen.

WENT, F.. W.
1928. Wuchsstoff und Wachstum. Rec. Trav. Bot. Néerl., vol. 25, livr. 1-2,
pp. 1-116.

1929. On a substance causing root formation. Kon. Akad. Wetensch. Am-
sterdam, Proc. Sec. Sci., vol. 32, Nos. 1-5, pp. 35-39.
For more extended discussion and bibliography, see
WENT, F. W., and THIMANN, KENNETH V.
1937. Phytohormones. Macmillan, New York.

Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Thimann

N/A

PLATE 1
\ i a
\S .

2
+)
WZ

qa

: bey :
UR

ff
te / | W/4,

|

Top, Canada hemlock. Left to right, 400, 100, and 0 mg. auxin per liter for 24 hours.
Middle, Canada hemlock, variety pendula.
Bottom, Blue spruce.
after 9-10 weeks in peat-sand medium.
Arboretum, vol. 20, pp. 116-136, 1939.)

Left to right, 100, 50, and 0 mg. auxin per liter for 24 hours.
Left to right, 400, 200, 100, and 0 mg. auxin per liter for 24 hours

All photographed
(From Thimann, K. V., and Delisle, A. L., Journ. Arnold
Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Thimann PLATE 2

WHITE PINE.

Left to right: Above, 0 and 100; below, 200 and 400 mg. auxin per liter for 24 hours. Photographed after 4
months.

USEFUL ALGAE

By FLORENCE MEIER CHASE

Associate Plant Physiologist, Division of Radiation and Organisms,
Smithsonian Institution

[With 9 plates]
ALGAE AND THE ANCIENTS

The earliest mention of algae that we can find in the Chinese Classics
is strangely enough an economic one, thereby discrediting Virgil’s
famous words, “vilior alga” or “useless seaweed.” In the Book of
Poetry, the Chinese song words which have a datable range between
800 and 600 B. C., the following ode occurs:

THE DILIGENCE AND REVERENCE OF THE YOUNG WIFE OF AN OFFICER, DOING HER PART
IN SACRIFICIAL OFFERINGS

She gathers the large duckweed,

By the banks of the stream in the southern valley.
She gathers the pondweed,

In those pools left by the floods.

She deposits what she gathers,

In her square baskets and round ones;
She boils it,

In her tripods and pans.

She sets forth her preparations,
Under the window in the ancestral chamber.
Who superintends the business?
It is [this] reverent young lady.

In Legge’s translation of this poem which is given above, the words
“pondweed” and “duckweed” are designated in the original Chinese
version by the character for algae. From this poem we can assume
that even in the time of Confucius algae were considered a food of
great delicacy, even a worthy sacrificial offering to the ancestors since
the ancestral chamber is known to be the room behind the temple
specially dedicated to the ancestors.
401
402 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Algae were also considered an emblematic figure, for in the classical
Book of History, the Chinese character for algae occurs in the follow-
ing, where Legge translated it as “aquatic grass”:

The emperor: “I wish to see the emblematic figures of the ancients—the sun, the
moon, the stars, the mountain, the dragon, and the flowery fowl, which are

depicted on the upper garment; the temple cup, the aquatic grass, the flames,
the grains of rice, the hatchet, and the symbol of distinction, which are embroid-

ered on the lower garment.”
Another use of the beautiful forms of algae as decoration is described
again in the Chinese Classics as follows:

The Master (Confucius) said, “Tsang Wan kept a Jarge tortoise in a house, on
the capitals of the pillars of which he had hills made, with representations of
duckweed on the small pillars above the beams supporting the rafters.”

We also find in the Confucian Analects:

The capitals of the pillars in the grand temple with hills carved on them, and
the pondweed (sao) carving on the small pillars.

In their writings and speech, the Chinese use the character for
algae to describe a thought where the meaning of elegant, or fine
composition is implied, thereby showing their appreciation of the
delicate and intricate morphology of the algae plants.

Algae, or seaweed, are described in the Materia Medica of the
Ancient Chinese as follows: “Whole plant is officinal. Taste bitter
and salt. Nature cold. Nonpoisonous.” “The hai tsao (algae)
grows in Tung hai (Shantung) in ponds and marshes. It is gath-
ered on the seventh day of the seventh month and dried in the sun.”
“It grows on islands in the sea, is of a black colour, and has the
appearance of flowing hair.” ‘Then in the eighth century:

There are two kinds of tsao. The ma wei (horse’s tail) tsao grows in
shallow water. It looks like a short horse tail, is fine-leaved and black.
Before use it must be steeped in water to remove the brackish taste. The other
kind has large leaves and grows in the deep sea near the Kingdom of Sin lo.
The leaves are like those of the shui tsao but larger. The sea people having
attached a rope to their waists glide down to the bottom of the sea and so
secure the seaweed. Owing to the appearance of a large fish, dangerous to
man, it cannot be gathered after the fifth month. This plant is mentioned in
the Rh ya.

Then there is an alga with verticillate leaves called “hair-of-the-
head vegetable.” “Aun pu (a kind of algae) is produced in the
Kastern Sea. It is twisted into rope like hemp. It is of a yellowish
black colour, soft but tough and edible. The A ya calls it lun.”

Still in the eighth century:

The kun pu is produced in the Southern Sea. The leaves are like a hand,
large, and of a purplish red colour. This plant undulates [in the sea]. The
foreigners (Coreans) twist it into ropes, dry it in the shade, and carry it by

ship to China. All the different sorts of hai t’sai (seaweed) resemble each
other in quality and taste, and their medical virtues also are much alike.

USEFUL ALGAE—CHASE 403

Several kinds of algae were used by the ancient Chinese as food.
The large seaweed called Laminaria saccharina and Gracilaria
lichenoides commonly known as Ceylon moss are mentioned as articles
of food in the Chinese Materia Medica. The Chinese regarded a
seaweed diet as cooling but rather debilitating if pursued for a long
time. Both as a food and a medicine was used Porphyra coccinea
which is described in the Chinese Materia Medica as follows:

This algal plant is a sort of laver which is green when in the fresh state and
purple when dry. It grows on the seashore of South China and the Fukienesu
gather it and press it into cakes. It is not poisonous, but when taken in excess
produces colicky pains, flatulence, and eructation of mucus. It is recommended
in diseases of the throat, especially goiter.

The Péntsao recommends all of the medicinal algae in the treat-
ment of goiter. A seaweed called k’un-pu was recommended for
dropsies of all kinds. Gillur-Ka-putta, a dried seaweed collected
near the mouth of the Saghalien River was highly prized in upper
India as a remedy for bronchocele. Lung-shé-ts’ai (dragon’s tongue)
was used as an application in the treatment of abscesses and cancers.
Gracilaria lichenoides was utilized as a demulcent in intestinal and
bladder difficulties. Practically all the medicinal properties of plants
are attributed to the semimythical Shén Nung, known as the First
Farmer or Father of Husbandry and Medicine, and who purportedly
lived in 3000 B. C.

Virgil, the prince of Latin poets, who lived from 70-19 B. C.,
used the phrase “vilior alga” meaning “more vile or worthless than
algae.” Algae grew in great abundance about the Island of Crete.
When it was torn by the violence of the waves from the rocks where
it grew and was then tossed about the sea and finally cast upon
the shore, it became altogether useless, lost its color, and presented
an unseemly appearance. Again, in another passage, Virgil writes
of seaweed beaten back against the shore by the waves. Evidently,
seaweed had no value whatsoever in his experience.

Horace (65-8 B. C.) shared Virgil’s poor estimation of algae. In
his Satires he writes: “But birth and virtue unless [attended] with
substance, is viler than seaweed”; and again, ‘Tomorrow a tempest
sent from the east shall strew the grove with many leaves, and the
shore with useless seaweed, unless that old prophetess of rain, the
raven, deceives me.”

However, Pliny the Elder (A. D. 23-79), the Roman naturalist,
speaks of garments dyed purple with “phycos Mallasion,” a seaweed
like lettuce. He also uses the word “fucus” for dye. Then he uses
the word “algensis,” meaning that which supports itself or lives upon
seaweed.

In his Epigrams, Martial (A. D. 502-102?) writes of “all the
swarthy Indian discovers in Eastern seaweed,” meaning pearls.

430577 —42-—27

404 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941
WHAT ARE ALGAE?

The word “alga” (singular), “algae” (plural) comes from the
Latin and is used by us to designate the large class of plants, the
algae, which are the lowest and simplest in organization of all the
plants in the plant kingdom. The algae, like all the plants with
which we are familiar, possess chlorophyll, or green pigment, and
are thus able to make their own food from inorganic materials such
as carbon dioxide, water, and certain mineral substances with the
aid of light. Alga is derived from the Latin word “algor” which
means “cold.”

The algae include the seaweeds and unicellular and multicellular
green plants that do not possess a true stem, a true root, true leaves,
or true seeds as are found in the higher plants. All of the life proc-
esses of the algae—respiration, photosynthesis (the manufacture of
their food), and reproduction—are organized within their cells. A1-
though they do not have true organs—root, stem, leaves, and seeds—
they possess the green pigment called chlorophyll which is charac-
teristic of plants and essential for the production of their food.

The lower algae include plants whose whole framework consists
of an individual, isolated cell such as the Diatomaceae, Desmidiaceae,
and Palmellaceae. Every function of life is performed within the
cell: the assimilation of gases and salts, the manufacture of their
own food, and growth until the cell reaches the size proper to its
species. Then the nucleus within the cell gradually separates into
two portions and at the same time a cell wall is formed between
each portion, thus forming two cells from the original one cell.
These two cells do not adhere to each other as cells do in a compound
plant, but each half-cell separates from its fellow and starts out
on its own independent career: food manufacture, increase in size,
division at maturity, and then separation of the contents occurs
again. In spite of the fact that these infinitesimal plants are micro-
scopic in size with their uniform and simple structure, they have
an innumerable variety of exquisite and artistic forms, and the secrets
of their mechanism are still puzzling and intriguing the scientists.

In other low forms of algae, the cell is cylindrical and sometimes
lengthened into a threadlike body, or the lengthened cells are joined
end to end as in the Oscillatoriaceae. There is a further advance in
the Vaucheriaceae, where the filiform cell becomes branched without
any interruption to the plant body; and these branching cells some-
times attain inches in length with the diameter of half a hair and
constitute some of the longest cells among plants. In the nearest
genera to Protococcus the frond is a roundish mass of cells which
cohere irregularly by their sides; then more advanced are the Ulvaceae
where the cells are arranged in a compact membranous expansion

USEFUL ALGAE—CHASE 405

formed by the lateral cohesion of a multitude of roundish polygonal
(due to mutual pressure) cells that originate by the quadripartition
of older cells (longitudinal as well as transverse division) so causing
the cell growth to proceed nearly equally in all directions. In Ulva,
or sea lettuce, we find the earliest type of an expanded leaf.

Similarly, the earliest type of a stem may be traced back to the
cylindrical cells of the lower algae. In Conferva, whose body con-
sists of a number of cylindrical cells fastened end to end, all con-
tinually originating by the continual transverse division of an original
cylindrical cell, the frond or plant body continually lengthens but
does not make any lateral growth. It consists of a series of joints
and interspaces and correctly symbolizes the stem of a higher plant
formed of a succession of nodes and internodes. In other genera,
these confervoid threads branch and the branches originate at the
joints or nodes like the leaves and branches of the higher compound
plants. In still other genera of algae, the stems become flattened
at their summits until leaflike parts are formed which again by the
loss of their lateral membranes and by the acquisition of thicker
midribs change back into stems. Among the most highly organized
algae there are leaflike lateral branches that assume the form and,
to an extent, the arrangement of the leaves of higher plants. But
even when the leaflike bodies appear most highly developed in the
algae, they are merely expanded branches as may be seen by observa-
tion of the gradual changes that take place in a young Sargassum
seaweed as the frond lengthens.

The algal cells imbibe their food equally through all parts of their
surface and the food is passed from cell to cell toward the cells that
are assimilating more actively or growing more rapidly. The salts
and gases that compose the food of algae are dissolved in the salt
water or fresh water that surrounds the algal cells or they are in the
air or dissolved in the water in the soil about the algae. For this
reason the alga does not need a true root such as is found in the
higher plants. Where a rootlike organ exists in algae, as in the
larger seaweeds, it is a mere holdfast with the purpose of anchoring
the seaweed to a stone or wooden base and thus preventing the seaweed
from being driven about by the action of the waves. Ordinarily, in
the smaller kinds of seaweeds, it is a simple disk or conical expansion
of the base of the stem that is strongly fastened to the substance on
which the seaweed is growing. In the gigantic oarweeds, or Lami-
naria, where the frond has attained a large size and offers a propor-
tionate resistance to the turbulent waves of the ocean, the central disk
is strengthened by lateral holdfasts or disks formed at the bases
of side rootlike parts emitted from the lower part of the stem, just
406 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

as the tropical screwpine Pandanus puts out cables and shrouds to
support the increasing weight of the growing head of branches. The
branching false roots of the Laminaria are merely compound Fucus
disks and in some few instances, as in Macrocystis, the grasping fibers
of the rootlike part develop extensively and form a matted sub-
stratum from which many stemlike parts originate. The holdfast
extends over the flat surface and adheres to it with no tendency to
penetrate it as do the roots of higher plants. Only on unstable soil,
as on the shores of the Florida Keys, do the rootlike holdfasts of the
Siphoneae and the Caulerpeae penetrate into the sand, forming a
compact cushion but in search of stability in the shifting sands rather
than for food. .

The four chief varieties of color observed among the algae are
green, blue-green, olive green or brown, and red. They form an easy
method for separating the algae into separate divisions since the
classes of color are fairly constant among species that are allied phys-
iologically and morphologically.

The green color of the Chlorophyceae, or green algae, and the
blue-green color of the Cyanophyceae, or blue-green algae, is char-
acteristic of the algae that grow either in trees, in the soil or on
land, on rocks, in fresh water, and in the shallower parts of the sea
where they are exposed to full sunshine but are seldom quite un-
covered by water. About one-fourth of the green and blue-green
algae found in deep water are as vivid a green as those found near
the surface so that it cannot be assumed that the green color, as in
land plants, is due to a perfect exposure to sunlight.

The brown algae, or Phaeophyceae, are most abundant between
tide marks in places where they are exposed to the air at the recess
of the tide, and are thus alternately parched in the sun and flooded
by the cool waves of the returning tide. They may extend to low-
water mark and form a broad belt of vegetation about that level.
A few straggle into deeper water, sometimes into really deep water.
The gigantic deep-water algae Macrocystis, Nereocystis, Lessonia,
and Durvillea are olive-colored.

The red algae, or Rhodophyceae, are most abundant in the deeper
and darker parts of the sea. They rarely grow in tide pools with
the exception of pools shaded from the direct rays of the sun by an
overhanging rock, or by overlying brown algae. The red color is
always most intense and pure when the plant grows in deep water
as may be observed by tracing the same species from the greatest
depth to the least depth at which it is found. Chondrus crispus is
deep-purplish red in deep pools near the low-water mark but in
shallow pools where it is exposed to the sun’s rays it fades to greenish
or whitish shades.

USEFUL ALGAE—CHASE 407

Many species of seaweeds, fresh from the sea, can resist the action
of fresh water while others instantly dissolve and decompose in fresh
water.

In the lowest forms of algae where the whole body consists of a
single cell, some cells gradually change and are converted into a
spore or fruiting body without any obvious contact with other cells.
More frequently, as in the Desmidiaceae and Diatomaceae, a spore
is formed only by the conjugation of two cells or individual plants.
When the two cells are mature, usually filled with darker-colored
chlorophyll, they approach each other. A portion of the cell wall
of each one is then extended into a tubercle at opposite points. The
tubercles come in contact and become confluent as the cell wall be-
tween them vanishes and a tube thus connects the two cells. The
contents of the cells are mixed through this tube and a sporangium,
or new cell filled with spores, is formed either in one of the old cells
or at the point of the connecting tube. Then the old, empty cells
die while the sporangium may remain dormant for a year or several
years. These sporangia which are formed in abundance at the close
of the growing season become buried in the mud at the bottom of
pools where they are encased when the water dries up in the summer,
then in the spring with the return of water they develop new fronds.

The filamentous algae of the pools and ditches also form new plants
in this manner. Almost every cell of these filaments is fertile and
when two filaments are joined together a series of sporangia will be
formed on one filament while the other is converted into a string of
dead, empty cells.

In the highest algae there appear to be two sexes. The sporangium
is fertilized when it is in its most elementary form and when it
cannot be distinguished from an ordinary cell. The fertilizing
organs are called antheridia and are most readily seen among the
Fucaceae.

Besides reproducing by single spores many algae have another and
sometimes a third means of reproduction.

As has already been mentioned, the simplest algae divide by the
division of a single cell into two cells.

In the green algae, the homogenous, semifluid consistence of the
cell becomes granulated. The granules detach themselves from the
cell wall and float freely in the cell. At first they are irregular in
shape but gradually they become spherical. They congregate in a
dense mass in the center of the cell and a movement similar to
that of bees around their queen commences. One by one the active °
zoospores detach themselves from each other and move rapidly
about in the vacant space in the swarm cell. They continually push
against the cell wall until it is broken, when their spontaneous move-
408 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

ments continue for some time in the surrounding fluid. The zoo-
spores become fixed to a submerged object where they proceed to
develop cells and grow into algae similar to the ones from which they
originated.

NATURE'S UTILIZATION OF ALGAE

Now when algae are used in myriad ways in food, agriculture, in-
dustry, medicine, photography, and even in cosmetics, it seems strange
that, considering the great quantity of them growing all over the
world in the ocean as well as in fresh water and on land, their full
usefulness has been so slowly realized by man. Wise old Mother
Nature has always allotted them their role in her scheme of life
although man has been tardy in recognizing it and in applying her
methods of their utilization to his own needs.

The great abundance of algae in the sea and on the land is not
merely an indication of nature’s generosity. The microscopic and
visible algae that fill the ocean are there for a direct purpose whether
man sees fit to utilize them or not. For the oceans are teeming with
animal life varying in size from microscopic polyps to the mam-
moth whales which could not exist without the aid of the plant life.
One of nature’s many laws is that animal life requires nutriment pre-
pared by the plant life, and plants are necessary to change the min-
eral constituents of their surrounding environment into available nu-
triment for the animals. In the sea, the algae are the only plants that
can grow and therefore a large number of species of sea animals are
directly dependent upon them for their food, while other species
depend upon them indirectly. The algae are indispensable to the
continuity of animal life in the sea. The green fat of the turtle and
the green material present in the lobster are indicative of their source
ef nourishment—the algae.

There is a famous Chinese proverb:

Big fish eat little fish

Little fish eat shrimp

Shrimp eat mud.
The so-called mud is full of microscopic algae. The alimentary can-
als of small and large fish have long been happy hunting grounds
for biologists. The unicellular algae and diatoms are the salad of
the water. They are so minute as to be available for the consump-
tion of the smallest animal organisms, and yet, because of their
abundance, they may represent the sole food supply of some of the
‘ larger forms of fish. They are highly nutritious, and not one among
the thousands of living species is deleterious. The abundance of
the plant growth in the water is responsible for the abundance of the
fish supply. Dr. Albert Mann, the noted diatomist, examined the stom-
ach contents of some young hake (fish about 5 inches in length).
USEFUL ALGAE—CHASE 409

The stomachs were filled with small herring. The herring in turn
were gorged with two species of copepods; and the copepods were
filled with diatoms and algae. As Dr. Mann pointed out: “Very
clearly this chain of four links is equal to a sentence of four words.
No diatoms, no hake.”

Tiffany was able to identify 150 species and varieties of algae
in the digestive tract of Dorosoma cepedianum (gizzard shad) which
he observed to be a highly vegetarian fish. In a similar study made
by Coyle, 128 species of algae were determined in another fish,
Pimephales promelas (the fathead minnow). Two other species of
minnows, Notropis procue and Ewoglossum mazwillingua, are also
known to consume much vegetable matter including filamentous algae
and diatoms. These minnows are food for the game fish.

The cultivation of Bangos in the Philippines has been described in
detail by Adams, Montalbin, and Martin. Lab-lab is the name
given to the food of the fry of the milkfish. It is composed of
unicellular, colonial, and filamentous blue-green algae, unicellular
green algae, diatoms, bacteria, protozoa, minute worms, and small
crustaceans. The pond bottom is cleaned two or three times by flow-
ing water freely into it and out of it. The pond is then exposed
to sunshine for 2 or 3 days. When the pond bottom is dry, water
is turned into it to a depth of 3 to 5 centimeters. The lab-lab
develops in 3 to 5 days, then the water is increased to a depth of
12 centimeters. The fry feed on the lab-lab and, when they are
older, on the filamentous green algae that develop over a depth of
12 centimeters. The algae thrive especially where the water is brack-
ish. Mullet also feed on the algae.

Velasquez has studied the algae in the digestive tract of Dorosoma
cepedianum (the gizzard shad) in an effort to ascertain the ecological
balance of fish ponds in which vegetarian fish are an important part
of the fauna. He observed that the overstocking of fish ponds in the
Philippines is often followed by a great predominance of blue-green
algae which give the fish a bad taste. He found by culturing the
stomach contents of the fish that the digested algae which had been
present in the water supply but were not viable and so did not appear
in the cultures were Bacillariaceae (diatoms), Volvocaceae, Dino-
bryon of the Heterokontae, and filamentous green algae. On the other
hand, 30 species and varieties of Chlorophyceae, 12 species and varie-
ties of Myxophyceae, 4 species of Bacillariaceae, 2 species of Hetero-
kontae, and 1 species of Euglenophyceae passed undigested through
the digestive tract. His investigation indicates that one of the
sources of selective increase of certain algae in nature, and con-
versely, of the decrease of others, is due to the vegetarian fishes.
410 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

It should also be emphasized that the presence of a plentiful supply
of plant life (algae) in waters where there is an abundance of fish
is also of importance in regulating the balance of carbon dioxide and
oxygen. Since the algae use in the production of their food a large
amount of carbon dioxide which is given off by the fish, and the
fish need a large amount of oxygen which is given off by the algae,
the two forms of life derive mutual benefit from their association.

Of great importance in nature is the effect of algal growth on
air and water. But before developing this subject further, it seems
necessary to describe briefly the food substances and conditions
necessary for the growth of algae. We already know that algae, like
other plants, need certain essential elements for their growth. Cal-
cium is not essential for many algae, but certain of them are unable
to develop without it. Calcium, potassium, and magnesium are im-
portant because their bicarbonates furnish a supplemental supply of
carbon dioxide for photosynthesis, which is the production of sugar
from water and carbon dioxide taking place by the action of
chlorophyll in light. During this process, a part of the oxygen is
set free, thus providing oxygen for the respiration of animals which
in turn throw off carbon dioxide for the plants. It should also be
mentioned here that algae also use nitrogen in the form of nitrates,
nitrites, or ammonium compounds. A small quantity of iron is also
essential to their growth. Under certain conditions, the nature and
quantity of the available calcium, magnesium, potassium, nitrogen,
and iron compounds have a direct influence upon the existing type
of algal flora just as the varying diets of the different races of people
affect their characteristic appearance and habits.

Light, owing to the fact that it is essential for photosynthesis,
would seem to be an important factor in the environment of algae.
But algae differ markedly in their tolerance of light intensity, as has
been shown by our experiments here at the Smithsonian Institution.
Provided their food is prepared and in available form, some algae
exist in a green condition in the depths of the earth and the ocean
with a very small amount of light. The intensity of light that is
available for plants growing under water below a depth of 1 meter
decreases more or less uniformly with the depth. The turbidity of
the water also has an effect on the quality of the light. Water ab-
sorbs energy in the infrared and red regions of the spectrum to a
much greater extent than in the blue region. As a consequence plants
in clear water receive a relatively large percentage of light within
the region 4,400 to 5,800 Angstroms. Most plants cannot survive
indefinitely in light intensities too low to permit sufficiently rapid
photosynthesis to balance the carbohydrates used up in respiration.
USEFUL ALGAE—CHASE 411

The depth at which the compensation point occurs depends on the
species as well as on the quantity of light available. The point at
which photosynthesis just balanced respiration for certain algae was
found to occur from 7 to 20 meters in turbid water and at 30 meters
in clearer water. The optimum location for photosynthesis in the
lakes of northern Wisconsin was found to be at the surface on cloudy
days and at a depth of about 5 meters on fair, bright days. The
brown and green algae require higher light intensities for a photo-
synthetic balance than the red algae. The ability of the red algae
to live at greater depths than the green or brown algae may be due
to the fact that the red algae absorb a greater percentage of blue
light.

Temperature has an important effect on the acceleration or retarda-
tion of growth and reproduction, and under exceptional conditions
the temperature of the habitat restricts the algal population to certain
species.

The quantity of water or moisture necessary for algal growth
varies, as may be seen, from the large amount required by the plants
that live submerged in the ocean to the infinitesimal quantity at the
disposal of the aerial algae.

The essential part that algae play in the life cycle of animals,
which is their use of carbon dioxide and their throwing off of oxygen
in the free state, keeps the water surrounding them pure. A large
amount of oxygen is also yielded to the atmosphere during their
processes of growth. It is a well-known fact that, whenever land
becomes flooded or wherever an extensive surface of either salt or
fresh shallow water is exposed to the air, Confervaceae and other
allied forms of algae quickly multiply. Stagnant pools and ditches as
well as water standing in urns or flowerpots in the open air quickly
fill up with green scum and green silken threads. This scum and
these threads cannot grow without emitting oxygen, and on a sunny
day, the bubbles of oxygen can be observed to collect where the scum
or threads are massed together. The oxygen continually passes off
into the air while the algae usually vegetate vigorously, one species
succeeding another as long as the water remains. When the land or
the container dries up, the algal bodies, which are merely membra-
nous skins filled with fluid, shrivel and are carried away by the wind
or form a papery film over the surface of the soil or the container.
The majority of species do not cause the air about them to become
obnoxious by their decomposition. Each small individual cell does
not yield a great deal of oxygen, it is true, but the aggregate yield
from the algal cells is vast when we take into consideration the
extensive surfaces of water spread over the earth. Nature has placed
412 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

her lowest form of plant life in them to help maintain a pure and
healthy atmosphere.

Moreland (1937) writes of the puzzlement of the inhabitants in
certain sections of Louisiana when they observed unusual deposits
of thick, cobwebby, or paperlike material hanging from weeds and
other vegetation after the spring floodwaters of the Atchafalaya and
Ouchita Rivers had receded (pl. 1). In one section, near Jonesville,
La., the paperlike deposit not only clung to vegetation but covered
the ground and fences which looked as if they were covered with
snow. When an examination was made of the material which ap-
peared microscopically to be composed of unbranched filaments
interwoven similarly to the fiber of lens paper, it was found that the
substance was formed by the luxuriant growth of certain species of
green algae including filaments of 7’ribonema, Ocdogonium, and
Spirogyra. The overflow water which was almost free of sedi-
mentation had come early in the season when the temperature was
especially favorable for the growth of these algae. Undoubtedly,
the air over these flooded lands was purified by their presence.

It has also been shown by scientists that certain algae play a role
‘in the nitrogen cycle in the soil. They do this directly by fixing
gaseous compounds and indirectly by supplying nitrogen-fixing bac-
teria, especially Azotobacter, with available carbon compounds, pro-
duced by algal photosynthesis, and which are used by the bacteria
as sources of energy necessary for the fixation process. Both green
algae and blue-green algae can stimulate the activity of nitrogen-
fixing bacteria. Very recently it has been definitely established that
certain species of blue-green algae can fix atmospheric nitrogen in
the light though not in darkness. However, their practical impor-
tance in the nitrogen economy of the soil remains to be determined
since there is little known concerning the distribution and abun-
dance of these algae in the soil and the conditions which determine
natural fixation.

Algae have for some time been recognized as nature’s pioneers in
plant succession, and for that reason are now assuming importance
in man’s efforts to control erosion.

Treub describes the manner in which slimy layers of algae ap-
peared over the surface of cinders and rocks on the Island of Kra-
katau 3 years after a volcanic eruption which had denuded the island
ofall visible plant life. By the growth, death, and decay of these
algae, the island surface was rapidly prepared for the growth of
mosses, ferns, and higher plants. Fritsch believes that an algal
covering on the surface of dry, sandy soil regulates the moisture of
the soil and thus provides a shelter for seed plants.
USEFUL ALGAE—CHASE 413

Graebner listed the species of soil algae found in a plant com-
munity as a whole on the heaths of northern Germany and ascribes
to them great importance since they are the first immigrants on new
soil and cause the first formation of humus in poor soil. He enumer-
ated 31 species of Cyanophyceae, three species of Diatomaceae, and
18 species of Chlorophyceae found on these uncultivated heaths.

Fritsch and Salisbury described the succession of cryptogams
(plants that do not bear true seeds) on burnt heath in England.
The first immigrants were the green algae Cystococcus humicola,
Gloeocystis vesiculosa, Trochiscia aspera, and Dactylococcus infusi-
onum. Various fungi grow in their mucilaginous envelopes, and by
degrees, lichens (a symbiosis of algae and fungi) appear. With
the formation of lichen thalli, filamentous algae, Mesotaeniwm vio-
lascens, Hormidium flaccidum, and Zygogonium ericetonium appear.

The investigation of a single locality in east Greenland has shown
that subterranean algae are present in the absolutely virgin soil
there.

The soil in a rice field is inundated with water once or twice a
year for a period of 8 to 12 weeks. Holsinger found a quantity of
green and blue-green algae growing in this water.

Harrison and Aiyer have shown; that a surface stratum composed
of algae and other organisms in the irrigation ditches of rice fields
plays an important part in the production of oxygen necessary for
the growth of rice roots.

The cultivated paddy soils of the United Provinces (Benares,
Mirzapur, Gorakhpur, and Basti) consisting of large tracts covering
an area of at least 5,000 acres were investigated by Singh and found
to contain 43 species of green and blue-green algae that were at
a depth of 2 inches, 6 inches, and 12 inches. None were found in
the wet fields. When the soils dried up, the blue-green algae were
found to withstand desiccation longer than the green algae.

Algae can withstand drought better than the higher plants. This
is illustrated during very dry periods in the summer when the grass
is killed by drought. Piercy has shown that the green alga Hor-
midium which lives through periods of dryness will then begin to
grow where the grass has been killed in the next succeeding damp
period, usually in the springtime, and will spread extensively. The
algae evidently help prepare the soil for the grass as numerous grass
seeds then germinate and form a dense carpet of grass which will
choke the algae and force them to disappear until the next summer
drought.

Petersen and Puymaly have also described how the soil algae in
a garden walk are constantly competing with the grass weeds that
414 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

crop up. Whenever the grass is weeded out, the algae attain a
vigorous growth which gradually ceases with the renewed appear-
ance of the grass.

Various scientists have described the presence of algal crust on
large areas of soil during drought and how, by the addition of
organic matter to the soil due to their decay, the land is made ready
for the growth of grasses. Very recently, Booth (1941) has written
of a series of scientific experiments that attempted to discover the
use of algae in the control of erosion. Several species of algae
belonging to the Myxophyceae grow in algal crusts on the residual
Red Plains soils of central Oklahoma. This crust of algae forms
during the wet seasons on sandy, wind-blown soil and is able to
hold the soil in place during heavy winds. The crust is often
broken by trampling and then is easily undermined which, together
with covering by sand, leads to its final destruction. Hundreds of
acres of badly eroded land in the south-central United States were
chosen for study. The badly eroded land was due to overgrazing,
to cultivating the land for a brief period and then abandoning it,
or to frequent burning. Excessive erosion on the cultivated fields
had changed the top soil so that the native climax plants were un-
able to become established until the slow process of plant succession
and the building up of humus in the soil would recreate a suitable
environment. In such places soil algae are of great importance as
after a short time they are accompanied by mosses and annual seed
plants. After study and experimentation on this area, Booth came
to the conclusion that several species of soil algae constitute an
initial stage in plant succession by the formation of a complete algal
layer over these badly eroded acres. This plant cover may last for
many years until higher perennial plants are able to form an abun-
dant ground cover. The algal stratum does not slow down the rate
of infiltration of water into the soil except in one case studied where
there is a slight retardation for about the first 7 mm. of water. The
soil losses from plots protected by the algal stratum were greatly
reduced as compared with the losses from bare areas. The resistance
of the algal crust to erosion is evidently the result of the union of
the surface particles of soil into a nonerosible layer which is found
to be very effective in breaking the force of falling water. Experi-
mental tests indicated a higher moisture content in the top inch of
soil which has had the protection of an algal layer, than in bare
soil.

Fritsch sums up the chief benefits which the very important soil
algae contribute as follows: Their faculty of withstanding drought
without appreciable change and without the assumption of special
resting stages; their ability to absorb atmospheric vapor as well as
USEFUL ALGAE—CHASE 415

water (liquid) thus enabling them to tide over periods of drought
and to start growth as soon as wet weather begins; their successful
competition with higher plants during drought; and the fact that
after death they must form surface humus. The algae that grow
in the soil to a depth of 6 inches surely must enrich it with the
addition of organic material.

Not all of the marine algae are small, ornamental, delicate sea
mosses or coarse, succulent, unattractive kelps or rockweeds, which
have in both cases little substance remaining after their decay. There
are many different kinds of marine plants that secrete lime from
the sea water and are more or less hard and stonelike, although they
form beautiful purple and lavender incrustations, so that their decay
or continued upward growth is accompanied by a considerable in-
crease in the height of the sea bottom where these plants are growing.
The corals (animals) are, generally speaking, confined to the tropi-
cal seas, but the corallines (lime-secreting seaweeds which have a
superficial resemblance to the corals) are more widely distributed.
The fact has been known for years that the corals and other lime-
secreting animals are active agents in building reefs and forming
land, but only recently has it been noted that certain marine algae
or seaweed, the corallines, have a function in the same great work.
Kjellman has stated that off the shores of Spitzbergen and Nova
Zembla Lithothamnion glaciale, a coralline, forms thick layers on
the ocean floor at a depth of 60 to 120 feet in the water and that in
the future formation of the strata of the earth’s crust in these re-
gions it will become of essential importance. Algae probably form
the largest mass of the shell sands of Bermuda. Sir John Murray,
in reporting the results of the famous Challenger expedition, has
recorded that in three out of four samples of so-called coral sand
or mud from Bermuda, over 50 percent of the mass has been com-
posed of the calcareous seaweeds and their broken-down parts.
Materials brought up by borings that were made to a depth of 1,100
feet in Funafiuti, a true coral island of the Ellica group, indicate
that the lime-secreting seaweeds have been of greater importance
than the corals in the formation of this island.

Nature’s provision of vast beds or groves of giant kelp of the genus
Sargassum of the order Fucaceae has been appreciated by voyagers
since the time of the Phoenicians. Aristotle speaks of the weedy
sea which they found at the termination of their voyage, and un-
doubtedly he was referring to the kelp. Columbus was the first
voyager of modern times (September 16, 1492) to encounter it but it
is possible that the same bank of seaweeds that he discovered was
the one found by the Phoenicians. A great bank of Sargassum
extends between the twentieth and forty-fifth parallels of north lati-
416 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

tude and in 40° W. of Greenwich which appears to occupy the same
position today that it did in the time of Columbus. Between this
bank and the American shores, there are various smaller areas and
detached masses of this seaweed which are thrown into the ocean by
the eddies caused by the subcircular motion of the great ocean currents.
Humboldt computed that the whole of this area of seaweed in the ocean
covered about 260,000 square miles, but not all this space is completely
occupied with the floating seaweed. In many places there are spaces
of clear water between distant and narrow ridges of the seaweed.

The geographical range of the Fucaceae is very extensive. It is
found on the eastern shores of Europe and on the western shores of the
American continent and in great abundance also off the shores of Japan
and China. Later, we shall study more fully the economic impor-
tance which it has in industrial life. It is thought that it probably
originated in rocks off the southern reefs and keys, where it was torn
by the storms from the rocks and as it floated about in the ocean con-
tinued growth from its broken parts.

The giant kelp, as it is called on the Pacific coast, grows in such
great abundance that it sometimes forms natural breakwaters for
harbors, as at Santa Barbara, Calif. It also was greatly appreciated
by the early navigators since, when it grows close to the shore, it is
usually attached by holdfasts to large rocks so that mariners were
many times saved from shipwreck by the danger signals formed by
these large olive-brown floating seaweeds.

ALGAE AS FOOD

In the most primitive civilizations man is forced to seek from the
vegetable kingdom sources of food, especially in times when animals
are not plentiful. Since the earliest times, algae have been used by
man as food, especially as condiments, and a number of civilized
peoples still consume the seaweeds.

The Chinese and the Japanese doubtless use a greater quantity of
seaweed as food than any other peoples, although the Hawaiians eat
it in large amounts.

The beautiful livid purple gelatinous but firm membranaceous sea-
weed called Porphyra, which is cosmopolitan in its growth, is one
of the most important food plants in Japan. It is consumed by every
class of the Japanese people and the cultivation of Porphyra is one
of Japan’s leading industries. The Japanese call it amanori or laver
(pl. 2, fig. 1). It grows abundantly in bays and near the mouths of
rivers on all parts of the Japanese coast. Its cultivation was begun
at a very early date in Japan, and its financial returns, considering
the average yield per acre, are not surpassed by many branches of
Japanese agriculture. The earliest and most celebrated Porphyra
USEFUL ALGAE—CHASE 417

grounds were in Tokyo Bay. One or two centuries ago, according
to Smith (1904a), Porphyra grew in natural quantities at the mouth
of the Sumidagawa, near Asakusa, in Tokyo. As the river carried
down large amounts of gravel, its mouth advanced farther and far-
ther into the sea, thus making the waters near Asakusa too fresh for
its growth. To the dismay of the inhabitants Porphyra ceased to
grow there. Then the cultivation of Porphyra was begun. The
quality of the cultivated Porphyra is dependent largely on the
weather. It is best after frequent rains and snowfalls have made
the shallow water brackish.

Harvey tells us varieties of Porphyra are gathered in winter off
the rocky shores of Europe. The British and French boil it for
many hours until it forms a dark brown semifluid mass which is
called marine sauce, sloke, slouk, or sloucawn. Lemon juice or vine-
gar is served with it and its flavor is more delectable than its appear-
ance. At some of the British establishments for preserving fresh
vegetables, it was in the past century put up in hermetically sealed
cases for exportation and use at sea, or for use at seasons when it
did not grow on the rocks. In winter, the Porphyra fronds grow
abundantly on the rocky coasts of Europe and North America.
Porphyra is not only regarded as antiscorbutic but is said to be useful
in glandular swellings, possibly because of the minute quantity of
iodine which it contains.

Harrington states that the Indians have used Porphyra for thou-
sands of years, ever since they came from Siberia. It grows on
the Gulf of Alaska and along the whole archipelago of Alaska as
well as on the shores of Washington, Oregon, and California. Wher-
ever it grows, the Indians would hunt for it.

The Indian does not believe in using salt on his food. The Iro-
quois referred to a white man as “a salty one” because they ate people
and they knew that the white man had a saltier taste than the red
man. The Indians would not salt their mush, or their eggs, as
they believed that salt would make their hair turn gray and their
toes turn up before their time. Salt was white man’s style so it
should be avoided, but sea lettuce, as they called laver, was native
style, and therefore they gathered the sea lettuce with which they
supplied the salt need of their bodies. The Indians collected the sea
lettuce in the spring because their grandfathers were accustomed to
gather it at that time.

The various kinds of kelp, coarse, broad-fronded members of the
Laminariaceae family (pl. 3, fig. 1) form an important food product
of Japan, and large amounts of the kelp or kombu, the name of the
foods made from kelp, are exported from Japan to China. Kombu
products have been sent to the East Indies and San Francisco but
418 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

there is very little sale for kelp as a food here where the dietary
standards differ so radically from those of the Occident. It is valu-
able to Japan because of its cheapness and the number of ways in
which it can be prepared as food. Most of the kelp is obtained from
Hokkaido, the most northern of the main islands of the Japanese
Archipelago. The kelps grow on all parts of the coast, but those
of highest quality are found on the northeastern coast which is
washed by the Arctic current.

Undoubtedly the most important seaweeds used as food and in
industry are those with jelly-making properties that belong to the
family Gelidiaceae. Agar is made chiefly from the algae Gracilaria
lichenoides, Gelidium corneum (pl. 2, fig. 2) and other closely re-
lated species of Gelidiwm. The Chinese introduced it to Japan in
A. D. 1662. It was used principally as a substitute for bird’s-nest
soup stock and as a summer jelly. It is used in Japan, China, and
India as an ingredient of soups and sauces, and is also used as a
sort of dessert and as a candy. In Japan it is called Kan-Ten
which means “cold weather” as the substance made from the algae can
only be manufactured during the winter months. The manufactured
product is called agar.

In the early years of its use, or rather before the large agar indus-
try was developed, the seaweed was merely boiled to form a mass of
jelly, but at the present time the agar of commerce is in the form
of sheets, sticks, bars, and flakes.

Kan-Ten is pearly white, shiny, transparent, tasteless, and odor-
less. It swells in cold water but does not dissolve, and is soluble in
boiling water and easily forms a jelly. In foreign countries it is
used chiefly where a gelatin is required such as in making jellies,
soups, sauces, candies, pasteries, and many desserts, in all of which
it is far superior to animal isinglass or gelatin. It is also used for
the clarifying of wines, beers, coffee, and other drinks.

Agar is used to a great extent in the United States. It is very
desirable in food manufacture as it jells rapidly and at relatively
high temperatures without the assistance of intermediary substances.
It has proved very economical because of its high gel strength. Ex-
periments have shown tnat agar in bread and pastries, on account
of its high moisture-retaining quality, keeps them fresh longer. The
confectioner can use it to make a healthful jelly candy with less
sugar by using agar in %4 to 1 percent solutions. For that reason
it is very economical. It provides a good body to drinks, and acts
as a stabilizer in chocolate drinks and syrups, in which it prevents the
forming of sediment. A manufacturer of ginger ale and fruit syrups
believes that it sharpens the flavor. Agar has proved to be of great
value commercially in the manufacture of sherbets, ice creams, and
USEFUL ALGAE—CHASE 419

cheeses. It imparts a smoother texture to the product and also acts
as a stabilizer. It has been highly recommended by the manufac-
turers of mayonnaise, and Tressler (1923) states that it is superior
to gelatin in preventing the disintegration of fish and meat products
in cans, as the agar retains its gelling power to a greater extent than
gelatin after subjection to the higher temperatures necessary in
processing fish and meat foods. Many breakfast and health food
manufacturers are incorporating agar in their products since
although it has no food value in itself, it helps to modify highly con-
centrated diets and acts mechanically in a manner similar to the
cellulose of vegetable foods, and consequently can be considered
excellent roughage.

Japan has long been the world’s greatest exporter of agar. But
considering the large supply of the agar-forming seaweeds that grow
on our own Pacific coast and the modern equipment in the factories
here, which is far superior to that in Japan, where most of the
preparation of the product is done by hand, there is no reason to
fear that American manufacturers will be unable to supply all of our
needs for this indispensable product.

Another seaweed that forms a nearly colorless, insipid jelly, and
can be cooked with milk, seasoned with vanilla or fruit and thus
rendered highly palatable, is Chondrus crispus, the carrageen or
Irish moss of the markets. It is a nourishing form of diet for
invalids and has been recommended in medical cases as will be seen
later. It grows abundantly on the rocky coasts of Europe and on
the shores of the northern States of America.

Chondrus crispus is a red seaweed of the family Gigartinaceae.
(See pl. 3, fig. 2.) It is a perennial plant that reaches its full develop-
ment in the spring and summer. The tufted plants vary from
dark green to red in color and after drying are almost gray or white.
The center of the industry in the United States is at Scituate,
Mass. In 1939, 200,000 pounds of moss was “pulled” bringing in a
total of about $20,000. Two and a half hours before low tide, the
mosser puts on oilskin overalls and rubber boots and sets out in his
dory, equipped with pulling rake and a bottle of cod-liver oil to
smooth the water. The moss is bleached on the beach (pl. 4) where
the successive stages in the process, deep purple, dark red, pink,
light brown, and finally yellowish white, turn the shore into a
gigantic patchwork quilt. The moss is washed in salt water, dried,
packed in barrels, and shipped to the market.

Irish moss is best known as a preparation for delectable blanc
manges. It is also used in confections as a filler, and to give body
to candy. In ice cream it serves as a stabilizer and prevents melting,
since by its use the consistency of the ice cream is only partially
dependent on low temperatures.

430577—42-—28
420 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

One of the most important uses of Irish moss before prohibition
was in the “fining” of beers and ales. The cloudy solution of malt
extract in the early stages of beer brewing contains insoluble and
undesirable proteins which can be removed by a tedious process of
settling or a swift process of “fining.” The Irish moss is added to
the brew while it is being boiled. The gelatin freed from the sea-
weed by boiling unites with the tanin of the hops to form a floccu-
lent mass which encloses the suspended particles, the impurities,
which are then removed as a scum. With the repeal of prohibition
and the reopening of the beer industries, many manufacturers began
to use chemical finings to fine their beers. The use of Irish moss is
very economical as half a crateful of it is more than enough to
clarify 500 barrels of beer. Irish moss may also be used in the
fining of coffee, for which purpose it is more economical than eggs.

Algin, a mucilaginous product obtained from the kelps of the brown
seaweed family, as described in more detail in the section on algae as
cosmetics, is also extensively used in the food industry. Algin is non-
toxic, possesses nutritive value, and is not an allergen. It is used pri-
marily in foods as a stabilizer, chiefly in ice cream, where it prevents
the formation of large ice crystals without masking the flavor and
produces an ice cream that has a smooth, velvety texture of creamy
consistency. It facilitates ice cream manufacture since ice creams
made with algin whip fast and do not require any “aging” before
freezing. It is of similar use in water ices and sherbets. It is used
as a suspending agent for the cocoa fibers in chocolate milk, and in
milk puddings it acts asa jellying agent. It is used as an emulsifying
and stabilizing agent in place of starch and various gums in salad dress-
ing. It is also found to be a valuable addition to doughnuts, cakes,
icings, buttermilk, cream, and confectioneries, especially marsh-
mallows.

The vegetable stabilizers, agar, algin, and Irish moss, notwithstand-
ing their higher price, have been increasingly used in the manufacture
of ice cream instead of animal gelatin. Their use has been stimulated
by the objection of the orthodox Jews to the use of animal gelatin in
the manufacture of ice cream as it is contrary to the ritua! of orthodox
Jewry to eat an animal product combined with a dairy product. To
meet this objection, some manufacturers have completely abandoned
the use of animal gelatin as a stabilizer in their products.

The dulse (Scotch) or dillsk (Irish), Rhodymenia palmata, is one of
the red seaweeds with which Americans are familiar as it is often found
in a rough-dried state in the water-front markets of Boston, New
York, and other seaports of the United States. (See pl. 5, fig. 3.)
In some places on the west of Ireland, this seaweed forms the chief
relish to the Irishman’s potatoes. Its use is not confined to the poor

USEFUL ALGAE—CHASE 421

alone since children are particularly fond of it. In the Mediter-
ranean, it forms a common ingredient in soups. It is usually eaten
raw or dried as a sort of salad or relish. In the olden days, it is said
that some of the Scotch or Irish were addicted to chewing it before
tobacco and chewing gum became popular.

It is natural that the peasants and the fishermen should use more
varieties of seaweed as their food than do the better classes in Japan
and China.

MacCaughey (1916) has written an interesting account of the im-
portance of seaweed in the dietary of the Hawaiians. The ancient
Hawaiians considered seaweeds a necessary staple of their daily
food, and many present-day Hawaiians still consume it. The vil-
lages of Hawaii, like those of other parts of Polynesia, were usually
situated near the seashore. The Hawaiians were a maritime people
and very familiar with all the sea products, since the greater part
of the population was habitually engaged in fishing. The protracted
labor and hazard involved in the deep-sea fishing made it the work
of the men, but the women and the children as well as the men en-
joyed reef fishing. A wide variety of marine edibles including crabs,
crayfish, shrimps, mollusks, holothurians, sea-urchins, octopi, and
fish of many kinds were obtained from the lagoons and shallower
waters. The native limu, the Hawaiian name for seaweed, formed
an important element in these waters also. About 75 species of sea-
weed were used as food in this island world, and for each species the
Hawaiians had a specific name. In fact, Hawaii is noted for having
the largest variety of edible seaweeds in the world, although they
are poor in quantity as compared with those of Japan and other
parts of the world.

The seaweed was collected in various ways according to the nature
of the habitat. Some species, such as Sargassum and Gracilaria,
drift ashore in abundance and were easily gathered. Other kinds,
growing in the quiet waters near the shore, such as Ulva, ntero-
morpha and Chondria were readily collected by the older women
and the children. Those seaweeds with stout stems and holdfasts,
occupying the black lava rocks in rough waters where they were
continually pounded by the surf, could only be collected by the ex-
perienced swimmers, the men and the younger women. They used
a sharp stone or chisel to separate them from the rocks. Gelidium
and Porphyra are of this type. Still another type including Gym-
nogongrus and Dictyota, grew on the outer edges of the reef where
the heavy rollers break. These were usually gathered by the men
in outrigger canoes. A few species, such as Porphyra laucostica,
occur only in restricted localities or during brief seasons, thereby
making them choice delicacies to be served only to the nobility, or
422 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

they were consumed only locally and not generally used by the entire
population.

The Hawaiians anticipated by many centuries the more recently
advocated plans of limnologists for cultivating economically aquatic
vegetation. In the olden time, the Hawaiian nobility had the rare
and choice varieties of limu transplanted to the vicinity of the chief’s
beach home where they were protected and easily available. The
fish ponds were used frequently as algal gardens. The less desirable
algae were weeded out and the semicultivated forms developed much
more luxuriantly than they otherwise would have done. One of the
ancient royal limu gardens is near the beach residence of ex-queen
Liliuokalani at Honolulu.

With the advent of the white man on the island, the collecting of
seaweeds was greatly facilitated by the glass-bottomed “water-boxes”
and sharpened iron rods. The natives quickly observed their useful-
ness and adopted them. In ancient times, the limu gatherer had been
compelled to rely on his vision alone and a simple stone chisel.

The women took charge of the seaweeds when they were brought
ashore. The various kinds were sorted and then washed in salt
water and fresh water. Certain species decayed rapidly when
washed in fresh water, so they were rinsed in salt water and eaten
immediately after preparation. After the other limu had been
cleaned, it was salted, chopped or broken into small fragments, and
eaten raw like a salad or relish. It was the universal accompaniment
of the fish that formed the essential part of the native diet. At times
of war or famine when the usual supply of vegetables, such as taro,
sweet potatoes, or yams fell short, the limu was cooked in an under-
ground oven with the meats.

Certain types of filamentous algae that grew in the mountain
streams as well as some marine forms were subjected to a “ripening”
process. This limu was soaked in fresh water for 24 hours or more,
thus causing the partial decomposition of the seaweed and the de-
velopment of a strong odor.

Finely chopped limu was eaten with raw fish, squid, shrimps,
limpets, crabs, sea-urchins, holothurians, kukui nuts, and chili pep-
pers. One of the favorite relishes was made by roasting kernels of
the kukui nuts (Aleurites moluccana) or candlenut, chopping them
fine, and then mixing them with limu and salt. This was kept for
months in glass jars and was excellent with bread and butter as well
as with cold meats. It resembled Russian caviar in flavor, and was
served with poi. raw or cooked fish, or roast meats.

In modern times, in spite of the great shrinkage of the native pop-
ulation, limu forms a staple article of merchandise at the fish markets.
USEFUL ALGAE—CHASE 423

In Honolulu, the chief market in Hawaii, the annual sales for 1 year
amounted to about 5,000 pounds, selling at about $2,500. This limu
consisted of Kohu, Asparagopsis sanfordiana, limu ele-ele, E'ntero-
morpha spp., and limu-o-olu, Chondria tenuissima. Hawaii’s pre-
ponderant oriental population uses large quantities of the seaweed.

In the Philippines, especially in the northern provinces of Luzon,
seaweeds are commonly boiled and mixed with vegetables. In the
Bicol regions the algae belonging to the Caulerpa group, are used
chiefly. In Ilocos, Cagayan, and La Union Provinces, the seaweeds
are eaten raw as salads. The following are some of the edible vari-
eties found in Ilocos and Cagayan Provinces: Aganthopera orien-
tales, Caulerpa racemosa var. wifera, C. sertulariodis, C. Freycin-
netti, probably C. peliata but possibly a form of C. chemnitzia,
Chaetomorpha, Enteromorpha, Gracilaria, Hydroclathrus cancel-
latus, Hypnea (near H. nidifica), and Sargassum.

Some of the edible varieties found in La Union Province are
Aghardiella sp., Fucus, commonly found in Manila Bay, Chaeto-
morpha crassa (Ag.) Kutz, Codiwm tenue Kutz, Enteromorpha in-
testinales, Eucheuma spinosum (L.) J. Ag., Gracilaria confervoides
L. Grev., Gracilaria crassa Harv., Halmenia formosa Harv., Liagora
cheuneana Harv., and Sargassum siliquosum.

In Guam, the natives use some of the gelatinous forms for making
blanc mange, according to Safford.

Some of the passerine birds use their saliva to glue together the
feathers and twigs with which they build their nests. This habit
points to the extraordinary ability of the sea swift Callocalia of the
Far East which is able during its mating season to secrete enough
saliva to form a nest of consolidated salivary juice. (See pl. 5,
figs. 1,2.) If the nest is destroyed in any way and has to be re-
built by the sea swift, it usually weaves in bits of seaweed which
led to the supposition by the early French scientists that the nests
were made of jellylike seaweed. The nest is shaped like a shallow
half of a small cup and is fixed against the walls of cliffs and caves
by the seashore on the islands of the Indian Archipelago, especially
in caves on the shore of Java. Some of them look like frosted sugar
and consist principally of mucins. Over 314 millon of them used
to be sent from Borneo to China in 1 year as the Chinese connois-
seurs in foods considered that they contained remarkable aphrodisiac
qualities and would pay a king’s ransom for them. They formed
the stock for the famous bird’s-nest soup of the Occident. When the
nest is stolen or destroyed the swift makes a substitute nest of in-
ferior quality, of a yellow color which is very obviously eked out
with seaweed. The alga found most frequently in these nests is
424 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Gracilaria spinosa, one of the jelly-forming algae. Occasionally, the
layman confuses seaweed nests with the nests that are used for
bird’s-nest soups, but actually they are very different from each
other.

“Can-can” is the peculiar dry and tangled egg mass of the volador
or flying fish which is collected in season and dried so that it may
be kept in the market throughout the year. This product has long
been familiar to the natives of Peru. The egg mass is usually found
entangled in the seaweed.

During World War I, peoples in Europe found it necessary to
turn to seaweeds for a source of nourishment. According to Alsberg,
there is no proof that seaweeds have more than a moderate food
value although their value as an antiscorbutic, similar to cabbage
and lettuce, is appreciated. Very little is known about the proteids
of seaweeds, but according to Cameron, they do not begin to approach
the food value found in cereals. The value of seaweeds as a food
is to a large extent due to the mucilage produced by the membranes
of the cellular tissue which is rich in pectins and hemicelluloses; it
dissolves readily in boiling water and forms a jelly when cold.
Because of this property of jellification, the attention of experts has
been directed to the utilization of seaweeds both in cookery and in
various commercial preparations.

Very little is known about the chemical composition of these mem-
branes. Among the green seaweeds, the cellulose is associated with
hemicellulose, a substance that is soluble in 3 percent sulfuric acid
solution and contains a great abundance of xylane. There is also
an insoluble portion rich in dextrane. Another hydrocarbon that
has been detected in Fucus is called fucine. It is soluble in 1 percent
sulfuric acid, turns blue with iodine, and is localized in the middle
lamella. Dextrose and methylfurfurol occur in the brown algae.
The red seaweeds, according to Perrot and Gatin, contain galactans,
mannans, levulosans, dextrans, and sometimes methylpentosans.
Some of these complex carbohydrates are a possible source of energy,
but their extent is still unknown. Fat is a negligible quantity. The
analyses given below show what little justification there is in arguing
for the food value of algae.

TABLE 1.—Analysis of Turrentine (Cameron)

Gelidium corneum

Percent
Water oe wh ee Zaha 2 loo, Bae Ly ct 2a ANUS eB ad os 22. 29
DEED 3) 0 Tyee eR Fe Se ent VEE a Cs ADD Nae he a Lg Ld SS I, See petri oh eg 6. 85
@arhohyarates os aoe Oe Lee eae eee ns ee es See ee 60. 32
USEFUL ALGAE—CHASE 425

Laminaria spp.

Percent
VIVE RS et p= lB ap FUT ARO ie BoA DS 9 ee SH WN PA ah Pe 2 LS EE SREY 22. 82-24. 44
Protein] 222 Ue les A AP I i Be de Me id eer ek hee el 1 Ds 5. 49— 5. 82
LY 8 SEES 9 Tp ak a 6 ETE eh eg oe a ee oR ee oe es Pe 1. 52- 0. 74
Soluble nonnitrosenous;materials =: s+ oe ei ee a a 47. 83-45. 57
DAUR ss ee eh ee 4.55-— 6. 44
NPSL ae te le a ee ene ee es 18. 69-17. 00

Of other substances found in seaweeds, bromine occurs most abund-
antly in Fucus serratus (pl. 9, fig. 4). Laminaria digitata (pl. 6,
fig. 1), L. saccharina (pl. 3, fig. 1), and Fucus vesiculosus (pl. 6,
fig. 2) are richest in iodine, Sacchoriza bulbosa containing a little less.
It is not yet known whether iodine is contained in the form of alka-
line salts or in organic combinations.

The vitamin content of several algae used as food was tested recently
by Norris, Simeon, and Williams. They found that Alaria valida,
Laminaria sp., Porphyra nereocystis, Porphyra perforata, Rhody-
menia pertusa, and Ulva lactuca were good sources of vitamin B, and
compared favorably with many fruits and vegetables.

Porphyra was the richest source of both vitamin B and vitamin C
among the algae tested. A number of algae from the different orders
were found to be as rich a source of vitamin C as lemons. The algae
growing on the littoral zone or on the surface tend to be higher in
vitamin C than algae that are dredged from a depth of 5 to 10
fathoms.

The sugar, mannite, has been prepared from certain species of
Laminaria. Laminaria saccharina (pl. 3, fig. 1) contains 12 to 15
percent of this sugar. In Kamchatka the natives prepare an alco-
holic drink from dulse or Rhodymenia palmata.

ALGAE AS FOOD FOR DOMESTIC ANIMALS

On the northern shores of Europe, seaweeds have long furnished
provender for cattle. So general was the use of seaweeds by the
domestic animals that there was only one variety for which the cattle
had a great distaste and would not touch as food, a certain variety
of Laminaria which the Norwegians and Lapps called Neptune’s
belt because of its form similar to a long, broad ribbon, or the horse’s
kelp or sea devil. The ancient peoples in the Scandinavian countries
thought that it must be bewitched since the cows would not touch
it and they believed that it was employed by the sorcerers to excite
the sea horses. Rhodymenia palmata (pl. 5, fig. 3) constitutes a
favorite food of the Scandinavian goats, cows, and sheep. On certain
small islands of Scotland, the cows and sheep go down to the shores
at low tide to hunt for this alga, also for Alaria esculenta (pl. 6,
426 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

fig. 3). When Rhodymenia palmata grows attached to the stipes of
Laminaria cloustonii, the sheep nibble at the Rhodymenia without
touching its support. Laminaria cloustonii (pl. 8, fig. 2) sometimes
grows in such abundance that it covers the other seaweeds. The
cows raise it up on their muzzles and hunt below it for the seaweeds
that they like. Only the fronds of Laminaria flexicaulis are eaten.
The peasants gather it from the shore in large quantities to give to
the beasts in the stable, and as it is considered a very healthy food it is
given to them fresh from the beach without being washed in water.
On the whole coast of Iceland in the winter, and even in certain places
in the summer, thousands of sheep and other cattle wander freely and
eat the seaweed even when there is grass available. In certain local-
ities they are not given additional food, although in places some addi-
tional grain is supplied to them. On the coasts, as a rule, the cows
do not go to pasture, but are given Rhodymenia palmata (pl. 5, fig. 3)
and Alaria esculenta (pl. 6, fig. 3) in the stable since their milk does
not absorb any taste from it. Their meat does not show any ill effects
from the seaweed diet, although it is said that at Langarnes, where
only seaweed is fed the animals, the lambs have weaker legs than those
in the interior of the island.

Sometimes the Icelanders gather seaweeds to prepare as supple-
mental fodder. They wash it in water to remove the adhering sand,
then bury it in deep ditches where it is pressed down under a layer of
stones and thus compressed until it forms a firm mass which is cut
into pieces with axes and fed to the animals in the winter. In cer-
tain places A/aria is gathered in the autumn, dried in the air after
being washed with fresh water, and then packed in the barn alter-
nately with layers of hay. The nutritive equivalent between the
algae and the hay varies with the quality and digestive ability of
the different species of plants and also with the animals. The sheep
of the Iceland coast that have been nourished with seaweeds for
several generations digest it more easily than the sheep of the interior
which have been habituated to eating only hay and grain. The
Norwegians often boil the seaweed with fresh water and then feed
it to their beasts. There are two factories in Norway where the
algae are dried and then broken into pieces, but because of the salts
and the iodine present in the seaweeds, it is thought best not to feed
them to the cattle in large quantities. De la Pylaie, who lived in
1824 on the Island of Sein, wrote that Laminaria leptopoda when it
has been acted upon by the rain and the dew loses the olive-green
color of the frond and becomes white like a piece of parchment.
The cows would go to hunt for it at low tide on the coasts and would
have nothing to do with it in its natural state but would eat it with
great avidity when it had whitened.
USEFUL ALGAE—CHASE 427

The provender value of seaweeds was almost completely neglected
in France until World War I caused a shortage of grain. A num-
ber of experiments were then carried on to determine the effect of
seaweed as food for cows and horses. The experiments by Sauvageau
(1920) show that Fucus serratus (pl. 9, fig. 4) and Laminaria fleai-
caulis even after a prolonged stay in their acidulated liquor form an
excellent aliment for beasts. It was also found by Adrian that the
seaweed food caused an augmentation of weight in the animals in
proportion to the weight of algae consumed. The seaweeds seem
to act as an accessory in the assimilation of the usual nutrients, an
action that may be caused by the development of the digestive
sugars, possibly by the multiplication of the hydrolizing bacteria,
a study which Sauvageau (1920) believes should be made the subject
of further search.

Experiments at Skjorn near Trondjhem, Norway, were begun in
1917 to establish the manufacture of cattle feed from seaweed. Meal
was made from the varec or wrack, as the kelp is called, which was
dried and ground into a fine powder. An analysis of this meal is
given below:

Percent
“SUE SST SR s Pa Tf IRI ae pa heg ee ge EE yee SY 6. 49
JaNISU yD a Meh ie ana HN he Rae efi ale RIP a 19. 07
TOE AR cae Pk a a IED, ee kA GAS aR Be A i 2 OS Sl PUTS
YET RD WEN Re Bh ka Eg RRS SS Ee oes ee A Ae i ee 7. 04
VAY CVO US 5 ofS) Le ROE a eee 2 ee ge ree ee ety ee ee 6. 16
(CHT Ova) enous Wee es eae NES ge eee ee ee eee 58. 47

The protein was found to be digested in very small amounts, and
the mineral content of the food was found to be too large. The sea-
weed meal was a useful addition to the hay for cattle feeding and
proved to be excellent feed for hens.

A seaweed-meal factory was also started in Denmark where a
process was used by which the seaweed is partially digested during
manufacture. The washed plants are cooked with superheated steam,
drained, and then pressed into cakes which are dried in a vacuum
and ground into a coarse powder. The juice formed during cooking
is evaporated until a portion of the salts crystallize. They are sep-
arated from the mother liquor in a centrifugal separator. The mother
liquor is mixed with the powder and the mixture pressed into cakes.
The analysis of this feed follows:

Percent
SAUCE UIST pS SN a I BE LE ee me a ee 5. 00
EPOUCIII ONE ice) osee ae he es a an a a) Se igi a.
@rren ch ee fi bs ere i ae a Se 9. 00
BUSS te aL eo a hg hs EE 5. 03

Albert and Krause investigated German seaweeds and stated that
all kinds of German seaweeds were valuable for cattle feed. They
428 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

recommended that Laminaria saccharina (pl. 8, fig. 1), which they
thought resembled spinach when cooked, should be used for cattle in
times of scarcity of other foods.

Beckman carried on feeding experiments with dogs and hens giv-
ing these animals bread made from a mixture of finely ground sea-
weed, rye and potato flours. He said that during the baking the
characteristic odor disappeared and that the bread was found to
possess good properties.

Gloess wrote that algae from which the salts of potassium, bromine,
and iodine have been removed can be used to replace oats in the diet
of horses, and serve as feed for swine and poultry when mixed with
their rations.

Intensive experimentation conducted by Ringen .shows that the
composition of seaweed varies with the season. The nutritive value
is highest in the fall so that the seaweed intended for fodder should
be harvested late in the summer. Two kinds of seaweed were used
in his experiments: Laminaria, which was used to provide a product
called Algit, and /'ucus which was used to make Neptun. Seaweed
meal is high in ash content and nitrogen-free extract. The calcium,
magnesium, and iodine contents are especially high, but potassium,
copper, iron, and manganese exist in quantities too small to be of any
significance. The digestibility of seaweed meal is low, especially
when it is made from Fucus. The digestibility is lower for pigs than
it is for sheep. When meal prepared from Fucus is fed to the stock,
there is a loss of 7 to 9 grams of digestible protein from the rest of the
fodder. Sheep are able to use the protein in seaweed meal for main-
tenance and production of wool. Iodine in seaweed meal is easily ab-
sorbed, 55 to 58 percent of it being absorbed as compared with 35 to 40
percent in hay. ‘The seaweed meal was decided to be a suitable calcium
supplement to the grain ration of pigs. The nutritive value of seaweed
mealislow. Pigs thrive better on Algin than they doon Neptun. The
meal has no effect on bacon quality. Seaweed-meal feeding increases
the weight of the thyroid and the iodine content rises both absolutely
and relatively. The meal has no effect on the vitamin A content of
pig liver. Seaweed meal has a strong laxative effect. Two sows that
were fed seaweed meal during the period of gestation showed marked
signs of iodism.

TABLE 2.—Government typical analysis of kelp meal*

Percent
Ashm(Colloidal tsa les) ees ea a a 38. 5
Carboly dra tes! tea 222 tre ar see ea eA Seba AR Re een eet cee ee 40. 6
PROC TI ie se Sale Ss gE eG ee Ie ee eee SN eg 5.6
Mat. (ether=sO]Ub1e) ish Sek eek oe Lh? gp ai ne ae .4
ALE Tas a REE Sate) ana a SS OO SA Woe NOR ee 5.8
Moisture/tstiL od eh Ae Ee ey ee ea 9.1

1 This analysis was obtained from the Department of Commerce, Washington, D. C.
USEFUL ALGAE—CHASE 429

The following minerals are included in the above analysis:

Percent
TiCO?s bn = ease th eo a ee a 6 ee eee 0. 15
DGB) 1 eRe ee BIN ele a i A cu pe ofa at gy Sie ks of gS Se aS
Oper ss AU Ss A ee a eee . 003
ROE neKE Meee. et cee eo Me ee ee ee . 05
DEVS P SS PUCCR 7 Lleyn 2 0 ea ae ee REE Re NA rye gee ee . 29
@aleltnm! 2.2 SWE ine a OE ST BA A BS SANE Toc eS Ne a es IE os 1, 28
SS SCEU ia a A 2 A Eapladhe gy public 3 SN i MR AD ys Pasta Steen Soy Rs Dan ZLOB SOME AE 1. 04
SOc eee eee es Oe ee Eventi Gai Lee REE oe 6. 50
RPOCHSS UID et Os 5 a ee ae 22s prea WIN we ig eae 2 all) We 12. 49
COL RVGYSN UD sh Ba a a MUS gC ER ae 2 Pe gt a Co 13. 67
PINs ers Sn ry es he ee eee Tue 72

There are two commercial companies on the Pacific coast which
utilize the tremendous groves of giant kelp that grow there to manu-
facture seaweed products (pl. 7), among which are seaweed meals
used for poultry and cattle rations.

A meal manufactured by a firm in Los Angeles, Calif., is dried and

ground kelp for use in animal feeds.
This meal has been tested for vitamins as shown in table 3.

Taste 3.—Results of vitamin tests on Kelco-Meal

\Mienireniay J 2 ee Die Se eae epee 3,000 international units per pound.

Vitamin B (thiamin chloride) --------~- 45 international units per pound.

VW hay 9 0 aS ae ea ee eee None.

WAR Tian sy] ee Ne ee ie BS ee eee Trace.

Vitamin: 'G (ciboflavin)—-=——= = 3,500 micrograms per pound.

Vitamin F (filtrate factor [pantothenic 300 University of California units per
acid]). pound.

Wal PAT ees So es ek, Present.

Of the above vitamins, vitamin G is present in sufficient quantity to
be commercially important.

Owing to the vitamin G and mineral content, this meal can be used
in combination with a protein source such as meat scraps or fish
meal to supplant dried milk in various poultry and animal rations,
thus freeing dried milk for more essential uses.

A concern in Los Angeles, Calif., leases from the State Bureau
of Fisheries local kelp beds, which it harvests and dehydrates with
a triple-drum air-drier originally designed to handle dehydrated
alfalfa. For several years, it has manufactured a poultry feed,
but recently they have also produced a cattle feed and a hog feed.
These are all three supplementary feeds. In addition to machine-
dehydrated kelp, the cattle feed contains ground dried fish, molasses,
fish liver meal, and irradiated yeast. The hog feed also contains,
in addition to the above, fish presswater concentrate, vitamin A, fish
liver oil, ground oyster shell, sodium bicarbonate, nut charcoal, and
anhydrous manganese sulfate. The poultry feed consists of machine
430 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

dehydrated kelp (ground), ground dried fish, fish liver, and fish
presswater concentrate, fortified fish oils, ground oyster shell, sodium
bicarbonate, and anhydrous manganese sulfate.

ALGAE AS MEDICINE

As was related in our introduction, one of the earliest uses of algae
made by the Chinese and Japanese was as medicine. The monks used
it in the olden days in cases of fever caused by the stomach. They
would boil Gelidiwm, probably into a jelly, and sprinkle a little ginger
and sugar over it. They would also make a milk paste of it and eat
it with sugar and vinegar to protect themselves from disorders caused
by the extreme heat.

Undoubtedly the algal product most used for medical purposes is
agar which is the commercial name for the dried, bleached, gelatinous
extract of certain red seaweeds belonging to the family Gelidiaceae
(pl. 2, fig. 2). The name agar is an abreviation of the Malay term
agar-agar which simply means jelly. In general, the jelly that comes
from these seaweeds will absorb water and swell up but will only
dissolve when heated to boiling. On cooling, the solution coagulates
to form a more or less colorless, translucent jelly.

The effect of agar was recently tested by Nechales, Sapoznik, Arens,
and Meyer on the motility of the stomach and the digestion of food
in it. The experiments were performed on six normal subjects, on
six patients afllicted with peptic ulcers, and on a dog carrying both
gastric and duodenal cannulas. Agar decreased the emptying time
of the stomach in each case.

Agar has also been successfully used when cooked with milk in
the treatment of certain stomach disorders of young children.

The colloidal property of agar of absorbing and holding water
and the fact that it is not digested makes it of great value in medicine
as a laxative.

Tests made by Caravaggi and Manfredi have shown that agar
contains principally laxative and purgative principals to the ex-
clusion of deleterious secondary principles. They found that it has
a sight nutritive value and maintains the tone of the gastrointestinal
tract. They have reported methods for the extraction of the active
principals of the drug in the form of a dry powder which may be
compressed into pastilles with an inert filler. They state that these
preparations act uniquely on the intestine by exciting peristalsis
without affecting the functions of the stomach or the duodenum.
They are painless in use and are not habit-forming.

As a laxative, according to the United States Dispensatory, agar
may be administered cut up in small pieces and eaten like a cereal
USEFUL ALGAE—CHASE 431

with the addition of cream and sugar as desired. There is a choco-
late-coated form of agar for those who do not care for it plain.
It is also combined with mineral-oil emulsions in a number of medical
preparations that are on the market. The dose prescribed for the
dry agar is from 2 to 4 drachms (8 to 15 grams) administered once
a day.

Agar was once used as a cure for obesity.

Glycerine suppositories have been made with agar as a vehicle,
but they contain only 70 percent of glycerin as compared with 90
percent in those made with sodium sterate.

A preparation of agar is now used beneath bandages for healing
wounds. This method of healing wounds dates back to the ancient
Polynesians who used certain filamentous species of algae such as
Spirogyra to make poultices for sore eyes. A number of kinds were
also used by them as poultices for cuts, bruises, sores, and boils. The
native Hawaiians also used an infusion of Centroceros as a cathartic,
and Hypnea nidifica (pl. 8 fig. 1) was employed similarly for stomach
troubles.

The most important use of agar in pathology and bacteriology is
as a medium for the cultivation of pathogenic bacteria, of skin fungi,
and of yeasts. In 1881, Koch developed the use of this medium for
the isolation and cultivation of bacteria, and since that time agar
has become an essential in every hospital and research laboratory in
the world. Many scientists have worked on methods of preparation,
filtration, sterilization, adjustment of reactions, its purification, and
other details. Standardization of methods for its use in bacteriology
and biology has been effected. Agar is used in standard methods for
analyses of water, milk, soil, and sewage.

In his intensive report on hypercolloidal impression materials used
in dentistry, Paffenbarger (1940) states that in the last few years in
the United States many materials containing agar have been devel-
oped for dental use in making impressions. He states that probably
the first scientist who used agar for taking impressions of living
tissues was the Viennese investigator, Alphons Poller, who was
granted a British patent on this material in 1925, and later an
American patent. Dr. Poller called his compound negocoll. He sold
the patent rights for the dental use of this material to the De Trey
Brothers of Zurich, Switzerland, who manufactured a modification
of it which they called dentocoll. Many materials of a similar nature
have been developed in the United States since then, and most of
them contain agar as the essential and important ingredient. The
value of agar in these materials is that the sol or liquid state is
reached only when the impression material is heated to practically
the boiling point of water. When the liquid is formed, it does not
432 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

harden to a gel until it is cooled to temperatures that approach the
temperature of the mouth. This means that there is a lag of from
60° to 70° C. (108°-126° F.) between the liquefying and hardening
temperatures, which is important in dental materials of this type.
The agar constitutent is doubtless responsible also for the unusual
elastic behavior of the materials.

Irish moss, of which the scientific name is Chondrus crispus (pl. 3,
fig. 2; pl. 4), also a member of the Florideae, the red seaweed family,
forms a jelly very much like the agar-producing seaweeds. The com-
mercial supplies of Chondrus crispus are obtained principally from
Scituate, Mass., Nimes, France, and Dublin, Ireland. Its Irish name
carrageen comes from a place called Carragheen near Waterford,
Ireland, where it abounds.

Chondrus crispus, or Irish moss, is nutritive, and being easily di-
gested and not unpleasant to the taste, it forms a useful article of
diet in cases in which the farinaceous preparations such as tapioca,
sago, and barley are usually employed. It was formerly utilized as
a demulcent in chronic pectoral affections, diarrhea, and irritations of
the urinary tract, but it is rarely employed for those purposes today.
The United States Pharmacopaeia recommends that it be macerated
for about 10 minutes in cold water before cooking, in order to re-
move any unpleasant flavor it may have acquired from contact with
foreign substances. The dose is 4 drachms (15.5 grams).

In 1835 Irish moss was a fashionable remedy for consumption.
A former mayor of Boston, Dr. J. V. C. Smith, helped to establish
the moss industry in Scituate, for at that time one person was paying
from $1 to $2 a pound for Irish moss or carrageen, as the Irish called
it, from Ireland. Today one drug company alone uses 6,000 to 7,000
pounds of Irish moss a year. This company sorts and cuts the moss
with revolving knives, then packs the cured moss and sells it princi-
pally for invalid food or the preparation of blanc manges. Repu-
table physicians have recommended the jelly extract in cases of
stomach ulcer.

Another company of manufacturing pharmacists puts on the
market at least six distinct preparations of Irish moss. One is a
laxative and regulator made up of Irish moss and mineral oil. The
moss is used for its excellent emulsifying effect. Another is a cough
medicine. The usual cough medicine consists of a soothing or quiet-
ing principle dissolved in a sirup of sugar, the body of which is neces-
sary to hold the mixture against inflamed membranes. Since the
sugar acts at times as an irritant, the cough medicine that uses Irish
moss as a base is claimed to be superior. The Irish moss gives the
medicine body and also produces a slight soothing effect in itself.
The other preparations are described in the section of this paper
entitled “Algae as Cosmetics.”

USEFUL ALGAE—-CHASE 433

Carrageen is still used in localities of Ireland for the treatment of
pulmonary distress. Its jelly is also the acting principle in a poultice
which consists of a piece of cotton filled with Irish moss jelly and
then dried. It enters into the composition of a number of European
pharmaceutical emulsions, in particular, the emulsion of cod-liver
oil, which consists of 325 cc. of a 3-percent decoction of Irish moss,
500 ce. of oil, 500 ce. of sirup of tolu, and water sufficient to complete
the liter.

Irish moss has also been used as veterinary medicine for nourishing
cows, and has been found useful in rearing pigs and calves.

Algin, a product of kelp which is described in more detail in the
section on algae as cosmetics, is of great value in the pharmaceutical
field where its pronounced colloidal properties render it useful as an
emulsifying, bodying, and suspending agent. Because of its superior
qualities, it replaces tragacanth and other natural gums in the manu-
facture of greaseless lubricating jellies. It is a component of sulfan-
ilimide ointment and other similar ointments. Iron alginate is used
as a hematinic.

The United States Dispensatory lists Gigartina mamillosa as having
chemical and medicinal properties that are probably identical with
Chondrus crispus.

Helminal, according to the The United States Dispensatory, is an
extract said to be derived from Digenea simplex, a red alga that
grows on the eastern coasts of Asia. This plant is dried and sold by
the Japanese and Chinese apothecaries. Its extract has been gener-
ally regarded as a valuable infantile remedy, but it is not as popular
as formerly although it still is used in the provinces among the
country people as a vermifuge. It is efficient in the treatment of
Ascaris and Oxyuris. It is also nontoxie. It is sometimes sold in
the form of tablets.

Until the end of the eighteenth century, two vermifuges of two
calcareous algae, Coralline officinalis L. and Coralline ruben L. were
popular as vermifuges. Their usage was discontinued when a Greek
doctor named Stephanopoli discovered a small alga on the island of
Corsica in 1775. He called this alga Corsican moss. This alga grew
in red tufts on the rocks of Corsica when the sea was low and very
calm. It was thought to be the same alga that was used as a vermi-
fuge by the ancient Greeks. Corsican moss was in great demand as
it effected a very rapid cure. The military hospitals used it with
great success and it was long an article of commerce under the name
of Corsican moss. The scientists had a great deal of difficulty in
naming this alga. Kiitzing identified it as Alstdiwm helminthochorton.

In China, a mixture of algae including 1 Enteromorpha, 1 Chor-
daria, and 7 Floridees were used as a vermifuge so that it is not
434 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

surprising that the Chinese attribute vermifugal properties to marine
algae in general.

At one time iodine, widely used in medicine, was derived from the
seaweeds. In 1804 a French chemist named Bernard Courtois began
work on nitrate of sodium, the process consisting of decomposing
nitrate of calcium by the carbonate of sodium obtained from the
burnt ashes of the seaweeds called kelp. In the course of his work,
he observed that the iron vessels which he was using became corroded
if the liquors from which the sodium salts had been crystallized were
left in them for a long time. He found that these liquors when dis-
tilled with sulfuric acid liberated a body with a beautiful blue vapor.
He examined this vapor and discovered some of its properties; for
example, its formation of a detonating compound with ammonia.
He gave a specimen of it to Clement who read a paper on it, but the
rest of the investigation concerning it was carried on by Gay Lussac.
Todine was first employed as medicine by Coindet, of Geneva.

Todine is a nonmetallic element which exists in certain marine algae
particularly the kelps and rockweeds. These seaweeds are the largest
of the algae that belong to the family Laminariaceae. The kelp in-
dustry for many years was an important one as well as a lucrative
one in parts of England, Ireland, Northern France, Norway, and Den-
mark. It was engaged in by the peasants of the sea coasts who
gathered the kelp by hand or by boat and burned it in covered
trenches by the shore. After a time, the chemists found it cheaper to
derive their iodine from the saltpeter beds of Chile and the great
kelp industries of northern and western Europe began to decline.
Brown seaweeds are still gathered for their iodine on the coasts of
Japan, Scotland, Ireland, and Norway.

Iodine probably exists in seaweeds in the form of sodium iodide.
Besides iodine, the ashes contain sodium carbonate, sodium chloride,
potassium chloride, sodium sulfate, and other salts in small amounts.
The deep sea /'wci contain the most iodine, and when these are burned
at a low temperature for fuel as on the island of Guernsey, their
ashes form more iodine than does ordinary kelp. In Japan, the sea-
weeds most used are E’cklonia (pl. 9, fig. 1) and Sargassum which
contain about 0.14 percent of iodine. In France, species of Fucus
are employed. The ash contains sometimes about 5 percent of iodine,
but usually below 1 percent. During World War I, the United
States began to utilize its vast groves of kelps, Macrocystis (pl. 7,
fig. 1) and Nereocystis (pl. 9, fig. 2), which grow on the Pacific coast.
The ash was burned to obtain potassium salts and iodine, but as
soon as the war ended, the production of potash and iodine from
kelp slowed down, as at the present prices for potash the utilization
of kelp did not seem profitable.

USEFUL ALGAE—CHASE 435

The Japanese production of iodine and potassium iodide from kelp
is still large. Okuda and Eto carried on a number of investigations
regarding the iodine content of certain Japanese kelps. They found
that algae in an open sea contain more iodine than the same species
in an inland sea, and that the iodine content of the algae is lowest
in the spring and highest in the fall.

The fact that goiter is unknown among the people of Japan and
China is an indication of the effect of the iodine in their seaweed diet,
while this deficiency disease is very prevalent among peoples of
Switzerland who have no contact with the marine algae.

The charcoal derived from kelp was used at one time under the name
of Aethiops vegetabilis or vegetable ethiops in the treatment of goiter
and scrofulous swellings. Bladderwrack, the common name for
Fucus vesiculosus (pl. 6, fig. 2), is an ingredient of certain nostrums
used in the treatment of obesity. One scientist affirms that Fucus
vesiculosus is largely used in Ireland for fattening pigs so it seems
doubtful that its preparations are capable of reducing human obesity
unless given in such doses as to interfere with digestion and injure
the health. The possible explanation for its reducing power is found
in experiments of Hunt and Seidell who present evidence indicating
that the extract of this plant is a powerful stimulant to the thyroid
gland.

The vegetarian food and diet shops have a number of commercial
preparations made from algae, which they advertise for use in defi-
ciency disturbances due to improper balance of minerals and espe-
cially the lack of iodine and calcium in the body. The majority of
these products in powder and tablet form are prepared from the giant
kelp, Macrocystis pyrifera (pl. 7, fig. 1).

ALGAE AS FERTILIZERS

Seaweeds have been used as fertilizers since the beginning of agri-
culture in Japan and China, and on the islands and coastal farms of
northwestern Europe. The driftweeds were usually gathered after
storms and piled on the shore or near the barns to dry out in time for
the fall, when they were placed around the fruit trees and on the
ground preparatory to planting the spring root crops. Even in the
United States seaweeds, especially the kelps, were employed as fertili-
zers before the real reason for their action had been determined. The
Rhode Island Agricultural Experiment Station issued a bulletin in
1893 stating that the value of seaweed fertilizers utilized was $65,044
as compared with $164,133 paid for commercial fertilizers. Since the
founding of the colony at Rye Beach, N. H., the farmers have con-
sidered the success of their red clover growth due to the fact that they
cover their land with seaweed and plow it under. On the island of

4305774229
436 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Nantucket off the coast of Massachusetts, the thrifty farmers still
gather the driftweed and use it as fertilizer.

The fertilizing properties of the kelps are chiefly due to the potash
or potassium salts contained in these seaweeds. If plants are to grow
and thrive in the soil, the three essential elements necessary for their
growth are potassium, nitrogen, and phosphorus. The seaweeds sup-
ply potassium in especial abundance. The application of seaweeds in
bulk also has a desirable physical effect upon the soil. The majority
of algae when first dried and then soaked in fresh water tend to swell
enormously. When the dried seaweeds are plowed under into the
light, dry soil, this spongelike action of the seaweeds holds small res-
ervoirs of water in close contact with the roots of the cultivated plants.
There is also a large amount of organic material in the kelp which
decays slowly in the soil and forms humus.

There is a great deal of variation in the analyses made of kelp since
the stipes of Nereocystis (pl. 9, fig. 2) and Macrocystis (pl. 7, fig. 1)
contain much more potash than the leaves. The proportion of stipes
to leaves in the samples of kelp according to Merz has a direct effect
upon the result obtained.

Using figures obtained by Cameron, Frye and Rigg, Hoagland, and
Turrentine, Rigg calculated the amount of potassium chloride, iodine,
algin, and other contents in a ton of giant kelp. These figures given in
table 4 indicate the large amount of kelp which must be handled in
order to obtain a ton of potassium chloride.

TABLE 4.—Content of a ton. of the various kelps

Other | Jodine | Algin cae Nitrogen

Pounds | Pounds oe eee Pounds | Pounds | Pounds | Pounds
0. 22 23.4 8.4

Macrocystis luetkeana__._______- 1834 53.7 |25. 1-37. 7 i 2.9

Macrocystis pyrifera__...------- 1736 52.5 oA 7-55. 7 . 61 44.4 19.3 4.3

Alaria fistulosa.---_ 0-222 202) 1726 39.3 27.6 Trace (1) (1) 7.1
1 No data.

In 1912 Senate Document No. 190 appeared with a preface by the
President of the United States and a letter of transmittal from the
Secretary of Agriculture. This monumental book of about 300
pages contains a number of plates and maps describing particularly
the larger Pacific coast seaweeds and kelps and reiterates that the
seaweeds of the United States which have been neglected for so long
a period should be developed agriculturally and economically. A
second Government document entitled “Potash from Kelp,” issued
by the United States and Alaska, reports further surveys of the kelp
beds of the United States and Alaska and reports progress in the
mechanical problems connected with harvesting and drying kelp.
USEFUL ALGAE—CHASE 437

The reason for this increased interest in kelp was that the potash
which the farmers of the United States used for fertilizer on their
soil came almost exclusively from the mines in the Stassfurt region
in Germany. This Stassfurt region was a former sea bottom where
various soluble potassium salts accumulated in a solid form by the
concentration and final drying-out of the sea water. Up to the
beginning of World War I, the Stassfurt mines were the one im-
portant source of the potash supply of the world. The German
conservation laws limited the amount of potash salts that were mined
each year, also the amount of the annual product which was sold
outside of Germany. The farmers of the United States were prac-
tically dependent upon Germany when they began to use artificial
fertilizers. Previous to World War I, the United States was im-
porting from Germany potash valued at 12 million dollars or more
annually. For 8 or 4 years before the war broke out, there was disa-
greement between the American importers and the German Kali
Syndikat over the raising of the price of potash and the threatened
curtailment of the amount allowed to be shipped to the United States.
This incident, together with the fact that the United States had
undeveloped supplies of potash of its own, led the United States Con-
gress to instruct the Bureau of Soils of the Department of Agri-
culture to make an investigation of the possibilities of developing
within the boundaries of the United States a potash supply that
would meet the domestic requirements and make the United States
independent of any foreign nation in this regard.

The investigation included a search for potash in the alkaline
basins of the arid West where the surface alkali includes potash salts
and also in the feldspar and granite rocks which contain potassium in
immense quantities but in the form of insoluble compounds. The
Washington scientists finally took into consideration the long-estab-
lished use of seaweeds as fertilizers for the soil and began a scientific
investigation of the extensive groves of kelp on the Pacific coast
to determine the amount of potassium salts contained in them.

Enormous kelp beds extend along most of the Pacific coast from
Mexico to Alaska. The problem was to devise an economical means
for harvesting the kelp and then converting it into fertilizer, po-
tassium salts, and other valuable products.

About half the area of the kelp beds surveyed are in the vicinity
of San Diego, Calif. Approximately two-thirds of the kelp that
was cut grew near San Diego, and was used in industrial plants near
that city. The amount of potash obtained from the kelp during
Wold War I was slight as compared to the amount previously im-
ported from Germany, but the kelp-potash industry was second only
to the industry obtaining potash from natural mines. During 1917,
438 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

when there was a great shortage of potassium salts in the United
States, 3,572 tons of potash (K,O) was produced from kelp which
represented only a small proportion of the harvestable kelp on the
Pacific coast.

The cost of harvesting and drying kelp is high since kelp con-
tains a large amount of water. The operation of the kelp-potash
plants during World War I indicated that it was not possible to
produce potash alone from kelp in successful competition with foreign
potash. Only one privately owned plant operated during the war
was designed for byproducts and that plant produced materials
chiefly of value in wartimes. All commercial plants producing pot-
ash from kelp suspended operations immediately upon cessation of
hostilities.

ALGAD AS COSMETICS

As we have already mentioned, the Roman ladies of ancient days
used rouge extracted from Fucus. The young Kamchatkales mix the
Fucus with fish oil to redden their faces. The ladies of several mari-
time regions in Europe used to macerate Fucus (pl. 6, fig. 2) in water
and rub their cheeks with this mixture.

Technicians of a certain drug company noticed that the people
who worked with Irish moss or Chondrus crispus, (pl. 8, fig. 2; pl. 4)
preparing its mucilage as an emulsifier, never suffered from chapped
skin on their hands even in the coldest weather. They quickly took
advantage of this principle m making this seaweed the base of a
popular preparation. Other ointments are also made from Irish
moss. By using the gelatin of Irish moss as their base, a nongrease
ointment results which it is possible to apply without fear of soiling
the clothing.

Chilson (1938) recommends a pineapple juice hand lotion since he
says that pineapple juice is an excellent hand cleanser in which a 3
percent mucilage of Irish moss forms 35 percent of the product. He
also recommends Irish moss curling fluid for the hair. Its mucilage
is the base for other curling fluids as for instance in sulfonated
oil curling jelly. Irish moss is among the ingredients listed in the
United States Government tooth-paste specifications for use as a
binder. A thick mucilage of Irish moss is also used in deodorant
pastes. Irish moss also forms an ingredient of compacts, powders,
and rouges.

Agar, used as a binder in tooth pastes, may form 4 to 8 percent by
weight of the tooth-paste materials.

The seaweed product which probably is used most in cosmetics
is algin or sodium alginate. Algin was discovered by Stanford in
1884 although its manufacture in the United States did not begin
USEFUL ALGAE—CHASE 439

until World War I. Stanford was engaged in the Scotch kelp in-
dustry when he noticed that one of the brown kelps, Laminaria digi-
tata (pl. 6, fig. 1) after exposure to rain assumed a tumid appearance
and that sacs of fluid were formed from endosmosis of the water
through the membrane, dissolving a peculiar glutinous principle.
When the sacs were cut, a neutral, glairy, colorless fluid escaped. It
could often be seen partially evaporated on the frond as a colorless
jelly. This substance, insoluble in water, was given by him the name
of algin. He found that algin contained calcium, magnesium, and
sodium in combination with a new acid called alginic acid. When
this natural liquid is evaporated to dryness, it becomes insoluble in
water but very soluble in alkalies. This substance is so abundant in
the seaweed that on maceration for 24 hours in sodium carbonate in
the cold the seaweed plant is completely disintegrated. He found
that it had an extraordinary gelling power. It has 14 times the vis-
cosity of starch, and 37 times that of gum arabic. It does not co-
agulate with heat.

The commercial product is now in the form of a white powder pro-
duced from kelp found in Ireland, Scotland, Norway, France, and on
the Pacific coast of the United States. Laminaria hypoborea is used
for the production of algin in Ireland and Scotland, and Macrocystis
pyrifera (pl. 7, fig. 1) is employed in the United States. Its Eng-
lish trade name is Manucol. Manucol solutions are stable in the
pH range 5.5 to 8.5 and may be pasteurized at 50° C. without affecting
the grade. It is useful for cosmetic preparations having an aqueous
or glycerine base such as glycerine hand jellies, transparent setting
lotions, shaving creams, and beauty milks. It is used in sunburn
lotions and in hair creams and fixatives.

Its value in the cosmetic industry lies in the fact that sodium
alginate produces standard mucilages that do not vary much pro-
viding the conditions of their preparation are similar. These mu-
vilages are transparent, water white, and almost odorless, thus over-
coming the difficulty caused by the use of certain Karaya gums which
have a grayish-brown color and also avoiding the question of opacity
which arises with the use of tragacanth. The viscosity of Manucol
V solutions is raised enormously by the introduction of calcium ions
and if sufficiently raised the solution gels. The thickening effect of
calcium ions increases as the pH of the solution is lowered due to the
precipitation of calcium alginate as a jelly from the soluble alginate.
All metallic ions other than those of the alkalies, magnesium, and
ammonium behave similarly. The interesting feature about alginates
is that it is possible to vary the viscosity of the solution over an
infinitely wide range merely by altering the proportion of the calcium
or other ion.
440 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

The Algea Pradukter, a factory at Christiansund, Norway, was re-
ported in the fall of 1940 to be experimenting with new uses of
kelp, in particular with the manufacture of soap.

One company of the Pacific coast has a line of soaps, shampoos,
soap pastes, and beauty lotions that it makes from kelp which they
advertise as giving “good results in cold, warm, soft, hard, and salt
water.”

ALGAE AND TEXTILES

Since the earliest times, certain of the most succulent algae which
have gluelike properties have been used by the Chinese and the
Japanese for starching their clothes. The principal alga of this
type is Glotopeltis coliformis, although Gloiopeltis intricata is prob-
ably just as satisfactory. Various other algae such as Chondrus
crispus (pl. 3, fig. 2), Chondrus elatus, and Chondrus ocellatus (pl.
9, fig. 3) are also employed for this purpose, although they do not
make as fine a product. The Japanese call these algae funori, a word
which means material for stiffening fabrics. The manufacture of
funori is an important industry in Japan, although it does not rank
with the agar and kelp industries.

In 1875 and 1876 the Société Industrielle de Rouen instructed three
of its members, Clouet, Heilman, and Reber to study the possible
industrial applications of the substance called hai-thao or thao, actually
agar, which was imported from China and Japan. Attempts made by
a silk manufacturer at Lyon to prepare silk tissues with the thao had
given good results, therefore the Rouen officials desired information
in regard to its use with cotton and linen goods. Heilman recom-
mended that agar be used especially for fine tissues where suppleness
is more desired than weight and stiffness. Heilman tried the com-
parative effects of Senegal gum, tragacanth, Chondrus crispus or’
Irish moss, and agar. He found that the Senegal gum gave the cloth
a rough, dry touch. Tragacanth made the cloth a little more supple
and almost as supple as the cloth sized with agar. The chief ad-
vantage of the agar was that it strengthened and compressed the
cloth while tragacanth left it shallow and without any body.
Chondrus crispus or Irish moss employed at a concentration of 3
percent gave the cloth a rich and “unctuous” touch which had no
analogy with the cloth sized with agar. He recommended it for use
in the silk stuffs. Heilman thought that agar would have a great.
industrial future in the sizing of calicos when it had been sufficiently
improved.

The seaweed products that are now used in the preparation ot
sizes are Irish moss, funori, agar, and algin. Agar is too expensive
and too valuable a product elsewhere to be used in the sizing of any
but the most expensive fabrics such as silk. The amount of salt in

USEFUL ALGAE—CHASE 441

Irish moss sometimes gives a harsh feeling to thread, provided all
the salt has not been removed from the moss by a preliminary steep-
ing in water. Irish moss is used to thicken dye solutions for use in
printing calico. A process of treating Irish moss extract with
formaldehyde in order to make the dried size insoluble has been
patented. Algin has been used for fixing mordants and is a sub-
stitute for various salts formerly used in fixing mordants previous
to the dyeing of cottons and yarns.

Algin or sodium alginate is a very useful alginate since it is
easily soluble in water and can be readily changed into soluble sub-
stances. For this reason it is valuable as a sizing substance. It is
superior to starch in this use as it fills the cloth better, is tougher,
more elastic and, since its solutions are very viscous, it goes farther
than starch or any gum. As soon as the sodium alginate has impreg-
nated the cloth it may easily be made insoluble by treatments with
dilute acids, lime water, salts of calcium, barium, and various other
metals. It can be used as a fixer for mordants in fabrics and to some
extent as a mordant. Ammoniated aluminium alginate can be used
for the preparation of waterproof fabrics since it becomes insoluble
after drying.

In November 1938 the Department of Commerce received the
notice of a new mucilage product made from Chondrus crispus,
Chondrus elatus, Gigartina tenella, Grateloupia filicina, Grateloupia
flabellata, Hypnea seticulosa, and other seaweeds. The mucilage
from them is high in adhesive content and low in price. The
mucilage is produced by washing the seaweed in fresh water, remov-
ing the salt, adding a definite quantity of water, and the effecting
of certain physical and chemical treatments, the details of which are
not divulged. The solution is made highly viscous and its solidifying
property is reduced. The product is said to be high in solubility
and a concentrated solution of more than 30 percent can be produced.
The invention is significant in view of the appreciable imports of
mucilage from abroad. Its use is very extensive in the special proc-
essing of textiles, for stickers in general, for the production of
printing materials, and other uses.

In ancient times the seaweeds were used in dyes. There were
certain ones that had the reputation of clearing the colors and mak-
ing them more brilliant and intense, especially those that were used
as red dyes. The ancients used Fucus which they called “red fucus”
or “dyer’s fucus” to dye their draperies and other linen materials.

By nitrating alginic acid, Nettlefold prepared a brown dye that
is suitable for dyeing unmordanted cotton. This unmordanted cot-
ton dyed a fine Bismarck brown color which was more fast to soap
than many alkaline colors, equaling chrysoidine. The depth of the
442 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

shade was considerable and could be worked to a great intensity. In
an acid solution the dye would not become attached to the fiber.
Ammonia was the best alkali to use for this purpose. The brown
dye had little power of attraction for wool. Mordanting did not
increase the depth of the dye.

Some species of algae are used to make string. Chorda filum is

very abundant on the French coast where it is used for that purpose. —

Plants of Chorda filum are often 5 to 6 meters in length. A series
of them are strung together, two or three at a time according to the
usage for which they are to be employed. They must be dampened
when used as then they are stronger and less likely to break.

For centuries, the fishermen of Alaska have used the stipe of
Nereocystis (pl. 9, fig. 2) which is long and flexible and the size
of an ordinary window cord. They cut it below the pneumatocyst,
soak it in a stream of running water until it is almost white, then
stretch it, rub it to reduce it to the size desired, and then dry it in
the smoke of their dwellings. This type of cord is easily broken
when dried but extremely resistant when wet and much stronger than
fishlines of linen or cotton. The pieces of the stipe varying from
10 to 15 brasses in length are knotted together to form a line 80
brasses in length, the size required for fishing at the entrance to
the Strait of San Juan de Fuca, or of 200 brasses in length for
fishing the black cod off the Island of Queen Charlotte in British
Columbia.

When the kelp in long streamers, with its big floaters which the
Alaskans call heads or bulbs, washes ashore on the beach of Juneau,
the children cut the ropelike thallus and use it to make swings and
jumping ropes as long as it is wet and humid. When it dries it
stiffens and would be of no further use to them unless they greased
it with some of the grease which is always present in the Indian
dwelling, in order to make it pliable.

ALGAE AND CERAMICS

The first commercial use that the Chinese ever made of agar was
for wrapping porcelains and bronzes which they sent to Europe.

The ancients have always searched for alkalies to employ in the
manufacture of glass and pottery. It was not, however, until the
seventeenth century that we find mentioned the use of seaweeds or
the kelps in the manufacture of soda for the glazier’s trade in Europe.
Carbonate of soda does not exist completely formed in the seaweeds
but is combined with fixed acid minerals and with organic acids that
by incineration give carbonate of soda. The ashes of the sea kelps
contain potassium salts mixed with sodium salts in relative propor-
tions that differ with the various species. The term “soude” or soda

USEFUL ALGAE—CHASE 443

was given to the ashes of the burnt kelp in France because
of its resemblance to the commercial product and its method of
manufacture.

In 1692 Louis XIV gave to the Royal Company of Glass Manu-
facturers at Paris the sole privilege of cutting from March 15 to
September 15 of each year for 20 years all the kelp along the coast
of La Hogue for the production of kelp ashes, and allowed them to
transport these kelp ashes to Paris. This law was revoked in 1718
by demand of the Normans who wished the kelp for fertilizers and to
burn for iodine. In the glassworks all the ashes were used, since the
portion of fixed alkali which was already in combination with the
organic matter was in a state that acted as a melter for the other
clays and sands which entered into the composition of glassware.
For this reason kelp ashes were used with great success and to great
advantage in the glass and porcelain works where common glassware
was manufactured, especially in Normandy.

Funori or seaweed glue is used in the decorating of porcelains in
Japan.

Algin is used as a binder and plasticizer in ceramics.

Mertle writes that Irish moss has been suggested as a substitute
for fish glue in the preparation of bichromated enamel, but it has
never been popular owing to the greater uniformity of results
obtained with glue mixtures.

About 25,000 pounds of Irish moss is used each year by the paint
industry in the making of cold-water or casein paints. Irish moss
is used as a stabilizer to give the casein coloring matter and water
consistency, and to hold the film in place while the casein hardens.
Casein paints treated with Irish moss brush well and hold to the
surface while they dry. Chondrus crispus is used in preference to
other gums because of its cheapness, its thick consistency in extremely
low concentrations, and its transparency, which keeps it from inter-
fering with the color of the paint. Agar has been substituted for
fish glue in process enamels to a slight extent.

Algin is used as a suspending, emulsifying, and bodying agent in
water paints, resin emulsion paints, and other special types of paints.

ALGAE AND TANNING

In the early part of the nineteenth century the French gold beaters
used supple gold-beater’s skins to reduce the gold into thin leaves.
Isinglass or fish glue was used to give the luster which the tanning
removed. The animal substances cracked under the repeated blows
of the wooden hammers. A Parisian manufacturer replaced the
isinglass by agar and found he achieved better results. Irish moss or
Chondrus crispus is used in the tanning industry, as it imparts to
certain types of leather a gloss and a stiffness that is very desirable.
444 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Its principal use is in the finishing of straight grains and grain
upper leathers. When hides are split, the hair side is the grain
side, a somewhat rough leather of a very even quality. The re-
mainder of the split hide is uneven both in thickness and texture and
finds its principal use in the manufacture of inner soles. After tan-
ning is completed, the leather may be given one of several finishing
processes, one of which includes the use of Irish moss. The gelatin
is extracted from cured seaweed and then filtered for purification.
This gelatin is swabbed onto the leather with brushes, thereby giving
it body and stiffness. The leather is still dull in this state and must
be glazed to give it a polish, which is accomplished by rubbing it
with glass cylinders. Repeated glazing or the application of dress-
ing materials then intensifies the luster to a gloss. Irish moss gelatin
is used in shoe polishes, in which form it restores the finishes on worn,
scuffed leather. The dull finish given to the leather at the factory is
produced by revolving brushes on leather that has been treated
with Irish moss.

The polishing effect of Irish moss is due to the ability of the
mucilage to smooth and hold down the tiny, rough projections on
the surface of unfinished leather. In this way grain leather is given
the luster which we see on our own shoes. Luster is not as important
as other qualities in the case of the inner soles, where Irish moss
is used as a filler to impart stiffness and body to the leather. The
gelatin of Irish moss is also used to impart body and luster and to
assist in the waterproofing of the very heavy retan leather used in
the soles and uppers of heavy footwear. One shoe manufacturer in
New England imports from Ireland about 12,000 pounds of Chondrus
crispus a year.

Agar and algin are also used in the treatment of leather.

ALGAE AND THE PAPER INDUSTRY

The Chinese in the olden days spread a little agar lightly over rice
paper to make it more durable. They also mixed it with lacquer to
strengthen paper, especially in the manufacture of fans and um-
brellas. Agar is used now to some extent in the manufacture of
paper as a paper coating, to impart resistance to penetration of
resin, wax, and grease.

At various times processes of manufacturing paper from the giant
kelps have been proposed but apparently with no commercial success.
The cellulose obtained from the Laminariaceae bleaches easily and
under pressure becomes very hard so that it can be easily turned and
polished. A good tough paper can be made from it.

When dry, alginic acid assumes a hard, hornlike form that is very
insoluble and resistant to the action of chemicals. It may be used
for a substitute for horn and as an insulating material,
USEFUL ALGAE—CHASE 445
ALGAE AND PHOTOGRAPHY

In 1882 Mitchell proposed the substitution of agar for gelatin in
the preparation of photographic materials needed in tropical coun-
tries. Several patents were obtained for this purpose. Manipulative
difficulties and inconsistent results prevented photographic manu-
facturers from placing agar products on the market to any great
extent, although a few firms in Germany and England were manu-
facturing agar papers some years ago. Cooper and Nuttall experi-
mented further on the application of agar to photography. An agar
film need be but one-eighth as thick as a gelatin film. Other ad-
vantages are that agar as compared with gelatin is cheaper and is
more insoluble in water except when it is very hot. One firm states
that as a reagent in sensitized emulsions, agar has proved to be of
better quality than any similar material now on the market. In
photomechanics the term “colloid” is applied to all substances that
are capable of being rendered insoluble in water when impregnated
with bichromates and exposed to the action of light. For this reason,
agar and Irish moss are among the colloidal materials that are of
value in the various phases of photomechanical plate making for
the production of photographic images.

ALGAE AND WAR MATERIALS

During World War I, the Germans made a surprising use of
a variety of Laminaria. When dry, the kelps with their massive
thalli diminish in volume and become wrinkled. As soon as they
are placed in water, they absorb the water, swell up, and return to
their natural form. Some of the German grenades that fell into
bodies of water or humid places, exploded after a certain length of
time. When similar grenades were studied, they were found to
contain sulfuric acid in a small glass ampoule and potassium chlorate.
The grenades were hermetically closed with a piece of Laminaria
cloustonii bearing at its internal end a sharp metallic point. With
humidity the piece of seaweed elongated so that it pushed the metallic
point against the ampoule, thus breaking it. The contact of the
released acid and the chlorate caused an explosion. In other grenades
the needle pushed by the piece of seaweed came in contact with a
capsule of fulminate.

Algin is used as a binder in cartridge primers here in the United
States.

ALGAE AND OTHER INDUSTRIES

In connection with national defense work, the algin products made
by a company on the Pacific coast are supplementing the foreign
gums such as tragacanth, locust bean, gum arabic, and other gums
which are practically nonavailable since the present war started.
446 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Algin has been found to be equal to, or better than, the foreign gums
in most of the industrial applications that require the use of gums.
The usage of gums is more widespread than is generally known.

Algin products are employed in the treatment of boiler water and
other industrial waters, in can-sealing compounds, in oil-well drill-
ing muds to seal off porous formations and resist the flocculating
action of brines, and as a medium for separating battery plates in
the manufacture of batteries.

For resolving and preventing the incrustations of boilers, sodium
alginate is recognized by experts as one of the best preparations, as
it precipitates the lime salts in a state in which they can be readily
blown off. The charcoal formed during the manufacture of iodine
by the wet process, when combined with algin, has been largely used
for covering boilers under the name of carbon cement. Three per-
cent of algin is sufficient to make the carbon adhere, and a cool, light,
and adequate covering is formed. Agar is used as a suspending agent
in a wire-drawing lubricant.

Just recently, a patent was given for the use of shredded agar to
retard evaporation in tobacco.

Sharp found that agar activates nicotine in insecticide sprays to
a noteworthy degree.

Certain species of seaweeds are used in different parts of the world
for making ornaments and curios. Species of Laminaria having a
hollow stipe are used for knife handles, since these kelps dry to a
very hard, hornlike substance. They are called artificial staghorn.

THE PRESENT STATUS OF THE SEAWEED INDUSTRIES

In the summer of 1941, as this paper is being written, it is difficult
to obtain recent figures from Europe and Asia regarding exports
and imports of seaweed material. The few figures given below,
however, give a slight indication of the importance of seaweed as
an article of commerce.

AGAR

Japan has long been the world’s leading producer of agar and is
the only country that exports this product to any great extent. Only
small quantities of an inferior grade of agar are reported to have
been produced in China and the Soviet Union. In 1938 the Nether-
lands Indies developed a small industry supplemented by a second
establishment opened by a well-known ice-manufacturing concern.
The seaweed needed by these concerns is obtained along the Java
and Celebes coasts, whence comes much of the seaweed used. in the
Japanese manufacture of agar. The seaweed could be purchased
from the natives for as little as $1.65 per picul of 1386 pounds. Sufli-

USEFUL ALGAE—CHASE 447

cient raw material is obtained in 1 picul for the manufacture of 114
bales of agar with approximately 4,000 pieces to the bale. In 1939
the industry was still insufficient to meet domestic requirements but
the two factories in operation hoped eventually to produce a surplus
for export. The Japanese output of agar fluctuated only slightly
from 3 million pounds annually during the period 1923-81. It then
rose from 3.3 million pounds in 1932 to 5.5 million pounds in 1937,
when the output was valued at about $2,800,000.

For the year ending June 30, 1938, Japanese production of agar was
estimated at about 750,000 pounds less than in the preceding year,
although the quality was better. For 1938-39 the yield was still
lower, and even lower yet for 1939-40. The sudden reduction in
1938 was due to the stormy weather of the previous summer, which
resulted in extensive damage to the seaweeds. The Japanese also
attributed the lower yield to difficulty in obtaining sufficient labor
to harvest and dry the seaweed and, later, to bleach the crop.

The principal primary markets for imported agar in the United
States are New York, Indianapolis, and Detroit, where it is inspected,
cleaned, and repacked for distribution by manufacturers of pharma-
ceutical and biological products. One food-supply house in Los
Angeles used 43,000 pounds of agar in 19388.

The limit to which agar has been imported into the United States
has been in the past governed only by Japan’s ability to supply this
product. Normally, Japan was able to supply agar in sufficient
amounts to meet world requirements at reasonable prices. The prices
have varied from year to year; within the past 2 years the prices
have risen to record levels owing to a scarcity of supplies in Japan.
During the first 9 months of 1939, the United States imported 377,355
pounds of agar valued at $266,331. Since the outbreak of hostilities
in Europe in September 1939, the United States has imported a total
of 54,898 pounds valued at $46,233. It is very likely that the ship-
ments making up this total were cleared from Japan early in August
1939.

The war in Europe has had little effect upon the wholesale prices of
agar in the United States. Prices prior to the hostilities had risen to
high levels, owing to the scarcity of supplies already mentioned,
thereby probably forestalling further advances in prices. Except
for the Netherlands Indies there is little prospect of American im-
porters being able to obtain agar from other countries of the world
in the near future. During the first 9 months of 1939, Japan supplied
all the agar imported into the United States except 40 pounds which
came from China. Since the war began, Japan has continued send-
ing agar to Germany by the Trans-Siberian Railway. It is interest-
ing to note that Germany was the largest single purchaser of Jap-
448 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

anese agar in 1938. Germany imported about 20 percent of the total
amount exported to all countries.

The domestic output of agar since production in 1923 has been
very irregular. (See table 5.) Since 1982 practically the entire
domestic output has been sold during the year in which it was pro-
duced. The principal markets are New York, Chicago, and other
large cities. In 1938 production totaled 7,170 pounds, and sales were
6,820 pounds valued at $9,131.

Table 5 gives the figures for United States agar production from
1923 to 1938 and the first 9 months of 1938 and 1939. These figures
were compiled by the Tariff Commission from data obtained from the
sole producer prior to 1934, and subsequently from another producer
who granted permission to publish his output.

TasLe 5.—Agar: United States Production, 1923 to 1938, and first 9 months of
1938 and 1939

Year Quantity Year Quantity
Pounds Pounds

a Kt ps fone Be a Ee ek da a ae OD SPL OS2 8 2 EEE pea TNs ee ee ee ;
a 7 SEE ei a Ge game Oy Pan 7-2) Wy 8 ee eee ere Pare Tee 41, 557

G25 ee amie 2 NEE ROOT DD 7773] LOR4tee Mil aEy | MMT TE ek i ae 1, 802
51 RI LR SS WOR Na SH) | GBB 1 kee La MER 1 Ce 8, 061
DA 7 i all SS ER ON SS Erne Meee ok ole RY OSG 2 ie eT ees ee PT ee 1
GOs ee ia gl i a ee PPA ky a WE SES Y ceases ey ee ee SE Da DOS eS 21, 208
pA 7 EER tas aS Ee AE SE i 6°40) UP ALGSS: 22 See a ae IR ee Cer 7,170
DOGO eS RED SB MCR EE SIN 2 Leg aa ere 44,895 || 1938 (Jan.-Sept.)3____._....._..________ 5, 288
LOSES Se Ee ee ee 8 eee ee 28, 395 || 1939 (Jan.-Sept.)3__.............-______ 8, 098

Deaetaarye

Briefly, the principal uses of agar are as follows: As an ingredient
of glue and various adhesive preparations; a substitute for gelatin;
culture media in bacteriological and scientific work; in foods as
sausage casing, substitute for white of egg, a thickening agent in
cream, milk, ice cream, sherbets, cheeses, cakes, puddings, sauces,
soups, jellies, fruits, preserves, and in candies; as a suspending agent
in wire-drawing lubricant; a substitute for isinglass; a preparation
used beneath the bandage for healing wounds; a laxative; an ingre-
dient of greaseless creams, ointments, and lotions; in dental plate
impressions; as a reagent in sensitized emulsions; to size paper and
silk; and as a thickener in drying and printing of fabrics.

KELP

The Japanese production of kombu or kelp probably exceeds that
of any other country, reaching nearly half a billion pounds in 1929.
The greater part of this kombu or kelp is used as foodstuffs. The an-
nual production of kombu apparently varies considerably from
year to year, probably depending on the effects of the ocean currents.
USEFUL ALGAE—CHASE 449

Japanese exports of whole, sliced, and powdered kelp for 1932
were valued at 2,018,000 yen. The export prices are usually lower
than the domestic wholesale prices because export prices are generally
quoted in larger quantities than in the case of domestic wholesale
transactions. The kelp produced for China is of lower quality as a
rule than that consumed in Japan. The kelp shipped to Hawaii and
the United States is in meal and powdered form to. be used as poultry
feed, human food, and for medical purposes.

Norway produces kelp ash, the greater part of which is taken
over by the iodine trust in Scotland. Ash is also exported from
Norway to Great Britain. Before 1930 Russia was a fairly good
market for the limited production of iodine, but the beginning of the
manufacture of iodine in Russia adversely affected the Norwegian
kelp burners. In 1932 heavy storms washed ashore large quantities
of seaweed all along the northern and southern coasts of Stavanger.
The kelp was of better quality than that gathered in previous years,
and for it the burners would have been paid a higher price. How-
ever, a heavy decrease in price was caused at that time by the fact
that Chile, the world’s largest exporters of iodine, abandoned the
gold standard, and with abundant stocks of iodine on hand, was able
to cut the price about 25 percent. It was then impossible for manu-
facturers in England and Scotland to produce iodine from Norwegian
or Irish seaweed ash at competitive prices. Lower price quotations
for iodine were also reported from Japan and Russia.

Kelp was formerly exported from the Wieringen district in Hol-
land in the amount of 2,000 to 3,000 tons annually, going principally
to Belgium, England, and France, with occasional shipments to the
United States. It consisted chiefly of fully prepared seaweed to be
used as filling for mattresses and upholstery and for plant gelatins.

A firm in San Pedro, Calif., leases the kelp beds in the vicinity
from the State Bureau of Fisheries and prepares the seaweed for
livestock and poultry concentrates. This company also prepares kelp
for human consumption.

A concern in Seattle, Wash., manufactures chiefly cosmetic products
from kelp.

At one time there was a kelp-gathering project in Nova Scotia
which obtained kelp from the shores of Nova Scotia near Clark Har-
bor and processed it in a plant at Rockland, Me. The fishermen
were paid $3.00 a ton for kelp. They pulled it off the rocks by hand
or with hooks and loaded it in their dories to take to the plant,
where it was treated with chemicals in cement tanks to prevent it
from rotting. It was then packed in rope bags, and when a sufficient
quantity, 100 to 110 tons, had accumulated, it was shipped to Rock-
land in a power boat. In 1938, the first year of operation, 6 ship-
450 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

ments of kelp were made to Rockland, and in 1939 there were 5 ship-
ments. No further details have been received from the factory since
that time.

The Fisheries Research Board of Canada in the summer of 1941
reports that considerable quantities of kelp are harvested along the
south shore between Yarmouth and Cape Sable Island and trans-
ported to Maine.

ALGIN OR SODIUM ALGINATE

The imports of algin into the United States are relatively unim-
portant, ranging in the New York district from 5,000 pounds to about
18,000 pounds during the years 1932 to 1935, inclusive. The United
Kingdom was the principal supplier in 1933 and 1934, the Irish
Free State in 1932, and Norway in 1935. Some sodium alginate
materials enter as crude or semimanufactured seaweeds, algin, or
extract of seaweed.

In the United States, sodium alginate has been produced by only
one large company in recent years. The imports are relatively un-
important in comparison with domestic production. There are no
available statistics of the exports but it is believed that they are
small, if any.

The one company producing sodium alginate in the United States,
located at San Diego, Calif., started operations several years ago by
taking over a plant established in 1926 which had failed. After
intensive research and developmental work, they have brought their
product to a point of commercial production.

IRISH MOSS

The center of the Irish moss or Chondrus crispus industry is at
Scituate, Mass., where an annual supply of approximately 200,000
pounds is produced.

Summarizing briefly, the gelatin from Chondrus crispus, is used
in tanning, in fining beverages, as a filler and stabilizer in various
foods, as a basis of certain drugs, and in the cosmetics industry.

CONCLUSION

A third verse should be added today to Longfellow’s famous poem
“Seaweed”:

When descends on the Atlantic
The gigantic
Storm wind of the equinox
Landward in his wrath he scourges
the toiling surges,
Laden with sea-weed from the rocks.

USEFUL ALGAE—CHASE 451

Ever drifting, drifting, drifting,
On the shifting

Currents of the restless main,

Till in sheltered caves and reaches
of sandy beaches,

All have found repose again.

Indeed the seaweeds are not finding repose in this generation, for

day by day the scientists and industrial workers are developing new
uses for them in every walk of life.

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

I wish to express my sincere appreciation and grateful acknowl-
edgment to the following persons who have aided me in obtaining
information for use in this paper: Mr. L. A. Barber of the Consump-
tion Materials Unit of the United States Department of Commerce;
Mr. A. G. Wenley of the Freer Gallery of Art; Mr. A. B. Steiner of
the Technical Department of the Kelco Co.; Mr. Fred A. Conroy,
gatherer and bleacher of Irish Moss, Scituate, Mass.; Mr. L. K. Small
of the Marine Products Co.; Miss Gertrude K. Beckwith of the Re-
search Division of Philip R. Park, Inc.; Mr. O. Rappe of the Rappe
Kelp Industries; Mr. L. Drew Betz, consulting engineer, Philadel-
phia, Pa.; Dr. C. F. Moreland, Louisiana State University; and Dr.
S. A. Beatty of the Fisheries Research Board of Canada.

BIBLIOGRAPHY

Notr.—Owing to the considerable size of the bibliography, it was found
hecessary to omit titles of a number of the books consulted in writing this
article. However, the few references listed below contain complete references
to the literature of the authors quoted.

Booru, W. E.

1941. Algae as pioneers in plant succession and their importance in
erosion control. Ecology, vol. 22, No. 1, pp. 38-46, January.
CHEMICAL ABSTRACTS.
1930-1941. See references on agar, algin, and kelp, vols. 24-35.
CHILsOoN, Francis H.
1938. Modern cosmetics. 5381 pp. The Drug and Cosmetic Industry,
New York.
Conroy, FRED A.
1939. The past, present and future of Irish moss. (Unpublished Ms., pp.
1-8.) Scituate, Mass.
MAcCAUGHEY, VAUGHAN.
1916. The seaweeds of Hawaii. Amer. Journ. Bot., vol. 3, pp. 474-479.
METER, FLORENCE B.
1936. Those ubiquitous plants called algae. Ann. Rep. Smithsonian Inst.
for 1935, pp. 409-427.
1940. Plankton in the water supply. Ann. Rep. Smithsonian Inst. for 1939,
pp. 393-412.

430577 —42——_30
452 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

MORELAND, C. F.

1937. Natural paper formed by dried algae. Amer. Journ. Bot., vol. 24, |

No. 9, pp. 592-593, November.
PAFFENBARGER, GEORGE C.
1940. Hydrocolloidal impression materials: Physical properties and a
specification. Journ. Amer. Dental Assoc., vol. 27, No. 1, pp.
373-388.
SAUVAGEAU, CAMILLE.
1920. Utilisation des algues marines. Pp. 1-894. Paris.
SmitH, HueH M.
1904a. The seawood industries of Japan. Bull. Bur. Fisheries, vol. 24,
pp. 135-142.
1904b. The utilization of seaweeds in the United States. Bull. Bur.
Fisheries, vol. 24, pp. 169-181.
TRESSLER, DONALD K.
1923. Marine products of commerce. Pp. 70-145. Chemical Catalog
Company, Inc.
VINCENT, V.
1924. Les algues marines et leurs emplois agricoles, aliméntaires, indus-
triels. xv 206 pp. Printed by Edouard Ménez, Quimper.

Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Chase PLATE 1

ra

a E. yy } fe

Low Ha
; ea z 3 .
ue )

6

wat

1-3, views of field and fence showing old cotton stalks and fence covered with ‘‘natural paper’’; 4, photo-
micrograph of a piece of bleached algal film with the filaments teased apart; 5, photograph of typing and
lead pencil writing on algal paper; 6, photomicrograph of a few filaments of Tribonema from the green
end of an algal film. Courtesy of C. F. Moreland.
*pue[UI 94} PUB 4ISBOD 94} JO SAATJVU 94} UA0M49qG
JoJIVQ JO O[OIJIV UB SUIIOJ JT “BYSVPY WOT ‘oy DJDIULID) DINYdLOT JO ayvd BF BY DJDIUIID] DLhYydiog ‘g ‘sUOy BUCH UO’ INOWIe'T] WnaUusod WnIpYjay ‘Z {IOABL “SV sluvbyna pifiydsog ‘T

c 3LV1d aseyy—'| $6] ‘W4oday ueluosyyIWIG
‘sseyy ‘uy edeO mo “qsuAT sndsizo snupuoyp ‘Z ‘ueder ULOI] ZN “IVA DULUDYIIDS DILDUIWLT *T

€ 31LV1d asey— | p6| ‘Woday ueruosyqwSg
aLW1d

*XOIMOD *

V ‘dA jo Asoyin0D ‘sseyy ‘oyeNYIJog 4B YOVeq oy} UO ssour YstIT SuldAlq

Peds Seman emsaoemnnner:

ee en

2se4)—' | b6l ‘yaoday UeIUOSsY pI
Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Chase PLATE 5

1, Nest of the sea swift in its natural state; 2, nest of the sea swift that has been cleaned preparatory to
making bird’s nest soup; 3, Rhodymenia palmata mollis 8. and G. from the Aleutian Islands.
"BIUAOM[RO WOI “ADIH DJUaynasa DLIDIY ‘g ‘ABAMION WO 7] Snsopnaisaa snongz “% :puBlOS[eH WLOIF INOUIv'T (TT) Dippbip DiunurunT 1

93LVId aseyg—' | F6l *‘qaoday URTUOsYzIWIG
Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Chase PLATE 7

1,The giant kelp Macrocystis pyrifera in its natural habitat: 2 and 3, a power-driven barge harvesting kelp.
Courtesy of the Keleo Company.
Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Chase PLATE 8

1, Hypnea nidifica J. Ag.; 2, Laminaria cloustonii.
“puRpad] WO’) 7] SupVLias snony “p SuRdBe UTOIy “WI]OH 877077290 snupuoy) ‘g ‘spuR[syT uene uURg WOT ‘AdNY puB “sod DUDayjan) sishooasan ‘% ‘uBdep WIOIJ “U[Joly Vand nrUOpYORT ‘T

be F
he gl

ry

6 alvid aseYD—'|p6| ‘Woday UPTUOSY WIG
THE EXCAVATIONS OF SOLOMON’S SEAPORT: EZION-
GEBER

By NELSON GLUECK

Professor of Bible and Biblical Archaeology, Hebrew Union College, Sometime
Director, American School of Oriental Research, Jerusalem

[With 14 plates]

Three seasons of excavations were conducted during the spring
months of 1938-40 at Tell el-Kheleifeh, under the auspices of the
American School of Oriental Research, Jerusalem, the American
Philosophical Society, and the Smithsonian Institution. They re-
sulted in the almost complete uncovering of Ezion-geber, and of
Elath, as it was known in the latter part of its history. Tell el-
Kheleifeh (pl. 1, fig. 1) is situated in the center of the southern end
of the Wadi el-‘Arabah, on the north shore of the Gulf of ‘Aqabah,
the eastern arm of the Red Sea. It is about halfway between the
northeastern and northwestern ends of the gulf, marked respectively
by the modern village of ‘Aqabah (pl. 1, fig. 2, and pl. 2, fig. 1) in
Transjordan, and the police post of Mrashrash in Palestine. On the
east side of the gulf is Sa ‘idi Arabia, and on the west side is Sinai.

The discovery of Tell el-Kheleifeh and its identification with
Ezion-geber:Elath were the result of archeological explorations,
aided by some scanty references in the Bible. As a result of the
archeological exploration of the Wadi el-‘Arabah, the great rift ex-
tending between the southern end of the Dead Sea and the Gulf of
‘Aqabah, and known in the Bible as the ‘Arabah, extensive copper-
and iron-mining and smelting sites were discovered, which could be
dated by the pottery recovered particularly to the time of King
Solomon. One of these mining and smelting sites, called Mrashrash,
directly overlooks the present shore line of the northwest corner of
the Gulf of ‘Aqabah. Near the east end of the north shore are
located the extensive ruins of the Nabataean-Roman-Byzantine-
medieval Arabic site of Aila, whose history goes back to at least
the third century B. C. These facts compelled the conclusion, sev-
erals years before it was actually located, that the site of Solomon’s
seaport of Ezion-geber had to be situated somewhere along the present

453
454 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

MEDITERRANEAN

SEA

&

Jaffa? serusatem
©
Q
JUDAH

A]

iy Orgssa Main ® Qeseir
I) hte
a

\
\ . 1 @ Petra

Mene‘iyeh i +! TRANSJORDAN  \f

\
Mrashrash “¢

SINAI
PENINSULA

SAUDI ARABTA

Statute Miles

Oo 0 20 30 40 SO
n

Kilometers’

© 10 20 30 40 30

“AKH-

Figuke 1.—Location of Ezion-Geber.

shore of the north end of the Gulf of ‘Aqabah.1. This was also in
harmony with the statement in I Kings 9: 26:
King Solomon made a fleet of ships in Ezion-geber, which is beside Eloth, on
the shore of the Red Sea, in the Land of Edom.

Until the actual site of Solomon’s seaport was discovered and ex-
cavated, the notion was current that it was to be located at a place

1 Glueck, Nelson, Explorations in Eastern Palestine. Bull. Amer. Schools Oriental Res.,
No. 65, p. 12, February 1937 ; The first campaign at Tell El-Kheleifeh (Ezion-Geber). Ibid.,
No. 71, pp. 4-5, October 1938; Explorations in Eastern Palestine. Ann. Amer. Schools
Oriental Res., vol. 15, pp. 26-27, 42-45, 47-48, 138-139, 1934-1935.
EZION-GEBER—GLUECK 455

called Mene ‘iyeh in the Wadi el-‘Arabah, some 30 kilometers north
of the present shore line of the Gulf of ‘Aqabah. This was believed
in at a time also when it was not known that Mene ‘iyeh was
actually the site of one of the largest mining and smelting sites in
the Wadi el-‘Arabah, worked intensively particularly during the time
of King Solomon.? Other identifications have been with Ghadyan *
and with a place near ‘Ain Defiyeh,‘ which latter site is some 16
kilometers from the present shore of the sea. For various reasons,
it had been thought that the waters of the gulf had retreated in the
course of some three millennia from approximately 30 to 16 kilometers
to the position of its present north shore. The waters of the Gulf
of ‘Aqabah, have, as a matter of fact, retreated during the course of
the last 3,000 years, but the retreat measures about 550 meters, and
not as many as 25,000 meters more or less. It remained for a German
explorer, Fritz Frank, to discover the small mound of Tell el-Khe-
leifeh, which is situated about 550 meters from the shore and is
about halfway between the eastern and western ends of the gulf.
He found large quantities of pottery fragments on the surface of the
mound (pl. 2, fig. 2), which he judged to be old, earlier than Roman.
When the expedition of the American School of Oriental Research,
Jerusalem, subsequently examined the site, it was seen that the pottery
there was the same as that at the mining sites in the Wadi el-‘Arabah,
and that the main period of occupation of Tell el-Kheleifeh must be
assigned to and after the time of King Solomon.’ The excavations
(pl. 3, fig. 1) have shown that in all likelihood Tell el-Kheleifeh is
to be identified with Ezion-geber: Elath, although it cannot be arche-
ologically demonstrated beyond all question of doubt. It is, how-
ever, now clear that the shore line of the north end of the Gulf of
‘Aqabah has not changed appreciably in the last 3,000 years.

It would facilitate the identification of Ezion-geber greatly if we
knew exactly where Elath was situated. Both sites, if indeed there
ever were two separate sites, which we doubt, are at least to be sought
in close proximity to each other, according to the Biblical passages
referring to them. We have attempted to identify Eloth, or Elath,
as it is variously called in the Bible, with the large ruined site of

? Glueck, Nelson, Explorations in Eastern Palestine. Ann. Amer. Schools Oriental Res.,
vol. 15, pp. 42-45, 1934-1935; Musil, Alois, Arabia Petraea. Vol. 2, pt. 2, pp. 186-190,
Wien, 1908; Phythian-Adams, W. J., The call of Israel. Pp. 187-188. London, 1934.

3Cf. Glueck, Nelson, Explorations in Eastern Palestine. Ann. Amer. Schools Oriental
Res., vol. 15, p. 45, 1934-1935.

4Cf. Glueck, Nelson, Explorations in Hastern Palestine. Ann. Amer. Schools Oriental
Res., vols. 18-19, pp. 5-6, 1937-1939.

5 Frank, Fritz, Aus der ’Araba, I. Zeitschr. Deutsch. Palistinavereins, vol. 57, pp. 243—
244, 1934.

6 Glueck, Nelson, Explorations in Eastern Palestine. Bull. Amer. Schools Oriental Res.,
No. 65, p. 12, February 1937; The first campaign at Tell El-Kheleifeh (Ezion-Geber).
Ibid., No. 71, p. 4, October 1938; Explorations in Eastern Palestine. Ann. Amer. Schools
Oriental Res., vol. 15, p. 48, 1934-1935; vols. 18-19, p. 3, 1937-1939.
456 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Aila, several kilometers to the east of Tell el-Kheleifeh, and almost
directly on the shore of the gulf. To judge from careful and re-
peated examinations of the surface pottery finds there, however, Aila
was occupied from the Nabataean to the medieval Arabic period,
but not before then.’ The possibility remains, nevertheless, that if
excavations were to be undertaken at Aila, sherds might be found
indicating occupation of the site during and preceding the times of
the Biblical Ezion-geber and Elath. I consider that possibility, how-
ever, to be a remote one, because the depth of ancient debris on the
site of Aila is not considerable, and could not go below the Nabataean
ruins without striking the water level. If there ever were any ancient
sites at Aila, which could be related to the Biblical Ezion-geber or
Elath, then in all probability their ruins were completely cleared
away by the heavy and deep and extensive building operations which
took place there particularly in the Nabataean, Roman, and Byzan-
tine periods.®

The Biblical evidence, which we have gone into in detail elsewhere,°
seems to indicate that Ezion-geber did not become a really important
site until the time of Solomon, and figured as such in the biblical
annals from the tenth to the middle of the ninth century B. C.,
after which time its name is no longer mentioned. It was replaced
by Elath in the biblical accounts, becoming important in the eighth
century B. C., near the end of which it passed from Judaean into
Edomite control, and out of the Biblical record. There is reason to
believe from the evidence in the Bible, that the Elath which succeeded
Ezion-geber as an important site on the north shore of the Gulf of
‘Aqabah, was built on the ruins of Ezion-geber, after that site had
been abandoned for some time. It is not an uncommon happening
for different names to be applied to the same ancient Biblical site
during various stages of its history. Thus Qiryath-séfer and Debir
are one and the same place, as are Hebron and Kiryath-‘arba.t° In
view of the fact, therefore, that Tell el-Kheleifeh is on the shore of the
eastern arm of the Yam Sif, the Red Sea, and that there is no other
site on that shore which shows the proper early occupational history
necessary for either Ezion-geber or Elath or both, and that the exca-
vations of Tell el-Kheleifeh revealed that it was occupied from the
tenth to the late fifth centuries B. C., including thus the main periods

7 Glueck, Nelson, Explorations in Eastern Palestine. Bull. Amer. Schools Oriental Res.,
No. 65, p. 12, February 1937; The first campaign at Tell El-Kheleifeh (Ezion-Geber).
Ibid., No. 71, p. 4, October 1938; Explorations in Eastern Palestine. Ann. Amer. Schools
Oriental Res., vol. 15, p. 47, 1934-1935; vols. 18-19, pp. 6-7, 1937-1939.

® Glueck, Nelson, Explorations in Eastern Palestine. Ann. Amer. Schools Oriental Res.,
vols. 18-19, p. 3, 1937-1939.

° Glueck, Nelson, The topography and history of Ezion-Geber and Elath. Bull. Amer.
Schools Oriental Res., No. 72, pp. 9-10, December 1938.

10 Tdem.
EZION-GEBER—GLUECK 457

of both Ezion-geber and Elath as reflected in the Bible, we are com-
pelled to conclude that Tell el-Kheleifeh is to be identified with
Ezion-geber and Elath.

One of the chief difficulties at first of identifying Ezion-geber:
Elath with Tell el-Kheleifeh, is the location of the tell in the center
of the south end of the Wadi el-‘Arabah on the shore of the gulf, and
not farther to the east nearer to ‘Aqabah, at a place such as Aila, for
instance. Assuming, as we do, that Ezion-geber is to be identified
with the lower levels of Tell el-Kheleifeh, it is possible to say that
the builders of the site could not possibly have chosen a more inclem-
ent site along the entire shore line. Situated in the bottom of a curve
banked on the east side by the hills of Edom, which continue into
Arabia, and on the west side by the hills of Palestine, which continue
into Sinai, it is open to the full fury of the winds and sandstorms
from the north that blow along the center of the WAdi el-‘Arabah
as if forced through a wind tunnel. During the 1940 season of
excavations, for instance, there was a blinding sandstorm which lasted
almost continuously for 10 days, and made work on the tell practi-
cally impossible. By walking about a kilometer to the east or to
the west of the tell, it was always possible to escape the winds and
the accompanying sandstorms. Inasmuch as it is demonstrable that
the physical conditions have not changed appreciably there during
the last 3,000 years, the question which disturbed us before the com-
mencement of the actual excavations was how the ancient architects
and city planners had hit upon this particular place for the building
of an important town. It is not difficult to understand why Solomon’s
port city could not have been built farther to the west. The shore
is rocky there, and dangerous for ships. Furthermore, from Mrash-
rash, at the northwestern end of the gulf, to Tell el-Kheleifeh, there
is no drinking water in a distance of about 314 kilometers. The
police stationed at Mrashrash send all the way to ‘Aqabah, at the
northeastern end of the gulf, about 7 kilometers’ distance one way,
for their drinking water. The point where the sweet-water wells
begin is marked almost exactly by the location of the ruins of Ezion-
geber. From there eastward toward ‘Aqabah there is a continuous
line of such wells, increasing in number the closer one gets to ‘Aqabah,
and becoming constantly less brackish, and marked by a correspond-
ingly increasing number of date palms between the two points.
Why, then, did the builders of Ezion-geber not locate their site nearer
‘Aqabah, where the water is comparatively sweet, and where protec-
tion may be found under the lee of the hills from the strong winds
and biting sandstorms that plague it in its present position? The
strong winds that blow steadily from the north were evidently a
feature so desirable to the architects of Ezion-geber that they built
458 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

it directly in the path of these winds, at the sacrifice of much con-
venience and comfort for its inhabitants.

The very first building uncovered gave the answer to this par-
ticular problem. The excavations were begun at the northwest end
of the mound for various reasons, not the least of them being consid-
eration for the direction of the winds, which would at least blow
the debris being dug up away from, and not directly into, the eyes of
the workmen. A large building containing originally three large
rectangular rooms and three small ones was dug out, its walls more
or less intact to about a third of their original height. It soon be-
came evident that this was not an ordinary large building or palace,
but a completely novel type of structure, the like of which had not
previously been discovered in the entire ancient Near East. The
walls of the rooms were pierced with two rows of flues, and the main
walls were interconnected by a system of air channels inside the
walls, into which the upper rows of flues opened (pl. 3, fig. 2). The
lower rows of flues pierced the walls between the rooms. It is our
present idea that the lower rows of flues were intended to permit
gases forming in one chamber to penetrate into a second one and
preheat its contents. In other words, not all of the rooms were
fired at the same time, but were fired progressively. The upper rows
of flues were used then to create a draft, the air being sucked
throughout the entire length of the building toward the draft chim-
ney, which we have reason to believe once rose over the southeast
corner of the structure. The originally unfired yellowish mud
bricks had been baked by the heat of the fires in the rooms to the
consistency of kiln-fired bricks. It became evident that the building
was an elaborate smelter or refinery, where previously “roasted”
ores were worked into ingots of purer metal. It was obvious both
from the sulfuric discoloration of parts of the walls, and from fin-
ished metal articles fashioned from the ingots produced, that the re-
finery at Ezion-geber was devoted mainly to copper, and in a lesser
degree to iron. Great quantities of both copper and iron, especially
copper, abound in the Wadi el-‘Arabah, in Sinai, and in northwestern
Arabia." In the complex of buildings surrounding the smelter were
foundry and factory rooms, in which finished or semifinished articles
were turned out for home consumption and for export. Ezion-geber
was the Pittsburgh of Palestine. The rooms in its refinery were, so
to speak, air-conditioned for heat, utilizing a natural forced-draft
system to fan the flames in the furnace rooms, which in principle
was related to the Bessemer principle of forced draft discovered
less than a century ago.

“Glueck, Nelson, The first campaign at Tell El-Kheleifeh (Ezion-Geber). Bull. Amer.
Schools Oriental Res., No. 71, p. 7, October 1938.
EZION-GEBER—GLUECK 459

The fuel for firing the refinery was obtained in all probability in
the form of charcoal from the wooded hills of Edom.” Layers of
crushed ore were placed between layers of lime in thick pottery
crucibles on top of a base of hard-baked, loosely packed clay debris.
Piles of charcoal were then packed around and above the crucibles
in the open furnace rooms of the refinery, and the rooms fired in
successive order at proper intervals of time. In this wise do we
reconstruct the method of refining the ores and firing the furnaces.

In view of the now-established character of the important smelter-
refinery of Ezion-geber: Elath, which was used and reused in one
form or another throughout practically the entire history of the site,
it is possible to understand why the builders of ancient Ezion-geber
chose the site they did for the founding of their fortified industrial
establishment. They had in mind the needs of the large refinery
they were planning to erect. After careful examination they chose
the one site in the center of the south end of the Wadi el-‘Arabah,
where the winds blew strong and constantly from an almost unvary-
ing direction. They needed a constant draft from a known quarter
to fan the flames in the furnaces of the refinery. Without these
strong winds, for the sake of which they were willing to endure
frequent sandstorms, they could not have erected such a large and
elaborate refinery, and would have had to rely completely upon the
hand-bellows system in vogue previously. The comfort of better
water and a more protected location for the founding of their city
was dispensed with by its builders in order to enable them to harness
the elements for their industrial purposes.

Incidentally, the shore line in front of Tell el-Kheleifeh is free of
the rocks which make the east and west ends of the north shore
dangerous for boats. It was on such rocks, according to I Kings
22:49 that the fleet of Jehoshaphat, which he had had constructed
in order to sail to Ophir in Arabia for gold, came to grief. Sol-
omon’s fleet, which made the trip to Ophir and back once every 3
years, according to I Kings 10:22 and II Chronicles 9:21, may have
previously experienced a similar fate. The ships of both fleets were
probably no larger than the small sailboats in which the fishermen
put forth from ‘Aqabah today. The requirement in Solomon’s
time was not a harbor with a deep draught for ships, but one which
had a sandy bottom enabling ships to be dragged on shore. The
main anchorage for Solomon’s fleet may even have been farther to
the east, approximately at the position on the shore line facing
Aila, where, as we shall point out, some of the free residents of
Ezion-geber: Elath may have tented. Solomon’s ships brought back

“Idem, p. 10; Explorations in Eastern Palestine. Ann. Amer. Schools Oriental Res.,
Vol. 15, pp. 26, 44, 1934-35.
460 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

various precious products from Arabia,'* undoubtedly giving in ex-
change the copper and iron ingots and finished metal objects pro-
duced in Ezion-geber.

In addition to the fact that the entire first town of Ezion-geber,
which for convenience we shall call Ezion-geber I, represented a
carefully integrated industrial complex, the excavations have shown
that it was built completely anew on virgin soil. It experienced no
gradual growth and development but was built at one time, within
the space of a year or two, from a preconceived and carefully
worked-out plan. Surveyors, architects, and engineers had evidently
looked over the north shore of the Gulf of ‘Aqabah in advance with
a view to the particular requirements they had in mind. They were
industrial scouts, and chose a town site which no builders would
have selected in the normal course of events for the founding of a
settlement. They needed, as we have seen, strong and continuous
winds, coming from a known direction to provide drafts for fur-
naces. They needed also sweet water to drink, a central point com-
manding strategic commercial and military cross roads, and access
to the sea. Great quantities of copper and iron ore were present in
the Wadi el-‘Arabah, and provided the most important impetus for
the building of the first town on the site known today as Tell
el-Kheleifeh.

The town site chosen, intricate plans for the establishing of a very
complicated factory complex must have been drawn up. A great
deal of specialized technical skill was necessary. Thick and high
walls of sun-dried bricks had to be erected, with flues and air chan-
nels in them, and with allowances made for the weight of the wall
above them. The angle of the buildings had to be chosen carefully
to get the full benefit of the winds from the north. Bricks had to
be made by the thousands, and laid by expert bricklayers. In no
period in the history of the subsequent towns, each built on top of the
ruins of the previous one, were bricks as excellently made and skill-
fully laid as during the first period. Certainly not in the poor little
town of ‘Aqabah several miles to the east, which in modern times
has superseded Ezion-geber. Al the bricks were laid in complicated
systems of headers and stretchers, with the corners of the walls well
bonded together. One reads today of new towns, planned in ad-
vance, and springing up as if by magic on previously bare soil with
the aid of modern transportation facilities and mechanical equipment.
Ezion-geber, however, still remote from civilized points today, was
a long and difficult journey from them in ancient times. It took the
writer 13 days on camelback, several years ago, to travel from the
south end of the Dead Sea, which is already comparatively far from

13 T Kings 10: 2, 13, 15.
EZION-GEBER—GLUECK 461

Jerusalem, to the north shore of the Gulf of ‘Aqabah. It took a
great deal of business ability, as well as architectural, engineering,
and metallurgical skill, to construct the factory town and seaport of
Ezion-geber, and to keep the production line going.

One can easily visualize the conditions existing about three mil-
lennia ago, when the idea of building this place was first conceived
and then brilliantly translated into reality. Thousands of laborers
had to be assembled, housed, fed, and protected at the chosen build-
ing site. As a matter of fact, most of them were probably slaves,
who had to be guarded and goaded to work. Skilled technicians
of all kinds had to be recruited. Great caravans had to be collected
to transport materials and food. An effective business organization
had to be called into existence to regulate the profitable flow of raw
materials and finished or semifinished products. There was, so far
as we know, only one man who possessed the strength, wealth, and
wisdom capable of initiating and carrying out such a highly complex
and specialized undertaking. He was King Solomon. He alone in
his day had the ability, the vision, and the power to establish an
important industrial center and seaport such a comparatively long
distance from the capital city of Jerusalem.

The wise ruler of Israel was a copper king, a shipping magnate,
a merchant prince, and a great builder. Through his manifold activi-
ties, he became at once the blessing and the curse of his country.
With increased power and wealth came a centralization of authority
and a ruthless dictatorship which ignored the democratic traditions
of his own people. There resulted a counterdevelopment of forces
of reaction and revolt, which were immediately after Solomon’s death
to rend his kingdom asunder. During his lifetime, however, Solomon
reigned supreme. The evil he did lived after him. His far-flung
net of activities extended from Egypt to Phoenicia, and from Arabia
to Syria. Ezion-geber represents one of his greatest, if indeed up
to the present time his least-known accomplishments. In the person
of Solomon, more than anyone else before or after him, was fulfilled
the promise to Israel, contained in Deuteronomy 8:9, according to
which Israel was to inherit a land (the ‘Arabah), “whose stones are
iron, and out of whose hills you can dig copper.”

A long period of mining, smelting, refining, and brickmaking must
have preceded the construction of the elaborate refinery, unless one
is to assume that experts were imported for the purpose, just as, for
instance, Solomon imported Phoenicians to build and man his ships
(I Kings 9: 26-28; 10:11, 22). There is, however, no reason for
that assumption. Mining and smelting and refining were known
along the length of the ‘Arabah at least from the beginning of the
Early Iron Age, and quite probably already in the Early Bronze
462 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Age. The Kenites, who were native to the country, and whose very
name reveals that they were smiths, were the ones who probably
introduced the Israelites, whose leader Moses had apparently taken
a Kenite wife and who retained ever afterward the closest relation-
ship with them, and the Edomites, to whom they were related through
the Kenizzites, to the arts of mining and metallurgy. Was it from
the Kenites that Moses learned how to make a copper serpent? (Gen-
esis 21:9.) Saul was mindful of the close connection between the
Israelites and the Kenites, and spared them in his battles with the
Amalekites,.

That the Kenites were at home in Edom and in the Wadi ‘Arabah
is indicated by Balaam’s punning proverb with regard to them in
Numbers 24:21: “Everlasting is thy habitation, and set in the Rock
(Sela) is thy Nest (Qén).” The pun on Qén and sgenite (Qenite) is
obvious, and Sela is to be identified with Umm el-Biyarah in Petra.
The Bible tells that Tubal-Cain (a Kenite) was the first forger of cop-
per and iron instruments (Genesis 4:22). It is stated in I Chronicles
4: 12-14 that the Kenizzites lived in the Valley of Smiths. We believe
that this means the Wadi ‘Arabah, with its many copper and iron min-
ing and smelting sites, and that the City of Copper mentioned in con-
nection with the Valley of Smiths is to be identified with the large
Iron Age mining and smelting site of Khirbet Nahas (the Copper
Ruin), located near the north end of the Wadi ‘Arabah.® Confirmed
wanderers, the Kenites seem to have retained throughout their history
a Bedouin form of life, like the related Rechabites and Jerahmeelites.
The presence of individual Kenites in Judah and Israel, pictured as
wandering about from place to place, can be understood when it is
realized that they were itinerant smiths.

The smelter-refinery was literally the center of the first Ezion-
geber, or Ezion-geber I, as we shall call it. Some distance removed
from it, and around it, was built a square of foundry and factory
rooms. This industrial square was only one room thick. The rooms
were formed by thin partition walls, between the spaced, parallel
inner and outer walls. There seems to have been an entrance guarded
by a strong square tower on the southwest side. The plan of the
smelter, together with the industrial square, may be likened somewhat
to that of a strong stockade wall, with a row of houses one room
thick, built against the inside of the walls of the stockade square,
and with an isolated, commanding building in the center of the
square. There is, furthermore, some reason for believing that con-
siderably beyond the industrial square, whose outer wall is strength-

Glueck, Nelson, Explorations in Eastern Palestine. Ann. Amer. Schools Oriental Res.,
vols. 18-19, p. 26, 1937-1939.

1% Glueck, Nelson, The other side of the Jordan. P.83. Amer. Schools Oriental Res., New
Haven, 1940.
EZION-GEBER—GLUECK 463

ened like a fortress wall with regular offsets, there may have been
in the very first period an outer, complex fortification system, con-
sisting of two separate walls, with a glacis built against each of them,
and a dry moat between the two walls. All traces of it have disap-
peared because of a later fortification system much like it, which com-
pletely displaced it.

Both the smelter and parts of the industrial square were used and
reused in later periods. Indeed, one of the main difficulties of the
excavations consisted in just this fact: That wherever a later age
found a good wall of a previous one, it frequently built other walls
against it to form a new room. The employment of a straight
stratigraphic method of excavation would have produced dire results.
The problems of unraveling the puzzles of walls there, built against
each other, yet frequently belonging to totally different periods, were
baffling at first appearance, but usually could be solved. The fre-
quent use of different types of bricks and different methods of brick-
laying in different periods helped to distinguish one period from
another. In certain parts of Tell el-Kheleifeh, walls of successive
periods were built on respectively higher levels.

The intricate smelter-refinery of Ezion-geber: Elath was from the
very beginning till near the end of the history of the place consid-
ered to be its most important structure. It underwent numerous
changes in the course of time. The system of flues and air channels
in the walls was abandoned after they had become filled with sand
and soot. The flue holes were plastered over, and the smelting pro-
cess reverted to the use of hand bellows. Im this wise, the great in-
dustrial plant continued to function for a number of centuries longer.
The tremendous heat in the furnace rooms of the smelter transformed
the sun-dried bricks used in its construction into the equivalent of
kiln-baked bricks. The copper sulfide fumes of the copper ores being
reduced in the smelter turned its walls green; where the fumes did
not come in direct contact with the walls, the heat turned them brown
and red. Centuries of experience had produced a brick measuring
40 by 20 by 10 centimeters, with which an excellent wall two and a
half bricks thick could be produced, of enduring strength. Some of
the walls of the smelter have stood almost to their original height
for nearly 80 centuries.

When finally heat cracked the walls of the smelter in places, and
repairs and reinforcements were necessary, a means of strengthening
them was employed, which had hitherto been applied only to
fortresses. A sloping retaining wall in all respects similar to a
fortification glacis, was discovered during the third season of work,
built against each side of the smelter. It was almost half again as
wide at the bottom as the smelter walls themselves. Each row of
464 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

bricks in this supporting ramp was set about 2 centimeters back of
the preceding row, so that by the time the top of the inward slope
of the glacis reached the top of the smelter wall, only the width of
the smelter wall remained. The outer, very steep slope of this glacis
was then covered with a thick facing of strong mud mortar, which
effectively hid all the irregularities of the tiny steps of its successively
graduated rows of bricks, and presented a surface so smooth as not
to afford a toehold to anyone desirous of ascending it. Although
the glacis around the smelter can in no wise be distinguished from
a fortification glacis, it was intended not so much to keep out an
enemy as to bolster up the walls of the smelter.

The strength of this smelter glacis was, furthermore, enhanced
by the fact that while its outer face sloped inward as it went upward,
the rows of bricks in it sloped downward somewhat toward the face
of each of the walls against which the glacis was built. In addition,
the builders of this glacis (and others like it in a later period at Tell
el-Kheleifeh), employed a principle of tying the bricks to each
other that was commonly used, for instance, in the Renaissance
Period in Europe, particularly for fortress construction. The bricks
were laid in complex, crisscross patterns. It is the strongest form
of brick bonding known to man, and must already have been old
when used by the brickmasons of Ezion-geber. By ascertaining the
degree of the angle of the slope of the glacis around the smelter, both
the height of the glacis and the original height of the walls against
which it was built could be obtained. Allowing for the upward
extension of the walls of the smelter above the top of the glacis, it
is possible to say that the smelter walls were about 4 meters high.
There was no roof over the smelter. Naturally, when the strength-
ening glacis was built against the smelter walls, the flue system
could no longer function in the same manner as previously. The
inside walls were completely plastered over, closing the flue holes
from this side also. Just how the necessary draft was furnished
for the furnaces is not clear to us. One thing is certain, namely,
refining and, to a degree, smelting operations were continued in the
smelter-refinery. The heat was so intense that the plaster covering
the walls and the previous flue holes was literally fused against the
walls. Perhaps flue holes were built in the walls above the level of
the top of the glacis; or perhaps the crude bellows system worked
by hand was reverted to. Apparently the smelter-refinery was used
in one form or another till the end of the occupation of Ezion-
geber: Elath.

In all probability, the refinery and foundries and factories at
Ezion-geber were manned for the most part with slave labor, even
a —

EZION-GEBER—GLUECK 465

as the mines in the Wadi el-‘Arabah were worked by slaves. The
fumes and smoke from the smelter-refinery alone, coupled with the
severity of the natural conditions, would have made life there in-
tolerable to the free-born, and impossible for slaves. The welfare
of the latter, however, would hardly have been taken into considera-
tion. The permanent population of Ezion-geber: Elath was never
large, numbering probably not more than two or three hundred.
During the essentially seasonal industrial activity there, the popula-
tion figures must have increased considerably with the importation
of slave labor. While the officers and merchants may have tented
some distance away from the furnaces and foundries, the slaves,
however, upon whom the main burden of the work fell, were prob-
ably confined inside the walled area. With them must have been a
changing guard of a certain number of soldiers to control them and
guard the site.

Not only did the smelter-refinery continue in use throughout the
entire history of Ezion-geber: Elath, but the south and east sides of
the industrial square were likewise employed throughout the entire
history of the site. The north and west sides of the industrial square
were destroyed, when, at the beginning of Period II, a new series
of fortification walls was put up around Ezion-geber, in part per-
haps on the line of former, outermost fortification walls which may
have encircled the industrial square, and in part on entirely different
lines. Asa result of the new alinement of the fortification walls of
Period II, the smelter-refinery which still remained the most import-
ant building, was no longer in the center of the site, but at its north-
west corner. It consisted of two lines of defenses. There was a very
strong inner wall, strengthened by regular offsets along its outer
side. It was further strengthened by a strong glacis built against it,
with corresponding offsets (pl. 4, fig. 1). About 3 meters beyond the
base of the glacis was another fortification wall, about 1 meter thick
and 3 meters high. It, too, seems to have been further strengthened
by a glacis built against it. It is probable that both this wall and
the glacis against it had offsets corresponding to those of the parallel
inner wall and glacis. Between the two walls ran a dry moat, the
bottom of which was marked by a stamped-clay and mud-brick floor.
At the corners of the major wall were towers, which in each instance
overlooked the slopes of its glacgis. The smaller outer wall is much
less well preserved than the larger wall, but it seems probable that
it too had similar towers, one at each corner.

1° Glueck, Nelson, Explorations in Eastern Palestine. Ann. Amer. Schools Oriental Res.,
vol. 15, pp. 28-44, 1934-35.
466 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

On the south side near the southwest corner was found a monu-
mental gateway, with three pairs of doors and two opposite sets of
guardrooms between them, which will be described in more detail
later (pl. 5, fig. 1). The glacis of each of the outer fortification
walls is broken off before arriving at the gate, so it is impossible to
say exactly what the connection between them and the gate was. This
double-walled fortification extended a considerable distance south
and east, respectively, of the industrial square, built in the preceding
period of Ezion-geber I. On the north side, and part of the west
side, however, it cut through and in part was built over the line of
rooms of this industrial square, with no attempt to make use of its
rooms on these sides. The rooms of the industrial square on the
other two sides were reused. The north half of the outermost
glagis on the west side was built against the outermost west wall of
the industrial square. It is interesting to note that the scheme of
double-walled outer defenses with a dry moat between the walls, is
known elsewhere in Transjordan. It is particularly clear at the
Karly Iron Age site of Khirbet el-Medeiyineh overlooking the Wadi
Themed.” It is difficult to understand why the builders of this
complex fortification scheme in Ezion-geber II did not extend the
outer walls beyond the north and west sides of the industrial square
as they had on the south and east sides. Indeed, on the north side,
the larger of the two fortification walls was built partly over the
north side of the smelter, and over the glacis built against the smelter
on that side in the preceding period of Ezion-geber I.

The main wall had been built so well and so regularly that it was
possible, after parts of it had been exposed, to plot out its course
and determine its exact line, where it had not been completely weath-
ered away or destroyed, by merely trenching at intervals along its
length. At the now preserved top of the wall, which is almost flush
with the level of the desert, being covered with a layer of debris, the
wall is from 2.5 to 3 meters thick. Its foundation courses go down
below the soil from 75 centimeters to a meter, and in many places
the lowest foundation course rests on a natural, hard-clay stratum.
As the wall goes downward, it widens out, sometimes in three suc-
cessive steps of two rows of bricks each, with the result that in some
places the wall is almost 4 meters thick at its base. It is built of
sun-dried brick, like the rest of the site, laid carefully in alternate
rows of headers and stretchers, and must easily have been 8 meters
high. There are strongly marked offsets along the sides of the walls,
and particularly at the corners.

1% Galling, Kurt, Biblisches Reallexikon. P. 372. Tiibingen, 1937; Glueck, Nelson, Ex-

plorations in Hastern Palestine. Ann. Amer. Schools Oriental Res., vol. 14, p. 13, 1934;
The other side of the Jordan. P. 143. Amer. Schools Oriental Res., New Haven, 1940.
EZION-GEBER—GLUECK 467

After the outer fortification wall had been discovered, the search
began for the main gateway leading into the town. It was found
near the southwest corner of the wall, on the south side, facing the
sea. There were three gates in this entrance way, built at intervals
one behind the other, the first two of which opened respectively into
separate sets of guardrooms behind each gate, with one room on each
side of the entrance passage (pl. 5, fig.2). Thus if the first gate were
broken down, the enemy would enter a rectangular area formed by
the two rectangular guardrooms facing each other on opposite sides
of the entrance passage; and the same if the second gate were broken
down. The third gate opened into the main street of the town,
which made a sharp right-angle turn to the east. The third gate
seems also to have led into a large open square, where the market
place was undoubtedly located, and in a section of which the camels
of visiting caravans may have been kept during the night time. The
amazing thing about Ezion-geber II is that a place of such com-
paratively small size should be surrounded by such a strong outer
double fortification wall, with its three-doored gateway. The entire
site, walls and all, covers an area no larger than approximately an
acre and a half—about large enough for a villa with a good-sized
garden in a modern suburb.

The three-doored gateway of Ezion-geber ITI is to be directly re-
lated to the south gate of the inner town of Carcemish, as well as to
the west gate of the outer town of Carcemish.** Evidence from Me-
giddo has shown that the gateway regarded by Guy as belonging to
stratum IV at Megiddo, and which he compared with the south gate
at Carcemish ?® may actually belong to stratum III, dated 780-650
B. C.7° The plan of this gateway is closely related to that of Ezion-
geber II, and it is probably based on an earlier plan contemporary
with that of Ezion-geber IT.

We consider it likely that when the nature of the Solomonic gate-
way at Megiddo has been definitely established, it will be shown to
be almost, if not completely identical with the gateway of Ezion-
geber II. Lankester Harding has called my attention to the fact
that there is a gateway at Lachish, which the excavators have as-
signed to the tenth century B. C. and attributed to Solomon, which
is almost a duplicate of the gateway at Ezion-geber II, and the com-
parable ones at Carcemish. We think it likely that Solomon’s

18 Wooley, C. Leonard, and Lawrence, T. B., Carcemish II. Pp. 82—85, pl. 12, 1921.
Watzinger, Carl, Denkmiiler Palistinas, I. P. 55, 1933.
Guy, P. L. O., New light from Armageddon. Oriental Inst. Comm., No. 9, pp. 25-27,

44-48, 1931.

20Lamon, Robert S., and Shipton, Geoffrey M., Megiddo I. Univ. Chicago Oriental Inst.
Publ., vol. 42, pp. 74-75, 19389; Amer. Journ. Archaeol., vol. 45, No. 2, pp. 289-290, 1941;
Albright, W. F., Further light on the history of Israel from Lachish and Megiddo. Bull.
Amer. Schools Oriental Res., No. 68, p. 25, December 1937.

430577—42——_31
468 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Ezion-geber was captured by Shishak’s forces during the same cam-
paign which resulted in the destruction of many towns in Palestine,
including Megiddo, shortly after Solomon’s death.”

It is significant that the offsets of the new fortification walls and
of each glacis of Period II are parallel to the offsets of the outer
wall of the industrial square of Period I. Furthermore, the bricks
of the glacis built against each of the fortification walls of Period
II, were laid in the same diagonal, crisscross fashion as the bricks in
the glacis built in Period I against the smelter-refinery. Were it not
for the indubitable fact that part of this great fortification scheme
of Period II in places cuts through and in other places is built over
part of the rooms of the industria] square and the north side of the
smelter-refinery with its glacis of Period I, it would be possible to
say that they are all to be assigned to the same period, and to overlook
the differences in types of bricks used in the various constructions.
The close relationship in manner of construction between the later
fortification walls and glacis and the earlier ones, makes it seem
possible that the Period II fortification scheme replaced a similar
earlier one. If this is so, then we may date all of Ezion-geber I to
the tenth century B. C., to the time of Solomon, and then perhaps
Ezion-geber II may be assigned to the ninth century B. C. More
particularly, Period II may represent a reconstruction by Jehos-
haphat of Judah, who reigned about 873-849 B. C. He was the one,
it will be recalled, who made the abortive attempt to revive the sea
trade between Ezion-geber and Arabia, which had flourished during
the reign of Solomon. We are told that Jehoshaphat had a new fleet
of Tarshish ships built to sail to Ophir for gold. No sooner were
they completed, however, than a gale blew them on the rocks several
kilometers from Ezion-geber, where they foundered. The venture
was thereupon abandoned. The very attempt, however, must have
meant that Ezion-geber received a new lease on life. Its defenses
would have been restored, and its industrial activities renewed with
full intensity. Exports, such as ingots and objects of copper and
iron, would have been made ready for the ships to carry to Arabia
in return for the products obtainable there. After the destruction
of his fleet, Jehoshaphat may have relied upon camel caravans for
transport.

The possibility exists also that Periods I and II represent early
and late phases of building coinciding with the earlier and later
parts of the reign of Solomon. Both would be the direct result of
his great program of public works, which dotted Palestine with build-
ings of all kinds and Ezion-geber II would have continued in use
during the reign of Jehoshaphat. We find it significant that at the

21 Glueck, Nelson, The second campaign at Tell Ej-Kheleifeh (Ezion-Geber: Elath).
Bull. Amer. Schools Oriental Res., No. 75, p. 18, October 1939.

EZION-GEBER

GLUECK 469

very end of the account in I Kings 9 of Solomon’s manifold building
activities throughout Palestine, there is narrated in some detail the
story of the construction of a fleet of ships for him at Ezion-geber,
which, manned by Phoenician sailors, sailed to Ophir for gold. For
some reason or other, the author of this account failed to mention
that Solomon exported copper and iron ingots and finished products
on these ships in exchange for the gold and other products obtainable
in Ophir. He also failed to mention that shortly before, or shortly
after, or at the same time as the ships were being constructed, the
port city and industrial town of Ezion-geber was being built. After
the time of Jehoshaphat, the name of Ezion-geber disappears from
the Bible. It fell into the hands of the Edomites.”

22During the reign of Joram, the son of Jehoshaphat, Edom revolted against Judah
and regained her complete independence (II Kings 8: 20-22; II Chron. 21:8-10). In all
probability the ‘Arabah and Ezion-geber reverted to Edomite control. In fact, if there was
a Judaean garrison at Ezion-geber, as seems likely, then in all probability the town was
beseiged and sacked and the garrison put to the sword. In a word, the successful rebellion
may well have resulted in a destruction of Ezion-geber shortly after the middle of the ninth
century B. C. Once communications between Judah and Ezion-geber were cut, as they
must have been when Edom successfully shook off the Judaean control which had been
imposed upon her by David, it would have been impossible for the Judaean garrison to
have resisted for long. For about half a century Edom retained her independence, and
then lost it again to Judah. Amaziah of Judah (c. 797-779 B. C.) waged successful war
against Edom and captured Sela‘, which he renamed Joktheel (II Kings 14:7; II Chron.
25:11-12). His capable son, Uzziah, rebuilt Elath and restored it to Judah (II Kings
14:22; II Chron. 26:1-2). Ezion-geber is no longer mentioned, and, so far as the
Biblical accounts are concerned, it had, from the time of Joram of Judah (c. 849-842) on,
ceased to exist. It plays no further role in the historical accounts, being passed over as
completely henceforth as Elath had been previously.

A lot must be read between the lines of the statements in II Kings 14: 22 (II Chron.
26: 1-2) that Azariah (Uzziah) “rebuilt Elath and restored it to Judah.” It is clear that
the city that was lost when Edom first regained her independence from Joram of Judah
was Ezion-geber. We are told, however, that it was not Ezion-geber but Elath which
Uzziah restored to Judah. What then had happened to Ezion-geber during the seventy-
odd years that intervened between the time when Edom regained her independence from
Joram of Judah and lost it again to Uzziah of Judah—figuring from the beginning of the
reign of Joram to the beginning of the reign of Uzziah?

There are two possible explanations that suggest themselves. The first is that Ezion-
geber was utterly destroyed and left abandoned by the Edomites when they captured it
from Joram’s troops, while they occupied the insignificant neighboring site to the east of
it, called Elath, which had fallen to them at the same time as Ezion-geber. It was then
this Elath which Uzziah built or rebuilt (perhaps it, too, had been partly destroyed) and
restored to Judah. The question rises immediately, how could he restore Elath to Judah,
when, at least so far as we know, Elath had never been lost, it being Ezion-geber that had
passed out of Judaean control? The alternative explanation is that when Hzion-geber was
captured and destroyed by the Edomites in the time of Joram, it was abandoned for many
years and there was no settlement of any moment at the head of the Gulf of tAqabah,
with the exception of the small, straggling site of Elath. This may have been nothing
more than a tiny collection of mud-brick houses somewhat to the east of it. Not being
strong enough to develop into a sea power, Edom was not able to make out of Elath what
Judah had created out of Ezion-geber. Actually Edom probably no longer controlled the
head of the Gulf of tAqabah from the time of Amaziah on, having held it in what seems to
have been little more than nominal control for about 50 years. Meanwhile Ezion-geber
lay a sand-covered ruin, which differed little in appearance from the sand hillocks in the
vicinity. Even the name of Ezion-geber may no longer have been heard, because two full
generations had passed by since it was destroyed. In the course of time it may gradually
have become identified with Elath—as belonging to Elath. When Uzziah came to the
south end of the tArabah, he actually built on top of the former site of Ezion-geber, which
had become identified with Elath. The reasons that had impelled Solomon and Jehosha-
470 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Inasmuch as Ezion-geber I is the very first settlement built upon
the present site of Tell el-Kheleifeh, with all its walls resting on
virgin soil and no traces whatsoever of earlier buildings, it becomes
necessary to conclude that this Ezion-geber I is not the Ezion-geber
which the Israelites saw when they emerged from the Wilderness of
Sinai after the sojourn there lasting 40 years. The Ezion-geber they
saw was probably a tiny, straggling site, with a few mud-brick huts,
and a few scraggly palms, and must have been situated farther to
the east, where the drinking water is less saline, and the sandstorms
blown by the strong winds down the center of the ‘Arabah do not
occur. All traces of this earlier site of Ezion-geber have disappeared,
only its name surviving in the bustling town of Ezion-geber, first
built probably by Solomon in the very path of the winds blowing
down the center of the ‘Arabah.

A most interesting grave was found, sunk partly into the floor
level of the dry moat between the two outer fortification walls of
Period II on the north side, a short distance removed from the
smelter-refinery (pl. 4, fig. 2). It may possibly be the grave of the
man who directed the construction of this elaborate system of fortifi-
cations, and who died perhaps shortly after the walls were completed.
The top of the large mud-brick, mastabahlike grave was covered with
a layer of granite boulders, resting over a mud-brick roof. The
grave had already been anciently disturbed, and whatever of intrinsic
value it contained stolen, probably by some one familiar with its
contents. An interesting amount of material still remained in the
grave, however, when we opened it. It was found to contain a large

phat, for instance, to occupy and extend Ezion-geber and to develop it into an industrial
center and a seaport must have been ag valid in Uzziah’s day as in theirs. It was Hzion-
geber, now known as Elath, which Uzziah restored to Judah. It is this alternative possi-
bility which we believe to be the more likely one. It is possible to restore to someone
only something which was previously owned. Thus in II Kings 16:6 we read that the
Edomite king drove out the Judaeans from Elath and restored it to Edom. If the Hzion-
geber of Solomon and Jehoshaphat and the Elath of Uzziah can be identified with each
other, then the Biblical difficulties with regard to them disappear, and the archeological
ones resolve themselves into understandable relationships.

After the time of Uzziah, Elath was to change hands once more, being lost by Judah
to Edom in the time of his grandson, Ahaz. Taking advantage of Ahaz’ distress during
the Syro-Ephraimitic war in 735 B. C., the Edomites regained control of Elath. II Kings
16:6 should be amended to read: “At that time the king of Edom restored Elath to Edom,
and drove out all Judaeans from Hlath; whereupon the Edomites came to Elath, and
dwelt there to this day.”

After that time Judah was never again strong enough to dispute Edom’s control over the
‘Arabah and Hlath. Edom thereafter became progressively less able to exploit the mineral
wealth of the ‘Arabah and to hold Elath. Adadnirari, and particularly Tiglath-pileser I{I,
Sargon, Sennacherib, Ezarhaddon, and Assurbanapal, held Edom as a vassal state, and as
the Assyrian records show, the Arabs harried the Edomites with increasing force. (See
Glueck, Nelson, The topography and history of Ezion-Geber and Elath. Bull. Amer. Schools
Oriental Res., No. 72, p. 9, December 1938.) The political power of Edom was really com-
pletely at an end when Nabonidus made Teima his main seat of residence. The rapidly
rising Nabataeans took over the remains of the Edomite kingdom, infusing it in time with
new life and power. From their time onward, a new site, Aila, was selected for settlement
nearer the east end of the head of the Gulf of ‘Aqabah.

EZION-GEBER—GLUECK 471

number of human, animal, and fish bones, most of which, unfor-
tunately, had almost completely disintegrated. It soon became
obvious that only one person had been buried there. Several frag-
ments of the skull were recovered, as well as part of a lower jawbone,
with several teeth still embedded in it. Careful sifting of the debris
in the grave yielded 24 human teeth. With the dead person, probably
a man, were found the remains of a camel. It may well have been
his favorite dhalil, his racing camel. Next to the skull fragments
were two three-handled jars, the only ones of the type recovered in
the excavations. Inside one of them was a delicate little bowl, con-
taining bones of a small bird, a small animal, and a fish. The joints
of the spine of a large fish could be seen in position. The last meal
provided for the final journey of the buried man was a sumptuous
one. A millstone, a mortar, and a fragment of a cosmetic palette
were also found in the grave. This burial is the earliest one belong-
ing to an historic period ever discovered in a controlled excavation
in Transjordan. Trenches were run in all directions from this one
grave in an attempt to discover others, but in vain. It seems safe
to assume, however, that there could not have been many burials as
comparatively elaborate as the grave in the dry moat. The bricks
in the rectangular grave were of the same size as those in the fortifi-
cation walls of Period II. The walls of the grave were rather thin,
having the thickness of only the width of a brick. The rectangular
grave measured about 3 by 1.80 meters.

Not only was it possible to trace the complete line of the fortifica-
tions of this period, but part of the very brickyard was discovered,
from which the bricks were taken for the building of the fortification
walls. It is to be remembered that in Period II, the site was still
more on the order of a large caravanserai than of a settlement proper.
With the exception of the smelter-refinery, and the south and east
sides of the industrial square which had escaped being destroyed or
built over and were consequently reused in Period II, there was
nothing else inside the enclosure formed by the fortification walls.
There remained a great courtyard, in which the trading caravans
may have rested at nighttime.

At the southeast corner of this great compound were left long rows
of rectangular bricks, of exactly the same size as those used in the
construction of the fortification walls of Period II. For the con-
struction of these walls thousands upon thousands of sun-dried mud
bricks were necessary. The areas inside and outside the proposed
lines of the fortification walls were transformed into huge brickyards.
Bricks were made and then laid out to dry in symmetrical rows, with
spaces between each row and spaces between each brick to enable the
rays of the sun to get at each brick from all directions. First the
472 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

bricks were laid flat and then placed on their sides. As soon as they
had dried, they were brought to the bricklayers, who with great skill
placed them in long and intricate rows of headers and stretchers till
the walls of the desired thickness and height were obtained. When
the new fortifications were finished, hundreds of bricks still remained
in position in the southeast corner of the compound, where they had
been placed to dry during the last stages of construction. In time,
both before and after the settlement of Period II had been destroyed,
they were covered with debris and sand, and were completely lost
sight of and forgotten. In the following Period III, new houses
were built over the buried rows of bricks, which could have been
used in the construction of these houses had their builders but known
of their existence.

The bricks of Tell el-Kheleifeh were, on the whole, exceedingly
well made. Good clay, obtainable directly on the site, was used. It
was mixed with straw of a kind, perhaps palm-tree fibers, which
served as an excellent binding material. Usually, in addition, char-
coal and fragments of shells and bones were mixed in with the clay.
In ancient Egypt it was correctly thought to be the height of hard-
ship to be compelled to make bricks without being supplied with the
necessary complement of straw. We read in Exodus 5:10 ff.:

And on that day Pharoah commanded the taskmasters of the people and their
officers, saying, “Ye shall no more give the people straw for themselves; neverthe-
less, ye shall still exact from them the same number of bricks as they previously
made, nor shall ye reduce the number.”

An idea of the excellence of the ancient bricks found in Tell el-
Kheleifeh can be obtained by comparing them with the modern, sun-
dried bricks used in present-day ‘Aqabah. In April 1940, a teriffic
rain and hail storm literally washed half of the mud-brick village
away. Many of the mud-brick walls simply dissolved. A few days
later, the natives began to make new mud bricks and dried them in
the sun, preparatory to repairing the damage. Their bricks were
made without any binding materials whatsoever except lumps of
dried mud from which the sand content had been more or less washed
away by the rains. Small wonder that such bricks go to pieces dur-
ing the first heavy rain! With some trepidation we returned to the
excavations after the rains were over to see what damage had been
done to the exposed ancient mud-brick walls of Tell el-Kheleifeh.
We found upon our arrival that not only had they not suffered at all,
but that even the unattached bricks of the ancient brickyard had not
suffered the slightest harm. It is not surprising, therefore, that the
mud-brick walls of Ezion-geber: Elath, built more than 2,500 years
ago, have survived in some instances almost intact, while the mud-
brick walls of modern ‘Aqabah crumble and collapse not long after
they are built.

EZION-GEBER—-GLUECK 473

The settlement of Period III was built partly over and partly
against the walls of Period II, and utilized the old line of fortifica-
tion walls. The easiest way of distinguishing the settlement of
Period III from that of Period IT, at least in the southeast corner, is
that its walls rest on the debris and sand covering the remaining lines
of bricks of the brickyard of Period II. In several instances the
foundations of the walls of Period III encountered and cut through
some of the bricks of Period II, which had been placed on their sides
in the second stage of drying. The builders of Period III must have
thought that these were isolated bricks. Had they dug down less
than a foot they would have found all the old bricks, and would
undoubtedly have utilized them in their new buildings. In addition
to making use of the smelter-refinery and the still existing rooms of
the industrial square, the entire area of the rest of the site was filled
with houses in Period III. For the first time in its history the place
assumed the semblance of a real village, and not merely a large,
fortified, industrial plant. Essentially, however, it remained an
industrial settlement with obviously a large amount of industrial
work carried on also in private homes.

If the settlement of Period I is to be assigned to the tenth-ninth
centuries B. C. and that of Period II to the same time or solely to
the ninth century B. C., the settlement of Period III is to be assigned
to the eighth century B. C. when it became known as Elath. It may
have been constructed by Uzziah, who ruled from about 779 to 740
i aty Of

The city of Period III, which is Elath I, functioned again as an
industrial town of much the same nature as its predecessor. The
gateway in the outer fortification system was altered, without any
changes now apparent being made in the walls themselves, of which
only the foundations remain. Some repairs or changes were probably
effected in their superstructure.

The main changes in the gateway, in addition to the fact that the
floor level was considerably raised, are that the entrances to the two
pairs of guardrooms were blocked up, creating thus four small,
squarish rooms behind the passageway, and an additional mud-brick
pier was built on each side of the third gateway, narrowing the pas-
sageway considerably. In other words, the general scheme of the
gateway of Period II with three doors was adhered to, but the guard-
rooms were transformed into casemates. A somewhat similar filling
up of the guardrooms in the Megiddo gateway discussed above seems
to have taken place.

In a room belonging to Period III was found a beautiful signet
ring. ‘The seal itself, enclosed in a copper casing, had incised on it
in retrograde, in the clearest possible ancient Hebrew characters, the
following inscription: ZY7M, meaning, “belonging to Jotham” (pl.
474 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

6, fig. 1). Below the inscription is a beautifully carved horned ram,
which seems to be Syrian in style. In front of the ram seems to be
the figure of aman. It cannot definitely be proved that the Y7'M/ of
the seal is the very king Jotham (c. 740-736 B. C.) of Judah, whose
dominion included also Elath, but the likelihood is a strong one.
In all events, it is quite appropriate that during the period of Judaean
control over Elath extending throughout the reigns of Uzziah,
Jotham, and the beginning of the reign of Ahaz, the Hebrew name
of Jotham should be found, while during the Edomite rule of Period
IV, the Edomite name of Qausanal should occur, as we shall see (pl.
6, fig. 2).

After the settlement of Period III had been destroyed by a terrific
conflagration, a completely new industrial village was built over its
ruins. This settlement of Period [IV was Edomite. Its history can
be divided into three clear subperiods. The history of Period IV,
extended from about the end of the eighth century B. C. to about
the end of the sixth century B. C. The new industrial village con-
tinued, like that of Period III, to use the system of fortifications
that had been erected in Period II. Industrial operations continued
on a fairly extensive scale. It is to the first phase of Period IV,
which probably extended well down into the seventh century B. C.
that we now assign the jars discovered in the previous season of
excavations, stamped with a royal seal in ancient Hebrew-Edomite
characters reading: “Belonging to Qausanal, the Servant of the
King.” It is thus now possible archeologically to fix a date for
the Qausanal seal impressions which harmonizes with the one
proposed for them by Albright on the basis of epigraphy alone.
Qausanal is a typical Edomite name, the first part of which, Quas.
is the name of a well-known Edomite and then Nabataean deity.*®
It seems likely that this Qausanal, who was probably an Edomite,
was the officer commanding the district of Elath, and was the
representative (“servant”) of the Edomite king of the time.

Belonging to Period IV are the fragments of a large jar, on two
pieces of which were incised the first ancient South Arabic letters
ever discovered in a controlled excavation (pl. 7, fig. 1). Ryckmans
considers these letters to belong to the Minaean script.** The
Minaeans are reputed by Pliny to be the oldest known commercial
people in South Arabia, controlling the Incense Route and mono-
polizing the trade in myrrh and frankincense. It has been possible
since the discovery of those fragments to put them together, and

*8 Glueck, Nelson, The third season of excavation at Tell El-Kheleifeh. Bull. Amer,
Schools Oriental Res., No. 79, p. 13, October 1940.

*4 Ryckmans, G., Un fragment de jarre avec caracteres minéens 4 Tell El-Kheleifeh. Rev.
Bibl., vol. 48, pp. 247-249, 1939; Glueck, Nelson, The first campaign at Tell El-Kheleifeh
(Ezion-Geber). Bull. Amer. Schools Oriental Res,, No. 71, pp. 15-16, October 1938.

EZION-GEBER—GLUECK 475

thus to restore most of the shape of the jar, which may well have
been the container of precious products brought from as far as South
Arabia. It may also possibly have belonged to a Minaean trade
representative living in Elath. This discovery emphasizes the inti-
mate commercial relationship between Ezion-geber: Elath and Arabia,
and underlines anew the importance of Ezion-geber: Elath as a
trade center and seaport, in addition to being an important industrial
site. Miss Caton-Thompson and her colleagues have recently dis-
covered some South Arabic inscriptions during the excavation of the
temple at Hureidha, apparently first built in the fourth century
B. C.25 They are similar in type to the Minaean characters found
incised on the jar at Tell el-Kheleifeh. The Hureidha inscriptions
thus again furnish an approximate cate—less definite, to be sure,
than that obtained from the excavations at Tell el-Kheleifeh—upon
which the history of the South Arabic type of ancient Arabic writing
can be pegged. The distance between Ezion-geber and Hureidha is
approximately 1,200 miles, and at least four centuries intervene
between the South Arabic inscriptions found at the two sites. It be-
gins to appear, however, that both places were set in one cultural
pattern, and that Arabia continued into what is today called Trans-
jordan, and thus in ancient times almost literally abutted the terri-
tory of Israel. To this day, for instance, the “skyscraper” houses
of southern Arabia, described in recent books such as Freya Stark’s
“Southern Gates of Arabia,” linger on in ruined form as far north
as Ma‘an in southern Transjordan. Ezion-geber: Elath and Hureidha
are at opposite ends of the great Spice Route. A site at the southern
end of this great trade route, contemporary with Ezion-geber: Elath,
is bound to be found.

In addition to the sea and land trade with Arabia, evidence was
discovered of trade with Egypt and Sinai. There were found such
varied objects coming from Sinai or Egypt as carnelian, agate, ame-
thyst, and crystal beads, cartouche-like seal impressions, a tiny, faience
amulet head of the god Bes, a Bubastite cat (pl. 7, fig. 2), fragments
of alabaster cups and plates and buttons, and a part of a scaraboid
bead.

To a later phase of the Edomite settlement of Period IV belongs
a small storeroom near the southeast end of the mound. In it were
four beautiful jars, three of them as intact, with the exception of a
crack in one of them, as when they left the potter’s wheel about 2,500
years ago. One of the jars was partly broken. The mouth of this
jar had been closed with a heavy stone stopper, and further sealed

* Caton-Thompson, G., Geology and archaelogy of the Hadhramaut, Southwest Arabia.
Nature, vol. 142, No. 3586, pp. 139-142, July 23, 1988; A temple in the Hadhramaut. Asia,
May 1939, p. 299.
476 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

with a clay covering, over which a large curved fragment of pottery
had been placed. The heavy debris which had fallen on top of the
jars, when Period IV was destroyed, had resulted in the cracking of
the jar and the partial crushing of its top by the stone stopper. As
a result, the obviously valuable contents of the jar had seeped out
or evaporated. Another one of these storage jars was found to be
full of resin, as sweet smelling today as it was two and half millennia
ago. When this jar had been removed from the ground and left
for a while at a tilted angle in the sun, the resin began to melt and
flow over the mouth of the jar. It is a matter of speculation for
what purpose this store of resin may have been intended in Elath.
Some of the resin may have been used, for instance, in the ship-
building industry which flourished at Ezion-geber and its successor
Elath. More of it was used, in all probability, in connection with
the smelting and refining and metal-manufacturing activities carried
on so intensively there.

The settlements of Period IV were destroyed in turn, and a new
industrial village was built, with its walls, for the most part, on lines
entirely different from those of the previous ones. Not much of the
settlement of Period V is left, but it had possibly two phases. Its
history lasted from about the end of the sixth century or the first part
of the fifth century B. C. down to the fourth century B. C. To this
last settlement of Period V belong numerous sherds of Greek pottery
transported from Athens to Gaza by ship and sent then by camel
train to the north shore of the Red Sea, and reexported from there
to Arabia.

In these Greek jars were contained wines and other products
shipped to Elath, and thence to Arabia, in return for the incense and
spices and other wares obtainable there. Aramaic ostraca were found
in this level during the previous season, belonging to the fifth-fourth
centuries B. C., and thus in part contemporary with the Attic wares
found with them. One of the ostraca was a wine receipt (pl. 8,
fig. 1). Another ostracon consisted of a fragment of an eighth-
seventh century cooking pot, with profiled rim and loop handle.
The ink inscription was on the inside surface of the sherd. It made
a very convenient piece of writing material, because the scribe could
grasp the handle of the fragment of pottery, while he dipped his
brush into the vegetable ink and brushed on the letters, many of
whose lines, unfortunately, are very faint. The inscription is Ara-
maic, and contemporary with the ostraca previously discovered,
despite the fact that the sherd itself belongs to an earlier age.”

76 Glueck, Nelson, Ostraca from Elath. Bull. Amer. Schools Oriental Res., No. 80, pp.
3-10, December 1940 ; No. 82, pp. 3-11, April 1941.
EZION-GEBER—GLUECK 477

The settlement of Period V was the last one to be built on the
site. The next one was moved to Aila, near ‘Aqabah, and owes its
origin to the Nabataeans and its present repute to the Romans, who
made it the end of the famous highway of Trajan.

In one of the houses which may be assigned to Period IV was
found a pottery plaque representing the pregnant Mother-Goddess,
the goddess of fertility. It was made with conspicuous crudeness,
and is startingly ugly. It must have been considered crude and ugly
even when it was first fashioned. Why the potters of Ezion-geber:
Elath chose to turn out figurines of deities in such ungracious forms,
when at the same time some of the pottery they produced was of
exquisite shape with beautiful decoration, is beyond comprehension.
Was it the desire to reproduce something to which the crudity of the
elemental was still attached? A figurine of equal ugliness, repre-
senting the same type of fertility goddess, was found in another room.
With it was found a tiny cup, in which incense may have been burned.
It is reasonable to believe that at Ezion-geber : Elath—a junction of the
great incense routes between Arabia and Egypt and Palestine and
Syria—this commodity must have been comparatively cheap (pl. 8,
fig. 2). The favor of the gods must have been sought in clouds of
sweet-smelling smoke. The piety of the people induced them also,
when building a new house, to place some sort of a foundation offering
under one of the walls. These offerings consisted at Elath of pots
filled with fruits of the ground and fowl of the air and fish of the
sea. In one instance a number of household utensils were carefully
placed in a pot and the wall was then built over this foundation
offering.

All manner of copper and iron objects were discovered in the
excavations. They included copper fishhooks, iron gaffheads with
barbed points, copper arrowheads and spear points, fibulae, frag-
ments of fine copper dishes and tools, iron hoes and knives (pls. 9, 10,
and 11, fig. 1). It seems likely that the coppersmiths of Ezion-
geber: Elath, like their Egyptian contemporaries, possessed the secret
of tempering copper to such a degree of hardness that it could be
used for tools and drills. For both fine and coarse work, however,
stone hammers and drills were also used, in addition to metal tools.
Fine quartz pebbles were found, obviously brought in from elsewhere,
which had evidently been used, to judge from their abraded ends, as
hammers to shape fine metal jewelry. Other hard stones of varying
sizes and coarseness were notched and grooved, so that a forked
handle could be tied to them with thongs (pl. 11, fig. 2) Similar
stone hammers were commonly used, for instance, by the American
Indians. Stone drills were also found in the excavations, almost
exactly like those found among the North American Indians. Egyp-
478 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

tian stone dishes and alabastra, fascinating pottery incense stands
and censers, amethyst, agate, carnelian, quartz, and shell beads, and |
a fragment of a gold earring were among some of the other small

finds.

Much of the material found at Ezion-geber: Elath has a flavor all |
its own, and some of it is distinctly unique. The horn- and ledge-
handled, hand-made pots, many of them built up on straw mats, are
without parallel elsewhere. Filled with ore, some of them were
probably set inside furnaces or crucibles. They could then be drawn
out by tongs fitted underneath their horn handles, turned upside
down, and the molten metal in them poured out. A good quantity
of the fine, painted and burnished ware which has come to be known
as typical of the Early Iron Age pottery of Edom and Moab, was
recovered. A peculiar kind of pottery of excellent make was dis-
covered, with bands of protruding dentilated ornamentation. In
general, the impression obtained from the three seasons of excava-
tions is that despite the long control exercised over Ezion-geber:
Elath by the Judaeans, its population, pottery, and general cultural
patterns fit in more with the picture of Eastern Palestine, North
Arabia and Sinai, than with Western Palestine. Edomites, Kenites,
Kenizzites, and Arabs formed the bulk of the population, among
which, however, were numbered Phoenicians, Egyptians, Judaeans,
and in time, Babylonians, Persians, and Greeks.

The archeological exploration of northwestern Arabia will un-
doubtedly reveal sites closely related to Ezion-geber: Elath. A new
archeological survey of Sinai is also necessary, in the light of the
discoveries referred to in this article, showing again the intimate
connections between Sinai and greater Palestine. The Wadi el-
‘Arabah, the Gulf of ‘Aqabah, and the peninsula of Arabia and Sinai
are bound to become increasingly more important in the future. The
copper, iron, gold, and spices of these lands, which were the sources
of their wealth in ancient times, have been superseded in modern
times in the same lands by oil. There is oil in the Wadi el-‘Arabah,
and the sands of Arabia are merely a desert top over a very great
oil reservoir. Manganese is probably present in the Wadi el-‘Arabah,
in Sinai, and Midian. The day is not far off when great industrial
plants, modern versions of that of Ezion-geber: Elath, will dot these
lands, as in some places they already do, and tremendous caravans
will again course through their wastes.

And the everlasting Bedouins, content in the enduring strength of
their weakness, will pause and wonder at yet another transient phase
of civilization, over whose ruins, if the experience of the past repeats
itself, their descendants will some day pitch their rude tents.

Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Glueck PLATE 1

1. VIEW OF TELL EL-KHELEIFEH, LOOKING NORTHEAST BEFORE BEGINNING OF
EXCAVATIONS.

2. LOOKING SOUTHWEST OVER MODERN VILLAGE OF ‘AQABAH AND OVER NORTH-
WEST END OF GULF OF ‘AQABAH.
Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Glueck PLATE 2

is

1. EXPEDITION HOUSE IN ‘AQABAH.

2. SORTING POTTERY AT EZION-GEBER.
Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Glueck PLATE 3

1. EXCAVATIONS AT TELL EL-KHELEIFEH, LOOKING WEST-SOUTHWEST AT NORTH-
WEST END OF GULF OF ‘AQABAH AND AT HILLS OF SINAI.

2. REFINERY, EZION-GEBER.

Outer south wall, showing two rows of flues.
Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Glueck PLATE 4

1. Foundations of the larger (and inner) of the two outer fortification walls, with the glagis built against it.
The foundations of the perpendicular main wall were deeper than those of the sloping glacis, which was
bonded into the main wall about six or seven rows of bricks above its base.

2. Grave of man who may have been the builder of fortification walls.

EZION-GEBER.
“VOOT MI00Y 41 poyeu “(Bag peyY JO MIS Ulejsve) Yequby, Jo j[nyH pieMo}
-BISOP OABY AA, “ABALOIVS J JO OPIS JSve 944 WO MIOOIPIENS JsIY 9yL, Joqgopy-toIzq Jo ABMO}VS BOS JO SUOIJZBpUNOJ Ysno1g} YINos FZuryooT

NelleWichiclo hb! eVel wpe We <4 “HLYON WOU XATIKDWOD SONVYLNGA “1

A
od :

G¢3LV1d WeN[H— | p6| ‘Woday uermosyzwig
Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Glueck PLATE 6

1. SEAL SIGNET RING OF JOTHAM, KING OF JUDAH, AND IMPRESSION OF INSCRIP-
TION ON SEAL.

Inscription reads LYTM, “belonging to Jotham.’’ Underneath the inscription is a ram, with a man (?)
standing by its head.

2. TYPE OF FINE JARS OF THIN GREENISH-GRAY WARE WITH QAUSANAL STAMPS
ON THE HANDLES.

Such a stamp is visible at the bottom of the handle of the jar on the left.

"I Weysiys ‘Ayseucp pzz
“SAWIL O01 GSA9YVIN”A ‘LAINWY LVDS SLILSVENG NVILdADSQ *2Z “NOILdIMDSNI NVAVNIW HLIM YVr GSaeHOLSSY ATLYVd “|

LALW1d 3P2N[H—' | p6| ‘Woday ueruosyzwg
Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Glueck PLATE 8

1. ARAMAIC OSTRACON FROM FIFTH CENTURY B.C. LEVEL OF TELL EL-KHELEIFEH.
IT IS A WINE RECEIPT. (FULL SIZE.)

2)

SEVEN-LIPPED CIL SAUCER LAMP AND POTTERY CENSER

(Approximately one-third natural size.)
(‘ozis [BingeU J(ey-auo AToIeuIxoIdd y )
“1337 S3HL NO 3SYHL LSYIA “MOY WOL

-10@ NI NMOOH GNVY ‘34INM ‘GQV3H SONV] NOY! ANY ‘STOOL “AV1NSIA
GNY ‘SLNIOd 3ONV7 ‘SQVSHMONNY (YaddOD) AZNOYG ‘2 (4addOD) AZNOYUG ANV ONIYNVA G10D SO LNAWSOVYS 1

(‘aZzIs [BINjBU JjBYy-au0 Ajayeulxoiddy )

6 3LV1d 3*pPen|[y— | F6l ‘qaoday ueruosyyWiG
(98ZIs [B1nj4eU Jfey-ou0 Ajoyeutxoiddy ) ((98ZIs [einyeu Jrey-auo Ajoyeuntxoiddy)

TSEMI ES eleCeloje) Ye “SLNAWNYLSN] GNVY SHOOHHSI4 YaddOD °|

Ol ALwid PON|D— 1/61 “Wodey ueruosyyiwg

(ozis [eangeu palqy-ouo0 Ajeyeumtxoidd y ) (OZIs [BangeuU j[By-ou0 A[oyeuIxOIddy )

“LHSISM LAN-HSI4 VY A1sVvaOud SI HOIHM MOY “SILNAWYVYNYO ANY SONTY
GNODFS 4O GNF LHSIYN LV SNOLS 1d5d9X9 ‘ST1IYC ANOLS ‘2 (YaddOD) AZNOYG ANV ‘SHNV1G GVA AGNV SLHSISM SNO1S ‘1

OFVANDSOCOO

LL 3LV1d 3pPen[y—' | F6l *‘qaodayy ueluosyzIWIG
Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Glueck PLATE 12

eC Ae

1. STONE MORTARS AND MILLS OF VARIOUS SIZES FOUND IN ONE ROOM.

ap
re

2. SIFTING THE DEBRIS IN A ROOM TO FIND THE SMALLEST OBJECTS IT MIGHT
CONTAIN.
“1OOD AANIVLNOD Ll YSALVM SH1L daeeay OL WOoOY
“HLV15 WOU YVE OGANYVW 'CGSATIGNVH-LHOSIX “Z S3HL AO YOO14 SAHLOLNI MHNNS NOILISOd NI GNNOY Yvr aDYVv 7 * 1

ee ge

€1 3aLV 1d YeN|H—' | p6| ‘40day urluosyywig
Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Glueck PLATE 14

“AQABAH, LOOKING NORTHEAST AT MODERN FORT.
DECIPHERMENT OF THE LINGUISTIC PORTION OF THE
MAYA HIEROGLYPHS?

By BrenzsAMIN LEE WHorRF

The Maya were the only fully literate people of the aboriginal
American world. The buildings and monuments of stone that they
left are covered with their writings—writings of which little has yet
been read except the dates with which they begin. Moreover, they
wrote many books and manuscripts, and three such books of fairly
late period have been preserved. These are the famous three Maya
codices, and I propose, before the end of this paper, to read a very
brief extract from one of them, and to show, in a very plain and
simple way, what the Maya writing system was like, and how its signs
were put together.

Included in this writing system is a group of signs and combina-
tions of signs referring to a special kind of subject matter. These
are signs denoting numerals, periods of time, and terms of the calen-
dar, between which mathematical relations exist and the use of
which constitutes a system of mathematics. The mathematical ref-
erences of these signs have been determined from these mathematical
relations that are observed to exist between them, and thus we can
read the dates and the positions of the solar-lunar calendar that are
recorded at the beginning of most inscriptions. Besides this mathe-
matical record, there is the purely linguistic portion of the writings,
between the parts of which we can observe grammatical or linguistic
relations, but no mathematica] relations. These purely linguistic
portions are those with which I shall deal. I shall deal, moreover,
with the writing in the codices, not that of the inscriptions, though
the inscriptional writing is generally similar to that of the codices.
It may surprise many to know that in the codices the nonmathe-
matical, linguistic signs outnumber the mathematical ones by more
than a hundred to one (not counting repetitions of the same

1A paper read before the Section on Anthropological Sciences of the Highth American
Scientific Congress, Washington, D. C., May 10-18, 1940. Proof of this paper has not been
read by the author, who died on July 26, 1941.

479
480 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

sign). So much for the belief that the Maya writings are mainly
mathematical.

When Champollion began the decipherment of Egyptian writing,
he was in the relatively fortunate position of not having to oppose
an extensive body of established doctrine holding that the markings
were not writing but a nonlinguistic symbolism. To be sure there
were the fantastic speculations of Athanasius Kircher, concerned
wholly with the religious and mystical symbolism which he read into
the hieroglyphs, but these were upheld by none of the scholarly dis-
ciplines and quickly went down before Champollion’s irrefutable
logic. At that time the philologist and literary scholar reigned
supreme in the study of ancient cultures. Champollion therefore
had only to prove the linguistic logic of his results to philologists;
he needed not to advocate his methods to archeologists, for there were
none, except philologists. ‘There was not then the specialized separa-
tion of disciplines which prevails now. At that time philology led
the way, read inscriptions, and stimulated archeology.

It is popularly supposed that the success of Champollion’s effort
was wholly due to the discovery of the Rosetta Stone with its bi-
lingual inscription, and that there is nothing corresponding to the
Rosetta Stone in Maya hieroglyphs. Both suppositions are wrong.
Champollion would have ultimately succeeded without a Rosetta
Stone, for the inscriptions happened to be in a language that he knew.
He knew Egyptian, that is Coptic, the late form of the language and
still essentially the same tongue, which the ancient Egyptians spoke
and wrote. Just so the Central American writings happen to be in
a language that it is possible to know. They might have been in a
dead language, and then the case would indeed be difficult, but for-
tunately they are in Maya, which is still spoken and can be studied
from many sources. But how do we know they are in Maya? This
will be quite clear to a linguistic scholar, who appreciates that if
texts in an unknown character are in a language that he knows, it is
likely that he can detect that fact from the the nature and frequency
of repeated collocations of signs. In addition, the meaning of vari-
ous clusters of signs in the Maya system is known from tradition
(e. g., the glyphs of the months) and others from pictures that
accompany them in the codices. The hieroglyphs record a language
in which the writings for a certain month and for sitting position
begin with the same sign, which is the image of a feather. This
condition is satisfied only by the Maya language, in which the roots
of these particular words and the root of the word “feather” all begin
with the same syllable. Again, it is a language in which the writings
for snake, fish, and a certain time period all begin with the same
MAYA HIEROGLYPHS—-WHORF 481

or with mutually interchangeable signs, a condition also satisfied by
Maya. It is a language in which the writings for honeybee, earth,
and the name of a day begin the same, in which “hold in the hand”
and “nothing” begin the same, in which “spear” and “noose” begin
with the same sign, which is also found in the clusters that mean
jaguar, nine, and lunar month, and so on. The evidence mounts
and becomes at last overwhelming. Not even Cholti or Tzeltal, the
languages closest to Maya, can satisfy the requirements; only Maya
can do so.

There exists also a lesser equivalent of the Rosetta Stone, i. e., the
preserved names of the ancient months and other calendar terms
with the sign clusters for writing them, the ways of writing the
numerals, the 27 characters recorded by Bishop Landa, the sign
clusters for the cardinal directions, the colors, quite a number of
animals, and various gods—a collection of odd bits that, when gath-
ered together, make a not inconsiderable total. Finally there are
many texts in the codices in which the meaning is almost as plain
as though a translation ran beside it, because of the detailed pic-
tures that run parallel with the text and illustrate it. Thus we really
do have a Maya Rosetta Stone, as well as a knowledge of the lan-
guage of the texts, so that, given linguistic scholarship like that of
Champollion, it is perfectly feasible to decipher and translate some
of the texts now, and eventually all of them.

But, on the other hand, the linguistic decipherer today has to con-
tend with the chasm that now exists between American archeology
and philology. The philological viewpoint, with its scholarly in-
terest in texts simply as texts, has become rather strange and incom-
prehensible to modern American archeology, with its high develop-
ment, along the scientific side, of the logical correlating of strictly
material evidence, the while its popular side and its financing is
largely connected with the esthetic interest, and with the interest
that attaches to concrete human subject matter, particularly that of
an exotic kind. Now the linguistic and philological interest is to
be distinguished both from the materially and physically scientific
interest and from the estheticohuman one; for while it is not en-
tirely divorced from either, and it cannot live in a vacuum, yet it
finds its main concern upon a different level, a level of its own.
The linguistic scholar is interested in a text as the monument of a
language arrested and preserved at a certain point of time. He is
not primarily interested in the subject matter of the text, either as
history, folklore, religion, astronomy, or whatnot, but in its lin-
guistic form, which to him is the supreme interest of interests. From
this proceeds his type of objectivity, an earnest that his reading
482 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

will not be affected by theories concerned with the content of the
writing. He puts aside content to concentrate on linguistic form.
He aims to reconstruct the language as it actually was, with its con-
sonants and vowels in their actual places in words, its paradigms of
declension and conjugation and its patterns of syntax, thereby add-
ing a new body of facts to the whole domain of linguistic taxonomy.
A byproduct of his research is the reading of history and culture,
but it may be questioned if his discovery of strictly linguistic fact
in a time perspective is not the more important. The decipherment
of Hittite has proved to be far more important for the light it has
thrown on the development of the Indo-European languages than
for all the accounts of Hittite reigns and conquests. The battles
and politics of the Hittites are as dead as a nail in Hector’s coffin,
but their verb forms and pronouns and common words are matters
of live interest in American universities at this moment, since the
accurate facts of the Hittite language revealed by careful decipher-
ment are completely revolutionizing our concepts of Indo-European
linguistics. This authoritative knowledge of Hittite could not have
come about if the deciphering scholars had not been linguists who
had slowly and carefully ascertained, by scholarly methods, with pro-
found respect for the text as a text, the exact words and grammar,
conceiving this as their paramount duty. It could not have come
about if they had conceived their duty as that of reading off a
sweeping survey of Hittite history and culture, or even as one of
clothing the dry bones of archeology with the flesh of human nar-
rative, important as these things are.

The desiderata for Maya decipherment are no different. Reading
Maya texts must be a slow, careful investigation of linguistic forms,
regardless of the interest or lack of interest of their subject matter.
We must not conceive it our task to read off sweepingly the Maya
literature for the sake of the information on history, culture, re-
ligion, or whatever else may be contained in it. The annals of this
subject are cumbered by such attempts to read off or “interpret” the
whole corpus of the Maya codices at one fell swoop, from Brasseur
de Bourbourg to one very recent such an attempt. Such amusements
proceed from a longing for glamour and quick results, misconceiv-
ing what is the most valuable thing to be obtained from the results.
On the other hand much of the work of Cyrus Thomas, and various
bits of linguistic data pointed out by Morley and others have been
at least in the right direction—they seem to have understood what
the problem really is.

The Maya writing system was a complex but very natural way—
natural to minds just beginning to exploit the idea of fixing lan-
guage in visual symbols—of using small picturelike signs to represent
the sounds of fractions of utterances (usually of a syllable or less m
MAYA HIEROGLYPHS—WHORF 483

extent), combining these signs so that the combined fractions of
utterance outlined the total utterance of a word or a sentence. Past
study of this system has been considerably retarded by needless and
sterile logomachy over whether the system, or whether any particular
sign, should be called phonetic or ideographic. From a configura-
tive linguistic standpoint there is no difference. “Ideographic” is
an example of the so-called mentalistic terminology, which tells us
nothing from a linguistic point of view. No kind of writing, no
matter how crude or primitive, symbolizes ideas divorced from
linguistic forms of expression. A symbol when standing alone may
symbolize a “pure idea,” but in order to represent an idea as one
in a definite sequence of ideas it must become the symbol for a
linguistic form or some fraction of a linguistic form. All writing
systems, including the Chinese, symbolize simply linguistic utter-
ances. As soon as enough symbols for utterances have been assem-
bled to correspond uniquely to a plainly meaningful sequence (phrase
or sentence, e. g.) in the language being written, that assembly of
signs will inevitably convey the meaning of that linguistic sequence to
the reader native to that language, no matter what each sign may
symbolize in isolation. Meaning enters into writing, writing of any
kind, only in this way, and in no other. The meaning of any linear
or temporal succession of symbols is not the sum of any symbolisms
or denotations that the symbols may have in isolation, but is the
meaning of the total linguistic form which that succession suggests.
Hence the fact that some individual signs look like pictures of the
things or ideas denoted by the words of the utterance plays no real
part in the reading; those signs are just as much symbolic, learned,
and at bottom arbitrary signs for fractions of utterance as any other
characters or letters. On the other hand, resemblance to an object
or picture may be really important in decipherment, as a clue to
how the sign came to be invented, to the logic of its original use,
and hence to the fraction of utterance, i. e., sound, which answers to
it in reading—a clue to be tested by how well that proposed fraction,
or sound, fits into each proposed reading.

Figure 1 shows 23 symbols selected out of the several hundreds
found in the whole Maya literature. These particular ones have
been chosen because they enter into the written words and the codex
sentence used as examples of decipherment in this paper. The frac-
tions of utterance to which these signs regularly correspond have
been identified by comparative evidence—running back ultimately to
that body of evidence which I have called the Maya Rosetta Stone.
Signs 1, 2, 3, 7, 8, 12, 17, 22, are also given by Landa with the same
values (1, 7, 12, 17 being slightly altered in form) in his book
“Relacién de las Cosas de Yucatan,” a first-hand account of the Maya
shortly after the Conquest. The left-hand column shows in alpha-

4305774232
484 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Probable Maya Name || Nerber Sound
=) Object -Source of Object-Source
scrapeT- : haab
‘cepillo, o qualquier
imstrumenteo para resper’

Symbol Probable Maya Nome

P.
Object-Source of Object-Sourre

12. lle OnE loop, noose le

“lazo para cozar’

(r) i i
perforations bis double loo
2.6 ‘pequenos agujercados” 13. 1, le es (No. 12 doutled) f
points, dots e drinking-cup( >]
pl& loo ve
C) punta 14 1 lulo W ‘vaso para: saaetty

Opening, door he
h NM) ‘abrir como puertas’

Haw he) (face of ) chief ahdw
. hw © ‘rey’

hu hw ara letter, book huun
wer ‘carta olibro’

nipples (ofanimal) im
ee | uuu nnn ‘teta de mince.

ES de qualquier animal’

an kat

fu») grasp of the hand mag
15.m™ ma ‘asir, tomar con las
manos, © emputiar ’

16.men &) f

n, -an tail ne
7. ne ‘cola’

Pon
‘

=
H

woven work in loom saka}
tela en el telar’

i SX) stretched strings sin

‘estender pafios o cueres, ‘stretch

—
—

1g S$, Sa

P ’
. ka Nebel! “tebrillo’ 19. sin colgar estendiendo, or string’
armar lazos’
no. 8 enlarged and Toad- crossings $a
doubled CP) 20. §, Ja “encrucijada de camino’ y
: : » - flames C?) took
lid tied on Kal | sitoty “VM flames, took

‘
CD) cerrar con Cerradura
10 ka obreachar, atrancar'

face of dog (27) s0™
‘ Bites ; (tsom)
perro liso sin pelo’ ‘hairless dog’

22. ¢(ts)

feather Kukum
. Kum ‘pluma de ave’

Crescent moon ? u
‘luna’ ‘moon’

é
RV fe

Ficure 1.—Examples of Maya symbols having phonetic values.

betic order the fraction of utterance, i. e., sound which regularly ?
corresponds to the appearance of the sign in a written form. The
next column to the right shows the usual appearance of the written
sign, with common variants added in some cases. The list includes
less than a third of all the signs the phonetic values of which I con-
sider fairly well established. The column headed “Probable Object-
Source” names the thing or condition of which the written sign was
probably at one time a picture. However, these theories as to pic-
torial origins, while they seem probable and have a substantiating

2Regularly but not always in the case of all these signs, for polyphony is a prevalent
trait in Maya writing, as it is also in Sumerian and Akkadian (Babylonian) cuneiform.
That is, various signs are polyphones, with two or more contrasting sets of sound values,
besides the slightly differing values within a set, such as either ha or h with vowel lacking
or indefinite, which slight differences are on another level than the polyphonic contrasts.
The native reader, able to grasp words as wholes, is not confused by these polyphonic
values; he knows from the other signs assembled with the one in question just which of
the polyphonic values applies in a given case, just as the reader of English is not confused
by the o in women or the olo in colonel, but is governed by the total collocation so that he
reacts with fractions of utterance entirely unlike those regularly associated with the
written forms o and olo. Polyphony is therefore the same type of thing as irregular spell-
ing under an alphabetic system of writing. Thus the Maya sign No. 5 of figure 1 has also
the value Ja, l, as in the writing of the word lak’in, lik’in “east’’; this value may very
likely derive from the word lJalail “‘the largest, greatest, principal, chief’’—a near-synonym
of ahaw. Sign No. 15 occasionally has the value ¢, as in the writing of ¢ik’in “west”;
this value probably derives from ¢uk “‘catch or seize with the hand,” a near-synonym of
mac,
MAYA HIEROGLYPHS—-WHORF 485

value, are not the evidence for the phonetic values, and their being
proved wrong would not invalidate the latter nor alter the readings;
but would merely mean that the origin of the sign was other than |
have supposed. There are several signs for which I am unable to
offer any explanation (e.g., No. 16), yet for which the phonetic value
is reasonably certain. I did not guess the probable object source of
No. 6 until after I had known its phonetic value for several years.

The extreme right-hand column shows the Maya word, as given in
the Motul dictionary,’ for the thing or condition postulated as the
object source. It will be observed that the initial sound of this Maya
name of the object (i. e., the first consonant and/or the first con-
sonant and vowel) is the sound which the sign represents in writing,
as shown in the left-hand column, except in the case of No. 1, in
which the initial / is either lost or transposed, yielding a or ah. The
Spanish entry under the English name of the object source is the
way in which the Motul dictionary defines the Maya word in the
extreme right-hand column.

Figure 1 then should be self-explanatory. The following supple-
mentary remarks may be added: No. 1 does not occur initially in a
word. Primary word-initial h in Maya, in becoming secondarily
word-internal, as when it begins the second member of a compound
word, tends to be weakened or lost. This explains why a syllable
originally denoting ha would denote a@ when used only to write non-
initial fractions of words. No. 6 is especially interesting. Maya has
simple, unanalyzable words for “write” or “book,” not connected
with “paint” or “draw” as in Aztec and many other American
languages. This fact, ceteris paribus, argues for the greater
antiquity of writing in the Maya culture than in these other cultures.
Maya missives and books (e. g., the codices) were written on an
elongated strip of tissue which was then folded up, and when tied
or clasped would have an appearance not unlike a modern letter

?The Motul dictionary is an anonymous sixteenth-century work ascribed to Fray
Antonio de Ciudad Real, and is the most voluminous and authentic source of information
upon the Maya language at the time of the Conquest. Actually it is not only a dictionary
but a grammar and a chrestomathy as well, for most of the word citations are accom-
panied by copious examples of phrases and sentences. The technique of stem-composition in
Maya of this period is beautifully brought out in these examples; the same is true of
syntax. The Maya words in fig. 1 are not cited in the conventional Maya orthography
used in the Motul dictionary, but in the phonetic alphabet used by most present-day lin-
guists for American Indian languages (the revised American Anthropological Association
system), except that ¢ is used instead of ¢ for the alveolar affricate (a sound like fs).
The cedilla has been added to the c to avoid confusion with the ce of Maya orthography
which represents k. The symbol No. 22 is cited by Landa with the value c; it is unques-
tionable that he meant Spanish ¢ or the soft sound of c, as in the name of the letter “ce,”
which is very likely what he asked his Maya informant to write. This soft sound of c
was close to ts in old Spanish, which is why it was equated to the Maya sign for ts, No. 22.
The sounds ¢ and § are English ch and sh, k’ is a glottalized k; the language has a series
of such glottalized sounds: p’, t’, c, ¢’, k’. Through some curious omission, the Motul
dictionary does not actually cite the word ne, “tail,” but this is, of course, a well-known
Maya word.
486 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

sealed in its envelope, or like No. 6.4 The nipple (im) sign for 7
appears in the codices usually with three nipples, which leads me to
think that the teats of a deer or other animal may have been one of
the original forms; sometimes it appears with two; Landa shows it
with two, and the sign of the day Ik (2k’) may be based on an original
human breast form with only one. No. 8 probably represents a kat,
an earthen, basketry, or wooden pan, tray, or low flat tub, often
boat-shaped; it was also called a Gem or boat (see Motul, chem licil
ppo and chem che), and conversely a boat may have been called a
kat. The comblike lines may be the conventionalization of a fluted
rim or of projecting basketry withes, or may represent people in a
kat in the meaning boat. No. 10 is an example of the many perspec-
tive drawings found in both Maya art and the writing symbols—a
rounded, flattened pot, basket, or calabash with a #’al, a tied-on or
clasped lid or cover. The Maya, as is well known, drew in per-
spective from very early times. No. 11 is a k’uk’im, feather or
plume, and in this word k’%m was probably felt to be the true initial
form of the stem and #’u- a reduplication, which may not have been
historically the case, but which would be felt analogically in a
language like Maya in which initial reduplication is a derivational
process in wide use. Nothing as yet is postulated as to the object
source of 16, a profile head with a sort of parrotlike beak; a sugges-
tion here would be the parrotlike bird called moan or muan. The
sign corresponds to the consonantal sequence mn, with any or no
vowel] intervening, and as a day sign denotes the day Men. No. 23
looks very much like a form of No. 1, but it is always upright and
placed in front of a sign cluster with its concave side toward the
cluster, while No. 1 is not placed in front of a cluster and is usually
horizontal. No. 23 corresponds to initial w of a word or to uw as a
separate word or as a prefix.

*As may be inferred from this, I regard the previous theories about what No. 6 repre-
sents, one of which calls it a kernel of maize (to which it has no resemblance), as fanciful.
The fact that in some Maya pictures corn plants may sprout from characters of writing,
and characters may take part in the scenes like persons or objects, is secondary symbolism,
not the original logic from which the character arose. All this elaborate secondary sym-
bolism, perhaps religious and magical in large degree, has nothing whatever to do with
the reading of the characters in their capacity of symbols of writing, any more than the
elaborate symbolism and numerology that grew up around the Hebrew letters in rabbinical
tradition affects the reading of the Hebrew texts by one jot. This secondary symbolism
may eventually become a matter of philological literary study, wherein it will very likely
prove important. At present, and from a linguistic standpoint, clearing away all this sort
of symbolism iis essential to understanding the proper symbolism and function of the Maya
signs in writing. The use of No. 6 to denote the day Kan is a writing of the original name
of the day Hu—i. e., lizard, iguana (cf. Aztec Cuetzpalin, lizard, for the same day). All
the original names of the days, except for Ik, Cimi, Caban, and perhaps Manik, Cauac, and
Eznab, and one or two more, became changed under the Maya culture subsequently to the
establishment of the writing system. Some of the days continued to be represented by the
initial letter or character of their original names, much as we write “Ib.”’ for “libra,” but
read it “pound.” The voluminous speculations of Seler concerning the day symbols are to
be taken with a great deal of caution, if they are not indeed stumbling blocks of the worst
kind.
MAYA HIEROGLYPHS—WHORF 487

Figure 2 shows the writing of six words occurring in the codices.®
The sign clusters or glyphs of various animals, originally determined
by Schellhas from their concurrence with pictures, have long been
Inown.® No. 1 is cited by Schellhas as the glyph meaning snake.
It will be noted that it consists of No. 8 of figure 1, ka, and No. 17,
mn, and a third symbol. This third symbol and the iguana figure in
the next glyph of figure 2 are the only symbols cited in this paper
which are not found in figure 1. The first two symbols spell kan,
which is the Maya word for snake. The third symbol is probably

name of a month

A, cy 5 aml
meses le “noose” and lesinah ‘catch

)
in strung noose-trap”

“stabbed, speared” “catch in noose~trap”

lu-m-ma-n le-e or l-e le-e-Sin-a

* CPatss < ’
“signo de caceriéa signo de cacer’a |le “coger por fazo'
por medio de por trampa " )

3 “
flecha y lanza u sim ‘armar lazos'

FIGuRE 2.—Maya sign clusters representing words.

derived from a picture of a rattlesnake’s rattles, intended to evoke
the linguistic response “snake,” i. e., kan, and has itself the value kan.
However, it is apparently insufficient by itself to write the word kan.
Tt was not unusual in the Maya system to write a word of one syllable
simply by one sign having the value of that syllable, probably be-
cause that sign often was polyphonic, having other values. Instead,
the Maya method was to suggest the syllable by a combination of
signs that was probably, to Maya speakers acquainted with the con-
ventions of the writing, unambiguous. This combination of signs

5In an unpublished paper read before the annual meeting of the American Anthropolosgi-
cal Association at Washington, D. C., in December 1936, entitled “A Comparative De-
cipherment of Forty-Six Maya Written Words,” I exhibited 46 word-writings similarly
analyzed, including hu and kumhw of the present six.

° Paul Schellhas, Gittergestalten der Mayahandschriften, 1897,
488 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

could be made according to two principles: (1) synthetically, build-
ing the syllable from signs to be understood as fractions of the sylla-
ble, which together made the whole syllable; (2) by repeated affirma-
tion, that is, by combining, in the sense of repeating, different ways
of denoting the whole syllable. A word of one syllable, or often a
syllable within a longer word, could be written by either method,
or by both together, as in the case of this writing of the word kan.
The signs ka and n build the word synthetically, the sign kan repeats
it; we have double writing, but only single reading. It is as if the
writing said “my first is ka, my second is n, my whole is one of the
values of the snake-rattle sign, and so must be kan.” The combina-
tion is, by sum of all its parts, ka-n-kan, but we may use the con-
vention of transliteration ka-n* to show that the final kan is a
doubling in the writing only, not in the reading.

No. 2, figure 2, is the sign cluster meaning iguana, or large lizard,
a meaning which is quite obvious since it accompanies plain pictures
of that animal, besides containing such a picture itself. But this
one picturelike sign, no matter how much it may look like the animal,
is not sufficient by itself to write the word meaning iguana. The
Maya system, as already noted, requires combination with at least
one other sign before we can have a unit of writing, capable of
standing alone. The exceptions to this rule form a very restricted
list indeed, the most important ones being the 20-day signs, which
are single elements enlarged to the size of a full cluster and capable
of standing alone. The month glyphs and calendric and math-
ematical glyphs in general conform quite to the rule, being clusters
of signs. No. 2 writes the one-syllable word hu “iguana” entirely
by the method of repeated affirmation, using the ordinary sign for
hu, No. 6 of figure 1, topped by an iguana figure, which of course
has the linguistic value of the animal’s name. Here the formula
which we use in transliterating is hu-hu, to be read or pronounced,
of course, as “ha.”

No. 8 writes the word kumhu, the name of a Maya month, entirely
by the synthetic method. It is the well-known glyph of this month
Cumhu as found in the codices. It uses the feather sign kum, No. 11
of figure 1, plus hu, No. 6, so we transliterate kKum-hu. Some other
words of the codices using the sign kum, No. 11 of figure 1, are
kumah, the stem “sit” with transitive suffix meaning “seats” or “car-
ries seated,” and kwmag, another word meaning snake (cf. Quiche
kumag “snake”). Although we are still somewhat in doubt as to the
values of the vowels in these words, the general phonetic contour is
interestingly confirmed by the fact that the codices write kwmah
not only as kum-ma (with 11 and 15) but also write it as kw-m-a,
while Landa cites a way of writing the month Cumhu which is the
cluster of kw-m-hw,; in both of which writings kw and m are signs
MAYA HIEROGLYPHS—WHORF 489

not included in figure 1 (but confirmed by other evidence) while a
is 1 and Aw is 5 of figure 1.

No. 4 of figure 2 occurs in texts of the Codex Tro-Cortesianus
dealing with hunting and illustrated with hunting pictures. It is
obviously a sign cluster or word referring to animals killed by
spears or arrows, and the commentary in the Villacorta edition’ of
the Tro-Cortesianus calls it “signo de caceria por medio de fiecha y
lanza.” It is a writing composed synthetically with doubling of
one subsyllabic sign. At the top is the cup-and-loop sign lu, lo, No.
14 of figure 1, written within the outlines of No. 15, m, ma, which is
doubled, the lower member of the doubled pair enclosing the tail sign
n, No. 17 of figure 1. When we find doubled a sign which according
to the total set-up is probably to be interpreted as a syllabic con-
firmed by a subsyllabic, we may transliterate without using the con-
vention of writing a superscript, using instead a convention that
permits of possible interpretation as a long consonant or vowel, e. g.,
in this case not ma-ma but m-ma. No. 4 is then transliterated
lu-m-ma-n or lo-m-ma-n, which is a word meaning exactly what the
accompaniment of pictured scenes tells us. It is the passive par-
ticipial inflection in -an of the stem dom, which means a spearing
or stabbing thrust or blow, and by extension a spear, while with the
verbal inflection it denotes the occurrence of a spearing action. The
Motul dictionary gives “om: tiro de lanza, o dardo, y cosas assi,
y estocada, o pufalada.” This stem with the transitive verbal in-
flection is given by the Motul as “lomah, ob: fisgar, o harponear, dar
estocada o pufalada, alancear y aguijonear,” this citation being fol-
lowed by that of the passive participial form, “Jomdn: cosa que esta
assi fisgada.” Hence this word loman written in the hieroglyphs of
the Maya text means speared, stabbed; pierced, wounded or killed
by a spear, arrow, etc.

No. 5 of figure 2 is synthetic with doubling of the inherent vowel
of one sign. It is common in the hunting section of the Codex Tro-
Cortesianus, and is obviously the word denoting catching of animals
by a noose or lasso, or in a noose snare—a trap consisting of a noose
set to spring by a stretched rope triggered and attached to a small
bent-down tree so that when the animal steps in the noose and
releases the trigger the tree springs back, drawing the slipknot of the
noose and catching the animal. The glyph or sign cluster No. 5
accompanies pictures of this operation, e. g., Tro-Cortesianus 42c.
Villacorta calls it “signo de caceria por trampa.” It consists of the
double loop or knot sign 7, le, No. 13 of figure 1, and the dot sign e,
No. 3 of figure 1, and is to be transliterated Je-e and read le “loop.
noose, slipknot, noose trap or snare,” Motul “Je: lazo para cazar y

7J. Antonio Villacorta C. and Carlos A. Villacorta, Cédices Mayas, published in
Arqueologia Guatemalteca, 1932.
490 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

pescar, y pescar con lazo,” with the verbal inflection, e. g., leah mean-
ing catch or trap with noose snare, for which the Motul gives the
participial “Jean: cosa enlazada o cogida en lazo.” Here again we
see the principle that a sign is inadequate by itself, in that No. 18,
though itself derived from the picture of a slipknot or noose le and
denoting the sound fraction le, is not sufficient alone to write the
monosyllabic word having this sound, i. e., Je “noose,” but is subject
to the rule that a sign must be combined with another and cannot
stand alone. Here it has its inherent vowel reaffirmed by attachment
of the sign e. Hence there is a mixture of the synthetic and the
repeated affirmation principles in sign clusters or glyphs of this type.
We also find the verbally inflected form leah “catch with noose,”
written le-e-a, with No. 1 of figure 1 for a. Cyrus Thomas correctly
analyzed the Ze-e cluster, I believe, though I worked it out without
referring to his work. A number of Thomas’s readings are undoubt-
edly correct.

In No. 6, figure 2, we have one of the polysynthetic words common
in Maya, in which two stems are compounded and suffixes attached.
It is illustrated in Tro-Cortesianus, page 46, by three pictures show-
ing vividly in successive stages of action a deer caught and jerked
upward by the spring of the bent tree to which the noose of the trap
is attached. It is written le-e-sin-a (or -ah), with signs 12, 3, 19, and
1 of figure 1, and is to be read lesinah. This word is typical of a
common kind of Maya compound, consisting of two stems with the
verbal inflection suffixed after the second. The stems are le, already
defined, and sin “stretch or string tightly (as cloth, hides, or cords
are stretched on a frame), draw taut, string with stretched cords,
string up, string or rig a noose trap or the like to spring when
released, etc.” The Motul gives “zin (i. e., stn): estender pafios o
cueros y colgar estendiendo o tender desarrugando; armar lazos;
armar arco o ballesta.” Such a compound usually has the following
type of meaning: designating the two stems as X and Y, a compound
X-Y-ah or X-Y-t-ah*® means do X by means of Y, transitively, or to
an object. Thus, since 7e-ah means catch in a noose, we can form
freely words such as /e-k’ab-ah (or more modern le-k’ab-t-ah) “catch
in a noose by action of the hand” (#’ab “hand”), le-k’as-ah “catch in
a noose by a tying action,” and so on. Our word le-sin-ah then
means catch in a noose by the action sin or catch in a noose by tight
stretching, catch by the spring of a tautly strung noose trap.®

8 The form with the suffix -t- before the suffix -ah is the common form in Maya of the Motul
dictionary for binary compounds of this type.

® We find in the codices other compounds of this type, including some others with sin
as second member; thus in the Tro-Cortesianus (e. g., 41a) the picture of a deer trussed up
in a bundle, legs folded up, with cords lashed around it, is accompanied by the sign cluster
ma-sin-a (with Landa’s ma sign), to be read probably massinah, assimilated from matinah
compound of stems maé and sin), meaning clasp together (like a clasped fist) by pulling
and tension, by tight stringing, by tightly drawn cords.
MAYA HIEROGLYPHS—-WHORF

Sas Bhd
=(9 “he
{7

Fiauke 3.—Page 38 of the Codex Tro-Cortesianus.

491
492 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Now, having noted the reading of a few individual words, let us
read a short sentence written in Maya hieroglyphs. Figure 3 shows
page 88 of the Codex Tro-Cortesianus, and the sentence thereon to
be examined in particular is that made by the four sign clusters or
glyphs over the second seated figure in section b, the middle of the
three horizontal divisions of the page. Figure 4 shows this sentence
written on one line, analyzed, transliterated, and translated. As can
easily be observed from figure 3, the texts which comment on the
pictures, or to put it the other way, which are illustrated by the
pictures, are placed over the pictures reading from right to left
across the width of the picture and then on the line below similarly;
or they run vertically downward in the cases where there is no pic-
ture. This order is easily demonstrated from the parallelism of the
writing; we have here plainly a repetition of very similar short sen-
tences or clauses. Thus, if we give a letter to each cluster or glyph
which is the same, the middle-section text over the first or left-hand
picture runs A—B, and then on the line below C-D, next to the right
running straight downward we have A-B—E-F, then over the next
picture A-B-C-D again, then downward again A-B-G-H. The
texts of the top and bottom sections can be seen to run in the same
manner, which indeed is general throughout the codices. The texts
would seem to be in a style which is common enough in aboriginal
American songs, chants, and ceremonies; sets of phrases containing
a constant element repeated throughout a set, as when each line of
a song stanza begins the same way but then introduces a certain dif-
ference. Thus the text which we have just examined consists of
lines each beginning A-B and then becoming different. Navaho
chants are of course typical cases of this sort of thing. In the top
section, dealing, as the pictures show, with hunting by means of the
spear, each clause begins with the word Joman “speared” that we
have already studied. We shall not however pause to analyze this
top section in detail, since the limits of this paper do not allow it.

The middle and bottom sections are very similar to each other,
though not identical, and deal with drilling, as can be seen from the
pictures. The pictures of the middle section show the using of the
drill to make fire, the bottom set show the drilling of an object which
appears to be a stone. Each clause in each section begins with the
word for drilling or drill, as is evident not only from comparison
with these pictures, but also from one of the other Maya books, the
Dresden Codex, in which the same sign cluster accompanies pictures
of drilling. This cluster, A, occupies first position, which is the
regular position of the predicating word of a clause in Maya of the
sixteenth century (if not also today) as shown by the hundreds of
short simple sentences in the Motul dictionary. This predicator
MAYA HIEROGLYPHS—WHORF 493

need not be a formal verb in Maya grammar (though it most often
is), but it is what corresponds to the predicate in an English trans-
lation. The final two words of each clause, C, D, * * * ete.,
are the well-known name glyphs of the Maya gods. They are the
names of the persons shown in the pictures, as has long been known,
and consequently they are undoubtedly the grammatical subjects of
the clauses. The second cluster of each clause may be called B, in
the middle section, B, in the bottom section, to indicate that it is the
same throughout each section but differs between the two sections.

we Puy EE weet US
franscription (n\ He | EreB WO Les 3) @

transliteration wN- 3-e-Ssa u-to- kak t- ¢-mn-a_ Kka- haw

C//s

reconstruction haSesah wu  tok- Kak igamna ka ahaw.

translation Sale hs Par burning-fire Itzamna our lord.
drilling

traditional

Maya

orthography

haxezah vu tooc kak Itzamna ca ahau

stems: hag ‘drill’ ‘taladrar o

vocabulary! agujerear taladrando’
of the hag Kak ‘encender lumbre
text frotando un palo con otro’

tok ‘burn’ ‘quemar’

Kak ‘fire’ ‘fuego o lumbre

igamna name of a god

ahaw ‘lord’ ‘Tey, © gran senor
u this’ ka ‘our? -@S- causative
-ah transitive, non-future

illustration

Figure 4.—Analysis of a Maya sentence taken from page 38 of the Codex Tro-
Cortesianus.

By elimination and by position after the predicator it should indicate
the grammatical object and/or result of the verb action, which agrees
with the fact that the drilling is pictured with different objects and
results in the two sections. Thus we have, as a first schematization:

A, predicator or verb (drilling)

Bi, B,, object and/or result (fire, stone)

C, D, * * * ete. subject (names of gods or persons)

Figure 4 is a detailed exposition of the sentence over the second
picture of the middle section, which shows the Roman-nosed god of
the codices, or god D, making fire with a drill. The top line is a
copy of the text, arranged from left to right on one line, instead of
on two lines as in the original. This line, like the original text, is
494 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

in glyphic script, the form of writing used in the codices. It closely
resembles the monumental glyphic style of the stone inscriptions, but
is less ornate and has more rounded outlines. In both these styles
the signs in a cluster are gathered into a tight bunch or cartouche, in
which they are grouped in two dimensions and there is only a vestige
of linear order in that the front or extreme left-hand part of a cluster
never stands for the last part of a word and similarly for the rear
or right-hand part, which never stands for the beginning of a word.
The signs in a cluster are usually in contact and often fused together
or enveloped in the same flowing outline; they may be attached to
the top or bottom of a central sign or they may be one within an-
other, i. e., one sign may serve as the frame or ground of another.
In short, the putting together of signs is more like that of a heraldic
device than like our kind of writing.? But the reading of the signs
is exactly as if they were written in linear order, although this order
must be learned separately for each glyph and hence requires a
separate and often prolonged study of each by the decipherer.

The second line from the top in figure 4 shows the signs which
compose each cluster regrouped in one-dimensional linear order.
Such an arrangement I call open transcription or linear script, and
there is some evidence that the Maya actually used such a form of
script, though not in the inscriptions or in the codices that happen to
have been preserved. Landa cites instances of the utterances “ma in
kati” and “elele” written by a native informant in this manner,”
the signs delineated consecutively from left to right and either close
together or actually touching. It seems not unlikely that such a
linear script may have been used by the later Maya for convenience
in ordinary purposes, as the Egyptians used demotic, while the
glyphic script would have been regarded as more hieratic and orna-
mental and used for important books, priestly writings, and inscrip-
tions. Be that as it may, conversion of a passage of glyphic into
open transcription is a device which is often helpful to the decipherer.
It will be noted that all the signs in this passage are given in figure
1, so that from this line of open transcription the whole utterance

1°Tt should be pointed out that even in our kind of writing, i. e., the alphabetic kind,
linear order of signs is not quite absolute in many systems, which contain vestiges of an
older two-dimensional way of grouping. Thus in the writing of pointed Arabic, pointed
Hebrew, and Pitman shorthand, the vowel points are grouped two-dimensionally with the
consonantal signs, not written consecutively with them in the order of actual utterance.
In the Devanagari alphabet the vowel signs are fused two-dimensionally with the con-
sonant signs, and the vowel i to be uttered after a consonant is actually attached in front
of that consonant. Our own wh is similarly written backward, being actually hw—a
special cluster of signs that retains an unusual order of positions. Some monograms and
modern advertising placards also use two-dimensional groupings of letters.

11 Diego de Landa, Relacién de las Cosas de Yucatan. The first phrase means “I do not
want.” The second utterance is gibberish from the Maya standpoint, but judging from the
context it evidently represents the informant’s attempt to comply with a request to
“write L-H, ‘le’.”’
MAYA HIEROGLYPHS—WHORF 495

can be read off in rough outline, as shown in the third line or trans-
literation. Since many of the signs can be indefinite as to vocalic
timbre, even when they imply a preferred inherent vowel, the vowels
of the utterance are here and there doubtful, although the indication
of definite vowels is generally much better than in Egyptian or
unpointed Hebrew. To a certain extent, but by no means wholly, the
transliteration of vowels is based on sixteenth-century Maya, which
can hardly have changed radically in this respect since the period
of the codices probably not very many centuries earlier; and it is also
based partly on comparative evidence from other Mayan dialects, a
field of research which must of course go hand in hand with scholarly
and philological reading of the codices. But it must also be empha-
sized that the text itself contains unmistakable reference to many of
its vowels; thus the signs a, e, 2, uw of figure 1 are unambiguous in
their indication of vowels, though the position of the vowel in the
word may not always be clear. ‘Thus we arrive at the transliteration,
namely:
h-&-e-sa u-to-kak i-¢-mn-a k-ka-haw

The position of the e in the first word is not wholly clear, since
this e is written inside both the / and the s signs; and another pos-
sible transliteration is h-e-s-sa or he-e-s-sa, to be read either hesesah
or hessah, which would indicate that the stem which means drilling,
which is Aas in sixteenth-century Maya, was pronounced more nearly
hes in the dialect of the codices. At present more evidence would be
needed to confirm this, and the reading hasesah seems preferable, the
vowel a not being indicated in the writing but a reasonable recon-
struction from Maya linguistic evidence.

Under the transliteration is a reconstruction of the original sentence
in the light of Maya linguistics, written in the usual Americanist
phonetic system, and below the translation of this is a repetition of
the reconstruction written in the traditional Maya orthography. This
is included in order that Maya students may see the sentence written
in the way most familiar to them; though the use of this traditional
spelling for linguistic purposes is not to be recommended and im-
poses a handicap; indeed may breed quite misleading notions in the
minds of students. Thus we have for the reconstruction:

Phonetic___ hasesah u-to‘k-k’ak’ icamma_ ka-ahaw
Traditional___._ haxezah u tooc kak Itzamna ca ahau

Under the phonetic transcription is the literal translation: “makes
(or made) by drilling his burning-fire Itzmna our lord,” or in
smoother English: “Our lord Itzamna kindles (kindled) his fire

with a drill.”

The first word is a derivative of the stem has meaning twisting or
rolling between the palms, drilling, and with the verbal inflection,
496 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

twist between the palms, work a drill, bore, drill. The Motul has
“hax, ah, ab (i. e. has, hasah, hasab): torcer con la palma o palmas
de las manos y hazer tomiza, o cordel assi, y lo assi torcido” and again
“haws: taladrar o agujerar taladrando y la cosa taladrada o agujerada
assi.” This stem is the only word for drilling in Maya that I know
of, so the case is particularly convincing. The word for a drill, the
instrument, is hasab; we do not have it in this codex, but rather the
verbal inflection. The suffix -es, -s (followed by -ah) of the verbal
inflection is causative, similar in meaning to the suffix -bes; Y-es-ah
means puts (put) it (grammatical object) into the condition X, or
else, cause (caused) it to exist by the condition or action X, makes
(made) it by X-ing, by doing X. The second type of causative
meaning is that which fits the present case. The suffix -ah denotes
transitive action already accomplished, in contrast with -2k, transitive
action not accomplished or not finished, either future or continuing
in the present. Thus Aasesah means makes (made) it by drilling.

Makes what by drilling? According to our scheme above, that
which is denoted by the next sign cluster, B,. In the bottom section
of the same page the corresponding cluster B, denotes the stone or
stone object being drilled. In that case “makes by drilling” of course
does not mean create the object wholly by drilling, but rather perform
that step in the manufacture of the object that requires drilling.
Hence in that case there is merely a subtle shade of difference between
hasesah and hasah “drills it.” To digress a little, cluster B, is prob-
ably to be read e--7-2: e, dots, here many instead of three, z of three
nipples, and a form of double-loop 72 doubled by scratches (laé)
between the loops. The word ez could mean edge-tool, i. e., weapon-
point, knife, ete. Such points or knives were of course predominantly
of stone among the Maya, and were no doubt sometimes drilled.

Returning to the middle-section text; here “hasesah B,” means
makes B, by drilling, actually in the sense of “causes” or “creates,”
since B, evidently denotes fire. This fits in well with the expression
cited by the Motul for making fire with the firedrill: hasah k’ ak’
(Wak? “fire”), which uses the simpler or less inflected form hasah
rather than hasesah. The Motul gives “haw kak (i. e., has-[ah]
k? ak’): encender lumbre casando fuego frotando un palo con otro,”
also “haxab kak (hasab k’ ak? ‘drill for fire’) : artificio o recaudo con
que sacan fuego los indios.”

The cluster B, is analyzed as u-to-kak, consisting of sign No. 23
of figure 1, wu, sign No. 21, to, tw (to be read here to), and No. 9 of
figure 1, which if it is a doubled and enlarged ka (No. 8) might be
read kaka, kak, or simply ka. Here the reading kak fits exactly.
The initial w here would denote the preposed third-person pronominal
reference wu. For our present purposes it is immaterial whether this
MAYA HIEROGLYPHS—WHORF 497

be regarded as a prefix or a separate word always occurring immedi-
ately before nonpronominal stems. Owing wholly to the grammatical
patterns of English (and other European languages), it must be
translated as he (she, it, they) if the following stem is translated as
an English verb, but as his (her, its, their) if that stem is translated
as an English noun. From the Maya standpoint it denotes the same
relationship at all times; Maya stems are neither nouns nor verbs
in the English sense, but a single class delimited on a quite different
basis from our parts of speech. The stem with which this % is in
construction is what is written as to-kak in the rest of the cluster.

The writing to-kak however is only approximately phonetic, as
with Maya writing in general; it suggests only in rough outline the
sound of the utterance, from which suggestion the reader is expected
to infer the right Maya word; the Maya application of phonetics in
writing had progressed no farther than this, as we have already seen.
Now the word that is apparently indicated is not what a modern
Americanist phonetician understands by the transcription tokak,
but rather what he would transcribe as to;kk’ ak’. This is a compound
word, to k-k? ak’, consisting of the stems to & “burn, burning, ignition”
(o denotes long 0) and X’ ak’ “fire.” The Motul gives these as “tooe (1.
e., to *k): quemar, abrazar, y cosa quemada” and “kak (i. e., k? ak’):
fuego, o lumbre.” Note that the Maya way of writing to: kk’ ak”
does not distinguish the glottalized palatal stop %’ at the end of k? ak’
from the corresponding unglottalized stop & at the end of to: &, nor
does it distinguish the sequence of the two, £#’ from either one singly
nor the long vowel 0 from a short 0. This is all part and parcel of the
approximate and outlinelike character of the phoneticism, implicit
rather than clearly conscious phoneticism, which Maya scribes em-
ployed. There is a phonemic difference between the simple and the
glottalized stops in Maya but it is a minimal difference. The writing
used the same symbol for both a simple stop and the homorganic
glottalized stop; instances of this are numerous. This does not mean
that these were not distinct sounds in the Maya dialect of the codices.
It is almost a certainty that they were distinct, just as they are in
all modern dialects of Maya. They were not distinguished in writing
probably in the same way that minimally-differing phonemes (e. g.,
the long and short vowels of Latin) are often not distinguished in
a writing system, because the native reader can always tell from the
context which sound to supply. And this condition is no more than
we meet, to varying degree, in all systems of writing other than those
devised by linguistic scientists for the express purpose of an accuracy
going beyond the needs of simple communication.

The expression w-to :k-k’ak’ may be translated “his burning fire,”
or probably better “his kindling fire, his igniting of fire.” It follows
498 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

a type of Maya two-stem compound, probably the same type as
already explained, though the idea of “by means of” here need not
be injected into the translation. We now have attained to transla-
tion of the whole predicate: “(he) causes by drilling his ignition of
fire; and it is evident that this expression ha esah u-to-k-k’ak is but
a more elaborate form of the hasah k’ak’ cited by the Motut diction-
ary as the way of saying that one starts fire with a fire drill; it
follows the same basic pattern.

I might here digress briefly, anticipating a misconceived objection
that might be raised, to say that the sign cluster to-kak sometimes
occurs in the codices where there is no pictured reference to fire, and
seems in these cases to refer to an animal in a hunting scene. An
instance of this is seen in figure 3, top section, over the second pic-
ture, where occurs the cluster to-kak-a, with -a of No. 1, figure 1, and
without preceding w-, forming part of a sentence roughly analyzeable
as loman u-NORTH tokaka X “speared (in) his north (is) (gram-
mat. object)—X.” I shall suggest first, but not in seriousness, a type
of explanation that overstresses the mentalistic approach. I shall
suggest that the reason why this glyph accompanies both pictures
of fire and pictures of a hunted animal is that it is a glyph which
denotes sacrifice or a sacrifice, hence either a sacrificial fire or a
sacrificial animal. Now apparently just this sort of explanation,
with its thin veneer of ethnological allusion, sounds plausible to
some minds that have engaged themselves with Maya hieroglyphs,
and it is necessary to warn against it. This is why no people but
linguists should touch the hieroglyphs. In the present case of
course, the explanation is an out-and-out concoction of my own,
cooked up in a few seconds merely to illustrate a point. A trained
linguist would, I believe, be inclined to ask, “Have you searched for
an explanation in the configurations of utterances and in the data
of the vocabulary, before adopting this quite speculative hypothesis?”
The real reason is no doubt that besides the stem to'k “burn” Maya
has the similar sounding stem tok (with nonlong o) “take away, take
by force, capture, carry off,” etc. The Motul has “toc, ah, 0b (i. e.,
tok): quitar, tomar por fuerza, privar, arrebatar, robar y usurpar
casas, y cosas muebles.” The sign cluster to-kak in this case is not
being used to write the compound word to°k-k’ak’ but to write some
similarly-sounding derivative or inflection of the stem tok, and the
word probably means prey, animal taken or carried off, catch, game.
Possibly the word contains tok and the repetitive plural suffix
-ak, hence “(successive) catches of game.” The context is enough
to distinguish this word from the similarly-written word pertain-
ing to fire.
MAYA HIEROGLYPHS—WHORF 499

The next sign cluster, i-¢-mn-a, writing the word igamna “Itzamna,
name of the leading Maya god, the Roman-nosed god of the codices,”
is very important because it is the first proper name written in Maya
hieroglyphs to be deciphered. Proper names and especially per-
sonal names have a peculiar convincingness in the decipherment of
any script. They are ideal tools for decipherment when they can be
had. When a decipherer can with the aid of his system spell out
some well-known proper name which should occur in his text, he
knows that he is on the right track. It will be remembered that it
was the names of Ptolemy and Cleopatra in an inscription that gave
Champollion his most effective clues, and similarly it was the names
of Xerxes and Darius in the Behistun inscription that afforded Raw-
linson his starting point for the decipherment of cuneiform. It has
long been agreed that the Roman-nosed god of the codex pictures,
or god D, corresponds in characters to the one traditionally known as
Itzamna. His glyph is always written in this way. If we knew
more of the ancient names of the gods our progress in decipher-
ment would be materially aided. Unfortunately the god Kukulcan,
who appears so frequently in the codices, evidently is not called by
that name in the codices, or else if he js called by that name it is
written by a unitary word sign.

The next cluster, k-ka-haw, representing the pronunciation kahaw,
is to be reconstructed ka-ahaw “our lord,” “our master,” “our king.”
This was the characteristic epithet of Itzamna as the Maya Zeus. In
the Chilam Balam of Chumayel and also that of Tizimin, this god is
referred to and called Jtzamna kavil. Here “kavil” equals in the
Americanist phonetic system, k’awil, from kahawil (glottalization
arising from loss of -ah-) from ka-ahawil, which has the same mean-
ing as ka-ahaw. Thus this decipherment may be likened to Rawlin-
son’s recognition of “king, great king, king of kings” after the name
of Xerxes. The Motul defines ahaw as “ahau (ahaw) : rey o empera-
dor, monarca, principe o gran sefior.” The preposed pronominal
ka (traditional spelling ca) is the second person plural governing
the following word, the translation of the relationship being pos-
sessive when that word is translated as a noun, subject when it is
translated by a verb. Here of course the translation is “our.” The
cluster 4-ka-haw “our lord” is an almost invariable accompaniment
of the name Itzamna in the codices; rarely it is omitted, and rarely
it occurs with the names of other gods. Occasionally also with
names of gods we find the simple epithet ahaw “lord,” written a-hw,
with an a sign not listed in this paper but cited in slightly variant
form by Landa, and with No. 6 of figure 1 for hw. In accordance
with the general principle of Maya writing that signs may not be

430577 42-33
500 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

used in isolation, except as day signs, the word ahaw is not written
with sign No. 5 (haw) alone, except when it means the day Ahau.

Thus we arrive at our final translation: “Our lord Itzamna kindles
his fire by drilling.”

The importance of this decipherment and translation is quite inde-
pendent of the interest or lack of interest of the subject matter. As
far as concerns the information which this translation gives us about

the Maya, or about its own subject matter, it is quite trivial; it is no
- more than we could have gathered from the pictures alone. Its im-
portance is linguistic and philological—linguistic because it gives
information about the structure of a language, as far as the writing
can express it, at a certain period of past time, philological because
it is precedent to the study of a literature and of culture as reflected
in this literature, at a period of past time and in a historical context
and perspective. From this one short sentence can be gathered a host
of linguistic and philological data, only a small fraction of which
has been discussed in this paper, data which can be tested and cor-
related, and employed heuristically in further investigations, of
progressive difficulty. A very few of these further ramifications of
this sentence are barely hinted at in the footnotes, which the
exigencies of space have kept relatively brief. Each such footnote
actually represents an extensive study. In this way the decipher-
ment establishes itself upon a constantly growing enlacement of sen-
tences, their translations controlled by sets of pictures, which
sentences mutually give rise to a growing grammar, syntax,
vocabulary, and sign list.

There are two main wrong ways of trying to read the Maya
codices. One wrong way is to attempt a clean sweep of the job—to
retire into seclusion and eventually emerge with a book—a book
which “tells all,” which reels off, interprets, explains, epitomizes, and
comments on everything from page 1 of the Tro-Cortesianus to the
last page of the Dresden. There have been several such books in the
past hundred years. Usually such books proclaim the discovery of a
key. This key is then applied at the author’s sweet will, and the
trick is turned as easily as a magician lifts a rabbit out of a hat.
Often, moreover, such an author has exposed his slight acquaintance
with the Maya language and with linguistic procedures in general.
Historical writings are not to be read with keys; there is never any
key but research. The amateur decipherer is prone to make a false
analogy between straightforward writing and a cipher. Actually the
very word “decipher” which I have employed so profusely in this
essay, embodies a misconception. Why have I used it? I suppose
because it is simple and vivid, it has been generally used for this sort
of research, and I have succumbed to usage. But really one does not
MAYA HIEROGLYPHS—WHORF 501

decipher a literature, one deciphers only a cipher. A cipher is a
method of writing with deliberate intent to conceal the content from
those who do not possess the key. It is deciphered with a key
because it has first been enciphered with a key. A straightforward
writing, not intended to conceal its tenor from all but a select few, is
not really deciphered; it is analyzed and translated. The methods
of such analysis and translation are quite different from the methods
of message decoders; they are the methods of Champollion and Young
with Egyptian, of Rawlinson and Grotefend with Babylonian, of
Hrozny and Sturtevant with Hittite; they are the methods of
linguistics and philology.

The other wrong way of attacking the linguistic portion of the
Maya codices is the Sitzenfleisch approach. I¢ concentrates for long
periods upon isolated glyphs or words, having conveniently forgotten
that such things as sentences exist. Suppose that in this method
one succeeds in deciphering or partly deciphering thé glyph of
Itzamna. Then one next spends years scrutinizing every glyph of
Itzamna in the literature, noting the most minute differences, to
the pen quirk, and linking it up first with every scrap of information
that can be gleaned about Itzamna, then with every god in the Mid-
dle American area that can be connected with Itzamna. The mere
glyph disappears from view, having served as the springboard into a
sea of mythology, religion, and folklore, from which one may per-
haps emerge at last with a monograph entitled “The Concept of
Itzamna.” This method, through concentrating entirely on word
study, wanders so far from the specific incidences of the word in the
texts that it finally ceases to be linguistic altogether, and becomes
something else. Words are nothing without sentences. What a
word is depends on what it does, i. e., on its position and function in
the sentence. This is even more important than how it is written.
In Maya as in English there are many homonyms, and also words
which though not homonyms are written alike, as in English are
lead (the metal) and lead (go in front). Hence the determination
of the sounds of signs and of their glyphic combinations is only
half the battle.

There is only one road to decipherment of the Maya hieroglyphs
and reading of the Maya literature. It is through a growing con-
catenation of sentences, proceeding from the less to the more diffi-
cult, beginning with sentences whose meaning can be understood from
pictures, with the linguistic interest and linguistic findings kept con-
stantly foremost, and conclusions relative to subject matter resolutely
submerged. The linguistic findings must eventually bear the scru-
tiny of, and become the ground of, collaboration for various lin-
guistic scholars. One man cannot be the medium for interpreting a
502 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

literature; such a task requires the mutual contributions of many
scholars who are able to proceed in general agreement as to basic
principles. Linguistic principles alone carry the conviction neces-
sary to such scientific agreement.

As the research progresses and expands and grows more sure it
becomes able to read with some confidence sentences which lack pic-
tures to control the translation. We shall thus begin to read cau-
tiously portions of the inscriptions, and the long pictureless texts of
the Peresianus codex whose meaning is now utterly mysterious. As
the major linguistic difficulties are conquered the study becomes more
and more philological; that is to say, subject matter, cultural data,
and history play an increasing role—it becomes a matter of not only
reading but of understanding as much as possible the allusions, the
references, the nonlinguistic contexts, the cultural patterns which
are seen by glimpses, as it were, through the bare words and gram-
mar of the translations. This is philology. But as the base of
philology we must have linguistics. Only in this way can we ever
hope to understand the history and culture of the Maya.
CONTACTS BETWEEN IROQUOIS HERBALISM AND
COLONIAL MEDICINE?

By Wi.lAM N. FENTON

Bureau of American Ethnology

[With 5 plates]

INTRODUCTION: THE COUNTRY AND THE PEOPLE

A traveler of the seventeenth century leaving the cedar-lined banks
of the St. Lawrence River to ascend the Great Lakes would have
encountered Indians living inland from both shores who continued to
speak related dialects of the Iroquoian language as he passed Niagara
and went on across southern Ontario toward the Detroit River.
South of Lake Ontario lay the country of a great confederacy
known to the French as the Iroquois and to the English as the
Five Nations: the Mohawk, Oneida, Onondaga, Cayuga, and Seneca
tribes who populated a dozen ragged villages across New York; but
the cognate Neutral of Ontario and the Huron near Georgian Bay
were never part of the great League, which the Tuscarora of North
Carolina joined as the sixth nation in 1722.2 In common these
tribes shared generalized cultural as well as linguistic similarities
that set them in sharp contrast with Algonquian hunters living north
of them. But for the individual the local band was society and he
knew best his own village and the surrounding woods and fields where
he hunted and collected plant foods. Particularly was this true of
women who remained at home to till the fields, seldom traveling on
tribal business or on the warpath. Villagers discovered and sampled
the flora of their local habitats during a continual search for food.
Many plants were known or discovered to have medicinal properties,
while a few tragic events served to remind the cautious experimenter
that certain plants are poisonous so that he must be careful about

1This article publishes the first part of a longer study, “Herbs and Herbalists among
the Iroquois Indians,’’ which is the further extension of a preliminary report entitled “An
Herbarium from the Allegany Senecas,” published in The Historic Annals of Southwestern
New York, pp. 787-796, edited by Doty, Congdon, and Thornton. Lewis Historical Publ.
Co., New York, 1940.

2 For the territories of the Iroquoian tribes see the maps and the writer’s paper in Essays
in Historical Anthropology of North America, Smithsonian Misc. Coll., yol. 100, 1940.

503
504 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

biting indiscriminately into all roots. Thus fear and cultural con-
servatism and, perhaps, lack of interest, save in dire necessity, pre-
vented all but a few individuals from acquiring systematic knowledge
of the flora. Probably very few old men and women throughout
Iroquoia, who through specialization were regarded as authorities,
could distinguish 300 species in a region that has yielded modern
botanists five times that number. An occasional herbalist might
recognize a third of the local flora. Nevertheless, the Iroquois were
aware of changes in topography and ecology that a traveler would
note as he passed from the coniferous forests north of the Mohawk
country, through predominantly beech-birch-maple forest in Oneida
and Onondaga territory, across elm bottoms and hemlock swamps to the
mucky land of the Cayuga; thence having passed the Seneca towns,
he would cross the Genesee, beyond which “oak openings” or prairies
in western New York were skirted by great stands of basswood and
white pine, and where such typically southern species as sassafras,
tulip, and cucumber trees blended into the oak-hickory-chestnut forest
of the Allegheny uplands (pl. 1, fig. 2). If the beech was the most
numerous upland tree of the Iroquois country, the maple was more
important in economy and religion: to this day it is remembered
with an annual festival of thanksgiving. Stately white pines towered
on the river terraces and invaded abandoned village sites, but until
after the introduction of the steel ax the pine was not as important
to the Iroquois for house building (pl. 2, fig.1) as the bottomland
American elm, which must have been an important species in the
primary forests of their region because they extensively used its bark
for houses, vessels, and boats, and it was the prominent tree symbol of
mythology and art.°

Since the culture of every society exists over and against an
environment, it becomes important to observe how a people adjust
to it, to what degree they exploit it, how its offerings affect the con-
tents of their behavior, and how they react to new discoveries.
Studies of how peoples of primitive culture use plants (ethnobotany)
in relation to the possible uses of plants to man (economic botany)
yield information for elaborating this type of problem. Because
plant lore and knoweldge of medicinal uses tend to survive among
peoples like the Iroquis the ethnologist can undertake such studies
on their reservations that form island communities in the surround-
ing sea of whites. Here one may observe the clash of cultures in a
patient who calls in the Government physician and later summons
his wife’s mother, a noted herbalist. Reservations provide nexus of

3 Zenkert, Charles A., The flora of the Niagara frontier region. Bull. Buffalo Soc. Nat.
Sci., vol. 16, 1934; Gordon, Robert B., The primeval forest types of southwestern New
York. Bull. New York State Mus., No. 321, 1940.
TROQUIOS HERBALISM—FENTON 505

kin, locality, and dialect, permitting some Iroquis to retreat from
the modern world of frustration into a native religion that fur-
nishes delusions of past political granduer and quasi health insur-
ance in Indian herbalism. Thus the Indian herbalist, bolstered by
a native religion and the belief of many ignorant whites in his uni-
versal knowledge, is encouraged to preserve the ethnobotanical
knowledge of his grandparents whose ancestors learned plant uses
for the flora of the region his people continue to inhabit (pl. 2, fig.
2). To what he can retain of this fund of family knowledge, the
modern Iroquois adds the plants that he collects for drug traders
and other popular practices that the whites have proved to him to be
effective. Moreover, discounting plant species and usages of obvious
European introduction and checking one informant against another,
one can readily assemble a respectable list of plants and their Indian
names which have currency in the Iroquois community and are
probably ancient. Similarly, if we compare them tribe by tribe and
reservation by reservation, those names and usages that are now
widely separated in time and space and yet are demonstrably equiva-
lent date back to the time when the Iroquois tribes were inhabiting
neighboring territories, or to a still earlier time.

Since so much of Iroquois culture has the mark of a southern
origin, it would seem that, as they moved into the area which they
inhabited during historic times, not only was it important for them
to discover new edible fruits, but a host of plants awaited tech-
nological and medicinal] experiment. Possibly Algonquian neighbors
had devised some uses which they showed them, but to other plants
the Iroquois have applied concepts that relate to analogous domestic
or known southern species. However, those plants which are named
for maize may reflect a process of reinterpretation following long
years of maize cultivation in the north. In comparing present
Iroquois and Algonquian plant names we find some names that have
similar meanings and yet we cannot be sure in which direction such
ideas traveled.

INDIAN AND COLONIAL MEDICINE

10th: I give a beverage made from an excellent white root, with which dis-
eases of all kinds are cured in my country.—Speech of a Mohawk envoy at
Quebec, 1659.4

Contact between Indian herbalism and western medicine was a
natural result of colonization. When they met in the early sixteenth
century European medicine was still carrying a heavy burden of
medieval practices so that the few first physicians in the colonies were
but several centuries advanced from the Indian shaman who selected

«Jesuit Relations, vol. 45, p. 83.
506 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

his herbs thinking of the effect that their appearance might contrib-
ute to the disease, and guaranteed their efficiency with incantations
and feats of magic. Moreover, the average settler had brought from
the old world a knowledge of herbs that in kind was not unlike that
of the Indian, but as newcomers they were unfamiliar with New
World plants; and although the level of their own popular medicine
did not set them above adopting Indian remedies, the Indian herbalist
whose knowledge was power was not always a ready teacher. Two
centuries of missionary, military, and scientific travel were to enlarge
medical botany until many new world plants in use by the Indians
were to become part of our pharmacopoeia. To this fund of knowl-
edge the Iroquois contributed a share.

The Canada band of Laurentian Iroquois, at that time living in
the environs of Quebec, made a sensational beginning as teachers
when in 1536, after 25 of his able seamen had died of scurvy, they
showed Cartier how they obtained relief from a simple decoction of
the bark and needles of hemlock (7suga canadensis (lu.) Carr.), or
white pine (Pinus strobus L.).

One day our captain, seeing the disease so general and his men so Stricken
down by it, * * * caught sight of a band of Indians approaching from
Stadadona [Quebec], and among them was Dom Agaya whom he had seen 10
or 12 days previous to this, extremely ill with the very disease his own men
were suffering from; for one of his legs above the knee had swollen to the
size of a 2-year-old baby, and the sinews had become contracted. His teeth
had gone bad and decayed, and the gums had rotted and become tainted. The
captain, seeing Dom Agaya well * * * was delighted, hoping to learn what
had healed him, in order to cure his own men. And when the Indians had
come near the fort, the captain inquired of him, what had cured him of his
sickness. Dom Agaya replied that he had been healed by the juice of the
leaves of a tree and the dregs of these, and that this was the only way to cure
sickness. Upon this the captain asked him if there was not some of it there-
abouts, and to show it to him that he might heal his servant who [in his
opinion] had caught the disease when staying in Chief Donnacona’s wigwam
at Canada, being unwilling that he should know how many sailors were ill.
Thereupon Dom Agaya sent two squaws with our captain to gather some of it;
and they brought back 9 or 10 branches. They showed us how to grind the
bark and the leaves and to boil the whole in water. Of this one should drink
every 2 days, and place the dregs on the legs where they were swollen and
affected. According to them this tree cured every kind of disease. They call
it in their language Annedda.°

Until recent times hemlock tea has been a favorite winter beverage
with the Iroquoian tribes whose names for hemlock, or evergreen, are
clearly cognate with the term given Cartier. Curiously enough he
says that this decoction brought miraculous relief in longstanding
cases of venereal disease among the sailors, and modern Iroquois

5 Biggar, H. P., ed., The voyages of Jacques Cartier, Publ. Public Arch. Canada, No. 11,
pp. 212-213, et supra, Ottawa, 1924.
IROQUIOS HERBALISM—FENTON 507

herbalists employ the hemlock as an ingredient in formulae for boils
and venereal disease. This is an interesting fact historically,
whether or not the plant is a specific for the disease. Seventeenth-
century travelers were unable to rediscover the famous tree, because
the Laurentians had abandoned their Quebec towns in the intervening
decades and the succeeding Algonquians did not employ it as an anti-
scorbutic.

The seventeenth-century Huron and Iroquois distinguished among
them shamans who cast and removed spells, clairvoyants who diag-
nosed disease or foretold weather and future events or recovered lost
objects, and herbalists or apothecaries who administered remedies.
Frequently, several roles were combined in a single individual. Here
principally the herbalist interests us, although he seldom adminis-
tered his simples without a modicum of ritual to impress the ex-
pectant patient.®

Against such competition the Jesuit and Franciscan missionaries to
New France labored with all their wits and the skills of European
civilization. Such medicines as they had brought or they were able
to import from their brothers in Europe and the lancet were potent
weapons in the conversion of the Indians who took readily to being
bled. During the summer and fall of 1636 and throughout the winter
of 1637 when a great contagious epidemic leveled the villagers of
Huronia, Father Joseph LeMercier wrote:

Everything was given by count, two or three prunes, or five or six raisins to
ohe patient; * * *

Our medicines produced effects which dazzled the whole country, and yet I
leave you to imagine what sort of medicines they were! A little bag of senna
served over 50 persons; and they asked us for it on every side; * * *7

Undismayed, the Huron shamans combated this success with dreams
of visits to an inhospitable French heaven, with tales that the French
are sorcerers, and that the faithful before the epidemic had believed
enly to get tobacco; and the missionaries had no sooner gotten the
Indians to acquiesce to forsaking their dream feasts to avert the wrath
of God in the pestilence than an unusually adept shaman ordered the
False-faces to purge the cabins of disease. LeMercier continues:

Towards evening [8th February, 1637; at Ossosané, great town of the Bear
band of Huron], the Captain Andahiach went through the cabins to publish a new
order of the sorcerer Tsondacouanné. This personage was at Onnentisati, and

was not to return until the next day. He was carrying on his preparations,
that is to say, certain sweatings and feasts, in order to invoke the assistance of

®For a compendium of the principal sources on shamans and medical practice among
the Huron at this period, consult Kinietz, W. Vernon, The Indians of the Western Great
Lakes, 1650-1760, Occas. Contrib. Mus. Anthrop., Univ. Michigan, No. 10, pp. 131-160,
1940.

™Le Jeune’s Relation, 1637, in The Jesuit Relations and Allied Documents, Reuben Gold
Thwaites, ed., vol. 13, pp. 113, 115, Cleveland, 1898,
508 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

the demons, and to render his remedies more efficacious. This prescription con-
sisted in taking the bark of the ash, the spruce, the hemlock, and the wild cherry,
boiling them together well in a great kettle, and washing the whole body there-
with. He added that his remedies were not for women in their courses, and that
care should be taken not to go out of their cabins barefooted, in the evening.®

Similar decoctions were in use among the Mohawk of Caughnawaga
in cases of colds, coughs, and rheumatism as recently as 1912, and the
tabu is characteristic of later Iroquois belief.

In the face of these circumstances the French ‘missionaries were
naturally slow to adopt new remedies when the supply that they
had brought with them ended, while in the tiny center of French
culture at Quebec European medicines were used almost exclusively.
After 1640 we read long lists of medical necessities required by the
hospital nuns of Quebec who were treating Indian patients for
smallpox that had come to them from Europe. Into the Ursuline
hospital willing Indian patients brought some folkways of the
forest. The Mother Superior speaks of them in Le Jeune’s Relation
of 1640:

The remedies that we brought from Europe are very good for the Savages,
who have no difficulty in taking our medicines, nor in having themselves bled.
The love of the mothers toward their children is very great, for they take in
their own mouths the medicine intended for their children, and then pass it into
the mouths of their little ones.°

Two years later they dispensed over 450 medicines and their supply
was exhausted. The long list of necessaries of which they suffered a
great lack in the year 1665, for the relief of the patients then there
in large numbers, pleads for senna, rhubarb, jalap, and theriac,
among others; and for succeeding years there are similar, shorter
lists.?°

However soon these deficiencies were corrected by cultivating herbs
in Quebec, as early as 1641 Charles Garnier in a letter thanking his
brother for a memorandum of the easiest remedies, which were never-
theless difficult because the ingredients were scarce in Canada, begged
for some medicinal seeds useful as purgatives and for information
concerning their growth which he contemplated at the mission of Ste.
Marie in the Huron country.”

A generation later, Lamberville, among the Onondaga near Syra-
cuse, bemoans the lack of a quantity of medicines as an aid to
converting the sick.

It would be a bait wherewith to secure nearly all The dying. There are
some who, when they find that They are given no medicine, turn Their backs

8Tdem., p. 261.

® Jesuit Relations, vol. 19, p. 21.

 Thid., vol. 22, p. 173; vol. 49, pp. 205-207 ; vol. 50, p. 161; vol. 51, p. 118; vol. 52, pp.
107-109.

4 Jbid., vol. 20, p. 101.
IROQUIOS HERBALISM—FENTON 509

to me, and say that I have no pity on them, and after that they cannot be
approached.”

And the following year some ointment that had been sent him proved
a sovereign remedy for ulcers; but just at the point where he had
gained prestige with his first cure, the supply gave out and his case
was lost.* On the other hand, to offset the successes which the
Jesuits claimed we have Baron Lahontan’s statement that the Indians
in his day were opposed to making use of French medicines and
surgeons.**

The picture that we have developed of Indian medicines during
the period of its failure to cope with introduced European diseases
leads us to inquire how successfully native herbalists treated indig-
enous ailments. Early travelers remark that certain diseases then
common among Europeans were unobserved among the northeastern
American tribes. Among these, gout, gravel, and dropsy were men-
tioned by Lahontan.** On the other hand, ailments growing out
of their way of life were more frequent: prolonged fasts followed
by feasts and periods of famine induced digestive disturbances;
rheumatism , neuralgia, pleurisy, and pneumonia were not uncommon
among the Iroquois; and long years of group living in smoke-filled
longhouses brought on conjunctivitis with advancing years; while
wounds, dislocations, and fractures were risks in a life on the warpath
and the hunt. Possibly asthma and dropsy accompanied advanced
age;7® and the great number of prescriptions for deficiencies of the
blood and uterine disorders suggest anemia and complications fol-
lowing childbirth. Zeisberger’s description of hardships and disease
among the Delaware and Iroquois in the middle eighteenth century
is probably typical of earlier times.

Indians are not less, rather more, subject to disease than Europeans, their
rough manner of life and the hardships of travel being contributing causes.
On journeys they mind neither water nor snow nor ice, even though creeks and
rivers be ever so full of running ice they go through and nothing holds them
up. On the chase they not only steal through the woods to get, unnoticed, near
the game, but also pursue it * * * until they get within range, thus * * *
they may have chased from morn til eve * * * sometimes 8 or 10 miles
away from their hunting lodge, no food having been tasted the entire day.
So long as they are young and strong, they suffer no ill effects, but with ad-
vancing years * * * Rheumatism is common among them, often leading
to lameness, deafness or blindness. The women who carry everything by means

of a carrying girth fixed to the forehead, whence the whole burden—and a
hundred weight is not considered heavy—is suspended down the back, suffer

2 Relation of 1672-73, Jesuit Relations, vol. 57, p. 173.

18 Tbid., vol. 58, pp. 211-213.

4 Lahontan, Baron de, New voyages to North America, vol. 2, p. 50, London, 1703.

% Idem, pp. 45-46.

1° Stone, Eric (M. D.), Medicine among the American Indians, pp. 23-26, Clio Medica,
New York, 1932; Corlett, Wm. Thos. (M. D.), The medicine-man of the American Indian,
pp. 55-56, Chas. C. Thomas, Springfield, Ill., and Baltimore, 1935.
510 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

in back and neck as they grow older. The men carry everything fixed to a
carrying girth fixed across the chest. A deer weighing from a hundred to a
hundred and thirty pounds they will carry the entire way home without allowing
themselves to rest.

bd * * * * * *

They are subject to festering sores. Cured in one place they break out in
another. Chills and fever, dysentery, hemorrhage, and bloody flux in women
are very common among them. Venereal diseases having during the last years
spread more and more, * * *”

The latter and possibly tuberculosis were the worst of the imported
infectious diseases which included measles, scarlet fever, diphtheria,
chickenpox, smallpox, typhus, typhoid, malaria, and yellow fever.’®
Were it not for these introduced contagions, says the Jesuit ethnol-
ogist Francois Lafitau, who visited the Caughnawaga Mohawk band
and the Abenaki of St. Francis during the second decade of the
eighteenth century, and scrofulous maladies caused by hardness of
drinking water melted from snow and a kind of phthisis (consump-
tion) contracted by exposing chest and abdomen to winter blasts, for
which they had developed no remedy, and which carried a majority
to the grave ere the prime of life, their otherwise rigorous consti-
tutions stood them to an extreme old age in which they had either
to be knocked on the head or suffered to go out like a light by a mere
default of nature.?®

The early writers are unanimous in agreeing that Indians, includ-
ing the Iroquois, possessed some natural remedies capable of checking
endemic diseases, but assert that they excelled even European sur-
geons at healing wounds, setting fractures, and replacing dislocations.
The Iroquoian-speaking Wenro tribe were reported in the year 1639
when they migrated from western New York to Huronia on Georgian
Bay “* * * to excel in drawing an arrow from the body and
curing the wound; but the prescription * * *” was thought to
have no efficacy unless a pregnant woman were present, whose condi-
tion in later times was generally considered bad luck in medicine.”
Incidents from Indian wars furnish abundant evidence of this skill.
An Iroquois prisoner among Hurons has his thumb and forefinger
done up in “some leaves bound with bark;’*2, Father Poncet, cap-
tured, tortured, and finally delivered as a relative into an adopting
Mohawk family, had an amputated finger cauterized with an ember
and wrapped in a leaf of Indian corn. Subsequently it was poulticed

1 Zeisberger, David, A history of the Indians. Ohio Arch. and Hist. Soc. Publ., vol. 19,
pp. 23-24, 1910.

18 Heagerty, J. J., Four centuries of medical history in Canada, 2 vols., vol. 1, p. 270,
Toronto, 1928.

19 Lafitau, J. F., Moeurs des sauvages Amériquains, 2 vols., vol. 2, pp. 359-361, Paris,
1724,

20 Lalement in Le Jeune’s Relation, 1639, Jesuit Relations, vol. 17, p. 213.

1 LeMercier (1636), Relation of 1637, Jesuit Relations, vol. 13, p. 41.
IROQUOIS HERBALISM—FENTON Hilt

for a fortnight with a decoction of some unknown roots or barks,
“which they wrapped in a linen rag that was greasier than a kitchen-
cloth.” 22, Dutch writers of the period also attest that there must be
valuable simples in the colony of New Netherlands because the Indians
know how to cure very dangerous wounds, sores, and bruises in a
most wonderful manner with herbs and roots and leaves which grow
in their country and are known to them.” The Relation of 1663-64
conveys some notion of the skill of Mohawk surgeons in the adventure
of three soldiers of the garrison of Three Rivers, Quebec, who were
ambushed by Mohawk warriors on the Richelieu Islands. In the
attack a ball passed through the body of one and lodged at the side
opposite its entry. We read:

The Iroquois—who take pride in leading home prisoners alive and full of
strength, to endure the strain of torture * * *—turned Physicians * * *
and, with cruel compassion, dressed his wound and bled him * * *, They
probed the wound full through his body, and finding the place where the ball
had stopped, made an incision there and removed it, with admirable skill. After
this successful operation, it is incredible what pains and care they took of this
poor patient. Some would cleanse the wound and infuse into it the juice of
roots, either boiled or chewed, which is a sovereign remedy with them; others
would bandage it * * *,

That he survived to run the gauntlet before a Mohawk town and sub-
sequently escape near Oneida is almost as remarkable as his blunder-
ing into the cabin of a captive woman who had been reared by the
Ursulines of Quebec.

For she set about * * * preparing a fire for them, giving them something
to eat, and wiping the matter from their sores, without showing any disgust
at the stench which arose from those ill-dressed ulcers. She even went to fetch
some medicinal roots, and made of them a dressing, which she applied to all
the places * * * where the gangrene seemed most dangerous, and cleansed
the others— * * * omitting nothing * * * that a wise and kind sur-
geon could do.”

Indians apparently were not as subject to gangrenous infections as
the French. Lahontan (vol. 2, p. 50) attributed this to the Indians’
hail constitutions, not to the quality of the herbs employed, because
notwithstanding the use of the same remedies gangrene invaded the
wounds of the French. Indians attributed this to eating salt. The
present-day Iroquois abstain from eating salted foods while under
treatment of the sacred Little Water Medicine, a mixture of powdered
vulnerary herbs and animal hearts composing their sacred war
bundles. That the Mohawk of Caughnawaga knew this formula at

22 Relation of 1652-53, Jesuit Relations, vol. 40, pp. 139, 143.

22 Van der Donck, Adriaen, Description of the New Netherlands. Coll. New York Hist.
Soc., 2d ser., vol. 1, p. 207, New York, 1841; The representation of New Netherland,
1650, in Narratives of New Netherland, J. F. Jameson, ed., pp. 299, 301, New York, 1909.

*% Jesuit Relations, vol. 49, pp. 121, 129.
512 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

the beginning of the eighteenth century seems probable from Lafi-
tau’s essay on medical practices. He says that the healing of
wounds was the masterpiece of their operations, that they were on
the verge of something so remarkable as to be almost unbelievable.
One Mohawk warrior who went against the Fox Nation had his
shoulder fractured by a gunshot during the attack on a Kickapoo
village; yet he survived hunger and the discomforts of a journey of
700 leagues (2,100 miles) to be treated by a tribal surgeon. To effect
these marvelous cures, he says,?> they concocted a treacle water **
composed of several classes of ingredients. The first group included
vulnerary herbs, graduated according to their properties. Next were
vulnerary trees from the trunk or root of which splinters were taken.
The third was derived from the bodies of divers animals, especially
the heart, which, dried and powdered, was made into a mastic. His
description of the solution of the first of these sounds very much like
the modern “Small dose,” or Little Water Medicine, of which very
little is used and the fluid appears almost colorless. He says its effect
is to push out not only vicious humors that have the habit of forming
in the wound, but also the splinters of broken bones and arrowheads.
The patient is given some to drink and is kept away from all nour-
ishment while in danger, although in modern cases light unsalted
breads and white meats are given. Meanwhile the doctor drinks
some of the solution himself to the end that his saliva is saturated
with it, before sucking the injury or spraying it with his mouth, the
latter being the modern practice. Lafitau attaches great importance
to the practice of covering the wound so as to exclude contact with
everything save a possible binding of boiled herbs, which they think
prevents infection. He continues that when the wounds are dressed
and the above operation repeated the wounds always appear clean
and fresh and free of clots; and provided that the sick man is careful
he is soon healed. Whereas Lahontan has argued that eating no
salt facilitated these cures, Lafitau thought that the healing followed
principally from the efficacy of their vulneraries and particularly
from the precautions taken to prevent the wound from becoming ex-
posed to the air. Whatever the validity of his arguments a chemical
analysis of samples of the modern plant and animal powders would
be interesting.

Indian surgeons were apparently as successful with fractures and
dislocations. However, Lafitau’s assertion that they did not perform
less well with ruptures and hernias and that broken bones mended in
8 days’ times is questionable. The important fact historically is that

% Lafitau, J. F., op. cit., vol. 2, pp. 365-366 ff.
2° Theriaca, Lat., was an antidote, or medicine to counteract the effects of poison, origi-

nally against the bites of wild beasts ; and such preparations were frequently carried by the
Jesuits in New France,
IROQUOIS HERBALISM—FENTON 513

these early medicine men undertook the same types of cures that
are also attributed to their descendants, the present holders of the
Little Water Medicine bundles. As specialists the latter profess
some feats that were formerly performed quite commonly by hunters,
among whom dislocations were more frequent than fractures.

If an Indian has disclocated his foot or knee, when hunting alone, he creeps
to the next tree, and tying one end of his strap to it, fastens the other to the
dislocated limb, and lying on his back, continues to pull it till it is reduced.™

Sweat lodges were formerly a common feature of Indian settle-
ments throughout the eastern woodlands. They were usually situated
on the edge of the village near a stream where they served not only
as a regular place of bathing, but provided also a retreat for the
shaman and the men of the village who gathered there for ceremonies
and recreation. The songs which the Medicine Company continues
to sing among the modern Iroquois refer to prominent features of
sweating, for example the rise and condensation of steam, juggling
with hot rocks, and tossing songs across a fire; but the sweat lodge
has not survived as a reservation institution. Nevertheless, for a
time it came into general use among the colonists of the maritime
provinces of Canada.” Lafitau’s description is probably typical of
those in use among the Iroquois:

The sweat bath is their most universal remedy, and of it they make a great
deal of use. It is equally for the sick and the healthy, who thus are purged of
abundant humors, which can have changed their health, or might in the end
have caused infirmities.

The sweat bath is a little round cabin 6 or 7 feet high with room for seven
or eight persons. This cabin is covered with mats and furs to protect it from
the outside air. In the middle of it they put, on the ground, a certain number
of cobbles, which they have left for a long time in the fire until they have
been thoroughly heated, and above these they suspend a kettle full of cool
water. Those who are to sweat themselves enter this cabin nude, * * *
and having taken their place, granted that they are not to transact secret
business, * * * they begin to stir extraordinarily, and to chant, each his
song. [Singing individual songs of power is a feature of the Medicine Society
meetings.] And as the tunes and words are often entirely different, it is the
most disagreeable and discordant music to which one could possibly listen.

From time to time, when the stones begin to lose their action, they revive
them by dousing them with a little of this cold water which is in the kettle.
This water no sooner touches the stones than a vapor arises which fills the
cabin and greatly increases the heat in it. They throw in each others’ faces
this cool water in order to prevent themselves from fainting away. In an instant
their bodies stream from all parts; and when their pores are well open and
the sweat is most plentiful, they go out all singing and run to plunge into the
river, where they swim and flounder with much vehemence. Some, the ill ones

2a Loskiel, George Henry, History of the mission of the United Brethren among the
Indians of North America, LaTrobe trans., p. 112, London, 1794.

% Bailey, Alfred Goldsworthy, The conflict of European and eastern Algonkian cultures,
1504-1700 Publ. New Brunswick Mus., Monogr. Ser. No. 2, p. 121, St. John, New Bruns-
wick, 1937.
514 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

in particular, content themselves with being sprinkled with cool water. It
seems as if the contrast of an extreme heat with the cold of the water ought
to seize them and cause their death * * *; but they have the experience that
it does them good which is worth more than all the arguments that one could
make.”

Plant remedies passed between Indians and the colonists of New
France, New England, New Netherlands, and New Sweden to an
extent that is difficult to estimate, and frequently the direction of bor-
rowing is uncertain. Seventeenth-century explorers were on the
lookout for plants which had been reported as sovereign remedies
against maladies that were current in Europe, and the rapid spread
from country to country of certain species like tobacco and sassafras,
the history of which is known, attests their wide acceptance into
European medical practice. Inadequately described at first, some
were to remain unknown botanically until the middle of the
eighteenth century, when collecting was stimulated in America to
furnish seeds for exotic gardens that were becoming fashionable in
England, and systematic botany was coming into being under Linné
in Sweden. The latter’s student, Peter Kalm, and John Bartram,
Philadelphia botanist, were often hard put to decide which plants
a century after contact were native and whether Indians or colonists
first used them medicinally.

The first plants reported by whites and adapted to their use were
those which Indians used most effectively. In New France, follow-
ing the mystery of Cartier’s Annedda, Champlain (1615) and Sagard
(1623) reported several medicinal plants which were long known
only by their Huron names that sometimes enable us to identify
them. There are two poisonous plants, for which there is a long
subsequent literature relating to their use in Huron and Iroquois
suicides: *° mayapple (Podophyllum peltatum L.), which has an ed-
ible fruit but a poisonous root, was clearly described by Champlain;
and Sagard discovered Ondachiera, the deadly waterhemlock (Cicuta
maculata L.) (pl. 3, fig. 1). When individuals accidentally ate of
these, the Indians employed powerful emetics as antidotes; but they
also understood that mayapple furnished a reasonably safe cathartic
if they first baked the poisonous podophyllin from the roots; and
of waterhemlock and its relatives their physicians used the roots in
poultices for reducing sprains and inflammations. The plant known
us Oscar, “which does wonders in healing all kinds of wounds,
ulcers, and other sores,” *° might possibly be bloodroot, basswood, or
sassafras; but phonetically, it more closely resembles onaahra’ge’ha

28 Lafitau, J. F., op. cit., vol. 2, pp. 371-372.

22 Fenton, William N., Iroquois suicide * * * Bur, Amer. Ethnol. Bull. 128, Anthrop.
Pap., No. 14, pp. 80-137, 1941.

89 Sagard, Father Gabriel, The long journey to the country of the Hurons, p. 195, George
M. Wrong, ed., Champlain Soc., Toronto, 1939.
IROQUOIS HERBALISM—FENTON 515

(M.), “stump dweller,” the common elder (Sambucus canadensis
L.) or ’oskaé’a (S.), the hellebore (Veratrum viride Ait.),* the use
of which in wounds has been attributed to the Penobscot and Micmac
of Maine and New Brunswick.

The ignorance of the French colonists provided the Indians with
some amusing incidents when they did not have tragic consequences.
A French boy in Sagard’s party set all the Hurons laughing when,
having teased some Huron children to share with him some roots
called Ooxrat which they were carrying home, he burned his mouth
badly on biting into them. The appreciative savages had long since
learned to avoid the stinging pain by first cooking the roots in hot
ashes, and they used them * * * “to purge the phlegm and
moisture in the head of old people and to clear the complexion;
* * *” Although Ooxrat has the smarting properties of hellebore
’oskai’a (S.), the dried root of which is still popular among the
Iroquois as a snuff for catarrh, the fruit and root of Indian turnip
or Jack-in-the-pulpit (Arisaema triphyllum (L.) Schott) produces
the burning sensation mentioned, and its Cayuga name, owa’huyshra’,
“cradleboard,” resembles Huron Ooxrat.

A reporter on New Netherlands, in 1650 without professed skill
in medical botany found with little effort over 30 plants which he
thought might convey a notion of the valuable plants that were
known to the Indians. Of these, we recognize the following as herbs
in use among the Indians of later times: polypody, mullein [intro-
duced from Europe], priest’s shoe, sweet flag, sassafras, crowfoot,
plantain [introduced], mallow, laurel, violet, blue flag, wild indigo,
Solomon’s seal, dragon’s blood, milfoil, fern[?], agrimony, wild leek,
snake root, and prickly pear.**

The histories of three American plants that were used medicinally
by the Iroquois—sassafras, maidenhair fern, and ginseng—are suffi-
ciently documented to serve as examples of how the Iroquois con-
tributed to the introduction of medicines into Europe. Sassafras,
known to the Seneca as “rough bark” (ono’hsta’she’), and employed
by all the Iroquois as a tonic, created at one time in Europe a stir
like that which attended the discovery of the sulfanilamide series or
vitamins in our own time. Brought to Spain after the middle of the
sixteenth century from Florida, where French Huguenot refugees

%1 Phonetic note.—The orthography employed in this paper for writing Iroquois words
has the same phonetic values as explained in “Iroquois suicide * * *’ cited above, with
a single innovation of denoting long vowels by doubling them instead of employing a
raised period after the vowel to indicate length.

Abbreviations in parentheses following Indian words refer to dialects of Iroquois as
follows: (M.), Mohawk; (Oe.), Oneida; (Oa.), Onondaga; (C.), Cayuga; (S.), Seneca;
(T.), Tuscarora; and (H.), Huron.

* Stone, Eric, op. cit., p. 80.

8° The representation of New Netherland, 1650, p. 298.

430577—42 34

516 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

had learned its use in fevers from the Indians, it was described by
Nicolaeus Monardes of Sevilla (1574) and it was soon imported into
Europe in large quantities. Spreading from Spain and France, its
use became well known in Frankfort-on-Main in 1582 and in Ham-
burg a few years later. Such was the demand for the new drug
that sailing expeditions were despatched to America to bring back
the root. An English merchant, Martin Pring, visited the American
coast in the summer of 1603, and following it to the south in search
of sassafras, returned in August, his two vessels laden. Until 1622
Virginia colonists were drawing the roots in winter and exporting
them in quantities equal with tobacco.** That so valuable a drug
was growing in the Iroquois country naturally pleased the founders
of the short-lived French colony at Onondaga Lake. Its presence
there furnished Father Dablon a pleasant topic to offset some hard-
ships in writing “Of the nature and peculiarities of the Iroquois
country.”

But the most common and most wonderful plant in those countries is that
which we call the universal plant, because its leaves, when powdered,
heal in a short time wounds of all kinds; these leaves which are as broad as
one’s hand, have the shape of a lily as depicted in heraldry; and its roots have
the smell of the laurel. The most vivid scarlet, the brightest green, the most
natural yellow and orange of Europe pale before the various colors that our
savages [the Onondaga] procure from its roots.35

Since it had been long known among them as a blood purifier, it
is not strange that the Iroquois employed it to heal venereal diseases;
Lafitau implies this use was ancient on the supposition that these
diseases were carried from America to Europe. Regardless of the
origin of these diseases, by the middle of the eighteenth century,
when the work of Kalm and others made sassafras known botanic-
ally, its use in their cure was so well known in Europe that English
gentlemen had abandoned drinking tea of sassafras flowers lest in
using it they be suspected of infection. Kalm found the Swedes of
New Jersey putting sassafras peels in beer, recommending it as an
insecticide against moths and bedbugs to the extent of turning their
bedposts out of the wood; and the women of Philadelphia had
learned, perhaps from the Delaware, to make a fast orange dye for
worsteds. Medicinally, an old Swedish woman had employed a de-
coction in cases of dropsy; and near Albany, Kalm learned that the
natives [Mohawks?] considered the sassafras valuable in treating
diseased eyes.

They take the young slips, cut them into halves, scrape out the pith or the
medulla, put it into water, and after it has been there for some time, wash the

% Tloyd, John U., Laurus Sassafras, in Pharmaceutical Rev., December 1898, pp. 450-459.
5 Relation of 1656-57, Paul Le Jeune, ed.; Jesuit Relations, vol. 43, p. 259.
8% Lafitau, J. F., op. cit., vol. 2, p. 368.
IROQUOIS HERBALISM—FENTON 517

eyes with the same water * * * natives from Canada formerly * * *
cut the stems in two, took out the pith and preserved it and took it home with
them to use as described above.%?

Living at the northern extremity of its range Iroquois uses of sassa-
fras were typical of tribes farther south. Seneca warriors carried
the powdered leaves, women employed it as a tonic after childbirth,
it was used in cases of rheumatism, and as a diuretic; and drinking
sassafras tea as a spring tonic has so long ago become a part of life
on the American frontier that the Iroquois herbalists have regularly
peddled the root bark on the doorsteps of their white neighbors. In
the modern city of Buffalo the Indians still maintain the right to sell
sassafras and wildflowers in season from certain street corners, and
choice stations are annually preempted by old Seneca families of
Tonawanda and Cattaraugus reservations. Some years ago when the
matrons of the Bear clan at Tonawanda were considering the nomina-
tion of a recently deceased Sachem, someone remarked, “All he
knows is how to sell sassafras!”

Maidenhair fern (Adiantum pedatum L.) attracted much attention

in the colonies. For its most conspicuous feature, a black stalk, it
was generally known among the Iroquois as “black shins” (deganyen-
daaji’s(S.); degodisinahumji’s(M.)). Mohawk and Seneca mid-
wives recommend it as a haemostatic in women’s disorders and for
labor pains. Its earlier uses which made it a popular export item
from New France do not appear in Waugh’s or my own notes.
Several people in Albany and Canada assured * * * [Kalm (1749)]
* * ¥* that its leaves were very much used instead of tea, in consumption,
cough, and all kinds of pectoral diseases. This they have learnt from the
Indians who have made use of the plant for these purposes since ancient times.
This American maiden hair is reckoned preferable in surgery to that which we
have in Europe and therefore they send a great quantity of it to France
every year.”
The export trade in this drug was flourishing as early as 1687 when
Lahontan observed * * * “that the Inhabitants of Quebec pre-
pare great quantities of its Syrup which they send to Paris, Nants,
Rouan, and several other Cities in France.” * In Kalm’s day the
price varied according to the grade of the plant, the care taken in
preparing it, and the quantity available at Quebec. The Indians
went into the bush about the first of August and traveled far above
Montreal in quest of it.

Of greater importance financially and more pertinent to a discus-
sion of Iroquois herbalism than either sassafras or maidenhair fern

7 Peter Kalm’s travels in North America, pp. 180, 179, 78, 606, Adolph B. Benson, ed.,
New York, 1937.

% Idem, p. 438.

®TLahontan, Baron, de, op. cit., vol. 1, p. 253.
518 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

was the discovery of an American species of ginseng in the forests
bordering the St. Lawrence near Montreal. Ginseng had long been
a common drug among Iroquois herbalists, who set no especial value
on it until an artificial demand for it created by the China trade
raised the price out of all proportion to its medicinal properties. The
burgeoning traffic in ginseng was to bring illusions of wealth to the
French colonists and stimulate a search by both white and Indian
ginseng hunters that within a century would nearly eradicate the wild
species in northeastern America. In 1709 Father Jartoux, a French
Jesuit missionary to China, had undertaken a mapping expedition
into inner Tartary for the Chinese monarch; there he met 2,000 na-
tives occupied in hunting a plant they called Gin-seng, which com-
manded a high price in oriental markets. Jartoux’s paper entitled
“A Description of a Tartarian Plant called Gin-seng,” which ap-
peared subsequently in the Philosophical Transactions of the Royal
Society of London, came to the notice of a brother Jesuit, Joseph
Francois Lafitau (1681-1746) during a visit in 1715 to Quebec on
business for his mission (pl. 1, fig. 1). Lafitau had come out to
America in 1711 to work among the Caughnawaga band of Mohawk
living at Sault St. Louis above Montreal where he remained during 6
years before returning to France. Scholar, botanist, and ethnologist,
he vainly searched the Relations for references to the plant, but he
did not abandon hope of finding it growing in Canada, the ecology
of which impressed him as being markedly similar to that of Tartary ;
and in thinking that the native Indians were related to Tartars, he
was among the earliest writers to develop the theory of an Asiatic
origin for the American Indian. He held that because the French
of Canada had an inferior regard for Indian medicine, the Jesuits
had not made such remarkable discoveries as their brothers in South
America. Sparing what time he could from missionary labors and
exercising care not to antagonize his brothers by seeming to confirm
native beliefs, or to arouse the suspicions of the Indians by mani-
festing too much interest in their culture, he made field trips and
questioned Mohawk herbalists who appeared to know many of the
excellent plants that filled America. To one who displayed such
respect for their ability, they were not opposed to divulging some
private knowledge which was hereditary in their families, and they
encouraged him to continue his search because they hoped he would
find the plant which he described to them. Although such interviews
were not advancing the ginseng quest, they provided a body of data
on native customs and beliefs and medica] information which he
hoped would increase knowledge of savages and medicine in Europe.
Retaining memory of the plant through the winter of 1715-16 and
having passed 8 futile months in the field, he unexpectedly en-
countered the mature plant growing within striking distance of a
IROQUOIS HERBALISM—FENTON 519

house. To his dismay, a Mohawk woman, whom he had been employ-
ing to search for it on her own, recognized it as one of their ordinary
remedies, but on the strength of his account of the regard the
Chinese had for it, she cured herself next day of an intermittent
fever which had been plaguing her several months. She had pre-
pared a simple infusion by soaking in water the root which she
crushed between two stones. Moreover, at the sight of Jartoux’s
plate, which was sent up from Quebec at Lafitau’s request, the
savages recognized their plant of Canada. “And as we had in hand
the different species, we had the pleasure of seeing a description so
exact and in such just proportions with the plant, that it did not
lack the least detail of which we had the proof before our eyes.”

Lafitau published 2 years later his discovery of the American gin-
seng species, Panaw quinquefolium L., in the now rare “Mémoire
* * * concernant la precieuse plante du Ginseng, découverte en
Canada,” Paris, 1718. Dwarf ginseng or groundnut, Panag tri-
folium L., which is still collected by the Seneca of western New York,
has the same Iroquois name. Both the Iroquois and the Chinese
singled out the same feature, the bifid root, for naming their respec-
tive species. Lafitau held that the Iroquois (Mohawk) word Gar-
ent-oguen, composed of orenta, hips and legs, plus -oguen, bifid, and
Ginseng derived from the Chinese, “looks like a man,” were demon-
strable parallels in evidence of the Asiatic origin of Indians, and he
attributed their similarity to diffusion. Recent recordings of various
dialects—degarado’ga (M.), degai¢’do’ge (Oa.), diaig’do’ge’ (C.).
dje’,=, or dja}’’ doge’ (S.)—also mean “crotched body,” the spindled
root resembling the hips and legs of a man.

In the same report Lafitau observed how easy it is, even for the
Mohawks who distinguish between them, to confuse ginseng with its
relatives of the Aralia family. The Mohawks of his day called wild
sarsaparilla (Aralia nudicaulis L.), Tsioterese, “long root,” and their
descendants, djohde’rise. A third member he did not name but
described ; the modern Mohawks call it djohde’risegoowa, “great long
root”; it is spikenard (Aralia nudicaulis L.) The latter two are gen-
erally used among the Iroquois in blood remedies and for colds, but
the Caughnawagas of Lafitau’s day ranked sarsaparilla among their
vulneraries. Besides, like the modern Seneca, they used ginseng to
purge babies on the cradleboard and as a stomachic; and the Huron
and Abenaki, whom he says were one culturally, employed it for
dysentary.

If the report of Lafitau’s discovery and the arrival of the botanical
specimen in Paris created a furore in the Royal Academy, at least
in Canada there was no question about the value of the plant.
520 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Throughout the summer of 1716 Indians enjoyed a lucrative business,
digging the root and marketing it in Montreal. A year later a lieu-
tenant of French infantry introduced its use among the Fox of Green
Bay, Wis. Very soon the French began collecting it, with the help
of Indian diggers, for export to China. There it was desired in such
quantities that dried ginseng presently became an important article
of commerce in Canada. At first, traders were able to buy at 2
francs per pound in Quebec and sell the root for as high as 25 francs
in China. In the early stages of the trade, the Company of the
Indies, who then controlled the trade, permitted the officers of their
vessels to carry ginseng as a private speculation. But in 1751, when
they perceived that these individuals were growing wealthy, the com-
pany reserved the trade for themselves. For a year thereafter the
price rose steadily beyond 33 francs in Canada until, to meet the -
tremendous demand of the Rochelle merchants, an immense quantity
was dug out of season, improperly cured in ovens and shipped to the
French port, amounting in value to a half million francs. When
part of this arrived in China the Canadian root acquired such a bad
reputation that soon after 1754 the China market was virtually lost.*°

Although the status of the ginseng trade when Kalm visited
America is typical of colonial commercial interests during the eight-
eenth century, fortunately the same period witnessed the rise of the
scientific spirit in Europe and America. European physicians and
botanists coming to this country were inspired to collect New World
flora and fauna for expanding the new systematic biology which was
emanating from Linné in Sweden. Moreover, in England both the
commercial and scientific interests in plants centered at the house of
Peter Collinson, London merchant, whose importations from America
enabled him to stir up enthusiasm for gardening; and Collinson’s
unflagging zeal as a letter writer made his address the international
exchange for botanical information. In America, Philadelphia was
the scientific capital of the Middle Colonies. On a neighboring farm
lived John Bartram (1699-1777), who experimented with herbs and
was influenced by Franklin to study botany seriously. He became
Collinson’s American correspondent, and in the course of their long
relations, Bartram collected and shipped nearly 200 species of Amer-
ican plants and seeds, which Collinson introduced into botanical
gardens of England. Subscription funds raised by Collinson enabled
Bartram to travel widely through the country of the Delaware and
Iroquois. Although Bartram fundamentally distrusted Indians, he
made good observations of their customs on an expedition to Onon-

“9Nash, George V., American ginseng; its commercial history, * * * etc. (revised
and extended by Maurice G. Kains), U. S. Dep. Agr., Div. Botany, Bull. No. 16, revised
ed., 1898; Kains, M.G.,Ginseng * * * New York, 1909,
IROQUOIS HERBALISM—FENTON 521

daga (1743),‘t but basically he was disinclined to publish. His
botanical garden in Philadelphia, however, is a mute monument to
his unrecorded knowledge of Indian plant uses, which were in part
set down by Peter Kalm, Linné’s student, who found Bartram charm-
ing but complained that he wrote too little. Through Collinson,
Bartram and later Kalm met Cadwallader Colden (1688-1776),
physician, surveyor, historian of the Five Nations, and politician,
who, during a busy life in America since 1710, had nevertheless found
time to employ Linné’s classification for the plants of the New York
colony. In correspondence Colden discussed the virtues of Indian
remedies with Mitchell and Collinson in England, maintaining that
common lard is a more trustworthy deterrent for rattlesnakes than
the widely touted Seneca snakeroot (Polygala Senega L.).#

From as early as 1650 various writers had reported that Indians
knew demonstrably powerful antidotes against rattlesnake bites.
When traversing snake-infested country they constantly carried dried
roots to chew and spit on their hands to repel the reptiles or to
counteract the venom. Possibly several species were employed in
different localities. The “true rattlesnake root” has been variously
identified by Loskiel and the Moravians as Polygala Senega L., or as
Virginia snakeroot (Aristolochia serpentaria L.), or as wild ginger
(Asarum canadense UL.), which the Senecas call snakeroot
(oskwai’da’) ; however, Kalm reports that Bartram learned of the use
of stoneroot or horse balm (Collinsonia canadensis L.) from Conrad
Weiser, Mohawk-speaking interpreter for the Six Nations; while
Charlevoix and that professional elk hunter of Pennsylvania, Phillip
Tome, mention a yellow-flowered member of the aster family (com-
positae), which the latter calls oxwood, and describes as having a
slender stem and limbs and yellow flower like the sunflower; but the
modern Senecas of Allegany maintain that the “rattlesnake killer”
(osfgweo’t odinyos) is either Prenanthes alba L. or P. altissima L.,
designating the latter the male and the former the female of the
species. **

Colden was not alone in questioning the value of Indian remedies
which had gained wide currency among colonists on the frontier. That
the Dutch, Swedish, English, and French settlers had borrowed many
wrinkles in herb therapy from the Indians in addition to the very rich

“Bartram, John, Observations * * * in travels * * * to Onondaga, etc.,
London, 1751.

“ PMarnest, Ernest, John and William Bartram, botanists and explorers, pp. 16, 34 ff.,
and 71, Philadelphia, 1940; Cadwallader Colden Papers, Coll. New York Hist. Soc., vols.
3, 4, 5, 7, 8, and 9.

# Van der Donck, Adriaen, op. cit., p. 178; The representation of New Netherland, 1650,
p. 298; Jesuit Relations, vol. 59, p. 101; Loskiel, George Henry, op. cit., p. 114; Kalm,
Peter, op. cit., pp. 105-106; Charlevoix, P. F. X., Journal of a voyage * * *, vol. 1, p.
244, 1761; Tome, Phillip, Pioneer life; or thirty years a hunter, 1854, Harrisburg reprint,
p. 117, 1928.
522 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

medical folklore which they had brought with them from northern
Europe is plain from the journal of Peter Kalm’s Travels (1748-1751),
already referred to, and the Materia Medica Americana (Erlangae,
1787) of Johann David Schoepf, the Anspach-Bayreuth surgeon who
came over with Hessian troops during the Revolution and traveled
westward during 1783 across Pennsylvania to Pittsburgh and the Ohio
River as far as Kentucky, returning via Annapolis and Baltimore. It
is not difficult to appreciate the belief in Indian remedies when such a
pious man as Heckewelder, missionary to the Delaware and Shawnee
in Ohio, testified that he had been cured of a stubborn rheumatism by
Indian sweating and that “The wives of Missionaries, in every instance
in which they had to apply to the female physicians, for the cure of
complaints peculiar to their sex, experienced good results from their
abilities.” ** In fact, so many Indian herbs had been reported by bot-
anists and their uses as practiced by so-called Indian herb doctors in-
cluded in herbals of the period (as witness John Bartram’s “Descrip-
tions, virtues, and uses of sundry plants of these northern parts of
America; and particularly of the newly discovered /ndian cure for
Venereal Disease (Lobelia sp. L.)” (1751), and C. S. Rafinesque’s
“Medical Flora” (2 vols., Philadelphia, 1828-30) ), that Dr. Benjamin
Rush (1745-1813), the eminent physician of Philadelphia, decided to
investigate the desirability of admitting Indian remedies to the phar-
macopoeia. Having returned to Philadelphia in 1769 fresh from med-
ical training in Edinburgh, Rush not only attracted wide attention for
advocating a new “system” of medicine, but he soon joined the Ameri-
can Philosophical Society and began delivering papers on social issues.
Among his first was an oration, delivered February 4, 1774, on the
diseases of the American Indians,** a tour de force of reasoning based
on a few facts taken from Lahontan and Charlevoix, some personal
observations of pulse rates taken on Indians visiting his city, and evi-
dence furnished by persons of experience with Indians, notably Dr.
Edward Hand, surgeon of the 18th regiment at Fort Pitt. Neverthe-
less, lacking personal observations, Rush maintained that Indian soci-
ety was adapted to a vigorous mode of life and, therefore, he discussed
the etiology of their diseases in terms of birth, diet, division of labor
by sexes, and common customs—a rather advanced viewpoint ethno-
logically. Their pediatrics—cold baths, cradleboard, and 2-year lacta-
tion—he found conducive to survival of the fittest, and their mixed
diet, periods of alternate rest and exercise, late marriage, and matura-

+ Heckewelder, Rev. John, History * * * of the Indian nations * * *%, p. 229,
Philadelphia, 1876.

# Rush, Benjamin, an inquiry into the natural history of medicine among the Indians
of North America, and a comparative view of their diseases and remedies with those of
civilized nations. Together with an Appendix, containing proofs and illustrations. 118
pp., Jos. Cruikshank, Philadelphia, 1774.
IROQUOIS HERBALISM—FENTON 523

tion of men and women, he thought productive of a hardy race whose
women suffered few miscarriages and endured childbirth unattended
in a secluded hut and whose men inured to warfare and dancing were
vigorous and seldom neurotic. Himself an advocate of the use of spe-
cial remedies for each disease, Rush questioned the value of Indian
specifics on the grounds of secrecy—such medicines cease to work cures
when the formulae are known—and the undifferentiated nature of
Indian society which did not permit a hunter-warrior to give his entire,
abstracted attention to herbalism. He insisted that Indians fail with
the wrong remedies; and he questioned the antivenereal qualities of
Lobelia sp. L., Ceanothus sp. Li. (New Jersey tea), and Ranunculus
(%) which Kalm had reported. Dr. Hand had informed him that the
Indians around Fort Pitt employed a plentiful decoction of the pine
tree, but that they sometimes died. He noted that the Indians had
acquired from the whites the art of phlebotomy, which he dogmati-
cally defended in his own practice, and in contrast he concluded, as if
to purge the materia medica of his time, “We have no discoveries in
the materia medica to hope for from the Indians of North America.”

Despite this judgment Rush was still open to conviction a number of
years afterward. On May 2, 1791, he transmitted a list of questions
concerning matters of health and medicine among the Indians through
the Secretary of War, to be asked by Colonel Pickering on his mission
to the Six Nations.*

To summarize this discussion of white borrowings from Indian
medicine, we offer a partial list of the more important medicinal
plants used among the Iroquois. Notwithstanding Rush’s prediction
to the contrary, some of these have been retained in the U. S. Dis-
pensatory: Maidenhair fern (Adiantum pedatum L.), ground pine
(Lycopodium obscurum L.), white pine (Pinus strobus L.), hemlock
(T’suga canadensis (L.) Carr.), Indian turnip (Arisaema triphyllum
(L.) Schott.) , sweet flag (Acorus calamus L.), in singing; Indian poke
(Veratrum viride Ait) for catarrh; bellwort (Uvularia perfoliata
L.), blue flag (ris versicolor L.), sweet gale fern (Myrica aspleni-
folia L.), used by Mohawks for toothache (Kalm) ; white oak bark
(Quercus alba L.), an astringent; slippery elm (Ulmus fulva Michx.)
in childbirth; wild ginger (Asarwm canadense L.) in fevers; and the
dyeplant, pokeweed (Phytolacca americana L.). Several members of
the crowfoot family were borrowed: Goldthread (Coptis trifolia (L.)
Salisb.), goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis L.), Canada anemone
(Anemone canadensis L.), and black cohosh, snakeroot (Cimicifuga
racemosa (l.) Nutt.) (pl. 4, fig.1). Mayapple (Podophyllum peltatum

46 Pickering Papers (historical index), Coll. Massachusetts Hist. Soc. Boston, ser. 6,
vol. 8, p. 233; Pickering Papers (ms.), vol. 61, folios. 183, 302 [with answers]. See also
Rush, Benjamin, in Dictionary Amer. Biogr., vol. 16, pp. 227-231.
524 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

L.), blue cohosh or papoose root (Caulophyllum thalictroides (L.)
Michx.), sassafras (S. officinale Nees & Eb.), and bloodroot (San-
guinaria canadensis L.) are well known. Indian physic or Bowman’s
root (Gillenia trifoliata (L.) Moench.) (pl. 3, fig. 2); avens (Gewm
canadense Jacq., G. rivale, and G. strictum Ait.) in fever and diarrhea ;
cherry (Prunus. serotina Ehr.) bark for coughs (pl. 4, fig. 2) ; yellow
wild indigo (Baptisia tinctoria (L.) R. Br.) and cranesbill (Geranium
maculatum L.) for summer complaint were common colonial reme-
dies. Sumac (Rhus typhina and glabra L.), New Jersey tea (Ceano-
thus americanus L.), basswood (Tilia americana L.), and leatherwood
(Dirca palustris L.) bark for wounds, and willow herb (E'plobcwm
angustifolium L.) were not so widely known.

The ginseng family—Panax quinquefolium and P. trifolium L.,
spikenard (Aralia racemosa L.), and wild sarsaparilla (A. nudicaulis
L.j—have been discussed, as well as waterhemlock (Cicuta maculata
L.). Angellica (A. villosa (Walt.) BSP. and A. atropurpurea L.)
for respiratory ailments is less known than several species of dogwood:
Cornus florida L. for arrows, spoons, and weavers’ tools (Kalm), and
red osier dogwood (C. stolonifera Michx.), “green osier” (C. alterni-
folia L. £.), and kinnikinnik (C. Amomum) as emetics; while Prince’s
pine (Chimaphila umbellata (L.) Nutt.), trailing arbutus (Z'pigaea
repens L.), and wintergreen (Gaultheria procumbens L.) for blood
and kidneys were used by Indians and settlers alike in western New
York.

Likewise, ague weed (Gentiana quinquefolia L.), two species of the
dogbane family (Apocynum androsaemifolium L. and A. cannabinum
L. [Indian hemp]) for fiber and “bloody flux” (Kalm), and stoneroot
(Collinsonia canadensis L.) were formerly much used by Indians and
are still demanded by traders. Indian tobacco (Wicotiana rustica L.)
is still grown by the Iroquois, and hare figwort (Scrophularia lanceo-
lata Push.) for blood, and Culver’s root (Veronica virginica L.), a
cathartic, are the great medicines of the Allegany Senecas. Par-
tridge berry (Mitchella repens L.) or “squaw vine,” feverwort (7Z'rio-
steum aurantiacum Bicknell), elder (Sambucus canadensis L.) , a whole
pharmacy in itself whose proper use the Iroquois understand, and sev-
eral species of Lobelia, the great “love medicine” of the Iroquois, for
which Kalm advanced antivenereal qualities, enter into many
formulae.

Of the many species of the aster family (Compositae) that the Iro-
quois employ, some were naturalized from Europe, but use of two
groups was acquired very early by the whites: Joe-Pye weed (Zupa-
torium maculatum L. and purpureum L.) for kidneys, and thorough-
wort (Z. perfoliatum L.) for colds and fever (pl. 5, fig. 1) ; and rattle-
snake root (Prenanthes alba L. and altissima L.). Life in the colonies
IROQUOIS HERBALISM—FENTON 525

demanded that the settlers rely on a greater number of native plants, or
Indian herbs, than were ever introduced into Europe to supplement
the few garden herbs which they brought with them.

Species that the colonists had introduced for their gardens and
undesirable weeds unwittingly brought here were either traded or soon
escaped to the Indian country, where new uses were devised for them.
Both Lafitau and Loskiel agree that the Indians were eager to learn
the remedies of the white physicians, and because of the lack of
botanical literature among Indians one cannot decide what uses for
native plants were acquired from Europeans. Nevertheless, we can
be certain that specifics and formulae based on species that are known
to have been naturalized from Europe were devised during the contact
period. In 1748 Kalm observed mullein (Verbascum thapsus L.),
which the Swedes called wild tobacco, growing around Philadelphia;
and a half century later it had spread in great abundance to newly
cleared fields and burnt-over areas in remote parts of the country,
where sometimes not a plant was found in 100 miles.*7 Iroquois use of
mullein leaves in poultices for swellings and sores either was acquired
from the whites or dates from the eighteenth century. In the case of
Chenopodium album L. (lambs quarters, or pigweed), which Kalm
noted growing on dunghills, streets, and grain fields around Phila-
delphia in 1748, the Mohawks have commemorated its introduction by
naming it skanadanyuym’we, “loves the village,” because it grows along
paths and roads of settlements. A similar Iroquois name, deya’oowg’
(S.), diyuhahg’wih (C.), “covers the road,” marks the naturalization
of broadleaved plantain (Plantago major L.). My Iroquois inform-
ants recommend it as a poultice for skin injuries and they would be
surprised to learn that their forebears had regarded it as an interloper.
Kalm, writing in 1748 of his visit to John Bartram, says:

Bartram had found this plant in many places on his travels, but he did not know
whether it was an original American plant or whether the Europeans had brought
it over. This doubt had its rise from the savages (who always had an extensive
knowledge of the plants of the country) pretending that this plant never grew
here before the arrival of the White Men. They therefore gave it a name which
signified the (Hnglishman’s) foot, for they say that wherever a European had
walked, this plant grew in his footsteps.”

Readiness of the Iroquois to expand their culture is moreover
apparent from the following adventive plants that were added to
their materia medica during the contact period: Yellow dock (Rwmex
crispus L.), bitter dock (2. obtusifolius L.), heartweed (P. persicaria
L.), milk purslane (Huphorbia maculata L.), mallows (Malva
rotundifolia L. and M. moschata L.), St. John’s wort (Hypericum

«7 Kalm, Peter, op. cit., p. 40; Pursh, Frederick, Flora Americae septenrionalis, 2 vols.,
p. 142, London, 1814.
“ Kalm, Peter, op. cit., p. 64.
526 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

perforatum L.), Queen Anne’s lace (Daucus carota L.), catnip (Nepeta
cataria L.), and peppermint (Mentha piperita L.). To the aster fam-
ily belong the greatest number of important introduced herbs. Of
these, elecampagne (Jnula helenitum L.), consumption medicine, is
domesticated and as an escape on abandoned settlements “grows like
sunflower” (gawe’’ gsoontha’ (S.)) (pl. 5, fig. 2), while common yarrow
(Achillea millefolium L.) along the paths “grows like hemlock”
(gane’’dgtha’), with mayweed (Anthemis cotula L.) for summer
complaint, and tansy (Zanacetum vulgare L.) with its “powerful
odor” (gahymda’gerasgoowa (M.)) for sick headache; and to com-
plete the list add burdock (Arctiwm minus (Hill) Bernh.) for body
pains, dandelion (Leontodon taraxacum L.) present since Kalm’s
day, and useless devil’s-paintbrush (Hieracitwm aurantiacum L.)
which the birds disseminated from Canada during the lifetime of the
late John Armstrong (Seneca).

In general these introduced plants bear Iroquois names betokening
their diffusion during historic times, or they are named after native
plants which they resemble. Names of new plants differ markedly
more than old plant names. Their uses, when not actually acquired
simultaneously or later from herbals, are based on analogies with
older plants. Significantly, they are not employed in ancient cere-
monies, and frequently are not used at all.
Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Fenton PLATE 1

1. MISSION OF SAINT FRANCOIS-XAVIER, AT CAUGHNAWAGA, P. Q., ON THE ST.
LAWRENCE, WHERE J. F. LAFITAU DISCOVERED GINSENG IN 1716.

a oe “yeh |

opt oe
Maer?

2. THE ALLEGHENY RIVER AND UPLAND FOREST OF THE SENECA COUNTRY IN
SOUTHWESTERN NEW YORK
Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Fenton PLATE 2

1. LCG HOUSES OF WHITE PINE SUPPLANTED ELM BARK HOUSES IN 1800.

INDIAN

HERBALIS

2. AN ONONDAGA HERBALIST OF SIX NATIONS RESERVE ON GRAND RIVER,
ONTARIO, WHO PRACTICES AN ANCIENT ART.|
Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Fenton PLATE 3

- ONDACHIERA, THE DEADLY WATERHEMLOCK (CICUTA MACULATA L.), OF
IROQUOIS SUICIDES.

2. INDIAN PHYSIC OR BOWAN’S ROOT (GILLENIA TRIFOLIATA (L.) MOENCH.)
TRANSPLANTED INTO A SENECA HERBALIST’S GARDEN.

Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Fenton PLATE 4

1. DWIGHT JIMMERSON (SENECA) COLLECTS, FOR RHEUMATISM, BLACK COHOSH
(CIMICIFUGA RACEMOSA (L.) NUTT.) WHICH HE SELLS TO WHITE PEOPLE.

fae.

a ick an if

2. CHAUNCEY J. JOHN, SENECA HERBALIST, DRIES BARK OF WILD CHERRY
(PRUNUS SEROTINA EHR.) BEFORE TRADING IT TO DRUG MANUFACTURERS.
“YAAIMN GNVYD NO “HMYOA MIAN NI SYSATLLIAS ALIHM AHL AG
GOOM S,ASgSIHD LV AdVOSH NV SV DNIMOYD (71 WINS 14H ANYV7 GEeYINOOY SVM SQ109D GNV YSAS4 YOS CT WOLVIT
VYIANI]) SANSVdWV93719 SONIA (VONAVD) NOSEID VWIWSAL “2 -OSYSd WNIYOLVWdNA) LYYVMHONOYNOHL YO LASANOG °*1

uojue J “lrél *‘quoday ueBIuosyyiWig

THE STUDY OF INDIAN MUSIC

By FRANCES DENSMORE

Collaborator, Bureau of American Hthnology

[With 6 plates]
INTRODUCTION

The invention of the recording phonograph opened a new era in the
preservation and study of Indian music. Previous to that invention
it had been necessary for students to write down Indian songs by
hearing them, a proceeding which involved many difficulties. Dr.
Theodor Baker, of Germany, collected songs in that manner in 1880,
and Dr. Franz Boas did his remarkable work among the Central
Eskimo in 1883-84, the resulting publication (6th Ann. Rep. Bur.
Amer. Ethnol.) containing more than 20 Eskimo songs with a descrip-
tion of their melodic form. Ten Omaha songs were presented in a
paper by Miss Alice C. Fletcher entitled “The ‘Wawan’ or Pipe Dance
of the Omahas,” published in 1884 by the Peabody Museum of Amer-
ican Archaeology and Ethnology. When the phonograph became
available, Miss Fletcher used that method of collecting Indian songs,
and her name is forever linked with the study of Indian music. The
phonograph that she used among the Omaha, about 1890, was later
transferred to the Bureau of American Ethnology. This instrument,
which I saw in Miss Fletcher’s home, had a high mandrel, at least 6
inches above the plate of the machine, and she said it was a sturdy
instrument as it had “traveled across the prairie in the wagons of the
Indians and even rolled down hill without injury.” Ninety songs
recorded among the Omaha were transcribed by John Comfort Fill-
more and contained in Miss Fletcher’s book entitled “A Study of
Omaha Music with a Report on the Structural Peculiarities of the
Music by John Comfort Fillmore,”* published by the Peabody
Museum in 1893. Twelve aluminum disk records of Arapaho, Kiowa,
Caddo, and Comanche songs, collected by James and Charles Mooney
in 1894 and marked “E. Berliner’s Gramophone, pat. Nov. 8, 1887, May
15, 1888,” are in the possession of the Bureau of American Ethnology.

1 Peabody Mus. Amer. Archaeol. and Ethnol., Harvard Univ., Pap., vol. 1, No. 5, 1893.
527
528 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

It is believed that the first printed account of the use of a phono-
graph among Indians was that of Jesse Walter Fewkes, published in
1890. In April of that year Dr. Fewkes took a phonograph operated
by a treadle among the Passamaquoddy Indians in Maine and re-
corded their language and songs. Sixteen items were recorded, five
of which were songs. Later he recorded Zufii and Hopi songs, using a
phonograph with storage batteries, but he considered this less satis-
factory than the instrument with a treadle. These songs were tran-
scribed and studied by Dr. Benjamin Ives Gilman. With his keen
appreciation of advancement in science, Dr. Fewkes was also a pioneer
in the recording of Indian songs on disks, in the field. Assisted by
Dr. John P. Harrington he thus recorded 11 Hopi songs. (See 438d
Ann. Rep. Bur. Amer. Ethnol., p. 5, 1925-1926.) A complete record-
ing equipment was installed by a piano company and operated by a
professional sent for the purpose, and the disk records were released
through commercial channels.

It is impossible to mention all the ethnologists and musicians who
have included Indian music in their studies, but each has contributed,
in some way, to the development of the research.

As this paper is to trace the development of my own work on In-
dian music, let me first express my appreciation of the inspiration
and aid extended to me by these pioneers in a unique and highly
specialized field of research. Miss Alice C. Fletcher’s work was
called to my attention a year or two before the publication of her
book on Omaha music, and with the encouragement of Professor Fill-
more, whose acquaintance I had made, I wrote to Miss Fletcher, tell-
ing of my interest in the subject. If she had been less gracious in
her response it is probable that I would not have taken up the study
of Indian music. My interests were entirely musical as I was teach-
ing piano and lecturing on the Wagnerian operas. Indian music
attracted me only as a novelty, but in 1895 I added it to my lecture
subjects, presenting Miss Fletcher’s material with her permission.
I availed myself of every opportunity to hear Indians singing at
fairs and other exhibitions, and began a systematic course of reading
on the history and customs of the American Indians. About 1901 I
wrote down a Sioux song that was sung by Good Bear Woman, a
Sioux living in a small Indian village near Red Wing, Minn. Among
the attractions at the Louisiana Purchase Exposition in St. Louis,
in 1904, was the old Apache warrior Geronimo. I stood behind him
and noted down a melody that he hummed as he printed his name in
careful letters on cards to sell to passersby.

Every year, on June 14, the Chippewa at White Earth, Minn., hold
a celebration with much singing and dancing. I attended this cele-
bration in 1905 and had my first impression of Indian dancing on a
INDIAN MUSIC—DENSMORE 529

reservation. The Chippewa are excellent singers, the costumes were
picturesque, and the green of the prairie was a lovely background to
the picture. Hour after hour I sat beside the dance circle, becoming
more and more impressed with the idea that I must record Chippewa
songs as Miss Fletcher had recorded the songs of the Omaha. Two
years later I recorded Indian songs for the first time, from some of
the same singers. The June 14 celebration was attended again, in 1907,
and afterward, using a borrowed recording phonograph, I recorded
songs sung by Big Bear and other Chippewa friends. Later I
stopped at Onigum, on the Leech Lake Reservation, and the visit was
at an opportune time. Flat Mouth, the chief of that band of Chip-
pewa, lay dying, and the medicine men were treating him according
to the customs of the Grand Medicine Society (Midewiwin) of which
he was a member. This took place about a mile from the agency
and I was the only white person present. The Indians knew I was
there but made no objections, and I heard songs that were sung only
on such an occasion.

Prof. William H. Holmes, then Chief of the Bureau of American

-Ethnology, Smithsonian Institution, in 1907 allotted $150 for the
recording of Indian songs. I bought an Edison Home Phonograph,
the best recording equipment available at that time, and returned to
the Chippewa agency at Onigum to begin my work. The Indians
remembered my presence there at the time of Flat Mouth’s death, and
the medicine man who was in charge of the ceremony recorded many
of his best songs. Several others recorded songs of the Grand Medi-
cine and drew the pictures that represent the words of these songs.
I tested the accuracy of this system of mnemonics by showing the
pictures to members of the Grand Medicine Society at White Earth,
a few weeks later, and they sang the same songs.

Later in the same year, with a further allotment of funds, I went
to White Earth, Minn., and continued my work. One of the most
important informants was an aged man named Maingans (Little
Wolf), a member of the Midewiwin.

A few weeks after this work at White Earth I went to Washington
for the first time, and gave a lecture on Indian music before the
Anthropological Society of that city. Maingans and several other
old Chippewa were in Washington on tribal business and consented
to enact a portion of a Grand Medicine ceremony, singing the songs.
They did this in all sincerity and it was received with respect, but
Maingans was severely punished when he returned to the reserva-
tion. He was not allowed to enter the lodge when the Midewiwin
held its meetings the following June. His wife died, and this was
attributed to his enacting part of a native religious ceremony for
the pleasure of white men. The Indians did not blame me, and the
530 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

responsibility was placed entirely upon him and the other Chippewa
who took part, but the regret remained. For that reason I have often
refused to take material that is surrounded by superstition. I tell
the Indians that I am trying to preserve the material so their chil-
dren will understand the old customs, and that I do not want them
to worry or be unhappy after I have gone. Sometimes this allays
their fears and they are willing to talk freely, but I would rather miss
some information than cause such distress as that of my old friend,
Maingans, the Chippewa.

RECORDING EQUIPMENT

The phonograph I bought was a small machine and the Bureau
in 1908 replaced it with a Columbia graphophone. Home recording
was at the height of its popularity and this machine was made to
meet the demand. I was also supplied with several special recorders
which I tested with various types of voices and marked for the use
to which they were best adapted. The galvanized-iron recording
horn sent with this equipment was the best I have ever used. I have
since tried many others, but none has produced the same quality of
tone. This equipment is still in excellent order and I used it in re-
cording Zui songs in 1940.

During the years since this was purchased I have tried one type
of recording apparatus after another, as they have been placed on
the market. My next equipment was a 4-minute Edison phonograph,
used for the first time among the Ute in 1916. This had a metal
frame, increasing the weight. The cylinder was longer, making it pos-
sible to record more singing, but the thread was finer and the little
ridges on the cylinder sometimes broke down with repeated playing
of the record. This equipment was used only in Utah and in North
Dakota, when recording songs of the Mandan and Hidatsa in 1918.
It had several recorders but I could not distinguish between the qual-
ity of their recordings.

In 1924 I began the use of an electric dictaphone and have used
one at intervals ever since. It was used when recording the songs of
the Tule Indians in Washington, the Seminole in Florida, the
Winnebago in Wisconsin, the Omaha in Nebraska, and the songs of
Santo Domingo Pueblo, recorded in California. For recording on
the reservations I have used a dictaphone operated by a storage
battery, but for recent work among the Omaha I used a 1941 model
dictaphone, adapted to either direct current or alternating current.
The type of recording apparatus varies with the circumstances under
which the work is done. The ordinary dictaphone is not a precision
instrument and alternating current is not always the same. The |
difference in current may cause a difference of a half tone, or even
INDIAN MUSIC—DENSMORE 531

a tone, in the pitch of a song as played on different days, but the
transcription corresponds to the final checking of the record. The
dictaphone is not intended to reproduce musical sounds and the
quality of tone is less satisfactory than that of a phonograph.

An advantage of the dictaphone is that the change from recorder
to reproducer is made with a single motion, whereas in a phono-
graph it is necessary to detach the horn, loosen a screw, take out
the recorder, insert the reproducer, tighten the screw and connect
the horn. Frequently an Indian wants to hear the record he has
made, or it is desirable to hear the recording for some other reason,
and these motions take an appreciable time. A disadvantage of the
dictaphone is that the horn is small, as it is intended for a man at
an office desk. If the Indian becomes interested in his singing and
moves the horn away from his mouth the record becomes faint. It
is sometimes necessary to hold the horn in position while the Indian
sings. His position is easier to maintain when he sits in front of a
phonograph horn that is swung from a crane. Another advantage
of a phonograph horn is that it will, if desired, record the sound of
as many as four singers, carefully grouped. It will also record the
sound of a percussion instrument as accompaniment.

Songs are recorded best when the phonograph is not tightly wound.
It is customary to rewind the phonograph with a few turns of the
crank between recordings to maintain this tension of the springs.
This precaution is scarcely necessary, as a test of the Columbia
graphophone showed that the speed remained the same for about 15
minutes, after which it dropped rapidly. An uneven action of the
motor distorts the speed and pitch of the record. Thus Dr. Fewkes
described in conversation some of the difficulties he encountered
with his first phonograph, which was operated by a foot treadle.
If he became interested in the singing he moved the treadle faster,
increasing the speed and raising the pitch. Sometimes he moved the
treadle slower, with the opposite effect.

The records on the phonograph and dictaphone are made by the
“vertical path,” often called the “hill and dale” method, in which
the depth of the groove varies with the loudness of the tone. The
late Emile Berliner expressed the opinion that this method of re-
cording was best adapted to my work. He became interested in my
work in 1913 and a pleasant acquaintance continued almost to the
time of his death. The process of recording on disks was advanced
by Mr. Berliner in 1887. Records on disks are made by the “horizontal
path,” the groove made by the recording needle being of uniform
depth throughout its length and varying from side to side. This is
the only method used commercially on disks at the present time, but
recording on disks by the vertical path has been developed in the

430577 —42-———35
532 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

laboratories of the Bell Telephone Co. Concerning this recording on
disks, Dr. Leopold Stokowski stated in 1935 in correspondence, “The
quality of the recording was extremely high.”

During the World’s Fair in Chicago in 1933 I recorded Indian
songs on disks, using a Fairchild apparatus courteously placed at
my disposal by Mrs. Laura G. Boulton and Dr. George Herzog. The
records were made on aluminum disks. This apparatus uses a micro-
phone and makes possible the recording of groups of singers. It
was desired to obtain records of typical group singing by Sioux,
and five singers—three men and two women—were selected from
those taking part in exhibitions at the fair. I also obtained ex-
amples of typical singing by women, with their peculiar tone pro-
duction. Navaho songs were recorded by two members of that tribe,
singing in unison while beating a small drum.

Many of my cylinder recordings were transferred to aluminum
disks in the laboratory of Dr. C. E. Seashore at the University of
Iowa. This work was done in 1934 and the original tone was ad-
mirably preserved. Dr. Seashore’s courteous interest has extended
cver a period of many years and is acknowledged with deep apprecia-
tion. A considerable number of my cylinder recordings have also been
transferred to composition disks.

Mention may here be made of the interest shown by the Indians
when they first hear recordings of their voices. One woman said,
“How did the phonograph learn that song so quickly? That is a
hard song.” Another woman said, “The phonograph seems to be
blowing feathers,” referring to the shavings of the recording. Such
primitive Indians are not met so frequently now as in the earlier
years of the work.

WORK IN THE FIELD

Before describing the recording of Indian music in the field, let
me acknowledge with appreciation the courtesy that has been extended
to my work by the Commissioners of Indian Affairs, the representa-
tives of the Indian Office in the field, and the missionaries of Protes-
tant and Roman Catholic churches on the reservations.

The first endeavor, after presenting my credentials to the super-
intendent (formerly called the agent) and arranging for a place
to stay, is to find a competent interpreter. It is not advisable to
employ the agency interpreter nor one connected with a mission,
as they use the current vocabulary of those institutions. Their pur-
pose is to convey an idea and, beyond the simplest transactions, my
work requires a different type of man or woman. I must have an
interpreter who can think in Indian and translate the native idioms
into pure, grammatical English. My best interpreters have been
INDIAN MUSIC—-DENSMORE 533

graduates or former students of Hampton Normal and Industrial
Institute and the Carlisle School. These men had a literary use of
English because they were away from its vernacular use for so
many years. Valuable aid was also given by the Rev. Clement H.
Beaulieu, a Chippewa clergyman of the Episcopal church who studied
the subtle meanings of the Chippewa language as he studied Greek.
Much time is required in working out the understanding of a word
in the Indian mind, and the interpreter must be patient as well
as painstaking when translating the words of songs or any informa-
tion that lies close to the finer phases of Indian thought. An exact
translation of the Indian idiom reveals the native poetry in the words
of the songs.

It was particularly hard to find a competent interpreter among
the Seminole in Florida, as shown by the following incident: A cer-
tain dance was designated as the Two-headed Dance. On being
questioned further the interpreter said he meant that the dancers
“headed two ways,” and described the motion of the dancers around
the man who is shaking the coconut-shell rattle. They move in a
circle until they reach their starting point, then stand still a minute
before reversing the motion, moving in the opposite direction and
singing another song. The name of the dance was recorded as the
Two-direction Dance. Another dance was called the Screech Owl
Dance and many songs were recorded with that title. Panther said
it was also called the Prairie Dance, saying this was an “off-hand
name” given it by the white people. He said the Seminole were to
dance at a certain exhibition and the manager gave it that name.
“There was no reason for the change but white people understood
that word ‘Prairie.’ ”

Robert Higheagle, my interpreter on the Standing Rock Reserva-
tion in North Dakota, was a graduate of Hampton Institute as well as
of the business department of Carnegie College. I could send him
away for a day, on horseback, and he would “bring back his man”—
not literally, but the man would come in his wagon the next day.
After such a quest, Brave Buffalo, a distinguished medicine man,
came to the agency and recorded his best songs. Attached to the
band of his hat was a whistle which showed that he was on his way
to attend a patient. He excused himself to go and see the sick person
but returned later, as he promised. It was my custom to type my
material and ask Higheagle to look it over. Thus I wrote a brief
account of the life of Sitting Bull, in connection with his personal
songs, and asked Higheagle to read it. He studied the material and
then said “You have written that Sitting Bull returned from Canada.
I think we had better say that he was returned, for the soldiers
brought him back.” When an interpreter uses the pronoun “we” I
534 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

know that the work is his as well as mine, and that he is giving the
best that is in him.

The ideal place for recording Indian songs is a detached building
which is not so isolated as to give an impression of secrecy nor so
conveniently located that Indians will linger around the door. The
building should be near the agency and trading post, so the Indians
can attend to business if they wish to do so. This was important in
the old days when they often came 25 miles or more on horseback.
Such an ideal “office” is rare, but the superintendents of the reserva-
tions have always given me the best facilities at their disposal. I have
recorded in an agent’s parlor and in his office on a Saturday afternoon,
and also at a Protestant mission. I have even recorded in a school
laundry, with the tubs pushed back against the wall, and in an
agency jail that was not in use at the time. A tar-paper shack was
my office for more than a month on the Dakota prairie when the
temperature in similar shacks was 116—there was no shade for miles
around.

I remember with queer affection an office at Fort Yates, N. Dak., that
had been part of the kitchen of the old fort. Subsequently it had
been used as a coal shed, and it had neither door nor windows when I
took over. The agent let a prisoner from the guardhouse help me fix
it up and he suggested boring holes in the floor to let the water run
through, when the floor was cleaned. He made steps, rehung the
door, and nailed window sash over the openings, and I pasted paper
over the broken plaster and used packing boxes as tables. For many
weeks I used that office, and the Indians felt at home there, which is
important. I stayed until the weather was bitter cold and the snow
was piled high around the door. A little stove kept the place warm
and I nailed a blanket over the door after entering, in order to keep
cut the bitter wind that blew down the Missouri River. One trial
was that the mice did not move with the soldiers and their descendants
had populated the building. They frisked around the floor and hid
behind the paper on the wall. Once I found one under my typewriter
when I came back at noon.

Among the Sioux who recorded songs in this office was Siya’ ka
(pl. 1), a particularly fine man, who recorded 29 songs, including
songs of the Sun Dance, the warpath, and the buffalo hunt.

Many hundreds of songs have been recorded in schoolrooms during
the summer vacation and in the homes of Indians. Henry Thunder,
a Winnebago, refused to sing unless he could record in a grove, where
he could see in all directions and be sure that no one would overhear
him (pl. 2). I have recorded in a hospital, when a singer was able
to sit up long enough to sing, and in the issue room of an agency, with
its meat block and boxes, in the warehouse of a bridge company, and
INDIAN MUSIC—DENSMORE 535

in the little store of a Northwest Coast Indian, with whaling equip-
ment of various sorts on the walls. There was a fine pair of floaters
that I wanted to buy, but one morning when I asked for them the
Indian said that someone came for them the night before, saying that
a whale had been sighted. He said the floaters belonged to the whole
village and anyone might call for them.

It is a rare combination of circumstances if I have a comfortable
place to stay, an interpreter, singers, and a place to record all at the
same time. Let us suppose that such ideal conditions exist, that the
equipment has arrived in perfect order and been set up in an “office,”
that the singer is willing to sing, and the interpreter is seated beside
him. Perhaps the man wants to smoke before he sings, which causes
a slight delay. I usually ask the brand of tobacco that is popular in
the tribe and provide a package which is duly presented at this time.
I pay the singers in cash at the end of each day, and sometimes at the
close of each song. An argument always arises as to the price, and
I explain that I have the same price in each tribe for general songs,
paying a higher price for certain classes of personal songs. It is hard
for an Indian to understand why a song that was worth a horse in the
old days should be recorded for the small price that I pay. A Sioux
once offered to record a song that would break the drought. He said
the dry summers would not have occurred if the Government had let
the Indians sing their rain songs. He said the song would “work”
for me as well as for an Indian, and he wanted $50 for it. According
to him, the song was cheap at that price. Needless to say, I did not
record the song and the drought continued.

If the Indian singer does not understand or speak English, the nego-
tiations must be entrusted to the interpreter. He must explain that
the history and origin of the song and the meaning of the words is
included in the price of recording, unless there is a long legend or
extended information, for which he will be paid by the hour. The
interpreter explains that different verses of a song do not count as
separate songs, neither are recordings of the same tune with different
words paid for as separate songs. The Indian is told that he must
not record songs that differ in only a few tones and expect pay for
each recording. Ifa long series or a cycle of songs is under considera-
tion, he is told to select the songs with the most interesting words or
melody. This understanding is necessary, as a series may comprise
a very large number of songs, and it is easier for the Indian to sing
them all in sequence. There is little variety in such series, and it would
be impossible, as well as unnecessary, to transcribe them all. The
Indian is also instructed to sing the song through a certain number of
times and then pause. Without this precaution the recordings would
be almost impossible to separate.
536 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

When all these matters have been settled, the singer is shown how
to sit in front of the horn, and to sing into it from the proper distance.
If a dictaphone is used he must be shown how to hold the horn, press-
ing the upper edge against his upper lip. He is also told that he must
sing in a steady tone and not introduce the yells and other sounds
that are customary to Indian singers. The recording is not intended
to be realistic, but to preserve the actual melody.

Indians rarely sing alone and generally have a percussion accom-
paniment. A medicine man may sing alone when treating a sick
person, and under certain circumstances a man may sing his personal
song at a gathering, but as a rule Indian singing may be called en-
semble music. For this reason it is hard for one man to sing alone
and to record his song without the support of a drum or rattle. The
sound of an Indian drum does not record well, and I substitute a
pasteboard box, struck with a small stick, which gives percussion with-
out resonance. ‘The singer soon learns to use it, holding it near the
horn if the sound is to be recorded and farther away if it is only for
his own assistance in singing. I may record two or more renditions
with the percussion audible in order to preserve the relative rhythms,
and then have one or two renditions with the accompaniment in-
audible so the melody can be transcribed more easily. In some songs
the meter of the drum is different from that of the voice, or the rhythm
of the drum may be peculiar, and in such instances I am careful to
obtain recordings in which the drumbeat is clear throughout the
song. When the record is transcribed, the sound of the voice is ex-
cluded when determining the beat of the drum, and the sound of the
drum is excluded when recording the voice; then I listen to the two
together and check the result. In ordinary songs, such as the songs
of games and social dances, the drum is continuous and steady and I
may not make any record of it. Instead a notation is made in my
notebook such as “drum in quarters exactly with the voice.”

The sound of an Indian rattle can sometimes be recorded in order
to obtain a record of the rhythm, but pounding on the pasteboard box
is generally substituted for a rattle when songs are recorded. The
Indian usually wants to try making a record with the accompaniment
of the rattle but is soon satisfied that it is not practical with my equip-
ment. Occasionally, he wishes to shake the rattle at his side, with-
out trying to record it. Circumstances vary and there is no inflexible
rule of procedure.

When a song is recorded, the cylinder box is marked with the
singer’s name and the number in his sequence, such as Red Weasel
10 or Brave Buffalo 20. At the beginning of my work I assigned a
catalog number to each song when it was recorded and sent all the
records to the Bureau of American Ethnology, but this was changed
INDIAN MUSIC—-DENSMORE 537

after about 200 songs were recorded and I assigned catalog numbers
only to the records that had been transcribed in notation. The others
are studied but not sent to the Bureau. They may be almost like the
songs that are transcribed, or they may be “seconds” that, in my
opinion, are not worth preserving.

A singer may want to hear songs of other tribes, and I always carry
a few discarded cylinders for that purpose. The type of melody
differs in various tribes, and the Indian listens attentively, as one
musician to a performance by another. I never use recordings in
this manner, however, if the original singer objects to that use of
his songs. Ordinary dance songs are sufficient for the purpose.

It is unsatisfactory to ask an Indian to give an “audition” of a
song, to find out whether I want to record it. Strange as it may seem,
his first rendition is usually the best, and this should be recorded.
Instead of asking him to sing the song, I ask him to “go over it care-
fully in his mind until sure that he remembers it correctly.” The
room is quiet and he “thinks” the song, or hums it under his breath,
probably tapping the time with one finger. A blank cylinder has
been put in place and when he signals that he is ready the recorder
is dropped and he records the song. It is many years since the old
men have sung the old songs and the record must be made while the
recollection is clear. A slight disturbance or delay might mean the
loss of the song.

Psychology enters largely into the work of obtaining the old
Indian songs. The singer must always be kept at ease. This is
essential to success, and one must learn when to urge a singer and
when to let him relax. Care must be taken that the form of a ques-
tion does not suggest an answer. Through faulty questioning a per-
son could obtain astounding statements from an Indian, as he might
not understand the question or might be too polite to differ with the
questioner.

An Indian may be willing to tell what is desired and not know how
to express it. Sometimes one will question an Indian for a long
time and the Indian will leave out the things one wants most to know;
then he will suddenly give the whole information without realizing
it, or in reply to a seemingly casual question. One must be like a
lawyer examining a witness. Yet Indians become restive and irri-
tated if they feel that they are being questioned too closely. In my
own work, I try to have the Indian feel that we are friends, talking
over things in which we are mutually interested. In that way he
becomes interested in clearing up points that I do not understand,
and in the end I have the desired information.

A reservation is like any small community, and each man is known
to his neighbors. On one of my first visits to the Red Lake Reserva-
538 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

tion in Minnesota I recorded songs from a strange Chippewa who said
that he was a good singer. My interpreter was absent at the time
and the man seemed so sure of himself that I made no inquiries about
him. The records of his songs contained no sense of a keynote and
were melodies on which strange theories of primitive scales might
have been based. When my interpreter returned I told him of this
recording and he exclaimed, “You didn’t take songs from that man!
He can’t carry a tune. Let me hear the records.” He was able to
recognize the songs and offered to record them. In his rendition they
became simple little melodies with tones clearly referable to a key-
note. As I became more experienced, I would decline to take songs
from such a singer after hearing his first recording. Unlike white
musicians, Indian singers are not sensitive, and a man is not offended
if I say, “Your voice is not good enough for me to record.” He is
probably disappointed because he is not able to earn money, but he
shows no resentment.

Personal character as well as musical ability is taken into consid-
eration in the selection of singers. For this information I depend
upon the interpreter and consult the white people at the agency.
During the work among the Sioux a singer was brought by an in-
formant, and data concerning the Sun Dance was recorded. Robert
Higheagle was absent and another interpreter was obtained. When
Higheagle returned, a few days later, he said, “There is trouble
among the Indians. John Grass and other prominent men say they
will have nothing more to do with the work if So-and-so is con-
nected with it. He killed a man, and his record in other matters is
not good.” The matter was carefully considered and the responsi-
bility placed on the man who introduced him. Finally his material
was expunged and I never saw him again.

A good voice is not essential when the old songs are being recorded.
Many old men and women who know the best songs have weak voices
but it is possible, with care, to obtain a record that can be transcribed.
Such songs are usually connected with magic power or with the treat-
ment of the sick and were received in dreams by the singer or ob-
tained by him from men who received them in that manner. The
procedure is different if dance songs are desired. The dance is at-
tended and the leader at the drum is observed with special care.
Later, he or other singers are asked to record songs that were used
on that occasion and the descriptions of the songs are aided by
hearing them at the dance. My work has included many classes of
modern dance and game songs, in all tribes under observation, but
the old songs will be first to disappear. Such songs are not taught to
the younger generation, who are seldom interested in them. In some
instances the old songs are learned by young men but, in my expe-
INDIAN MUSIC—DENSMORE 539

rience, the rhythms are simplified. Thus I recorded a song from an
old man and later allowed a young man to record the same song. In
the latter rendition it had become a simple little melody, without the
native rhythmic peculiarities. On one reservation a young man from
an Indian school told me with pride that he was adapting the old
songs and playing them on the cornet. Indian music with the
present generation is in a transitional form, and my effort has been
to preserve the old songs in their original form.

Women singers are much less in number than men. Women might
treat the sick with songs or exercise other power received in dreams,
but the number of such women was comparatively small. In some
tribes a few women sang around the drum at dances, sitting behind
the circle of men and singing an octave higher. The relative number
of men and women singers is too large a subject for present considera-
tion, but mention may be made of two classes of Indian songs that are
popular. These classes are lullabies and love songs. I once asked an
Indian singer about lullabies and he replied, “The women make a
noise to put the children to sleep, but it is not singing.” Subsequently
I obtained two records of a lullaby, from two women. One was little
more than crooning and the other was a simple melody, suggesting
that the song had gradually taken form from the rather vague “noise
to put the children to sleep.” As the status of the lullaby is so low
in the minds of Indian musicians I leave its recording until near the
end of work in a tribe and then obtain one or two records from trusted
Indian women. The other subject to be handled discreetly is the
love song. ‘This is not a native custom and is usually connected with
evil magic or intoxication. Love songs, in the old days, were sung to
aid intrigue of various sorts, accompanied in some tribes by the use
of figurines or other “charms.” A Papago said, “If a man gets to
singing love songs we send for a medicine man to make him stop.”
In all tribes it is said that the love song, in our use of the term, came
with the advent of the whites. In one tribe I was warned that if I
recorded love songs, the fine old men would have nothing to do with
my work. I have, however, recorded both the old songs of love
magic and the modern love songs, as they are part of the music of the
American Indian. The words of the modern songs generally show a
lack of respect for women and boast of fascinations and conquests. I
have learned not to ask for their translation in all instances. A promi-
nent Pawnee said, “Songs arising from deep affection and respect were
occasionally sung by Indians in the old times, and might be concern-
ing persons who had been married for many years.”? The cause of
the change from these songs of respectful affection to the modern love

2 Densmore, Frances, Pawnee Music. Bur. Amer. Ethnol. Bull. 93, p. 93, 1929.
540 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

song is found in the general change from primitive customs, and began
when the young people refused to recognize parental authority in the
matter of their affections. The subject of love songs is undertaken
only with old, steady Indians.

When the old chiefs were still living, I frequently consulted them
in regard to singers. Thus Red Cap, the famous Ute chief, said
that he could not sing himself but would delegate his best singers
to record the old songs for me. Red Cap stayed in the room while
these songs were recorded, and his influence made it possible for
me to record songs that otherwise would have perished with the
singers. John Grass, the prominent Sioux chief, did not sing but
gave important information concerning the Sun Dance and his in-
fluence was of great assistance in the work.

A fact to be constantly borne in mind concerning Indian music
is that it had a purpose. Songs in the old days were believed to
come from a supernatural source and their singing was connected
with the exercise of supernatural power. The songs of social dances
are a later phase and of less importance. Health, food, and safety
were the major concerns of the old Indians, and singing was an im-
portant means of assuring these. Ceremonies or ceremonial action
was connected chiefly with the first and second of these requisites.
The general term “medicine men” is applied to those who were skilled
in these important matters, a term not unlike the title of “doctor”
in our own race which is applied to others than medical practitioners.
I have numbered many Indian medicine men and women among my
friends. They have appreciated the value of my work and given
their best songs and information, in order that the Indian might
be understood more clearly by the white men. Among these in-
teresting medicine men was Sidney Wesley (pl. 3, fig. 1), a Choctaw
living near Philadelphia, Miss. His Choctaw name was translated
“Kills it himself,” meaning that if game had been wounded, or any
difficult task was to be performed, he did it himself instead of dele-
gating it to someone else. His long, disarranged hair was said to
“show that he is a doctor.” Among his songs was one that men-
tioned hatred of the Folanche and Hispano, and it is interesting to
note that contact of the Choctaw with the French ended about 1763
and the contacts with the Spaniards were still earlier. Wesley did
not know what the words meant but sang the syllables by rote, as
he learned them. He and his friend, Mary Hickman (pl. 3, fig. 2),
aided one another in remembering old times, and said they joined
in the war dances when they were young. The wars were ended
but the dances continued, as in other tribes. The songs were re-
corded in Mary Hickman’s house. Her Choctaw name was trans-
lated “Putting it back,” and her little house indicated that she was
an orderly person.
INDIAN MUSIC—DENSMORE 541

The most familiar songs connected with the food supply are the
Pueblo songs to bring rain. The Chippewa sang to obtain an abund-
ance of maple sugar, and the Plains tribes sang for success in the
buffalo hunt. All tribes had songs for success in war, often con-
nected with the use of “charms.”

The songs collected in a tribe are a cross section of its culture.
Thus the proportion of ceremonial] songs recorded is largest in a
highly ceremonial tribe, the proportion of healing songs is largest
in tribes with rich vegetation and many medicinal herbs, and the
proportion of hunting songs is largest in regions where game is
abundant. Indian songs are of little value unless correlated with
the life of the people. Indian music should be recognized as an impor-
tant branch of ethnology.

It would be futile to stress quantity in collecting Indian songs, as
every good Indian singer knows several hundred songs. Among the
Seminole of Florida I recorded more than 200 songs from one singer,
without a duplication. This man was Billie Stewart (pl. 4, fig. 1),
leader of the Corn Dance in the Cow Creek group. His home (pl. 4,
fig. 2) was in the cabbage palm region near Brighton, and his record-
ing was done in two successive seasons—1932 and 1933. Toward the
end of the second season he hummed a song of the Quail Dance and

_said, “I sang that for you last year, so I won’t record it again.” His
wife was a medicine woman known by her maiden name of Susie
Tiger, and she recorded several songs that she sang when treating the
sick. A marvelous native poetry was contained in the words of these
songs.

Other Seminole singers were Charlie Billie (pl. 5, fig. 2), leader of
the Corn Dance in the Big Cypress group who recorded the cere-
monial songs of that dance, and Josie Billie (pl. 6, fig. 1), who
asked that his material be recorded with his Seminole name, meaning
Panther. He recorded songs of the Hunting Dance and other valu-
able old songs. An interesting informant on Seminole customs was
Mrs. John Tiger (pl. 5, fig. 1). Several villages in the Everglades
were visited and photographed, including a camp known as Old Camp
Florida.

TRANSCRIPTION OF RECORDS

The transcribing of records is seldom done in the field, as time is
so valuable and facilities are limited. The speed screw of the phono-
graph is removed when the instrument is shipped, and it is neces-
sary to adjust the speed of the instrument when the songs are tran-
scribed. Without this adjustment the pitch would not be the same
in recording and transcribing, and the two performances would not
be uniform. The desired speed is 160 revolutions per minute and
this could be attained by counting the revolutions of the mandrel,
542 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

but I devised a different method. The tone C of a pitch pipe was
recorded on a wax cylinder. This is placed on the phonograph and
the speed screw adjusted until the tone produced by this record is
the same as that of the pitch pipe. The piano used when tran-
scribing is tuned to the same pitch (A-440). Thus the pitch of the
singer’s voice and the original tempo are preserved, and the tran-
scription is made as nearly as possible from his actual performance.
The voices of some men extend down to E below the bass staff, though
a majority of the records made by men are within a compass of 10
or 12 tones above A, first space, bass staff. It is not unusual for the
voice of an Indian woman to go down to EK, third space, bass staff,
and very few women have voices that extend above C on the treble
staff. The Sioux have voices with a particularly large compass and
a Sioux woman recorded a song extending to F, fifth line, treble staff.

The outline of a melody is determined by comparing the tones of
the record with those of the piano, but the intervals are usually de-
termined by ear. The intervals with simplest vibration ratios are
sung with best intonation, many singers showing an intonation that
would be creditable to a member of our own race. Indians differ
in this respect, and the personality of the singer is taken into con-
sideration when his songs are transcribed. Thus a peculiarity in a
record made by an expert singer is given more attention than a simi-
lar peculiarity in the work of a man whose performances are known
to vary. If several renditions of a song have been recorded they are
studied and compared, the transcription being made from the best
and clearest rendition.

The presentation of anything as strange as Indian singing must be
in familiar terms if it is to be intelligible. Therefore I have used
ordinary musical notation with a few special signs and entrusted the
differences from that notation, as well as the mannerisms, to descrip-
tive analyses. In this, as in any study, a great deal depends upon the
standpoint of the investigator. What sounds strange to our ears is a
song to the Indian, and my work has been from the standpoint of
a musician who is approaching the music of an alien race. Bytones
and various modes of attacking and releasing a tone are common in
Indian singing. Early in my work I made an experiment to deter-
mine the importance of these vocal sounds. Placing two phono-
graphs with the horns together I played a typical Sioux record,
transferring it from one machine to the other until it had been
copied six times. On comparing the seventh recording with the
original rendition it was found that the seventh was much softer

3A certified test of the author’s pitch discrimination was made in 1914 by Prof. Carl E.
Seashore, dean of the Graduate College, University of Lowa, Iowa City, Iowa. (See Dens-
more, Frances, Northern Ute Music. Bur. Amer. Ethnol. Bull. 75, p. 209, 1922.)
INDIAN MUSIC—DENSMORE 543

and the bytones had been eliminated, leaving a clear, pure tone, with
intervals comparable to those of our musical system. It is not re-
quired that all the sounds produced by our own singers be shown in
the notation of a song, and it seems reasonable to make a similar
allowance when expressing the singing of Indians. The alternative
is to devise an elaborate graphic system, based upon hearing the
records or upon tone-photography. Such a system must of necessity
be mastered by those who desire information on the subject. To be
accurate with respect to Indian music as a whole, the system should
be applied to different renditions of a song by the same singer, and
to renditions of the same song by other singers. If carried to a con-
clusion, such a system would produce a vast amount of data, with
small variations which are not essential to the song itself. For these
reasons, the graphic presentations in my work are limited to “plots”
showing the principal progressions of melodies, in order to compare
the structure of various classes of songs,* and diagrams which show
the results of tabular analyses.» These were discontinued when it
was believed their purpose had been attained. Occasionally a mu-
sician or other person with a keen musical ear has been asked to com-
pare the records of the songs with their transcriptions; they have
invariably expressed the opinion that the transcriptions were
adequate.

In order to test the pitch discrimination of the Indians, a series of
tests was made among the Chippewa, Sioux, Mandan, and Hidatsa
Indians, using a set of tuning forks kindly lent for the purpose by
Dr. C. E. Seashore. The results were tabulated and submitted for
examination to Dr. Seashore who expressed the opinion that “the
abilities here shown are about as good as one would find among the
average American whites under similar circumstances.”

A graphic analysis of one of my records was made by means of
phonophotography, showing the possibilities of that method. This
analysis was made by Dr. Harold Seashore (1934) in the psycho-
logical laboratory at the University of Iowa, Iowa City.® In respect
to pitch, the graph made from the tone-photograph was substantially
the same as the transcription by hearing.

In order to test the accuracy of certain observations concerning the
relative rhythms of voice and drum, the phonograph, with a selection
of records, was taken in 1918 to the laboratory of Dr. Dayton C.
Miller, head of the department of physics, Case School of Applied
Science, Cleveland, Ohio. The sound was recorded graphically by

4Densmore, Frances, Teton Sioux Music. Bur. Amer. Ethnol. Bull. 61, 1918; Northern
Ute Music. Bull. 75, 1922; Mandan and Hidatsa Music. Bull. 80, 1923.

5 Teton Sioux Music, pp. 40-51, figs. 1-18.

® Seashore, Carl E. and Harold, The place of phonophotography in the study of primitive
music. Science, vol. 79, No. 2056, pp. 485-487, fig. 1.
544 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

the phonodeik, an instrument of Dr. Miller’s invention, and an
analytical study of the result was made by Dr. Miller, with a com-
parison of the photographs and the transcriptions of the same songs
by hearing. Dr. Miller stated “the close agreement of the two
methods hardly justifies the great amount of labor involved in the
photographic method. This study was undertaken principally to
learn what could be done if it were desirable.” *

In determining the meter of the songs I use an ordinary Maelzel
metronome which was tested at the Bureau of Standards. The metro-
nome is not a precision instrument. The marks on its scale are not
near together, and the “bob” is some distance from the scale, but this
metronome was found to be reasonably accurate with the bob set at
120, on a level with the eye. This indication is about midlength of
the scale. For very slow or rapid songs the instrument is placed in
this position and the tempo indicated by the position of the bob. The
exact tempo of Indian singing is not important, and this mode of
measurement is sufficient, the same metronome and method being used
with all the songs.

Having determined the meter of the song, it is necessary to note the
accented tones by which the transcription is divided into measures.
The use of measures does not imply that the Indian has any know!l-
edge of our musical customs, but it is a convenient form for showing
the rhythm of his musical performance. Each accented tone is tran-
scribed as the begining of a measure, regardless of the time interven-
ing between the accents. In some songs the accents are evenly spaced ;
in others they seem erratic, but on further study they often combine
to form a rhythmic pattern. Such a pattern usually comprises several
measures and is designated as a rhythmic unit. Sometimes a 5-8
measure is followed by a 3-8 measure. The note values may suggest
two measures in 2-4 time, but the accent divides the series as indicated.
A measure transcribed in 7-8 time cannot be divided, as there is no
secondary accent. Quadruple time rarely occurs, but 2-4 time is com-
mon in the songs. The accents in a song do not always correspond to
the accents in the words of the song when spoken. The rhythm of the
song is the rhythm of the melody in the mind of the singer.

The tempo sometimes changes during a song. Such a change may
be either abrupt or gradual, and in the latter instance the new time
indication is shown when the new tempo is established, preceded by
“ritard” or “accelerando.” A question to be determined is whether
the change is intentional. The several renditions are compared, and,
as a general rule, the change is found in all the renditions, showing
it to be part of the song. Old Indian singers have a remarkable sense
of both pitch and tempo. Thus, Mrs. Holding Eagle, a Mandan, re-

7 Densmore, Frances, Northern Ute Music. Bur. Amer. Ethnol. Bull. 61, Appendix, pp.
206-210, pls. 12-15, figs. 20, 21, 1918.
INDIAN MUSIC——DENSMORE 545

corded certain songs in 1912, and in 1916 recorded the same songs
again, the pitch and tempo being the same. Other instances of exact
duplication have been noted in other tribes, and series of songs recorded
by one singer are generally identical in tempo and pitch.

INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC

Instrumental music is used only as an accompaniment to singing
among the Indians, except that the young men sometimes play a flute
in the evenings and a whistle may be blown in ceremonies or in the
treatment of the sick. The musical instruments are of four classes,
consisting of drums (or similar percussion instruments), rattles, flutes,
and whistles. There are many forms within each class, and the in-
struments are generally made of materials available in the region
where the Indians live. An exception is the gourd rattle, which is
widely distributed. Specimens of the musical instruments in the
several regions have been collected and placed in the United States
National Museum.

Drums of the familiar type are made by tribes that hunt the deer
or can obtain deerhide from their neighbors. The Papago, who are
not hunters, use a bowl-shaped basket similar to the family bread
basket, inverting it on the ground and striking it with the palm of
the hand. The Makah, near Cape Flattery in Washington, formerly
used a long box for a drum, several men sitting on it and kicking it
with their heels or pounding it with their fists in time with the sing-
ing. This could be heard in the long wooden houses where their
gatherings were held in winter. The same tribe pounded on a plank,
when a gathering was held on the shore during the summer. The
Indians of British Columbia beat on a plank as an accompaniment to
the songs of the Slahal game, the plank being raised a few inches above
the ground to produce resonance. The clapping of hands or stamping
of feet sometimes accompanied Indian singing, showing the use of the
human body in place of an instrument.

Rattles are a form of percussion instrument and may consist of
receptacles containing small stones or clay pellets that make a noise
when shaken together, or they may consist of objects suspended so
that they clash against one another when the rattle is shaken by the
hand. Such rattles made of turtle shells or cocoons are sometimes
attached to the knee of a dancer and the sound is produced by the mo-
tion of his dancing. The gourd rattle is a familiar example of the
first type of rattle and an interesting example of the second is a
rattle obtained from a Makah medicine man which consists of pecten
shells suspended from a hoop of whalebone. The rattle is often con-
nected with magic, and the form of a man’s rattle may be in accord-
ance with instructions received in the dream by which he obtained
his power.
546 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Indian flutes are of the type known to musicians as the recorder, or
fliite & bec, which was the European flute of the Middle Ages. It
was held in a vertical position and blown at the end, the instrument
preceding the transverse flute of the present day. The recorder is
played by blowing into an air chamber at the upper end of a tube,
the sound being produced by a whistle opening similar to that of an
organ pipe.® The typical Indian flute is made of any soft wood witha
straight grain, and the number of finger holes varies in different
tribes. Flutes are made of cane in tribes that lack suitable wood, and
in modern times a gun barrel or piece of metal pipe is used in making
a flute. The only transverse flute that I have collected is a cane flute
obtained among the Yuma.’® The playing of many flutes has been
recorded and transcribed in notation. In some tribes it is said that
certain songs may either be sung or played on the flute, and the
Menominee said that love songs were imitations of flute melodies.
Several legends of the origin of the flute have been obtained, one of
the most interesting being that of the Papago.”

The whistle is a simple form of the fifite a bec. Among the Indians
it is generally made of the wing bone of a bird and connected with a
ceremony or with the exercise of magic power. Such whistles and
the wooden whistles are usually short. Certain Plains tribes, how-
ever, used a “grass dance whistle” made of wood and about 25 inches
in length. This was described by the Sioux and a specimen obtained
from an Hidatsa named Pan on the Fort Berthold Reservation. He
recorded a performance on the instrument, part of which was
transcribed. A portion of the long harmonic series was produced on
this whistle, and it is possible that Indians using such a whistle may
have obtained a perception of overtones from the instrument.

Robert Henry (pl. 6, fig. 2) is one of the Choctaw medicine men who
blow whistles the night before and during a ball game. Each group
of players is assisted by the blowing of such whistles. Henry had
three whistles, differently marked. The illustration shows a whistle
with a crude face, said to be his personal mark.

SCOPE OF THE WORK

The scope of the work has been broad. It was my plan to select
representative tribes in each of the large areas, and songs have been
recorded from the following:

® Handbook of the Collection of Musical Instruments in the United States National
Museum, U. S. Nat. Mus. Bull. 186, pp. 25-27, 1927.

® Densmore, Frances, Chippewa Customs. Bur. Amer. Ethnol. Bull. 86, pp. 167, 168, 1929.

10 Densmore, Frances, Yuman and Yaqui Music. Bur. Amer. Ethnol. Bull. 110, pp. 25, 26,
1932.

4 Densmore, Frances, Menominee Music. Bur. Amer. Ethnol. Bull. 102, p. 208, 1982.

“Densmore, Frances, Papago Music. Bur. Amer. Ethnol. Bull. 90, pp. 54-77, 1929.
INDIAN MUSIC—-DENSMORE 547

Northeastern Woodlands_____--__ Chippewa, Menominee, Iroquois.

Southeast (Gulf of Mexico) --___ Alabama (Texas), Choctaw (Mississippi),
Seminole (Florida).

iNorunern. “Plains=-202.2 32-22 Sioux, Winnebago, Mandan, Hidatsa.”

ight Platenns sos = Ss= See eee. Northern Ute.

Ben bernie e fink = oS Pawnee, Omaha, Cheyenne, Arapaho.“

Senthwest: Pueblos. 2 == Acoma, Isleta, Cochiti, Zui, Hopi, Santo,

Domingo.*
Southwest: Rancheria and Nomad_ Papago, Yuma, Cocopa, Yaqui, Navaho.”

British Columbia Plateau____-~---- Salish, including Nitinat, and Thompson
River.

iNorthwest; Coast 222.24 -ss50402) Makah, Clayoquot, Quileute, Tsimshian.

Northern California____..._.__-_-_ Valley Maidu.

DTI ee eee Tule Indians of San Blas.”

The Chitimacha Indians in Louisiana were visited but the only
surviving members of the tribe did not know any songs. Interesting
information concerning the music was obtained, also legends in which
songs were formerly introduced.

The Iroquois records comprise a series of ceremonial songs of the
Condoling and Installation Council of the League of the Iroquois,
recorded by the late J. N. B. Hewitt. These include the Farewell
Chant of the Dead Chief, sung by the people as representing the dead
chief, the Eulogy of the Founders of the League, and an interesting
song entitled “Over the Great Forest.”

The songs of Indians in Alaska comprise eight songs obtained at
Anvik, Alaska, by the late Rev. John Chapman. They were recorded
by dictaphone and the cylinder was obtained by Dr. Ale’ Hrdlitka,
who presented it to the Bureau of American Ethnology. Information
concerning the songs was obtained by correspondence with Mr. Chap-
man, and the record was transcribed in its entirety.

In the collection of records transferred to the Bureau of American
Ethnology 27 tribes or large tribal groups are represented by 11 to 356
songs, and 12 small groups are represented by less than 11 songs.
Many of the latter songs were recorded by Indians who are not
members of those groups. Indians often learn songs from other
tribes and sing them in dances and games. No attempt has been made
to obtain any considerable number of such borrowed songs.

18 The first field trip to the Mandan and Hidatsa was under the auspices of the North
Dakota Historical Society. A subsequent trip and publication of results was under the
Bureau of American Ethnology.

4 Field trips to the Cheyenne, Arapaho, and Valley Maidu, and the recording of songs
of Santo Domingo Pueblo by a member of the tribe temporarily in Los Angeles, were under
the auspices of the Southwest Museum, Los Angeles, Calif. With the exception of the
music of the Maidu the results of these trips have been published by the Southwest
Museum. A manuscript on the musie of the Maidu awaits publication by that museum.

1% Songs of Acoma, Isleta, Cochiti, Zufii, Hopi, and Santo Domingo Pueblos have been
recorded by singers from those pueblos temporarily in a low altitude.

16 Obtained from Navaho temporarily in a low altitude.

17 Songs of the Tule Indians were recorded by Indians from that locality, temporarily
in Washington, D. C.

4305774236
548 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

The following list shows only a portion of the work, as many
hundreds of songs have been recorded and not transcribed. The
summary comprises work from September 1907 to November 80, 1941.

1. Transcribed records submitted to the Bureau of American Ethnology
and transferred in 1940 to the National Archives for permanent

preservation’ 2a 22 66s Joos a ase a a ae 2, 237

2. Transcribed records submitted to the Bureau after the collection was
transferred to the Archives==)~ 222 2ase + ee peep cee 150

8. Transcribed records in possession of Southwest Museum, Los Angeles
(copiesof 33of these included intemal) 22222 eee ee 205
4. Transcribed records in possession of North Dakota Historical Society___ 40
PO tal Se AS ae el 2, 632

CONCLUSION

The two principal observations made by those who have listened to
the singing of Indians are that it is chiefly rhythmic and that it is
minor in character. The rhythm of Indian singing appears first
because of its prominence and insistence. The songs heard by a
casual observer are generally the songs of dances, but a study of the
recorded melodies shows that the rhythm of important Indian songs is
more elaborate than the rhythm of corresponding songs in our own race.
A desire to check these and other impressions prompted my analysis
of recorded Indian songs. It was not difficult to assign a keynote to
most of the melodies by the test of the ear, and the songs were divided
into two groups, major and minor, according to the interval of the
third and sixth tones above this apparent keynote. The term “key”
was avoided and the term “tonality” decided upon, partly at the
suggestion of Charles K. Wead, examiner, United States Patent Office,
about 1909. It was found that more than three-fifths of 180 Chippewa
songs under analysis were major in tonality. In subsequent analyses
of larger groups of songs it was found that the minor third was the
most frequent interval except the whole tone, which is generally a
passing tone. The prominence of this interval had given the impres-
sion that the songs were minor in tonality, according to our musical
system. Continuing this investigation, all the intervals in large groups
of songs were expressed in terms of a semitone, and the average progres-
sion was found to contain approximately a tone and a half which is a
minor third. This table of analysis was last used in my “Yuman and
Yaqui Music” (Bur. Amer. Ethnol. Bull. 110, table 13, p. 34, 1932)
which shows that the average interval in a cumulative analysis of 1,348
songs contains 3.03 semitones.

The first tabulated analyses used in my work were nine in number,
contained in my first book, “Chippewa Music” (Bur. Amer. Ethnol.
INDIAN MUSIC—DENSMORE 549

Bull. 45,1910). The melodic analyses comprised such bases as tonality,
first progression (upward and downward), and tone material, while
the rhythmic analyses noted the beginning on the accented or unac-
cented portion of the measure and a comparison of the metric unit
of voice and drum. The familiar major and minor pentatonic scales
were designated as the fourth and second five-toned scales according
to the classification by Helmholtz. The various classes of songs were
grouped together, making it possible to compare the structure of war,
game, and other songs. To Dr. AleS Hrdlitka, curator of physical
anthropology, United States National Museum, I owe the suggestion
that the results be expressed in percentages, a custom begun in 1913
and followed in subsequent work.

The number of tables of analysis was increased to 22 in my second
book, “Chippewa Music II” (Bur. Amer. Ethnol. Bull. 53, 1913), and
this number was gradually reduced until only 14 were used in “Nootka
and Quileute Music” (Bur. Amer. Ethnol. Bull. 124, 1939). When
the results of an analysis were practically uniform in the tribes under
consideration the basis was discontinued, and certain other tables did
not seem of sufficient importance to be continued. Among those used
for only a few hundred songs were tables showing the metronome time
of the voice and drum, and the keynote of the song. These analyses
were regarded as tests, and no claim was made that they were scien-
tific; neither was any claim made that the results would apply to all
songs of all Indian tribes. They were concrete observations on the
material under consideration, which represented as nearly as possible
the music of certain tribes of Indians.

As a preliminary to the tabular analyses, each song was analyzed,
using forms devised and printed for that purpose. In recent years
I have continued the individual analyses and combined the results
in descriptive groups or tribal analyses. A comparison of the songs
under consideration with songs previously analyzed was used for the
last time in “Nootka and Quileute Music,” in which 210 songs of that
group were compared with 1,343 songs of other tribes. The dis-
crepancy between the tribal group and the total number of songs had
become so great that a comparison was scarcely justified.

Mention may here be made of a group of songs designated in the
analyses as irregular in tonality and comprising songs without an
apparent keynote. This designation was adopted at the suggestion
of Charles K. Wead, who suggested that the material could thus be
reserved for future consideration. The designation was used first in
“Teton Sioux Music” (Bur. Amer. Ethnol. Bull. 61, 1918) and has been
continued in later work. The table concerning the tone material of
the songs contains a group designated as “other combinations of tones.”
550 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Some of these songs contain only three or four tones, and others are
wandering melodies, according to the present basis of classification.

Throughout this study the objective has been to record the structure
of the Indian songs under observation, with my interpretation. Other
students, scanning the material, may reach other conclusions. My
work has been to preserve the past, record observations in the present,
and open the way for the work of others in the future.
Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Densmore PLATE 1

SIYA’ KA, SIOUX SINGER.
¢@ aALV 1d

ees

ie ee

“AAOYD V NI SONOS ONIGHOOSY ‘OSOVESNNIM ‘YSONNHL AYNSH

*
, ee :
a
a ts.

Pe»
i. : . gals ees

i, Aaa <¢“ ‘ x eae ne ne os | . = —

ial ee Bi, We eS a ; . “te Pe sil | il Nc tt adh al

a10WIsUsq—" | p6| “J4oday URTUOsYzIUIG
INVWYOAN!] MVLOOHD ‘NVYVWMHOIH AYVW °Z "NVW ANIDIGAW MV LOOHD ‘AS 1SSM AANOIS “1

\F

€ 31V1d a10WISUIC]-—"| p6| ‘i4Oday ueruosy jit
“NOIS3SY W1Vd “dNOYD HMAAYD MOD NI AONVG
S39veEsvd NI ‘dWVD S,LYVMSLS JING “Ch NYOD AHL AO YSAQVAT AIONIWAS ‘LYVMALS FINE “1

py aALvid : a10WIsUIq]—"| p6| ‘340dayy ueIUOSYzIWIG
“dNOYD SSAYdAD JIG NI SONVG
NYOD 3SHL AO YR0VEaT AIONINAS ‘AITMNG AIMYVHD ‘2 “LNVWYOAN| ATONIWNAS ‘YS9IL NHOF SYW °L

b

C3LV1d dIOWSUdCI—’" 164) ‘JU0dax\y URTUOSUITIUIC
AWVSD T1Vq NI SSAD9NS YOs
GAaSN AILSIHM ONIMO1G “MVLOOHD ‘AYNAH LYSEON “2 “HAONIS AIONINAS LNANINOYd ‘(AITM1NIG 3ISOf) YSAHLNVd ‘|

9 31V1d a10Wsuaq]—" | $6 | ‘}1Odey UeIUOsYyIUIG
SNAKE BITES AND THE HOPI SNAKE DANCE

By M, W. STigtine

Chief, Bureau of American Ethnology
Smithsonian Institution

[With 1 plate]

The most widely known American Indian ceremonial is undoubt-
edly the so-called Snake Dance of the Hopi Indians of Arizona.
Actually the Snake Dance is only the concluding feature of the
elaborate 9-day Snake Ceremonial, which is held in alternate years
at most of the Hopi pueblos primarily as a prayer for rain. During
the preliminary days of the ceremony live snakes, including both
venomous and nonvenomous varieties, are ritualistically gathered
from the vicinity of the pueblo and brought to the kiva. Here they
are utilized in the ceremonies, preparatory to fulfilling their role
as messengers upon being released on the final day when the public
ceremony is held, during which live snakes held in the mouth are
danced with.

Because of the peculiar attitude of the typical white man toward
snakes, once the Hopi ceremony became publicized it aroused unusual
interest, with the result that an enormous literature on the subject
has been published since the first description appeared in print in
1881. Some of the early scientific investigators had unusual oppor-
tunities of observing the ceremonial in fairly complete form, so that
a number of excellent descriptions were written before the tourist
influx made the Hopi more secretive toward the whites. It is not
the purpose of this paper to discuss the ritual or its esoteric sig-
nificance. For the benefit of the interested reader a selected bibli-
ography is attached. The intent of this article is merely to put in
condensed form the answer, at least in part, to one of the most
frequent queries received by the Bureau of American Ethnology,
namely, “Are the snake dancers ever fatally bitten; and if not, why
not?” (For a detailed and excellent treatment of this matter see
Klauber, 1932.) The complete answer to this query is fairly com-
plicated and is largely bound up in the fact that the average white
man is highly superstitious regarding snakes, and the Indian is not.

551
952 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Likewise the typical white man is even more ignorant regarding the
habits and actions of snakes than he is of most other animals, since
his superstitions cause him to avoid them. The Indian, on the
other hand, is a realist regarding snakes and is as well versed in
snakelore as in any other native form of life.

The only venomous snake available to the Hopi is the prairie rattler,
Crotalus confluentus confluentus. A study of the results of 128 bites
by this species revealed 8 fatalities (Hutchison, 1930). Some of these
had the benefit of antivenin treatment, so that a true fatality per-
centage might be somewhat higher. Therefore the prairie rattler
may be considered a moderately dangerous snake. Many factors, of
course, affect the seriousness of the bite. Among these might be men-
tioned the size and health of the victim, the location of the bite, and
the amount of venom injected. Thus we might assume that an adult
dancer struck fairly by a rattler with full poison glands would suffer
painful though probably not serious aftereffects. A small boy par-
ticipant, on the other hand, struck in this manner, would probably
suffer serious results, possibly fatal. A number of instances of dancers
being bitten by rattlers, including some of small boys, have been
recorded in the literature by reputable observers. In no case, how-
ever, have uncomfortable results been reported nor have the recipients
of the bites retired from the ceremony after being bitten. In short,
it is evident that the Hopi snake dancers do occasionally get bitten by
venomous snakes. Since they are reasonably cautious and skillful in
the handling of the rattlesnakes, such bites are not very frequent.
From reports of competent observers and from the Indians themselves
it would appear that serious results never follow, even though small-
boy initiates are sometimes struck. The reason for this seeming im-
munity has been speculated upon at great length by observers of
widely varying ability. Klauber has listed some of the more common
theories which he has summarized in three groupings, as follows:

A—CONDITIONS AFFECTING THE AUDIENCE

1. The audience is suffering from some form of group hypnotism.
2. The audience is not qualified to distinguish venomous from nonvenomous
species.
B—CONDITIONS AFFECTING THE SNAKE PRIESTS

1. The priests have taken an internal protective medicine prior to the dance.

2. They possess knowledge of antidotes—internal, external, or both—which,
taken after an accident, quickly render rattlesnake bite innocuous and even
painless.

3. Sucking, cauterizing, and arresting the circulation by tourniquets are re
sorted to in case of accident.

4. The priests are so purified by the ceremonial emetic as to be immune.

5. They are smeared with a preparation so disagreeable to the snakes (as, for
instance, in odor) that the latter will not bite.
HOPI SNAKE DANCE—STIRLING Bia

6. They are covered with an invulnerable preparation, as, for instance, a thick
paint.

7. They are so healthy from outdoor life that rattlesnake bite does not affect
them.

8. They have an immunity resulting from a long fast prior to the dance.

9. They build up an immunity by increasing doses of venom, as is done with
horses in the preparation of antivenin.

10. They have a mysterious hypnotic power over the snakes, akin to that said
to be possessed by the snake charmers of India.

11. They are fearless of snakes, which, therefore, are without power to bite
them.

12. They are protected by the religious exaltation of the ritual.

18. They are actually bitten with serious results, of which outsiders are kept
in ignoranee.

C—CONDITIONS AFFECTING THE RATTLESNAKES

1. The snakes’ fangs, venom glands, or both have been removed.
2. Their mouths have been sewed closed.
3. They have expended their venom on harmless snakes or other objects in the
kiva.
They have been milked of their venom in the kiva.
. They are tame snakes used repeatedly in successive years.
. They have been lately tamed by handling.
. They are doped or hypnotized.
They are starved into submission.
9. They are blinded by the sacred meal, or paralyzed by the tobacco fumes
from the ceremonial smokes in the kiva.
10. August is the blind season for rattlers; they cannot see to strike.
11. They are invariably held in such a way that they cannot bite.
12. The eagle feather snake-wands prevent their biting.
13. They cannot strike because they are not permitted to coil.
14. Rattlers are relatively innocuous anyway.

COND

Most of these theories obviously do not hold; others, deserving of
consideration, can be proved false. That venomous snakes are actually
danced with is, of course, amply demonstrated. It is also true that a
portion of the ceremony involves the taking of an internal “medicine.”
This, however, is “magical” in nature and not concerned with the
matter of snake bites. After being bitten in the dance, the Hopi also
take an “antidote” prepared from herbs, as do almost all Indians when
bitten by snakes. This “antidote” has been subjected to careful scien-
tific tests, however, and found to be completely ineffective (Coleman,
1928). The Indians, of course, do not claim this medicine to have a
physiological effect, but regard it as a protective charm, since their
ideas of the cause of the disagreeable results of snake bite are quite dif-
ferent from ours (Mindeleff, 18862). The emetic taken by the Hopi
after the dance for purposes of purification also quite obviously could
have no effect on a poison which affects the blood stream.

The fact that the snakes have been kept captive for several days pre-
ceding the Snake Dance, during which time they are handled, un-
554 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

doubtedly takes considerable edge from their aggressiveness, as it is a
commonplace observation of zoo keepers and others that rattlesnakes
in captivity tend quickly to lose much of their fear of those handling
them.

The theory has been frequently advanced that the fangs of the
snakes have been removed when they are captured, or later in the kiva.
Curtis (1922) states that one of the priests told him that the fangs of
the snakes are pinched off with the thumbnail when caught. Other
later writers have claimed to have recaptured released snakes and
found their fangs removed. It is probable that in recent years, as a
result of acculturation, some of the Hopi villages have adopted this
precaution. However, it is quite certain that originally this practice
was never followed, as too many careful students of the Snake Dance
have specifically testified to the contrary. Klauber, an expert herpe-
tologist, saw at close range rattlers expose their fangs during the dance
at Mishongnovi. Lummis reports a rattler hanging by its fangs from
the cheek of a dancer. Scientists have occasionally recaptured rattle-
snakes immediately after the dance and found the fangs intact. In
1883, Dr. H. C. Yarrow, a competent herpetologist, was admitted to the
kiva before the dance and examined one of the rattlers, finding its
fangs intact. After the dance, two rattlesnakes were sent to Washing-
ton and found not to have been tampered with (Mindeleff, 1886b).

Since rattlesnakes are accustomed to strike from the coiled position,
they would doubtless be in a somewhat unfavorable position as carried
in the mouths of the dancers. Nevertheless there is ample evidence
that they can and do sometimes strike under these circumstances.

After carefully analyzing all the evidence, Klauber advances the

conjecture that the principal reason for the lack of serious results
from bites received in the Snake Dance is that the poison glands of
the rattlers are previously emptied, either by allowing the snakes
to strike some soft objects or by the simple process of “milking” the
glands. Klauber says:
If I were an Indian engaged in this dance I would not be satisfied to
take a chance on the admitted and known docility of the rattlers, especially
having in mind the danger to some of the boys of 8 years, or even less, who,
as novitiate priests, take part in the ceremony. Without taking any step
which would injure the snakes (even temporarily, as by the removal of the
replaceable fangs), I would use the simplest, least apparent, and safest method
of rendering the snakes almost innocuous, that is, by thoroughly emptying the
venom glands. This statement is based on a personal experience in the milking
of well over 2,500 rattlesnakes.

To summarize briefly, the popular appeal of the Snake Dance
is the result of the white man’s peculiar attitude toward snakes.
The average person has an exaggerated idea as to the potency of
rattlesnake venom. With moderate-sized rattlers, such as the species
HOPI SNAKE DANCE—STIRLING Hoe

used in the Snake Dance, a bite with full poison glands should result
fatally in less than 1 out of 10, in the case of adults.

Owing to knowledge of the habits of the rattlesnakes, previous
manipulation and confinement of the snakes, skill in handling, and
teamwork in the dance, the Hopi dancers are not frequently bitten.
However, occasional bites do occur but apparently never with
serious results. The principal reason for this is probably that dur-
ing previous handling the poison glands of the snakes have been
emptied or the venom considerably reduced in quantity.

BIBLIOGRAPHY
BourkE, JOHN G.
1884. The Snake Dance of the Moquis of Arizona, being a narrative
of a journey from Sante Fe, N. Mex., to the village of the Moqui
Indians of Arizona, with a description of the manners and customs
of this peculiar people and especially of the revolting religious
rite, the Snake Dance, to which is added a brief dissertation upon
Serpent worship in general, with an account of the Tablet Dance
of the Pueblo of Santo Domingo, N. Mex., etc. New York. Pp. xvi+-
871, pis. 1-381.
CoLEMAN, GEORGE E.
1928. Rattlesnake venom antidote of the Hopi Indians. Bull. Antivenin
Inst. Amer., vol. 1, No. 4, pp. 97-99.
CurTIs, Epwarp S.
1922. The North American Indian. Vol. 12: The Hopi, pp. xi+281.
Dorsry, GEO. A., and VorH, H. R.
1902. The Mishongnovi ceremonies of the Snake and Antelope Fraternities.
Field Columbian Mus., Publ. No. 66, Anthrop. Ser., vol. 3, No. 8,
pp. 159-261, pls. 75-147.
FEWKES, J. WALTER.
1897. Tusayan snake ceremonies. 16th Ann. Rep. Bur. Amer. Ethnol.,
pp. 267-311, pls. 70-81.
1900. Tusayan flute and snake ceremonies. 19th Ann. Rep. Bur. Amer.
Ethnol., pt. 2, pp. 957-1011, pls. 45-68, figs. 42-46.
FEWKES, J. WALTER, assisted by STEPHEN, A. M., and Owens, J. G.
1894. The snake ceremonials at Walpi. Journ. Amer. Ethnol, and Archaeol.,
vol. 4, pp. vi+126, 40 ills., map.
HutcHison, R. H.
1929. On the incidence of snake-bite poisoning in the United States and
results of the newer methods of treatment. Bull. Antivenin Inst.
Amer., vol. 3, No. 2, pp. 48-57.
1930. Further notes on the incidence of snake-bite poisoning in the United
States. Bull. Antivenin Inst. Amer., vol. 4, No. 2, pp. 40-43.
Krauser, L. M.
1932. A herpetological review of the Hopi Snake Dance. Bull. Zool.
Soe. San Diego, No. 9.
MINDELEFF, COosMOs.
1886a. An Indian Snake Dance. Science (Supplement), vol. 7, No. 174,
pp. 507-514.
1886b. An Indian Snake Dance. Science, vol. 8, No. 178, pp. 12-13.
VoruH, H. R.
1903. The Oraibi summer snake ceremony. Field Columbian Mus., Publ.
No. 83, Anthrop. Ser., vol. 3, No. 4, pp. 268-358, pls. 148-219.
‘uosaqye yy Aq ydeisojoyd
‘puvy Sty Ul SoyeUS SUIP[OY PUR PUBM AOYIRO] YT ,,lo1OYYRS,, BSpURIS IYSII9YI IY “YINoU

“L061L LSNONY ‘IAONSDNOHSIW LV VZV1d NI ANOWS3YSaD AMVNS

1 O¥BUS B SOLMIGO “PUBM IOYIBOT YIM ,,

Jossny,, 94 fq po91109So0 ‘IODUBP B Wey, 9yd 1¥

| ALW1d

BUIPASG—"|p6| ‘Woday ueruosyyuig

THE ESKIMO CHILD

By ALES HrpricKa

Curator, Division of Physical Anthropology, U. S. National Musewn

[With 10 plates]

There is no more pleasing or richer study in the field of physical
anthropology than that of the human child; and a study of the Eskimo
young is in some respects even more remunerative than that of the
white because the subject is less familiar, and because the surviving
Eskimo child is usually healthy, normal, and brought up without
modern artificialities.

The Eskimo mother and father, though less demonstrative, love
their children at least as much as do the average mother and father
of our race. The Eskimo mother, in fact, sacrifices herself even more
for her babies than does the average white mother of our time. Her
children are more dependent on her, as under the hard conditions of
life in the North the father is of even less help than in our civiliza-
tion, and she wants to give them the best she has in every particular.
On the other hand, the Eskimo child, as long as it is healthy, is a very
contented little creature, giving but little trouble.

The Eskimo woman as a rule loves to have as many children as
she can, and in every Eskimo community there are plenty of them;
but until recently many died from digestive disorders, exposure, and
infections brought in by whites. Various travelers and casual ob-
servers, seeing the frequently small Eskimo families, drew the conclu-
sion that the Eskimo woman was not prolific. This, actual observa-
tions and records have shown, was erroneous. There are, of course,
women among the Eskimo, as there are among all peoples, who for
some reason bear but a few children, and, rarely, even no child at all;
_but those are exceptions. The true conditions may be seen from the
records of the last United States censuses and from those taken by
special observers. I have given the available data in one of my
papers. According to the 1930 census? relating to the Alaskan Es-

1¥ecundity of Eskimo women. Amer. Journ. Phys. Anthrop., vol. 22, p. 91 et seq., 1936.
3See also Anderson, H. C., and Hell, W. C., The Alaska natives: A survey of their
sociological and educational status, pp. 138-139. Stanford Univ. Press, 1935.

557
908 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

kimo, “the live birth rate per 1,000 of the Eskimo population in 1928
was 47.1 as based on returns from 12 representative villages. The
birth rate per 1,000 in the registration area in the United States for
the same year was 19.7.”

One of the regions in which there are large numbers of pure-blood
Eskimo in good condition is that of the Kuskokwim River and the
neighboring area. Here live about 4,000 of these people, partly civil-
ized, partly still following the old Eskimo ways. In this region an
investigation on 27 full-blood Eskimo women at the end of the
childbearing age showed that the average number of children born
alive per woman was 6.2; or, eliminating two women who bore but
two children each, 6.6. Among the American Indians the number of
children borne by women during their childbearing period averages
about 7.

There is, therefore, no dearth of babies among the Eskimo. As a
matter of fact, since receiving more effective medical assistance the
people are increasing in numbers, notwithstanding the periodic deadly
epidemics of influenza, frequent tuberculosis, and other diseases of
white man’s introduction.

In rare instances an Eskimo woman will give birth to twins. At
present such children would probably be brought up, but in the more
strenuous past such an occurrence might have meant too much of a
burden, leading to the elimination of the weaker infant. Nothing
definite, however, is known on this subject among the Eskimo. The
old people would doubtless still remember, and it would be worth
while for someone who has their confidence to inquire into the matter.
As to triplets or other multiple births, nothing could be learned.

The Eskimo baby comes generally without any expert assistance
and, as is usual with people of simple life and good resistance, acci-
dents are uncommon. There are still practiced various old customs
relating to both the mother and child which ought to be recorded
and published, but the Eskimo have a lot of good common sense and
have learned no small amount from both the Russians and the Ameri-
cans, so that in many details they now behave at birth and there-
after much as would our own poorer people under similar conditions.

The babies as a rule are chubby and, when healthy, more quiet and
patient than ours. They look very much like Indian children and,
were it not for their more or less brownish color and the fold at the
inner corner of each eye (epicanthus), would look but little different
from equally chubby white infants. At first they seldom cry, and
spend most of their time in sleeping or feeding. They are carried
along by the mother wherever she goes, and at home they lie on skins
or blankets. They apparently commence to smile, creep, walk, and
THE ESKIMO CHILD—HRDLICKA 559

talk in the same order and at much the same time as do our children,
but on these points precise observations are still needed. When ail-
ing, they are very responsive to cod liver oil and other remedies, as
are also their mothers.

There is a general tendency to nurse the baby longer than is the
practice among the white people. Formerly, as soon as the baby had
some teeth it was given also tidbits of meat and other food, including
bought sweets, which often did more harm than good. Feeding prac-
tices are now being regulated by instruction in the school, with the
advice of the nurse and the physician; and the mothers are very
’ responsive, so that infant mortality is decreasing. There is, however,
still much to be done in this direction.

The Eskimo mother usually carries her baby in the hood of her
parka, and the tot seems perfectly contented there—it will even sleep
there a part of the time. Occasionally, the child is carried on the
mother’s shoulders, the feet straddling her neck. There are no
cradleboards among the Eskimo, and no head deformation, either
intentional or accidental. Older girls, as elsewhere, help with the
young children.

An “education” or training of the Eskimo child begins early. For
a girl it is usually attended to by her mother and grandmother, for a
boy, by the father and uncle. The girl is taught the womanly duties
and arts, the boy, boating, hunting, and trapping. Strangely, though
living by and largely on the water, none of them ever learn to swim—
the waters are toocold. Until recently, when customs began to change,
the boys grew exceedingly expert with the kayak (a small skin canoe
for one person), and later also with the umiak and umiak-pak, the
larger skin boats of the people. They learned how to throw a dart,
spear, and harpoon—bows and arrows were used much less and only
on land; and they learned all the arts, wiles, and lore of the hunter
and trapper. There were, of course, differences in the aptness of the
pupils or in talents in special directions, and those with outstanding
abilities were much honored.

There is but little punishment of the children among the Eskimo.
I have witnessed some spankings by the mother—never by the father.
The Eskimo children in general give less cause for punishment than
ours—they are more orderly, less mischievous. The boys have but
little restraint, yet do not seem to abuse their freedom much—for one
thing there is not so much chance, and for another there is a group
discipline, once adolescence is reached, to which they must conform.
In all my contacts with the people I never heard a complaint about
the children. One sees them everywhere, and from the age of 3 or 4
they begin to be helpful, doing something useful in connection with
560 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

the dogs, wood, or boats; as they grow older and stronger, they help
also in the hunt, with the fishing, handling the game, and in other
activities.

But the life of the Eskimo child is far from being all serious and
all work; there is also much play, and it would be hard to find a
happier lot in this respect than theirs. They play in very much the
same way as would our children under the same conditions, but there
is less altercation and more steadfastness. The girls play with rag
dolls, which in some instances are provided by the father or uncle with
an ivory or bone head and perhaps even hands and feet; and they
build from pieces of driftwood and earth little houses, exactly as
would ours. They are happy and talk and laugh and pretend, but
are never very loud. Inside they play and help about the fire, or make
little odds and ends for their dolls. The boys like boys’ play, sport,
and contest, but from the beginning their games are related to their
future occupations.

Personal embellishment in Eskimo children is now limited to the
girls. Formerly, the boy at puberty had a hole made on each side
of the lower lip in which he wore for the rest of his life a labret of
wood, bone, ivory, lignite, or stone; and there were perhaps other
practices, but all that has long since been given up. With the girl
decoration begins in infancy. It consists at first of a simple necklace,
now generally of varicolored beads, with perhaps a little cross hanging
from it. As the girl grows, more strands of beads are added, and
bead strings are also intertwined with the hair, producing a pleasing
effect. A few now wear also a simple ring, but that has been learned
from white people. The young and also older women used to be
tattooed and painted themselves for ceremonies, but that too has all
been given up. Aside from the beads, the acme of embellishment in
the older Eskimo girl is a beautiful white-patched reindeer skin parka
(robe), with a gorgeous wolverine hood collar.

The Eskimo children formerly wore charms, and some of these are
perhaps still in use, but they are not in evidence; even the children
among the Eskimo are sensible people.

The Eskimo children, particularly the girls, love living pets. The
most common of these are the fat, shaggy puppies of their dogs. There
are no ordinary watch dogs or pet dogs or cats—they would not live
long near the jealous and powerful sled dogs. Some of these latter,
more particularly the mahlemute breed, grow large, strong, and fierce.
A visitor dares not approach them; yet a 4- or 5-year-old Eskimo
boy with a stick will fearlessly walk among them and even hit them,
without any of them resenting it. But should a child fall down within
their reach, as happens now and then, they will pounce upon it and
kill it, should no help come—the old wolf habit. The young, however,
make very nice and harmless pets.
THE ESKIMO CHILD—HRDLICKA 561

There are no social gatherings for the Eskimo children, no com-
munal functions; but they may, it seems, attend the “dances” and
singing arranged on occasions by the adults, and also, in summer,
any outdoor jollifications.

Thus passes the earlier Eskimo childhood in the Far Northwest.
Many interesting local details might still be gathered on this period
and should be recorded before it is too late, for the Eskimo is very
adaptable and is rapidly changing to a modern way of living and
doing things.

With the approach of adolescence the play period of the Eskimo
child is largely ended. The boy now is a substantial help to his
father, the girl to her mother. The age at which this period begins
among the Eskimo girls has within recent years been definitely estab-
lished in some regions. At Bethel, on the Kuskokwim River, west-
ern Alaska, the mean age for 16 full-blood girls was 13.3 years, for
6 mixbloods (Eskimo-White) 13.2 years, with the extremes in the
former 12 to 141% years, in the latter 11 to 15 years.* This is much
the same as with the majority of healthy white girls (13 to 15
years). In the boys, as with ours, the period is generally a little
later.

Formerly, there were among the Eskimo various observances
connected with this period, both for boys and girls, but these have
now been largely given up. One of the most curious of these prac-
tices, which doubtless served as one of the tests and marks of initia-
tion of the youngsters into manhood and womanhood, was the
knocking out of one or more of their front teeth.* This practice
was once widespread over the world, including America, and is still
in vogue among the Australians and some other primitive groups.
It seems now to be wholly forgotten in Alaska.

During adolescence, many of the young men grow handsome, ac-
tive, and in cases rather reckless and boastful; the young women
often good looking and even very pretty, shy, modest, and in some
instances full of inborn naive coquetry, highly enjoyable to the
observer. Not a few of these girls now marry local white men, and
make them fair wives. The well-trained and educated girls brought
up by such establishments as the Moravian Orphanage on the Kus-
kokwim River are especially sought for, so that there are generally
a number of native grooms, with now and then a white, awaiting their
release.

The outstanding sports for the Eskimo youth are wrestling and
tossing. Wrestling has always been in great repute among the

*¥For details see the writer’s “Puberty in Eskimo Girls.” Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci., vol.
22, pp. 355-357, 1936.

“See the writer’s “Ritual Ablation of Front Teeth in Siberia and America,” Smithsonian
Mise. Coll., vol. 99, No. 3, 1940.
562 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Alaskan Eskimo. Matches, the old-timers say, were held yearly be-
tween the Eskimo of northeastern Siberia and those of St. Lawrence
Island and the Kotzebue region. To this day, high on the hill at
Gamble (St. Lawrence Island), the Eskimo show burial places of
famed wrestlers.

The tossing game was probably brought over by the Russians.
It consists of a girl or a boy, standing on a skin held outstretched
slackly some feet above the ground by strong young men, being
tossed up by a combined jerk that straightens the skin, dropping
down, being tossed up higher, and so on until the players tire. I
have seen a young woman thus tossed up, as high as 5 feet above the
skin, rising and descending time and again, as straight and stiff as a
doll. It is no mean sport and must call for no small ability on the part
of both the tossed and the tossers.

A healthy Eskimo child is a happy and lovable creature and,
except for less boisterousness, nervousness, and _ self-consciousness,
is very much like our own average youngster. They are tractable,
malleable, and, though less demonstrative than ours, become genu-
inely attached to a good teacher. They are by no means stupid or
stolid, and as soon as the difficulties with language are overcome,
they progress very much as do white children. When the girls
marry, if fate gives them good husbands and spares them illness,
they keep their homes as clean and bright as could any of their
white sisters.

When a child dies there is deep though undemonstrative mourning.
A small, sickly infant is not mourned for so much, but the loss of a
larger or stronger child is felt deeply. It will never be voluntarily
spoken of, and its name will never be mentioned. The loss is par-
ticularly felt when no more children can be had by the mother, and may
then be compensated for more or less by the adoption of an orphan.

The Eskimo population as a whole is happy, resourceful, and
virile, and everyone who truly knows them must wish them all pos-
sible good. May we be wise and just enough to save their children
from the many unnecessary deaths, and aid in every rational way
to restore and further develop this excellent strain of native people,
who are utterly American, and may yet be the saving element for
many parts of Alaska.
‘RINSUIMA PIBMG ,,“JOUIOW IIT, OM
"NOIDSY AWON ‘GQIIHD GNV YSHLOW OWINMSS °°? “"NS3YCTIHD OWIMS®Z “1

L SLV 1d B¥21|PAH{—' | p6| “Woday ueruosyqwg
“WINSNIN3d
QYVvVMa3aS ‘NaYyqTIHD OML YSH OGNV YSHLOW OWIMSA “i

‘WAS ONIYSG NYSAHLYON ‘GIaIHD OWIMSZ “2

¢ 3ALV1d e421 PAHY—' | $6| ‘Wwodey ueruosy zig
“WIMMOM
-SNM AIGGIW ‘MOUVHSING ‘SIYID OWIMSZ AILLIT ASYHL “e "WIMMOMSNM SJIGGICW ‘MOTHSINDG ‘SAOG OWIMSA ASYHL *1

€ ALV 1d BAI PIH]— [$6] “Woda ueruosyqtug
y 3ALV1d

“WIMMOMSNM “GATIHD OWIMSA °Z

“WAHLAg

®§2"IPIH—

[p6| ‘Woday ueruosyqiwg
Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Hrdlizka

1. ESKIMO BOYS, SOUTHWESTERN ALASKA.

2. ESKIMO CHILDREN, BETHEL.
“AGAWOIG AILLIDT NO'ATINVA S,YSHOVAL OWINSA

9 ALWId e2NPIH—|F6| “Wodey weruosyqrurg
“"WIMMOMSN™M “THID OWIMS® °2 “TAHLEG SAOC8V SADVNVHdHO NVIAVYOW “THID OWIMS® ‘ft

LALV1d B¥2|PIH— | F6l ‘qaodayy UeIuOsyzIWIG
Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Hrdlitka PLATE 8

1. FULLBLOOD ESKIMO BOYS, WALES.

2. ESKIMOS AT MOOSE CREEK CAMP, UPPER MIDDLE KUSKOKWIM.
“GNV1SI SONSYMYV 1 LS (AOG OWINSA LNSAODSATOOY NV “2 “SSAIVM “1HID OWINS9A LNSADSA1TO0Y NY (1

6 3ALV1d B¥21|PA{— | $6] ‘4oday ueruosyziwicg
“ONV1S| JDONAYMV) LS THIS OWINSA LNSDSa100V

Ol 3ALWV1d BAI (PAL— | $6] ‘Wodayy ueruosyzwi¢g
WINGS FOR TRANSPORTATION: (RECENT DEVELOP-
MENTS IN AIR TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT)

By THEODORE P. WRIGHT, D. Sc.

Vice President and Director of Engineering, Curtiss-Wright Corp.

[With 14 plates]

During the past few years, we have been forced to think of the
airplane’s future more in terms of “air power” than “air transport.”
Starting with Munich, air power assumed a dominant rcle in inter-
national affairs. It is fortunate that we, in this country, have been
able to maintain a better balance between military and commercial
aviation so that we can continue to appreciate that the ultimate role
of the airplane is to serve peaceful purposes.

It is not intended to imply that we can, for an instant, relax our
efforts in building up our air force; we cannot play the role of the lamb
in a world of wolves. But in spite of this necessity for military avia-
tion to receive such great attention, it is still essential to look into the
future and study the possibilities and objectives of air transportation.
This is important now and will be more so after the present conflict
is ended.

TRANSPORTATION

“The very pace of life depends upon the speed with which matter
can be converted into energy available for transportation.” Let us
consider transportation in general: the carrying of goods or persons
from one place to another. We constantly seek to reduce the effective
size of the earth and to increase the effective span of human life. Prog-
ress in this field has been marked by a succession of improvements
paralleling the development of civilization itself: First by walking,
“leg power”; then by domesticated animals; by the invention of the
wheel ; by the application of steam and the internal combustion engine
to the railroad and the automobile and the steamboat; and now finally
by the airplane. In each case, ourselves or our goods move from where

1Presented at a joint meeting of The Franklin Institute and the Philadelphia Chapter
of the Institute of Aeronautical Sciences held Wednesday, December 6, 1939. Reprinted
by permission from the Journal of the Franklin Institute, vol. 229, No. 4, April 1940.
563
430577—42———_37
564 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

they are to somewhere else that we want them to be in some amount
of time. It is significant that the quotient of distance over time is
velocity, or speed.

What then differentiates this latest means of transportation from
the others? It is true that it strikes off into a different medium, one
of three dimensions, the air, but the essential difference is that it car-
ries out the function of transportation at greater speeds. From
moving under his own power at 4 miles an hour, man has contrived
to increase his speed to 40 miles an hour by automobile, to 65 miles an
hour by rail, to 200 miles an hour by air when traveling long distances.
One may ask: Is it likely that air transportation will continue to
advance and augment its services, even to become the major means of
transportation? To do this it must be economically sound; and the
year just ended shows that progress has reached a stage of advance
where this is now the case.

We wish to see where we are going in this new field. Trends are
therefore important, and it is a major object of this paper to discuss
this item of trends, alluding to some of the engineering methods that
have been used in order to reach our present status, and to others
which will be used in order further to improve. Finally, we ask:
Should it be? Is it in general good for man to be able to travel from
place to place three or four times as rapidly as was heretofore possible?
Will his life be fuller and richer and will there be greater happiness
for a greater number if this maintains? My answer to all of these
questions is “Yes,” as in the final analysis, the destiny of the airplane
will be to serve peaceful rather than warlike purposes. But the
attainment of such objective will not be automatic. We cannot be
too certain. We must constantly bear in mind the social implications
of science, and make sure that civilization is advanced and not retarded
by our scientific progress, particularly by its most recent acquisition,
the airplane.

HISTORY

With this brief statement of the case, let us now examine more
particularly the history of air transportation. In a lecture given by
Mr. E. P. Warner at Norwich University on this subject, he selects as
a starting point the year 1870 and I will follow his example.

The Franco-Prussian War was under way and the city of Paris
was being besieged. Normal communication with the outside provinces
was completely cut off. The Parisians finally resorted to the use of
the free balloon to remedy this situation. During the 127 days of
siege, 64 balloons were sent up from Paris, carrying some 4 million
letters and 88 passengers to the outside world. Only a few of the
balloons were lost, either at sea or to the enemy, so that this initial
effort in air transportation may be considered to have been successful.
WINGS FOR TRANSPORTATION—WRIGHT 565

This means could be used, of course, only for transportation out of
Paris, but an ingenious method was devised for making possible the
dispatch of return communications. Each balloon carried a quota of
homing pigeons when it left Paris which were subsequently released
with reply messages.

The next step in aerial transportation took place in 1911, also
using lighter-than-air craft. A service utilizing 5 Zeppelins was
operated for 2 years between several cities in Germany. During this
time, over 34,000 passengers were carried, traveling 107,000 miles in
all with no loss of life. The service was far from satisfactory eco-
nomically and was abandoned.

But we are interested primarily in heavier-than-air craft. The
epoch-making flight of the Wright Brothers in 1903 was followed by
9 or 10 years of activity which involved flying, but not air trans-
portation. Aviation meets consisting of much stunt and demonstra-
tion flying were the rule.

Almost from the first, however, the prospect of carrying mail by
air was in the minds of all these enthusiasts though it was not until
the end of this period of infancy that any official carriage of mail
by air took place. Preceded by stunt mail-carrying wherein a small
amount of mail might be transported to a flying field by auto truck,
flown about a bit, perhaps to another field, and then picked up by an-
other (or possibly the same) truck and carried back to the same
post office, a real start was made on September 23, 1911, when the
Post Office Department authorized Earle Ovington to make an
official mail flight. Emphasis must here be placed on the fact that
at that time it was the carrying of mail that appealed to the popular
fancy as the goal of the airplane.

Several isolated attempts at starting air transport lines took place
following this period, such as one in 1914 which operated with a
single flying boat between St. Petersburg and Tampa, in Florida, a
distance of 86 miles. All of these efforts, essentially uneconomical,
were abandoned after short periods of operation. Greater airplane
efficiency had to be realized before success could be attained.

A real start, however, was made in 1918 when the Post Office De-
partment decided to fly the mail between New York and Washington,
D. C. The Army Air Service, with Maj. Reuben Fleet in charge of
the operation, was designated to do the job since initial bids for
airplanes designed especially for the service resulted in delivery dates
for the craft which were unsatisfactory to the impatient officials. The
first flight was made on May 15, 1918, and was intended to consist
of a trip in each direction. The flight of the plane leaving Washing-
ton, with the take-off witnessed by the President of the United States
and members of his Cabinet, terminated shortly thereafter in southern
566 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Maryland, completely off the course. The trip from New York, how-
ever, was successful, consuming 814 hours’ time at a cost, in this
Army training plane, of approximately the same amount per mile as is
now required to fly a modern 14-passenger transport with many times
the load and speed. However, the line continued and great credit is
due this pioneering effort to carry the mail regularly by air, a service
which has never ceased to improve and expand.

Landmarks in this expansion followed in rapid succession. One
was the opening of the New York-to-Chicago route in 1919, using
rebuilt wartime DH-4 airplanes. Another, and an illuminating
vision of the future, was the first crossing of the Atlantic Ocean
by air—the successful undertaking of the United States Navy, using
NC-4 flying boat.

On September 8, 1920, the first transcontinental flight was made
during a competition, one plane getting through in 9 days 414 hours.
But an event of outstanding importance occurred on February 22,
1921, when Jack Knight completed a night flight from Omaha to
Chicago, under terrifically unfavorable weather conditions. His
way was lighted only by occasional bonfires. Lighting of this sort
at frequent intervals had been promised but because of weather con-
ditions so unfavorable to flying, many communities failed to light
their fires. Made possible by this night flight, mail was carried from
San Francisco to New York in about 3314 hours, approximately
twice the time now required for a similar service.

Another important event of 1921 was the inauguration by the
Army Air Service of a regular Dayton-to-Columbus airway for
night flying. Here the revolving beacon with periodic flashes was
developed, an innovation which was to prove so advantageous in
the system of airways later evolved for this country. Its inherent
advantages over the simple lighthouse type favored in Europe con-
tributed much toward the more rapid advance of air transportation
in this country. The lighted airway from Cheyenne-to-Chicago was
completed and put into operation on July 1, 1921. This was a most
important step in progress as by it a great number of enthusiasts
of that time appreciated anew the fact that in order to take full
advantage of the airplane as a means of transportation night flying
must be used. This country surpassed Europe by a wide margin
both in the proportion and technique of night-flying operations.

By 1927, the Post Office Department had satisfactorily established
its basic air-mail system and was ready to turn it over to private
operators. The last flight by the Department was on September 1,
1927. It had expended 17 million dollars in its pioneering efforts,
had received back about 7 million and thus gave to the American
people a magnificent start in air transportation at the exceedingly
WINGS FOR TRANSPORTATION—WRIGHT _ 567

small relative net cost to the taxpayers of 10 million dollars. The
operation had been dangerous and had resulted in many fatalities,
as must all pioneering efforts, but the fatality rate decreased sharply
from its inception to the final flight at which time it was at least
10 times as safely conducted as at first.

Having outlined the progress in carrying the mail which was the
first use to which the airplane was put in commerce, let us now
consider the progress in carrying passengers. As remarked above,
at first passenger-carrying did not strike the American public fancy
as the final role of air transport. This differed from the attitude in
Europe where passenger-carrying rather than mail-carrying seemed
to be the goal, and consequently where the start in air transportation
was made. However, there were a few lines in the United States, the
primary purpose of which was to carry passengers. These were
started in 1919 and operated between New York and Atlantic City;
Miami and Nassau; Seattle and Victoria, and Key West and Havana.
It is noteworthy that they all used flying boats and that although
some useful service was given, they were not by any means suc-
cessful financially.

In 1920, the Army Air Service again made a distinct contribution
when it inaugurated its model airways system. Capt. Burdette S.
Wright initially supervised the operation which lasted through the
next 5 years, involving a total of 336,000 miles of flying. Aside
from the contribution made in requirements of cross-country flying
for Army officers, a real lasting service was provided air transporta-
tion by spreading air-mindedness to hundreds of communities along
the airways. This resulted in a period of airport development of
great importance.

The relationship between Government and private enterprise in
developing air transport was very unsatisfactory at this time. Rec-
ognizing this, a group known as the Morrow Board was appointed
by the President to investigate the situation. A very statesmanlike
report was made, resulting in the passage of the Air Commerce Act
on May 20, 1926, a date to be noted as an important landmark in
air transportation development in this country. An Assistant Sec-
retary of Commerce for Air was appointed and steps were taken for
regulating air transportation for the future. Then, in 1927, came
the solo trans-Atlantic flight of Colonel Lindbergh which set the
country aflame with enthusiasm for the air. Expansion followed
at once with such lines as National Air Transport, Transcontinental
Air Transport, the Aviation Corporation network (later American
Airways), United Aircraft and Transportation Corporation, and
Western Air Express, organized and started in operations by 1929.

Another development of far-reaching significance was the inaugu-
568 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

ration of the Pan American Airways System which started in 1927
with a run of 90 miles from Key West to Havana. This line ex-
panded rapidly to 12,000 miles in 1928, encircling the Carribean, and
then to South America in 1930, further extending its mileage to
30,000. We all know and are proud of the more recent developments
of Pan American Airways wherein the Pacific was spanned in 1935,
bringing the total mileage to 33,000, and the Atlantic in 1988, raising
the figure to 54,000 miles, a truly remarkable development and one
envied by all the countries of the world. Pan American has fur-
nished a most important service to our country in extending com-
munication services to the far-flung points on its routes. In the
future, this dual role, transportation and communications, will be
important in international affairs.

But to return to a somewhat earlier period, we find that by 1931
there had been completed the phase of mergers which sought to com-
bine the great number of individual air-line companies previously
organized into basic groups much as we know them today. If avia-
tion’s “infancy” ended in 1911, we can say that its “childhood” ended
in 1926 and its “adolescence” in 1931.

One of the first air lines to be formed in Europe was K. L. M. in
1920. Its record of expansion and achievement has made it one of
the greatest lines in the world. We, in this country, are rather proud
of the fact that the equipment which it has used during the last 5 or 6
years has been of American design and manufacture—Douglas planes
with Wright engines. Imperial Airways was formed in 1924, Luft-
hansa in 1926, and Air France in 1933. Perhaps the most significant
difference between foreign air lines and our own is in the matter of
subsidies. In the first place, the amount of subsidy abroad was and
is larger than ours; and in the second place, the subsidy has usually
taken the form of direct payment to the air lines as against the
American way of payment for carrying the mails. In addition to
the far smaller proportion which the subsidies of our air lines bear
to income from other sources than maintains abroad, the method of
determining it, as mentioned above, is of equal importance in induc-
ing American air lines to make themselves self-sustaining economi-
eally. This is certainly the ultimate goal and its attainment is much
more nearly approximated here than abroad. It is so much the case
that many doubt the correctness of calling air-mail payments here a
subsidy as they seem really to represent a legitimate Government
expense in providing a most necessary service.

This very brief history of air transportation can be concluded by
stating that after 1931, which ended the period I called “adolescence,”
wherein its own development was its chief concern, the industry
started its next period of “young manhood.” Its strength was by

WINGS FOR TRANSPORTATION—WRIGHT 569

then such that from the standpoint of competition it could force
consideration on other forms of transportation. Let us therefore
consider the broad relationship between air transportation and
transportation by rail.

AIR TRANSPORT IN COMPETITION WITH OTHER TRANSPORT
METHODS

In table 1 this comparison shows that by virtue of greater speed
and shorter distances, the time-saving factor favors the air by about
3144 to 1. The fare differential favors travel by rail by a ratio of
3 to 2, but combining the two in a time-cost efficiency factor, there
appears a resultant gain for the air by 214 to 1. A more refined
analysis is given later but because of the existence of these broad
considerations, the rapid expansion of air transport has resulted.
Let us now view this progress in terms of equipment.

TABLE 1.—Transportation: rail vs. air

Variation Average

Speed between stations over 200 miles apart________ 0. 30 to 0. 40:1 hes) Bal

Distance between stations over 200 miles apart_____ ANOS to de22 <a a alss al

Time between stations over 200 miles apart___.____-_ 3. 00 to 3. 90:1 BHT Oe Bal

Fare’ between stations over 200 miles apart________ 0. 65 to 0. 70:1 0.66 :1
Time-cost efficiency factor=1/cost factor X time

TENCE) S ep a aT et BS SESE RE eae, Se A Sd eh 0. 30 to 0. 49:1 0. 4384:1

1 Fares cited are based on quotations for 1-way trips, including Pullman fares in the
case of rail travel, and not taking account of reductions for round trips, for use of scrip
tickets or excursion rates, or other special considerations, such as the saving in expense
for meals when traveling by air. The result of combining such factors will react to the
advantage of air travelers, giving, in round numbers, a time-cost efficiency factor favorable
to the air when comparing to rail of about 2.5: 1. ‘

EQUIPMENT USED IN AIR TRANSPORTATION

Starting from the use of Army training planes during World
War I and later modified Army observation planes, it was not until
1926 that types designed specifically for air-transport use appeared.
As an example of this early effort, plate 1, figure 1, illustrates the
Boeing Model 40, a biplane designed much along the Army observa-
tion plane formula but nevertheless specifically built for air trans-
port. Its cruising speed was about 100 miles an hour. By 1929
the Ford trimotor had come into use for air transportation at a
cruising speed of about 105 miles an hour (pl. 1, fig. 2). The expan-
sion of the air lines at this time and the period immediately following
was very largely based on the Ford, which appealed to the popular
fancy because of its monoplane arrangement, its all-metal construc-
tion, and its three engines. Not economical to operate in the light
of present standards, it nevertheless seemed to operators of those
days the last word in efficiency and many considered that nothing
570 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

better need be expected. It was noisy, it was none too comfortable,
but, after a fashion, it did the job.

The Curtiss Condor (pl. 1, fig. 8) appeared in 1930. Although a
biplane in accord with the earlier traditions, it nevertheless marked
a distinct advance in two respects. First, it had two engines and
would actually fly at a reasonable altitude in a satisfactory manner
when one engine was inoperative. Secondly, it made a very distinct
contribution toward comfort for passengers, both from the standpoint
of the luxurious seats which it provided and, more particularly,
because of the installation of sound-deadening means which reduced
the cabin noise level to a point approximating that of other means
of transportation. It had a cruising speed of 116 miles an hour.

In Europe at about this time there appeared the Handley-Page
Hannibal (pl. 2, fig. 1), a biplane type equipped with four engines
but cruising at under 100 miles an hour. A fair degree of comfort
was provided but its slow cruising speed would not seem to justify
the long period of service that it had on Imperial Airways.

A sesquiplane, the French Breguet Model 39, was developed in 1934,
and the German Junkers triplane came out that same year. Like the
Ford, this latter was all-metal construction and had three engines,
but, unlike the Ford, it had a low-wing rather than high-wing ar-
rangement.

In this country, the next plane which should have special mention
was the Boeing 247 (pl. 2, fig. 2), also appearing in 1934. Cruising
speeds were raised to 180 miles per hour by this ship which also had
most of the present-day features of form, including all-metal low-
wing twin-engine monoplane construction with retractable landing
gear. This type is still giving good service on several air lines. In
1934, there also appeared another version of the Curtiss Condor, the
chief contribution of which was the introduction of the sleeper ar-
rangement for night flying. Plate 2, figure 3, illustrates the interior of
this ship alternatively arranged for use during the day and at night.
With planes of this type American Airlines started its popular cross-
country sleeper schedules.

As to flying boats: a step ahead occurred when the Sikorsky S42
was placed in service on Pan American Airways. Although the first
large boat used by that company was the Consolidated Commodore,
nevertheless, the S-42 and S-42A were and still are standard equip-
ment for the South American runs. Plate 3, figure 1, shows this
Sikorsky.

It was also in 1934 that the Douglas DC-2 appeared, embodying all
the essential improvements which are used in the present-day air trans-
port. In addition to the use of two-engine, low-wing all-metal mono-
plane arrangement with retractable landing gear, introduced by Boe-
WINGS FOR TRANSPORTATION—WRIGHT aval

ing, it also incorporated the Wright Cyclone engine with NACA cowl,
the wing flap with resultant permissible increase in wing loading, and
the controllable-pitch propeller. Cruising at 180 miles an hour with
a complement of 14 passengers, it provided a degree of excellence in
air transportation unequaled (if not indeed unapproached) by any
other piece of equipment. It is indeed fitting that the Guggenheim
Medal should be awarded to Donald Douglas this year in recognition of
his contributions to air transportation, starting as he did mainly with
the introduction of the DC-2. Plate 3, figure 2, is a view of this air-
plane in flight.

Again to revert to flying boats, there is shown in plate 4, figure 1,
the Martin 130, by means of which the Pacific route of Pan American
Airways was opened up. Cruising at 130 miles an hour, this flying boat
possessed a very high ratio of useful load in proportion to gross weight.

The next big step in equipment development was the Douglas DC-3,
the present standard of air-transport equipment of the air lines of
the world. Although developed directly from the DC-2, neverthe-
less, by virtue of greater span and larger fuselage, coupled with
slightly more power permitting a substantial increase in useful load,
it has made possible very great economy of operation. With a gross
weight of about 24,000 pounds and a payload of 5,000, it cruises at
181 miles an hour and can be operated at a direct operating cost of $65
an hour; 39 cents a mile; and 1.8 cents per 200-pound payload unit per
mile. This airplane is shown in plate 4, figure 2.

TRENDS

Having illustrated the advance in air-transport equipment to this
point, it is desirable now to show by a series of graphs the trends which
are indicated for various phases of our subject.

GROWTH OF AIR TRANSPORTATION

First, let us consider the growth of air transportation as illustrated
in figure 1. The four sets of curves are self-explanatory in showing
a tendency to accelerate in growth during the past 2 or 3 years, and
particularly in 1939, as measured by growth in airways, passengers,
passenger-miles, and ton-miles of mail and express. One can only
reach the conclusion from these data that there will be a substantial
period of time before any falling off in tendency to increase may be
expected.

ECONOMIC ASPECTS

Now let us consider certain economic aspects of the situation in a
second group of graphs (fig. 2). Here, under figure 2 (A) is indi-
cated the saving involved by air travel as against rail when considering
572 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

all factors of expense, including salary loss, and under three classifi-
cations. For the middle case, a salary of $3,500 per year, it appears to
be economical to travel by air if the distance involved is 750 miles or
greater, and under the assumption that the alternative of rail travel
would be carried out at night to cut down the salary loss while travel-
ing to nothing or to a minimum. If travel were to be carried out in
the daytime by either means of transportation, the lines representing
air and rail travel cross at about 200 miles for all salary brackets.

Under figure 2 (B) a few statistics are shown. Reduction in
passenger fare from 12 cents a mile to 5.7 cents has brought this item
to a point where, from figure 2 (A), it appears reasonable travel
economy is effected. The tendency for passenger-load factor to
stabilize at 60 percent requires some comment as, offhand, it might be
considered that a larger amount would be necessary or at least de-
sirable. However, it should be realized that in order to attain this
average, there must, of necessity, be many trips which are 100 percent
filled. It is also evident that at 100 percent load factor, it would be
likely that in many cases passengers would be turned away because of
lack of capacity. Furthermore, such a lack of capacity would imply
failure on the part of the operators to render a service which can
reasonably be expected by the public. It appears that the tendency
to stabilize at 60 percent will persist and that air lines must therefore
reckon on making their operations satisfactory to themselves
financially on this basis.

The next noteworthy item is average trip length which is ap-
parently stabilizing at about 400 miles, a decrease from a few years
ago due to a tendency recently for short-haul traffic to increase.
Next, there is the figure of 95 percent efficiency in completing trips
started.

In figure 2 (@) there is shown the increase in air traffic against
Pullman traffic from a figure of just over 3 percent in 1935 to almost
7 percent at the present time (December 1939). As the points on
which this curve are based lie on a straight line, it is reasonable to
expect continuation of this tendency, reaching 10 percent by 1945. It
is possible that there will be an acceleration thereafter and several
have prognosticated a final flattening out at 40 or 50 percent.
Apropos of this possibility should be mentioned the comparison of
bus and rail traffic. A comparison of these two modes of travel
showed that but 1 percent as many people traveled by bus as by rail
in 1920 while by 1932 a figure of 37 percent was reached.

Trans-Atlantic air travel has only just commenced, but in view of
the loads now being carried by Pan American Clippers, it can con-
fidently be predicted that the proportion of air to first-class boat
travelers will be substantial. The market is available, as recent anal-
WINGS FOR TRANSPORTATION—WRIGHT 573

abhao

a e5a0 “SSE ere

7enn
a
5)
27
Si eee
cd

|e.
™
.

a
i

2

te ae E St
es

oe

Fi@ure 1.

i ie Ty
Ta :
in a t :
+ pr
+H-
14} y oo =
Fy
it al ae gE
mt 3p) ¢
oa
: A: i
: : 7 A Pesue bene Lape '
ight PEE
li rh aha HE
i a isue t
Ho lH Tae
fail beete eed ul
t ty
H ie 5 4 ‘ i ad if 8

FIGURE 2,
574 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

yses have shown that in normal times there are a hundred or more
passengers per day crossing the ocean in liners and who pay rates
comparable to those asked by Pan American for air passage. Already
Pan American, with over 100 crossings to its credit, is averaging about
20 passengers a trip on a twice-a-week schedule with occasional sched-
ules of 30 or 40. Mail, averaging about 1 ton a flight, has occasionally
gone to 3,500 or 4,000 pounds. It is rumored that more frequent sched-
ules will be justified in the near future in the expectation that even in
peacetime such frequency of schedule will be justified.

The last subdivision of figure 2, graph (D), shows the improved
efficiency of the airplane as measured in terms of horsepower-hours
per ton-mile pay load. This factor has decreased (showing increased
efficiency) since the start in 1922 from a figure of seven to a present
figure of just over two. The fact that this curve has flattened out is a
clear indication that the difficulties of further improvement will be
great. It should be noted, however, that in general our air lines made
a profit in 1939. I previously mentioned a direct operating cost of 1.8
cents per passenger-mile for the Douglas DC-3 airplane. If a 66 per-
cent overhead is assumed and a 60 percent capacity load factor, it
means there is an actual operating cost of 5 cents per passenger-mile.
Subtracted from present fare averages of 5.7, a profit of 0.7 cents per
passenger-mile, or just over 12 percent, results; so passenger air trans-
portation with present equipment can be made profitable.

GROWTH IN SIZE

The graphs of figure 3 are designed to illustrate the growth of the
airplane itself. It should be realized that average curves have been
drawn to show the tendency to increase in size. Naturally, there are
smaller pieces of equipment coexistent with larger. In fact, curves
(A), (2), (C) of figure 3, rather than being averages of all equipment,
are more accurately a trend of the largest sizes for any given period.
The tendency of the weight curve, (A), for landplanes to flatten out
as against the nonexistence of any such tendency for flying boats is
significant in connection with the different type of service each pro-
vide. The long-distance service of the flying boat requires less fre-
quency of schedule and makes it likely (as indicated in graph (A) of
fig. 3) that greater and greater sizes will be developed. However, for
landplanes, the desire for a service “every hour on the hour” auto-
matically sets a limit on size increase. It is perhaps noteworthy that
the Douglas DC-4 airplane which will first be placed in service is not
the original DC-4 but a smaller version. This flattening out in size
curve for landplanes will, of course, not persist if in the future, as may
well occur, landplanes are used for transoceanic service.
WINGS FOR TRANSPORTATION—WRIGHT 575

Graphs (B) and (C) of figure 3 show, respectively, increases in
horsepower and cost of equipment. Twin-engined landplanes cost-
ing $115,000 may be expected to increase to over $225,000 and four-
engined equipment in the $350,000 bracket will be with us soon. In
the flying-boat field, we are now in the half-million-dollar class.
Graph (D) of figure 8 shows the steady increase in average seating
capacity, rising from 7 in 1932 to 14 at the present time.

SSSHSIBIEISESSEESEETE Hs Serer cn

Josip HH

rrr

‘a
e

audit
lait aaa
ae at Hint H ea

Peon He tA

ae TAs! AZ 4. 7 Gd | oe
z ‘See fa ieee G ete ee

ie
a
pay
ri
im

ih 2
ai Ee bbs tebe ae HE Se
ah ge Co a UTE eae ue

eg a

Y Se

H Ree ce
é SERS ERS ER

ewescs a [
a
ch |
de |

rr
Tey
va
a see -sleead
ead
an
sere
eaeee rt

7 SEE Woe Ha

4038 HH Pee er Eoeeceds gosseceeceae

FIGURE 38.
COMFORT AND SAFETY

The curves of figure 4 are presented to show improvements In com-
fort and safety.2 Graph (A) is extremely important, in that the
steady increase in weight per passenger of passenger furnishings and
safety equipment shown has been so marked in the past 10 years that
we have arrived at the point where the operator now carries the equiva-
lent weight of two passengers and baggage for every one that he actu-
ally carries! In other words, passenger furnishings now amount in
weight to 175 pounds per passenger with safety equipment at about 15
pounds. This increase of 150 pounds per passenger of such equipment
between the old Ford and the Douglas DC-3 is a good measure of the
improvement in comfort of the modern air liner. An interesting side

21 am indebted to E. T. Allen for the data necessary to plot curves (A) and (B) and
in one or two of the other curves shown.
576 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

comment here concerns the fact that because of the increase just de-
scribed, it has not been possible to increase the useful load in terms of
percentages of gross load. In fact, an actual decrease has occurred.
From 1929 to 1939, this percentage has decreased from 40 to 38, where
it appears to be stabilized. For flying boats, during the same period,
it started at 45 percent and increased in certain instances to 50 but
now seems to be stabilizing at 42. The fact that it has not gone down
still further is only due to improvements in structural efficiency which
have been accomplished.

T
os
T
:
aH
i"
)
HN
i
u
ar

a a baa iy
Eee Seecey are
eee Ail
FEE 7D TTI
FEC EeEe iy
+
i 4
4 rt | ot
EH Sacrecd ete
FATT
b
s EEEEEEETT EE
++
seesaea, iF :
it Egan
+. a oy ye 1
ia t ret ct :
E : apiiadesee=
= 3 co
sit i
I PEER
: EL EEHH
FET EE
aa pt - ag LEE
rE ama

FIGURE 4.

Provision for increased space as shown in figure 4 (B) will be recog-
nized at once as a substantial contribution toward passenger comfort.
These curves for flying boats give values roughly twice those that main-
tain for landplanes. For the latter our modern transport planes pro-
vide over 10 square feet and 60 cubic feet per passenger. But from
the standpoint of comfort, it is perhaps figure 4 (C’) which shows the
most important contribution, namely, reduction of noise. The decibel
unit (old scale) is used and it may be seen that from the days of the
Ford in which noise of 110 decibels existed, we are now in the 70-
decibel range. This 40-percent decrease is (as mentioned above)
based on the decibel unit which, in turn, is a logarithmic scale measure-
ment. The actual sound in our present-day air-transport cabins is
WINGS FOR TRANSPORTATION—WRIGHT 577

but 1/50,000 as much as 10 years ago. In fact, it is almost exactly the
same as for the Pullman car, being, of course, far less than in street-
cars and subway trains, and only slightly more than for an automobile
traveling at 50 miles an hour. To obtain further improvement will
require expenditure of a greater amount of weight, and it is likely that
a final stabilizing figure of 65, or possibly slightly less, will maintain.

And now for safety (fig.4 (D)). Here have been shown the actual
points for each year which have maintained during the past 10 years
for passenger fatalities per one hundred million passenger-miles
flown and a trend curve. The record is remarkable and important.
Let us take the year 1938, where the figure is five, and let us appre-
ciate that this figure represents one fatality for twenty million passen-
ger-miles, which is the equivalent of a flight each day from New York
to Los Angeles and back the next day, carried on without interrup-
tion for 21 years. The record for 1939 is very substantially better (an
actual figure of less than 114), so much so that President Roosevelt
issued a special news release on this record on November 7, 1939, by
which date 500 million passenger-miles of air-transport operations had
been completed without a fatality and which, as he dramatically
pointed out, was the equivalent of transporting the whole population of
the city of Washington to Boston and back. This record has continued
unblemished, approaching two-thirds of a billion passenger-miles now,
and unstinted credit is due air-line operators for the infinite number
of details earnestly carried out which brought about this fine condition.

Substantial contributions have also been made by our plane and
engine designers in the airplane itself to help make this record pos-
sible. A few of these are: The use of multi-engined equipment hav-
ing satisfactory flying qualities under all conditions of flight; the
general improvement in stability and controllability; the improve-
ment in reliability of the power plant; the perfecting of the constant
speed propeller; tremendous developments in instrumentation; the
use of de-icing equipment; and the current efforts to reduce or elim-
inate pilot fatigue by making the pilot’s job easier and his working
conditions more comfortable. The important advances in the field
of meteorology, radio communication, and airway traffic control
should also be stressed.

AIRPLANE CHARACTERISTICS

The final curves, figure 5, illustrate trends of airplane character-
istics. Cruising speed, in 10 years, has roughly increased from 100
to 200 miles an hour—(A). A rather slight flattening-out tendency
is now evident although there will be a substantial lapse of time be-
fore the limit for certain classes of equipment is reached. In the
graph of figure 5 (B) are plotted the trends of wing and power load-
ings. Noteworthy is the flattening-out of the wing-loading trend
578 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

curve for landplanes at a figure of just under 385 pounds per square
foot. It is likely that seaplane loading will continue upward
although both may be further increased (than shown by these
curves) as the result of introduction of assisted take-off means.
Power loadings have not decreased greatly and will probably stabilize
at about their present figure.

In connection with landing speeds, figure 5 (@), the flattening-out
tendency of the curve is indicated, but it should be mentioned that
in general it can be shown that for equal safety, landing speeds can
legitimately increase proportionately to the sixth root of the gross
weight. Here again, therefore, the curve depicts the trend for the
largest sizes of equipment and it may be expected that for smaller
planes the landing speed will be less.

FIcure 5.

Next we consider cruising altitude, graph (Y) of figure 5, where
the jumps represent for the most part changes in the power plant
which permitted economical flight at successively higher altitudes.
Starting from just over sea level, there was a jump in the DC-2
airplane to cruising at approximately 10,000 feet which remained
the case until the present time, December 1939. Equipment just
about to make its appearance will raise this to 20,000 feet and it is
my belief that eventually 35,000 feet will be utilized for certain classes
of equipment and service.
WINGS FOR TRANSPORTATION—WRIGHT 579
MODERN AIR-TRANSPORT PLANES

These curves, then, show the trend. Let us now see some of the
most modern air-transport planes now operating or about to be
placed in service. To start off again at the point where we previously
stopped—the Douglas DC-3 airplane—let us note in plate 5, figure 1,
the interior of this ship as used by United Airlines between New
York and Chicago. The picture speaks for itself as to the provisions
which are made for passenger comfort. Plate 5, figure 2, shows the
interior of a DC-3 accommodating 21 passengers as used on most of
the air lines in this country and many abroad.

In plate 6, figure 1, is a view of the Short Empire flying boat which
is a thoroughly modern piece of equipment used by Imperial Airways
and seen in this country on its trial trans-Atlantic flights and in the
New York-to-Bermuda service last year.

Next we see in plate 6, figure 2, the Boeing 314 which has done such
yeoman service in Pan American trans-Atlantic operations. Another
view, of the interior of this ship, in plate 6, figure 3, gives an idea of
the spaciousness and comfort that the passengers enjoy when travel-
ing on these Clippers.

The Lockheed 14 in plate 7, figure 1, although smaller in size than
the DC-3, provides a very excellent and comfortable service at the
high cruising speed of 220 miles an hour.

Plate 7, figure 2, shows the DC-5, about to be put into feeder-line
service in this country. It is noteworthy for the introduction of the
tricycle landing gear.

In plate 7, figure 3, there is shown a very fine view of the Boeing
307 Stratoliner, several of which were recently ordered by TWA and
Pan American, to be placed in service this year. And in plate 8, fig-
ure 1, we have a DC-44, the largest of land air transports yet produced.
It is noteworthy, not only for its fine performance and load-carrying
ability but again for the introduction of the tricycle landing gear.

THE FUTURE FOR PERFORMANCE

And now to examine three more tables indicating the possibilities
of the future for speed and range. In table 2 are shown the factors
which made possible the 80 percent increase in cruising speeds which
occurred from 1929 to 1939. The preponderant effect of aerodynamic
cleanness shown in the first item is noteworthy, with the additional
substantial items of increased wing loading, decreased power load-
ing, flying at higher altitudes, and wing efficiency; following with
minor improvements in the last three items, induced drag, propeller
efficiency, and weight reductions brought about by structural weight
improvement. These features have brought the speed from 105 to

430577—42—_38
580 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

TABLE 2.—Airplane cruising speeds: factors causing increases of the past 10 years
and possibilities of the neat 10 Years

Speed improvement

Item Description of the penis aetee and improvements Actual Possibilities
1929-39 1939-49
Percent Percent
“Wasted” drag==------= Streamline shape; smooth surfaces; Interferences; 3
improved nacelles; elimination unnecessarily ex-
posed parts; improved Reynolds Number accom-
panying size increase.
Wing loading----------- Improved flaps and sections__....-.-...-----.-----.- 17 4
Power loading. _-------- Increased allowable landing speed with size increase; 8 0
higher take-off powers with improved fuels.
Altitude flying_....--.-- iP reereesvehy from sea level to 10,000 feet, to 35,000 9 18
eet.
Wing efficiency.--..---- By. eilerepettecy taper; thinner and improved sec- 7 2
tions: ete.
Induced drag-_-_-..------- By higher aspect ratios; elliptical wings; ete ________ 1 2
Propeller) 23 eee Opcration at better V/ND; blade section improve- 1 2
ment.
Structural!s 2222222222 Weight reductions due larger size, better materials, 1 3
and improved design.
80 40
M. p.h. M. p. h.
Resultant cruising | Average values typical of the period___-_-._--______- 105-190 190-266

speeds

Notge.— Further, but more remote possibilities are: Cooling drag reductions or elimination; very high wing
loadings using assisted take-off; greater than normal power-plant improvements; complete laminar flow by
section change combined with smal] chord or boundary layer control.

190 miles an hour. My prognostication of increases to 266 miles an
hour cruising speeds in the next 10 years will be effected by the same
items but with a different relative proportion for each as shown in
the second column of table 2. The importance played by flying at
still higher altitudes should be noted together with important im-
provements in drag reduction, although of only one-quarter the
magnitude that maintained for the last 10 years. The reason for
this is shown in table 3 where it will be observed that horsepower
“wasted” in overcoming unnecessary drag is now but 20 percent of
the total as against 66 percent 10 years ago. At that time, speeds

TABLE 3.—10 years advance in aerodynamic cleanness

Item
Actual
Year Wasted speed in
horse- percent of
power! | streamline
speed #2
1 NCS 24 VEE ang Pe i a i No ty le ah FU 1 ii Sa Oar 66 65
VOSS Ei ee es NN he ae NLT NE aan SL Senge CEN ES ts Se Um eh ee 20 90

1 ‘*Wasted horsepower’ is horsepower consumed in overcoming the drag of unnecessarily exposed parts or
of nonstreamline shapes.

1 “Streamline speed" is the speed the airplane would make at a given altitude If its only drag were smooth
flat plate skin friction; drag caused by efficient cooling of the engine; and induced drag due to lift.

Figures are obtained by using the method of B. Melvill Jones.
WINGS FOR TRANSPORTATION—WRIGHT 581

made good were only 65 percent of what they would have been if all
this unnecessary drag were eliminated and a perfect streamline air-
plane produced. This proportion of actual speed to streamline speed
is now 90 percent, leaving only a short way to go in possible improve-
ment.

Table 4 indicates three factors which will contribute toward in-
creasing range by about 30 percent in the next 10 years. It is be-
lieved these are self-explanatory. However, it should be noted that

TasLe 4.—Airplane range: factors causing increase in the next 10 years

Percent

Speed increases automatically improve range. The improvement may be of
TELUS} COP RH CSC (9 pata Bag Pe at a ao a Ben LA de hae 15
Reduction tin specisic: fret consumpiionsss—) fhe ae ae ee ee 10
Structuralupeight reductions oo eee tas veel ee ee eee 5
STNG esp ec evra A a a eS gl 30

all of the speed increase shown in table 2 will not go into range
increase since that proportion which will be attained by flying at high
altitudes will not result in range improvement and, as well, the weight
reductions resulting from structural improvements cannot all be
used both for speed and range increase. Then too, cruising velocities
are higher than schedule speeds which are reduced by time losses in
take-off and landing to give what are known as block-to-block speeds.
As these losses are constant regardless of cruising speed, the final
range increase due to cruising-speed improvement is about 15 percent
as shown. A further 10 percent reduction in specific fuel consump-
tion is expected although it will be difficult to obtain when it is
realized that in the past 10 years, specific fuel cosumption has dropped
from about 0.52 pounds per horsepower hour to about 0.41, a 21
percent improvement.

THE FUTURE OF AIR TRANSPORTATION

Now I shall briefly discuss the future of air transportation. Let
us look at plate 8, figure 2, which shows the New North Beach,
La Guardia Airport in New York City, from which operations started
on December 1, 1939. This magnificent airdrome with its long all-
direction runways and fine hangars and waiting rooms, is a definite
indication of air transportation’s future expansion. Just as those
cities which provided themselves with facilities and inducements for
the railroads to pass within their limits in the 1870’s and ’80’s,
made certain their future as centers of commerce and industry, so
likewise the case will be now for those cities that provide themselves
with proper airport facilities. At North Beach dual facilities for
land and water operations are provided.
582 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1941

Next are shown views of flying equipment which may be important
in further development. First, in plate 9, figure 1, there is the Mayo
composite airplane arrangement which by means of assisted take-off
provides the operating, or top unit, with increased speed and range
which may therefore be a factor in trans-Atlantic mail flying.

In plate 9, figure 2, there is shown a view of a model of a helicopter,
a type of aircraft which will be used for transporting mail and pas-
sengers from airports to roof tops in the centers of cities and even, in
many cases, for short-haul traffic directly between city centers. In
addition it may revolutionize our conception of private-owner air-
craft.

Plate 10, figure 1, is a view of the Curtiss-Wright Model Twenty
with pressurized cabin and with extremely large baggage and express
compartments. A noteworthy contribution to economy of operation
is expected when this plane goes into service, making it eminently
suitable for use between large centers of population. Other views
of this plane during its development are shown in plate 11, figure 1,
which is an interior view of one arrangement which accommodates 30
passengers, and plate 10, figure 2, which illustrates, in a construction
view, the unique manner in which structural provision for pressuriza-
tion is provided, accompanied by provision for tremendous bulk of
baggage, express, and freight under the cabin floor. An idea of the
size of the plane is shown in plate 11, figure 2, where one of its four gas
tanks is set beside a two-place training plane; the tank is almost as
large as the entire fuselage of the training craft. Plate 12 is a view
of the plane in flight over New York City. This plane will provide
still higher standards of safety and economy in operations.

The final illustrations of this paper are views of the most modern
equipment now flying; the beautiful Boeing Pan American Clipper
(pl. 18, fig. 1) and the Douglas DC-4 (pl. 13, fig. 2). Last of all,
two views illustrating a prediction of Mr. Sikorsky of the trans-
Atlantic airliner of the future, plate 14, figure 1, showing the dining
salon and plate 14, figure 2, the flying boat itself in the air.

CONCLUSION

We have thus reviewed transport aviation, showing its history from
“infancy” to 1911, through “romantic childhood” to 1926; “painful
adolescence” to 1931; its satisfactorily progressing “young manhood”
to the present time; and its promise of “maturity” for the future. One
cannot but be inspired by contemplating some of the following:

A recent TWA timetable schedule headed “EKurope—New York—Chi-
cago—Los Angeles—San Francisco—Asia.”
The growth of one of the United States air systems, American Airlines,

Inc., from its first passenger in April 1927, to its millionth in Feb-

ruary 1937, and its two millionth in September 1939.

WINGS FOR TRANSPORTATION—WRIGHT 583

The fact that our domestic air lines are now flying over 250,000 plane-
miles each day; the equivalent of 80 round trips from New York to
Los Angeles or of 10 trips around the world at the Equator, or
perhaps better still, one to the moon.

The fact that there are 30 large airlines flying daily each way on
scheduled trips between New York and Chicago (a greater number
than holds for through-train schedules).

The fact that we are now enjoying regular service coast to coast in
just under 17 hours which we may confidently expect will, within a
reasonable time, be reduced to 12; and regular trans-Atlantic trips
of 24 hours’ duration at present which will be cut eventually to 18.

These factors are all indicative of the inspiring future of air
transportation.

I cannot close without again referring to my belief that this bring-
ing of peoples closer together will be a tremendously important factor
in maintaining the peace of the world once the present war is over.
This vision was, strangely enough, first pronounced almost a hundred
years ago by William S. Henson, the inventor of an “aerial steam
carriage” in 1843. His vision of the airplane as represented mechan-
ically in his invention was remarkable in its close approximation in
many respects to our present-day airplanes, but what he wrote con-
cerning his vision of human relations as affected by his invention is
even more important and is quoted below:

* * * The changes which must follow the first aerial voyage of one hundred
miles in length must be great, may be astounding to our present notions, may
be dashed as all human advances are with subtractive evils, but they must be
largely beneficial to the human family. It is no considerable earnest of future
good that the very nature of the design compels us to consider all mankind as
one community * * * when men are Strangers, they are ready to become
enemies; render them mutually acquainted, and they soon become mutually
useful, and when their interests are at stake we may safely reckon on their
continued and abiding friendship. * * *

Let us continue to improve our air-transport planes and our air-
transport services. Let us see that the objectives finally accomplished
are those envisioned above. And make certain that it shall not come
to pass that the air conquers man, but that truly man conquers the air!
Oe

arent

Kasei cc cuneate onto
— wm" ree , 24

et rind

(sade

fee iti a0

iy! ne ant’ oie we beck auton ds oye
i.) GN a jas Eke Bains hid
nit ag fi “ ;

¥

Uaeta Rad
eee

i

vac Soe
ee on Bh

Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Wright PLATE 1

SW ose ee
z

: ;

‘=
i =

eT |
v Se
~ i a

oe
em

1. BOEING 40-B, 1926.

2. FORD TRIMOTOR.

3. CURTISS CONDOR, 1930.
Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Wright PLATE 2

| Se

1. HANDLEY-PAGE 42, 1931.

\ eh

bree tnin

pibiknioe a Led FT :

2. BOEING 247, 1934.

AMERICAN AIRWAYS.

3. CURTISS CONDOR SLEEPER, 1934.
Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Wright PLATE 3

1. SIKORSKY S-42, 1934.

2. DOUGLAS DC-2, 1934.
Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Wright PLATE 4

1. MARTIN 130, 1935.

Nh

DOUGLAS DC-3, 1936.
Smithsonian Report, 1941.— Wright PLATE 5

a &

1. INTERIOR OF DOUGLAS DC-3, 1937.

2. INTERIOR OF DOUGLAS DC-3, 1937.
Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Wright

a aa

1. SHORT EMPIRE FLYING BOAT, 1937.

2. BOEING 314 CLIPPER, 1937.

3. INTERIOR OF BOEING 314 CLIPPER.
Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Wright PEATE,

1. LOCKHEED 14, 1937.

seve

2. DOUGLAS DC-5, 1939.

3. BOEING 307 STRATOLINER, 1939.
Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Wright PLATE 8

1. DOUGLAS DC-4, 1939.

Offices for Passe.

ie

Walkway for Foreign Landplane arrivals~-~~ 3
Landing Float»

BOWERY Administration 8dg.
BAY lneluding Customs
and Public Health oy
Ramp” :
Marine Railway
Hangar

Nh

LA GUARDIA AIRPORT, NEW YORK, 1939.
Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Wright PLATE 9

1. MAYO COMPOSITE AIRPLANE. 1939.

2. PROPOSED TRANSPORT HELICOPTER.
‘oonds 03180 puv UOMBZLINSSoId IOJ UOISTAOI]

‘OZ IBGOW LHSINM-SSILYHND °z

‘OV6l O02 ISGOW LHSIYM-SSILYND °1

SOON YEE aes
OF THCOW ANore M-eerie

yerN VEL oe

aa
{ ™
wren ae ot
OF TIGOW LHOMM-SsELEAD -

i>
slcooes t ~
OF TAEOW LitoHtiMm -T9 Litify ‘
\
x =
_—
: Pe: te :
(he paw eaee ee
ute *
Peas ae — WAS
Ol 3LV1d

\d

N

T :
}

ISI — [$6] ‘Oday ueruosyarUIG
Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Wright PLATE 11

age

1. INTERIOR OF CURTISS-WRIGHT MODEL 20.

2. CURTISS-WRIGHT MODEL 20.

Fuel tank size comparison.
el 3SLV1d

“ALID HYOA MAN YSAO LHSOI14 NI OC TSGOW LHSIYM-SSILYND

IYBUA\—"| 6] ‘Odey ueruosy wg
Smithsonian Report, 194].—Wright PLATE 13

1. BOEING PAN AMERICAN CLIPPER.

2. DOUGLAS DC-4.
Smithsonian Report, 1941.—Wright PLATE 14

wc
—— g
>

1. INTERIOR OF PROPOSED SIKORSKY OCEAN AIRLINER.

2. PROPOSED SIKORSKY OCEAN AIRLINER.
INDEX

A
Page
Abbot, C. G., Secretary of the Institution__--___-_____-__--_-----.__-_- = ix,
x, xiii, 7, 9, 18, 36, 37, 46, 47, 108, 109, 110
PANDO VY foe Deas se CULER een ee eee eee 27
JA@TRET, ARTIST 840 2d ee ee ee at 5
BCH ERENT SBS se pee a to 47
Adams, Walter S. (What lies between the stars) _----__--__-_--_----_-___- 141
Administrative assistant to the Secretary (Harry W. Dorsey) ------------ ix
Administrative staff, National’ Museum==22l2e lessee ee xii
Ones USNS Fa eae ee ee 25
PeRIOS UML yi Cite) 2 se oS eee = TAO
Aldrich, Loyal B., Assistant Director, Astrophysical Observatory___---- xiii, 108
LST DR 7 One ee ee x
JASE SGV OSORZ, COREE) 0) 8 78
ASC yee eee eee ee ee at 10
Agse(th asics ADOT ESS LOS TUS ee 13
Arthurslecture: tenth 225225 20 2 ot bh es oe eee ea lok id 13
Artificial converters of solar energy (Hottel) —------_---__-_----__---- 151
Assistant Secretary of the Institution (Alexander Wetmore) -—-_--_-__-- bo
Associate Director, National Museum (John BH. Graf) ------------_----- x
ANETOPHVSiCa lO DSCLVALOLYa oes eaten ee xiii, 7
PASTING) gy see re aero a iaeeb Le aha es Ree eS ES ous a 14 (
TERR VERICG SSH Ee C0 YS pe ee pa ee ne ee pe 110
PEE ROTC leet serrate ue wean ns eben Wa a Ee ote aad 8
DSTA ee re a nie crete a ltr Se er he 108
PS UNE Y AND 80 Tey ch ae dere oe oe ee eo ee a ee ose 110
Atom, The new frontiers in the (Lawrence) ~---__-__---__--______-__-—--_ 163
Attorney General (Robert H. Jackson, member of the Institution) _-__---- ix
PAS Me ACITia Ger ies ee Meee IML AA Riek See! oo ee Xx
PAR RES GOUT Sees ee etan ennai nr Rte We ed Sa ee ee See 46

B
Bacon Mrs. .vireinia, Purdy, bequest..-.-~-- 2S eee 11
Berkley, Alben W. (regent of. the Institution) .-~~—.-.--> 2-2... =42— ix, 8
FERSRTSE CS py oder ee ee ST RE Ns 2 eee x
laine cert, (Enero rae | Copy e ree Dit Cay a 20
Bartiestaprobert cA 2 ee eee eee 16, 28
Vee ere J EP Se ee ee eee ee ee > pal
ES ASSIGIS pithy eer 8 Se So ee ee ae eee xi
SCA Chis CNSLO 1 Ge ee res a ee ee eee xi
on (Chiro yol Se ee eee ee eee 46

585
586 INDEX

Page

Belin, Ferdinand Lammot, Vice President, National Gallery of
AP CS TN Te RO eee xii, 36, 37, 38, 44
SCRE) STs TC eee a hy at te re ee te xii
Boernd, Ace Chara re} Cee ae aa ca ea = x
Bequests ook 2a ie a 0 ie a ae ee ee 14
Bishop, Carl: Whiting 2225 aoe ee Te ee eee ee ee xii
Blackwelder, Eliot (Science and human prospects)_--________-________ 267
BB eek wel cheney cy ER.) pt SSS Se te re Tce ea Tee 220x320
Bliven, Bruce (The genes and the hope of mankind)_--______-_________ 293
Bolivian’ Mimisters 2 osha EN le Ii Ser a aay SR ee 4
SOM, WU A IM oe i Ss ed ENC Cc te ep ea ee 108
Portes s: Coa les gy ye ee ha NN La ie Eee a 46, 47
EES SSS ee IN OTT Ag ee EN I ges ea Se xi
BSG virgen xi
STV SLOT GS Ta] Oy ee eee ae aC ne ge a 60
PSElGgee, Jes ten Tye ee Sal Dek el ee na SAE a BE ae 30
Brown, W..) Doo set Se ee ee ee pie 2 ds Aes OE he x, 16
Bruce, David K. E., President, National Gallery of Art_________ xii, 35, 36, 37, 38
EST YO Gy ED See SO ee on ia A ST PS ene xii
Sy Gy EDO ry ie ee aa ace eg LS RRR Ah 28
eo (6) oF i ok: bo balia DgMun Dieta Breer en he Ub yN vane hn ec pare see MERE aE A UN SR rere DLAs Oh ee Su x
Bush, Vannevar (regent of the Institution) _________________________ ix, 8, 9, 136
Bushnell; sDavidl Wi Vrs sh ke ae ee 16

Cc

Canfield)’, Puri. oe 82 tt eS oe ee eee 21
Cannon, Clarence (regent of the Institution) _-______.________________ ix, 8,9
Care, of scaptive) animalsi(Walker) 2 2 0 aaa ee eee 305
@arey; | Cheer eg ese e ea cts Be Te ee xii
Carr ilcer yi Aes Fe eo a tI ee 26, 27
ASSOC ye Gwyn Ce i Ee eee A ee 67
Chamberlainsirances Lea’ \fund os a ee ns 21

Chancellor of the Institution (Charles Evans Hughes, Chief Justice of
the United States) 22.2 so see ix
Ghapin;;Hdward! Ac) oes 2 ee Le ee a ee eee ee x, 28

Chief Justice of the United States (Charles Evans Hughes, Chancellor
OL Mt Hee FIN SCUGUCL OM) ee a ee ea I ix, 3, 8, 9, 36, 37
Chief Justice of the United States (Harlan F. Stone) __---________-_____ 37
Chief Justice of the United States (Trustee, National Gallery of Art)-~- xii
CaSO Ar Fa a Ne A Ae er x AG
@hasesMorence' «Mass os ek eee ee eee ee xiii
(Useful caleae) i202. ie ai St ee ee ee 401
Deere Ace Wn 6 ee ld EE er ee x, 16
Clark, Bennet Champ (regent of the Institution) _----_-______-__________ ix, 8,9
Lear Wk + Tipe iD a a ei eh es re i i i a Ml el eh re A xii
Tape, » Wesel gra hl Bie sin ok ec ae a Se ee EE ee xiii
Glark.“Robert: Sterling esses oe ee el belts nol eal Sat Ee ee xi
CLAr Ke; + Goll ores Dc ase a i sore a a ts ee ae ET 46, 47
LOLA TE ob of: b ajay O10) of fafee) Ce eetane ame ntele ee epee EON De ica RI ee oe Pkg a Re ape etaer ae pe ! x
Cole; William’ P:. Jr. (regentiof-the Institution) === ix, 8
CollinsHenry* Bs Jr ee ee ee xiii, 5, 61

Commertord) 1. W226 ooo oe ee ee cist xii
INDEX 587

Page
Compton, Arthur H. (regent of the Institution) _._.______-___-____-____ ix,8
(Sefence shaping’ American culture) 22.24.52. 262220222) 2 175
(Sto) VEG Loy OMENS 1 pee Ee Lee See RTL ELA eee Semen eer. VIED Gc tater Oe 63
* CCRISTRELSY gr] Gf27, 0 RPS oe SESS CP ele as ia Oe cae neo Paine, Beare EL Lh AEE xi
Contacts between Iroquois herbalism and colonial medicine (Fenton) ______ 503
BOK Opals fee SB ett eal th ashi coop etd mh Wi ete ey. ed ol dah ple edt eoxd
CoonpermGustay? Arthurs: £228 ele aT ee ee xi, 16, 30
Corbin; William L:, Librarian of the Institution= 2222 2241 eee ix, 122
Craighead, F. C. (The influence of insects on the development of forest
Protection and, forest management) oe es ae che in ee 367
CHE ISIES A119 08 00h 0 Poe RSP TR SE a en eather es ROE VME Las GENE CAEL Lars xi
GabanvA mba ssa 0 ree rales sank eT a eek ks ekviia cheers Sel ee eek 4
Cushman; Joseph Ages 2 eee eben tee, See irl ae: el Te lon x
CAS VSUSUE DONT USS 29) 775 ae le a Be ee 2 x
D
A ev SOM it) On ea a ar ice ee SEN og 43
Davis; HarveyaN. (regent of the! Institution) 222. 22s ase eee Wor ix, ‘8.9
TEER GY eh sh BAP) te ee aa on SRR Vn PL SE TOI RE PLT ore COP a 62
Decipherment of the linguistic portion of the Maya hieroglyphs (Whorf)__ 479
Mefense swore 2. oS ee ee Oe eS Zsa laa
Werehan wh Gaon aco sn ene tos oo ae coon A x
Delano, Frederic A. (regent of the Institution) ___________________ ix, 8, 9, 1386
PETS TANGO EOE HTT CCS a oe ee __6, 68, 64
(Thetstudy Jof indian music) BEE =a ea i se ee ee 527
Dorsey, Harry W., Administrative assistant to the Secretary____--_- Ath ix
Dorsey, Nicholas W., Treasurer of the Institution-.__-_________-_-_______ 1b.¢p.ab |
Dy TTEL cy SAME 217011 5 ¢ ieee ne ee ONDE Se EP PaO np LE LD” BA CAE 5, 56
ENS) CATA CERIN, AW CAL LA Cs ays ee ee a a a I ee xi
BE
AIS LON IS COL LT eee a on Ue Farha oe 7 oe ees wane EEE 37
Hditorial division; ~Chief) (Webster P) True) ese-22 a ee ib:
DES Tee EDN de DT NN Sis a as ree ono Es ee eee poe 35
Hickemeyer, HlorenceBrevoort, bequest] 2222) soon s eee Se 15
Hinarsson, Vigfus (Iceland, land of frost and fire) _-____________________ 285
Electrical industry, The role of science in the (Smith) ---_____-__-______-- 199
DE ATES Su (ia se SE SA COS Se ts ng Pn AES xX
PETAL SDS SEC OTT @ fhe ie at Rs EE Pd ee ene LN eh 27
OSI mOM Chin] Hye rs CLG TT Cs cay) a el ee ae 557
ISCAS LISH Terns aD ia Cees Se UO I 2 TL | SN ee eee le be 8
EH OLO Rye ES ULC Uh Of PA Tr CT Ce Tae cl pl nl es eS al xiii, 5
TT 68 A a a le te atone BA DAG ee 67
Hditorial work and publications#2 22424 ee eee eee 65
JOUER Greet nto) tl: eee nee tere bee, Pee ene ay eee ee eee nee eee ere eens er eA Ee 67
1B 1) ae ee IE oR ny eee eee See Tee PROTO NERS ets Meme Eee ea LELUMGRAS Lee 66
Mi SCellaMOO ig ape ee OY Une 2D AE SNe DE OGY POOL BIS 68
CVS rT ON a ae SE ELE OAS SD) a 9 68
FREDO bse scr le ee hc ed os SEES E28 56
Special-cresearch esses seis 6 SE a ees 63
Systematic; researches: 25 2300 52 ee See De eee ee Se 56

Excavations of Solomon’s seaport: Ezion-geber, The (Glueck) _------— — 453
588 INDEX

Page
Executive Committee... ae at Se Oa vale SE eee OF ix, 130
Report. s3 oo os on See OC on Perce. bene ge Menten 130
PTT OP TIA CIOS oie TA ee nea ane oy eee 135
BST | | sap pie A wt GR Gh OR RN REO eA ae e ll Ar A 136
Bequestseic ty 22a ito, Sia te ites CU ay eeige tel ae 135
Cash balances, receipts, and disbursements during the fiscal year_. 133
Classification of. Investments. 2 207 rae lee 132
Consolidated. fand 22 92 we Bisse ys od ti para sae Ss BR Be AE 2 Be 132
reer: Gallery-of Art: fund 13 2! e wel Yes en A ee 132
Smithsonian Endowment, Lu ee ee 130
Recernngn ry for eh a ir al a ee J A at 72 A 182
Explorations and. field work === ee. Sean ae 15
Eizion-geber, The excavations of Solomon’s seaport: (Glueck) —---__-______ 453
iy
Bipot ely Uo AM 8 MTC SRAM Re URS RA ee Ree ie Vesa) OR ATE ANNA SUS paS WAST We Mika lyn SNAG xi
Wen tons Willig nis Noses ek te Bsn us xiii, 5, 16, 62, 63
(Contacts between Iroquois herbalism and colonial medicine) —_-_____ 503
CER aces ane e ais) US The in ae We le a a 9
Finley, David E., Director, National Gallery of Art--__-_--____ xii, 37, 38, 46, 47
Hirestone Expedition, Smithsonian: 3.52 ee 3, 6, 20, 27, 81, 82
Hirestone Tire, Rubbers Co. fe On Lo) seh ce pe 2 pa 16, 81
Mishwandp wildlife: ‘Services 522 eas er ese  s  e e 3, 16, 21, 27, 28
Sere As Tee ee OE eel 0 i xi
Forest protection and forest management, The influence of insects on the
development .of;(Craighead)) 22. scents sop talidae SEP ee 367
MOshag, Wee Wea cat a he i ek Beak | anon ea NN) TED es Doe xi, 12, 21, 29
taser, iJ ames yes te NN) sa a Bie 2 eet a 46
Beederiok, Wallis As co) CN Tae a ie as 37
IU POCMAN ¢) ET ee 2 Lares ooe crc wel ep UTA) LAU eg ad Ad ends Gh ee Oe 110
reer’ Gallery, Gis Arba lon 5c) ws eee Si ae MIN eS JAR aa xii, 4
oN 21016 C2 81 Gf: eee Re CORUM AMG SN Vameue we Uk Mee eerste 2. ky 53
Collections? 20a ots ia ee Wg eek ee a call) ae eS 51
Tectures, and .docent ‘service. 20220 Na 54
Personnel soy cio 8 ia es tela hci ee 54
DS (2) 6,0) ele eee ee ren ADRS Vere yO ey LDN O ON) MOU NE Waynes Re ony NIA cube CT 51
A/T) 0) « - Seen ean UIE MERIDIEN AML OMe 2 RGU e) eines Phy Moon: AU RCD oice ume averse ee IT 54
Mrey, ‘Charles Ei) SQ 222 ie 8 es eR 29
ricdmann: Per pert 82 2 te oie a ya aaa 2 ee x, 42
G
Garbersi Parra] Foe te Ds Re a xi
POs Raat) oie (2) 2) sl, aenteer ae ROT I EAN DE MEL SE ROWS nee Pgeesk MLE ier 6 es 8
Gazims :O.ebeywis se tee Uh ai SAL Ic Ie Fe RD xi, 16, 30
elifert, sAlired spies 2 et ate ah 8 2 Oh) Ce 37
Gemeralle Ap pen cies sk ee Lh cy AC eR Ua NS 137
Genes and the hope of mankind, The (Bliven) ---________________._§___ 22/293
Gifford, Charles L. (regent of the Institution) __-___________________ 8,9
Gilmore; sCharles Wiis ok ea eee xi
Glueck, Nelson (The excavations of Solomon’s seaport: Ezion-geber)—____ 453
Graf, John E., Associate Director, National Museum_______-_--__________ x

Graliam,, Dyaviid Gaia Sher Rk lo oy xi
. INDEX 589

Page
VOR GUT! CTL EE PEGS SRDS Sa Pe eR ree Se eee a) ag OY OU: Pe chy SO 78
emeene Gg CHATICS pl ee Moe ot! oe lee Ped seh ee ah ae ee A a te. x
Srawenenormonessin. nants): (Thimann)) 22-22 ee ea ee 393
Guest, Grace Dunham, Assistant Director, Freer Gallery of Art--..-_____ xii
H
PASAT ONT ewes OMT MB aS ee xiii, 5, 16, 57, 58
MASUR ETT Sm ECTISS OMT aired os ee SN 2 ra eS 2 Sh ae 16, 21
Ewin Sie Mrs: RUSSCL, Ji. 22 ek ee ea 16
SES LETS 0 Se gl eee See RT ee See ae ES Oe eR CORE PELE 37
METESPIRL eC TISCNT] cop CLNy UEC hee sa a Ee xi
LELESISL LOPES hop Se SS ae alee eee re Prater ed Tats ONAL eg 0 3 uf xi
ED EPRaamMmes l-, MROpeLey Clerk 8 oo ee ix
TE IBDN EGS, NNUAL IEE OT ESS Ge RS aS UR LT A ey Sar Ry sexi 08
Hopi Snake Dance, Snake bites and the (Stirling)_-__--_________________ 551
TS ay gid PYEL ANd ee a anges 9 Ue A ere es eer ae = x
Homuonessin= plants, ‘Growth ‘(‘Thimann) 2-22. ee ee 393
Hottel, H. C. (Artificial converters of solar energy) ~.-._________________ 151
ERCROR ON ome Aeam Es IH Zl Tae hoes Se SEN Ae 8 eer Bh et a Rh re a ee ee de Bt x
LE LEA SADIE Di Cs esl al a ah i a en Sn heh ds VOR ye x
LS VEQUAVER Destroy ey aD Ce af a pe ee ey i a Tes a rl 24
VB ODEN FT LN a et ati he Spe er a x
ATUL eae E SELINA Oly Cli 11h) es ee ea eee a en ee 557
Hughes, Charles Evans, Chief Justice of the United States (Ghaneeior
Bye Va sig) GAYS am ba C0) 0 eerste tee meet a area oc ee ap ix, 3, 8, 9, 36, 37
Hull, Cordell, Secretary of State (member of the Institution) __._-_______ atts bays ¥{
I
Feeland land of frost. and fire) (Winarsson) 22 =- 2a eee 285
Ickes, Harold L., Secretary of the Interior (member of the Institution) —__ ix
Fader e xh DiC ec On Le Sete TRE sa a Sa eek See Se Se 8 eee Eee ee J 12
nidianymusic; The study of (Densmore) o222 22-32) eee eee = ee ae
Insects, The influence of, on the development of forest protection and
forest manaArement (Craighead) 20s sss see ee ae Pe SEER SYS
imterna tional Hix change). Serv lc esses ee a ee ee xiii, 2,6
ADNropriati on 22255 4s Sas eee Be Etta ae Sea eS 69
WOnSTPMMEN ES: TOR Gees a ee ee es a Ae hv en oe 71
Hepositoriesot “Congressional Record 222242 = se ee eee eee 1
Foreign depositories of governmental documents__________________ 71
Horeignvexchanpe sngencies] 25 2 = so wwe ee ees See ee ee eee 75
Interparliamentary exchange of the official journal______.-_____-____ 73
PAPA PeS TECeLVely HNC NEN sen ta ee eee ere a eee ee 69
RERONG 2 2a seek ee he ae LA ee et eee Lbeee er eR ee 69
Iroquois herbalism and colonial medicine, Contacts between (Fenton). 503
J
Jackson, Robert H., Attorney General (member of the Institution) _ ix
James, Macgill, Assistant Director, National Gallery of Art-_._____-__ xii, 37
PeNMIOT ROY id ahi oa ee, SA nes 81

Johnston, Earl S., Assistant Director, Division of Radiation and
Organisms) anes nek 8 ih ia iy Sa ek ee ee xiii, 115
590 INDEX

Page
Jones, Jesse H., Secretary of Commerce (member of the Institution) — ix
SB INN a a I Ea ao ee xX
K
eellog pe. A Remini get rae Me ee aE oe he en a X, o, of
Keppel... Wrederi ch: Pes tpt tas ah SS ee ee A eae 46
BRC CH UUNM IMT ea rh BS ao a xiii
KGillip;: HIS worth By c at  S mas xi
Kialine,. sGordores Mis CE Te Stiles) a a 225
Knox, Frank, Secretary of the Navy (member of the Institution) -____ ix
Hap? W002) ere Gos ete ne me ne TY OE ees Ege EB Foy ees nue OPO ny epeerecnas SAS GIN NR AE 109
BGREVEELEY eA & (OP pear ee ay ice le ML ED PT Hs SENG ESE EE eTbCeS Nw WerPUR ONE Ne ATL A x
Bares) 2 @o lec tira isa eS a oh A ae 8, 35, 36
IGresss% SAMMC AHL oe ee he xii, 3, 4, 36, 37, 44 4
L k,
Lasley, J. W., Jr. (Mathematics and the sciences)_____-_-_____________ 183 4
j OSS Od UPR Ge Ee ee a oe ee 79 f
SST ha tye UN GIS al (ot ee Sea ae There emt ee NE, Steelman hen tee Mal ees NS 26 %
Leonard, Wimery: (C2272 0 ae ee ee = xi "
Tein, OCs Be tent Tae inde ny no ene eee 28 q
Tew GOM, HCE CN Diss es UI EL CS RE a ee xi '
Librarian of the Institution (William i Corbin) 2322 eee ix h
GF OY eee Wk pS a IN eh A ee ern a te Le teh ba Ree iy MAID eee paflede Coe ee Ue ras ill .
TA CCOCSSIONS ieee ee ts Bae Ee Ee Naa ee OE Se mae aay $20 i
ESN Ty a I ee PEN ILENE i cee ae es coe 121
MXCHAN GEOL PUDLCAELOMS Sa See Ne I a aE cipro areae iar. We eed eestor 117
(64 Vtg Ul A Sede aa eee aROn Ne CAIN Oey Gestetner Lok fein uel es as chedleaes 119 .
MAUD TAT YS y SUC ia ee ea RE Se Ree er ene Rte eee ee 116 |
Dye ETEK0 oP aL ald bea eae alae ath en oe Se der ate cgian hrs, alam ed a nee oe a 122
0] GY Si pele Ve HH LS = aac Realname ape e take abe tartnes wrens}. yon p vans. lelenot mts eren si yuh ol 121 4
fey 2) of=10) a VOY >) epee eet ee A ad les else liga age eA ete Oona el ag eee ped le 116 4
DRG 6 {0 ot Pan ef Rid aA echt bayer Sed chidh nuh s enaccha Piates et asa 116 R
ES FEW ELSI Uys mse xe le Sra A sR ora ON AR Leeda al capi Lead a 120 ;
B E0) oY SVU bg" (als (ied ea clin ecera tes ap A ae uncom es Nea Ae nape cylin wtfes Cibo uae ie, 0 28 |
Lodge, John Ellerton, Director, Freer Gallery of Art___--_----____ xii, 46, 47, 55 ;
Og aT ri Cs cActers rns ot see eros eee ee Nee ee eee ee ee ee 79
ELOVeLrin syne Se eae ee ea ew er FN 2 Sees Er SU eee eee La EE Cee 29
M /
Macturdy. ‘George Gta iit ace ee ec har ee eR Ere x :
WTO MG ye ECS (Oe a ec ee eee x
Mann, W. M., Director, National Zoological Park______ BEI Hyd. dey Wa WOO Pais tole UOC!
Weir! (RIS) WHILST Ee tee eee see nce es een eee eee ea 16, 81 :
Nanning: > Catherine: Teo ees ee eal gt ea eel ore ee xii k
Bur ESTs 0 f=} 0H OPO Octo Cee et ae. SL LR aN Needs AU TL set Yves Ga Siete yd abt ot 46, 47 ;
Marshall, WilliamtiBex o> ©. saWech) ekaaey caudal ae xi
Mathematics and the sciences (Lasley) __-._.---_._____ 183 ‘
Mather,Wrank (Jewett: clea Sa ee es ce 46, 47 ;
Matterszof ‘general interest: <12.oe)2) _- saaegwit 2 ur ahi eo 2 da ee 9

Mauersberger, Herbert R. (The new synthetic textile fibers) _-_-_-_____ sane 21
INDEX 591

Page
SIVA EUROS WY 5 aa eR hen Bs a Ek ge ge ere Beye dae pete Soe ogy an 9T xi
Maya hieroglyphs, Decipherment of the linguistic portion of the
‘CUCL eee ee ne ep ee 479
1 PONT 9 “LOTG £2 eCs LD RE BR ee ee ee Se eS xiii
RRA CO WV ge Ma a as ee a ees Se ae ate eee x
McBride, H. A., Administrator, National Gallery of Art_________________ xii, 37
NLC arin TORS sn IOI Se ee Ee LS SE 108
BTUs Ais Pes a nn Se CNY gg a cl Ne ee eee 46
RISC CURING With se a Ne en Ns oe Seiten 29
MeNary, Charles L. (regent of the Institution) ~-___-____________________ iIxis
AVPeTOM CAME WA WV eats oS Bees ye ai ees ered eh ares 4, 34, 36, 43, 44
Meloni Collectiones 2222 = sh ee Se ee 3, 35, 36
Melon: Hdaueationalcand, Charitable: Trust==) = ee eee 34, 35, 43
UTA 27 nee Lee ears Cee AND MO ASE erst 3, 35, 36
Menibers;oL the Institution ==. 22-. 22 ss 2 ee ix
Wer Co Pang ee Se Se ee ee ea eS xi
CANTLELS, (COLETTE etic aR SS RE oe ce Se Se ee ees Kaley
Ivy Grey PTS CORPS Veg) "eS ES anal Se ee BA ES Pe ee eee Ee x12
Morgenthau, Henry, Jr., Secretary of the Treasury (member of the
BUSEY Sea Qe LA eNO YN) ce NS ee ee a ee EES ER ix, 37
Morris: Roland S: (regentof the Institution) ——-—-~ > e e ee ix, 8,9
Minrri SOD OSC TN bay Maes ce See eh ae
MoOrtellitonsOOMmeniCOs == 25) en ee a Be eh ee ey a eae 79
RPE Ea roan Ox) Ve ree ee ee ed Se ee eee xi
Munsell, Hazel E. (Vitamins and their occurrence in food) ---__----_____ 239
Mrssinan: Alfred. «bequest. = 6 ee Us ee Ee See is 15
Myer a@acherimne: Walden: fund 220-5522 ee ee ee 4, 47
N
eto aie rOadCASting: Qe aa ee eee ee 9, 10
Waisonalucolection of MinevATts 2 2e2 2 ee = ee ie eee xii, 4
STS ORLY OY EY a V0) 9 RE es Se i a A A le a see Ds SE ec 45
PES ENU TICS CS a ese ae oe I ee re a eee ee 45
Catherine Walden, Myer fund 222" tes ee eee ee eee 47
Henry Ward, Ranger tnnd 222 ee ee eee 49
TOaNs, ACCeDLeG soe ee ee ee 48
Loans to other museums and organizations_____________-__-________ 48
moans ere tirned 2.2 te Se ee Ee ee eee 49
PE ea LT Ce Gt VIS se eS ot ee ee 50
PEE SE REET SALE) Teed Ye see a 49
DE Ey OY oe Sa ea E g eee  e 45
Smithsonian) Art (Commission. 2 = eS eee See 46
Specialmexhibitions 225 2025 Lets ip) ee a as 49
Witnorawsis. by owners =o ee ae ie 48
MSP TIGR Gy ULL Os Oe cA Tee ee ne eee >. Ol BS}
PA COUISIUION Soo 2a aes Se ee eee ee ee 39
Committee. = a = oa ae mes aT i a ra LS oe ek 38
ZAP PEODYI a tion oe es = ee I RS oO bes PE ee as 38
PE LESTN ON AN CC a or ea eek ges, ES a ces eee el eg DR Ut ee 39
Audit of private funds___-__--_- Ee nee ee near eamNe Sele 5 | 44
Commemorative tablet on the erection of the building______________ 43
Completion and occupation of the gallery building._________________ 34

Curatorial departr en tes ke ae aN es a ee ee 41
592 INDEX

Page
Dedication ceremonies and opening of the Gallery to the public________ 35
Educational programa tcp ets ated ot a ee Le 42
Mxrecutive...committee 22.6 ee a ee 37
Ushi fDi Chon ei el Ne Ale ee 43
Expenditures .and: encumbrances... 2232 oe 38
Finance), committee 2004. hs bee be ae yD i Pe Oe mes 37
Gifts ase A ae i ee 3 eae ee 39, 40
MAI een ry I IS NL a A 2 42
Loan.of: works of'art: bythe Gallery 20225 2 ee 41
Loans)of works‘of artito the Gallerynco tenia se soos or ae 40
Memorial panels to benefactors of the National Gallery of Art_______ 43
ferrin els Cen No le ties ac Pa eT gece A a 43
Offleinis2 223) es ee ad i Se oe ee ey xii
Organization..and)stath 2.02 a ee eas 36
Photographic: department, 2.2) 2 oo ae eee ee ee 42
(Paablicethors Pear re a ee 2 a a 39
NEY =) 010) | BAe 5 an as ae Ee MAR eeterts ne Me Ln. Wee Mason) Wy Pep Wer econ, etn Dee IL Se 34
Restoration and repairs to works of art-____-_-____-______-__________ 41
Saleoriexchange or worksiof art22l Se eee ee eee 40 fh
National Museum ooo nee a ee 2 )
Administrative staff 0220022 AA ei a a ee Ee a a xii ih
ADDEODEIA CTO ee ee a ee ee 19
Changes: in organization and Staff 27 222s 32
Collection se ae a eM aS ek Sa ee a 19
Hxplorations and: field \workeeeseee Bias ae ee eee 23, (
Publications and printing oe ee ee 31
Report sss 19
Scientific! states eee re ee eee eae nee eee eee x
Specialvexhibite suse oe te ee i ee oral 32
Visitors ee eee a eS Se 2 eee ee ee 31
National. /Zoological | Parkes wat eae a ae ee eee — xiii, 6
ACCO@SSIONS j2a= oo oo a a ee 81
Statement: cot i ee eS ee ae ae 89
Animals.in; the:Zoo June: 50; 1941 2222s Ss ee ae eee 89
Appropriation 22 eS ee ai a TE a eee 78
BGs eee ee ae ee ar a ee 96
Donors and their: gifts ose ee ee See eee ee &3
IX Changes eee eee ee en eee ee 87
B=) 1 OOO 0) ne rE SSD a I oth Cone yao i Na AIRE SA a 81
iS Tega ee I I a 82, 83
Improvements 2220S ae ee Se ee ae 78
INCGdS LOL | EG ZO Se a a ce a ee tte Perea 79
PQTSO MTN a NA LA Ne SAL SC SE DS ME en 78
PuireGH ase eee oe oe re NS A ee ee 87
TER TOV Se ih A ENDO A ae Se Te a eS 88
J 5X5) 070.) nf RSE wes Me an Sana eee ee GOP a NEC Les pecs mle ay aire, esol oath EEE TS A 78
Species new to the history of the collection--______-__________---_--_- 88
Statusiofithercollectione ee ee ee eee re ee 89
sh 5B 0 = ea eA UA NU A A Ne ae 80
BINED AN eS ea ee eee 109

New frontiers in the atom, The (Lawrence) ~--_---___-____--_--_--------- 163
INDEX 593

Page
SCOR ATs Ste RR FUN Pa tes ee, Be cee a Pee Se a ee 81
O
RED PER TOM e ip) EDDM SUT 2 ie te ras WS PTE 5 5s RA IY ws AR AOR UL ne Ae aia 13
(OYEMVSTS TE) BA WU ip CRA Ga wig a Une OR a IP See NA rh Se | UM A ot xii, 126
Mrciulsvof- the: InStitwtlons ss 2) as ete ae ee ix
Cele es WIeNnCG Lies <seers eaeek an are Nien Oe ee a Ss SE xii
«OY EAS) 1 7 ah RE a SS A PR PI Oh et eC Ne i rc xii
Ohnsted> Helen A:; personnel (oficer aa sya ee ae ee ix
MOUSE SELON NE VOD ES ees re ect ae a ES GU A ee ee es 1
P
1 EIT (SST 8 Ba ate Re a eh AL Epp Peat NE ON AAAS pl OU RSL SN x
YEP PUP TIVE eyes UBD S (SYS Yee ay 5 aS a Se eS Re RAN Is xiii, 65, 128
PULIMET WENCOU OLE i yarn ease ee eee ee ec, ee ee eee xi
PellwCornelia Livingston, states. 2.22 coe a ey © ae ee ee ees 4, 45
Perkins, Frances, Secretary of Labor (member of the Institution) ________ ix
TE Pere SYS, 7 CL EN a aa De re RR Nt OR Dae ae 28
VEXEV RIG ERLE GL a) SLR es es aa a et A ens eel oop eon HU Aer x1 28
ERTS SIE, QO) SR RS I A Nel, lh ccaeep ee DAI 27
Personnel. officer, (Helen A: Olmstedd) 222922200 ea eee ix
He Sse Wow bls se a ee NADIE Os re eee ee el 26
MATIN PTCA on Sos eS a xii, 36, 37, 38
PHS neva Tebarney Chome. i202 oe eee Se ae ee 86
SES EPE SEA CSUCVESCNT CLG) ee coe sen ag, Seta er ee ane Fae a 225
one Jounerussell=:— 25 v2 So bs ee eee oan J Se ee ees 35
Postmaster General (Frank C. Walker, member of the Institution)____ ix:
President of the United States (Franklin D. Roosevelt) .-__-_______ ix, 4, 36
Presiding officer ex officio (franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the
1G ACeCa V SESHE YS) a i a Ree ae el ee ix
Prices Waterhouse, CO] = so 2 a ee oe ee ee ee 44
Pramerrvrcierk (James 3s. Till). 2422. be eg et ee ix
TENSE DIN EU Pa 0S RS ee ee ee eee eae er bas 17
FAULOTMeNnCS fOrsprintl ng ses eee ee ee Re ee 128
American) Historical: Associations 22 ena ee ee ee 128
Davehters of the American Revoluvionjo-22--- ae es oe eee 128
Di Stel but On ae ae es ss ES NRE ta AU ibe i ERA Ese aU AI EEL 13:
HILCANOLOSY je bULeA Oh VA MCL CAN sass ee ae ae eee eee 128
TMEREL eye CE EIN HSS ek 70) IRs gM AGS A a ip ee Eee 127
National Collection of Nine Arts=o2e2 oo ene ne eee eee 127
Ne iOn ale MIS@ ris sees oe ese eae Ra SR ee ae ee 126
Annual Reports. =o See ee 126
Dest hima aise ee a ee Er 5 Due eae ea 1h re 127
Contributions from the U. 8S. National Herbarium——_--_--__-__ 127
Proceedings se ae a SN NT ah i Ss ine NaN en 126
15S) 670 ONS ae em iL SR SHE Ran aU Ly Oe hd Speed SRG ny CPmepe ee seen Jo. UE 123
SITAR UGE SO MM SY eA he en ea eA Ae 123
Annual iReportsi saan ats TPT ED ier et Ret oie ess ae 124
Miscellaneous iCollectionsieuss 22085. TA aa ye oh ees Be oe 123
Special ‘publications stoee) sence sa aoe Bee eee reel ee Seek 125
594 INDEX

R

Page
Radiation,.ang: Organisms), ‘Division fo. = sae ee ee xiii, 7
Minanctal sSmppe rt a a Se ee ee ee es 111
Influence of cultural conditions on the growth of algae______________ 114
Influence of light in early growth of grass seedlings________________ 114
InfiuencerOre TAdratlON. ON ESP UT a Gl OW ee ee ee 15
Papers ‘presented at mectingso- Soe ee ae ee eee ee SS 115
TSO IN TA Ca a re es cc a eat ee Eo 115
Publics long oe eee ee ee ee ee eee ees Se 115,
Bi) 4 0) 3 Pesan el ee ce POEs i mS Meee ee eae ie dy Sy SSIES Wears ETA ght yo 111
TRA GIO “PT OSTA de 259) LOA!
Ranger, Henry. Ward, fan dla c ce ee oe ee eee 49
BAS a) OVD pW ah a Peet ieee ae le ap ee ee eg ges Hal ap open ee eat ete gL xi
PECAN WULyais WN cS css aerate Tel Sy le de ane te ete ee ee xii
Reherholt BeLEte lin Saeee ey sce Se aero tert aaa Se aan eee RS ee te eee xi
Teg Held, . ud wary Wasi s ee ee ee ee ee 46, 47
eed) sATO aT der Mi yee tet ee el er De Fee ew eee ee Ee orate en ei es OPE Nee te eet 37
ReCents POH e BOAT OLAS aa ire atk Ae eet nie eellpe ein ee eee ee eee ee = 8
IVT CTI CES ier as, See hee cen 3S Ss ne an A ae ee ee ix
TEV COG CS es cee oa ne ee Fe ecm Rees deen Be cnet 8
BEN Of 0 (ev gts) ce Ueh ae2 N00 Liye Wotan ane cease eee CUE eect ea Ah a tl Sh PEON A a IM ca ll x
ER RST CU SD) at 2 see bn Sn at eso hae aE EE ee X
SERS HVE EOS MAT Sire) eM et ates 0 ah Sa dale hx a NO eae eT 30
EROS SO 1rjp CENA OS 2 we hese ae se a Sete tee bes EA ES xi, 16, 29
MERE es A are Gia UA apa sah a a ts a A sn ne Ie SEA I Es S<
SER ye 5 seBi i Pe wae hb erie DA eer lect ae he ae eee cee eee ae x
moberts;-Wramke Els EF Pre ee ES a ee xiii, 2, 5, 16, 58, 59, 60
Rodriguez, Suvenal Valerio so ses ahs SER) Wh foes ee ee ea 25
Roebling: fund SOO eS es RN ae A) I, 2 Ne ee 21
SOT WW CTS ss GA cao od eo eat nna ne yan ic Tecra Ary eek DSTO ENE Sec x

Roosevelt, Franklin D., President of the United States (Presiding officer
ex officio. and ‘member-of the Institution) =2=2 222) 22 eee eee ix, 36
FROSS OD FEVEZ ED UE Ww a hae ae a oe Sins A Sule lvls IS eee xi
Rubiano;~-Alejan ar oss so oF es oes et i ed lg em RE EC, SE ae 26
EE USSO Les Fists LO Ve IASON Cheater tes arent liad ar IN AE ad Ne uh} x

Ss

Schaller: Wi, Uo 2223 2S oe ee oo ee ee xi
SST vss VV eg a a re ee a a X:
Schmitt. Wald ole 2222 = oes ee = Cee ee x 33;16,20: 27
Sehultz,leonla ray 2 8 ee es oe ee eee x, 28
SChwartzZ.. Bey aris ke Le ee a ee eee px:
Science and human prospects (Blackwelder) ~-__-----------____-----—_ =) 267i
Science in the electrical inc istry, The role of (Smith) --_---_-____-________ 199
Science shaping American culture (Compton) ~-_-----_._____--__-___---_- 175
Sclenitificy iste fia ae eee ee ee ee x
Searle, Harriet Richardson--_—_______________________________-__ = aun) >
Secretary of, Agriculture (Claude R. Wickard, member of the Institution) ix
Secretary of Commerce (Jesse H. Jones, member of the Institution) —---- ix
Secretary of the Interior (Harold L. Ickes, member of the Institution) ~~ ix
Secretary of Labor (Frances Perkins, member of the Institution) —---_-- ix
Secretary of the Navy (Frank Knox, member of the Institution) —---__- 1b

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution (Charles G. Abbot) —~~..- ix, xii, 36, 37

INDEX 595

Page
Secretary of State (Cordell Hull, member of the Institution) -—-_-_ix, xii, 36, 37
Secretary of the Treasury (Henry Morgenthau, Jr., member of the Insti-

EUR GLOTIND: Sk eae Pepe iy SUAS CE Be AO ee EE ee ek Se ix, xii, 36, 37
Secretary of War (Henry L. Stimson, member of the Institution) _____ ib-<
Baie ST TATRA A a ae RE RA PS 2S ere, Ee eee x 12
SS MAT COUTTS Y sio Me sa ee ee an ee ean La a 37
SU pr (ey is 3S (heal S C7 0) Up UAE aN SR ae SA IA Se ee gee ee at x
Shepard, Donald D., Secretary-Treasurer and General Counsel, National

AGe rey OR AT the Sec 22 he 2 ye Ee pl a a xii, 35, 37
BHoeniaiker: Clarence: Fe s-i2 2) se ae ee ee ea KiQT
Shoemaker, Coates W., Chief Clerk, International Exchange Service______ xiii, 77
POSRNR TESS CY agp Mea etn ee ed i ed 108
fs bhayes Fires CGY ok oko ee ee Re I Sr he gery Oe Pon Se OY ae xii
Smith EON arr Mies ssl a eek eek he Le IN ade 11, 16, 20, 28
BSERDE Levis pe LO Deh Ts er Me 2 ara ee Rae Te 16
SETHE Ds LE TEES EN CESS A PS renee ea ee arey Rew eren tS OPP w ees ge eee We Nene > an xi
Smith, M. W. (The role of science in the electrical industry) _-______----__ 199
SMicusOMianwATtyOOMMISS ON ses ea Le ee ee 46
Smithsonian-Hirestone Dxpedition.2_2 3, 6, 20, 27, 81, 82
SMNEnSoniansMain Nave xn Di tes eee See a eS iva 2
Snake bites and the Hopi Snake Dance (Stirling) _-_-__-_-__---__-___------ 551
Solar energy, Artificial converters of (Hottel) --_-_--_______________---____ 151
Solomon’s seaport: Ezion-geber, The excavations of (Glueck) ~---------_- 453
Peet EMCO TD WV esate ee eS oe eager NS xi
Stearns, Hoster’ (regent of the Institution) 22222 eee ee 10: -ae)
Siejnecger, Heonhar de sa tse te nee et ae Eee ee x, 12
RES VICEIS OEM ROUEN TO 9 AG 2 ch i ee A a xi
SUAEA VEE e NG 0 ODE a) o Beene ee meee Nn yes MEET IEN LSS cerry oy sap Reread Daley nes ot eam PLE xiii, 5, 16, 60, 61
(STE aTEw ET Bs ME DY cm a as EE SR A A pone ee Ew ee ON Oy TD X, 16, 23, 24
Stirling, Matthew W., Chief, Bureau of American Hthnology______ Xiii, 2, 5, 56, 68

(Snake bites and the Hopi Snake Dance) --_---_-__-_----_---__.-_- 551
Stone, Harlan F. (Chief Justice of the United States) _________________-__ 37
SS fervor peer Sh DD, Sea Ge aa A EL 4, 15, 45
Siudvoreln cian: music, lhe: (Densmore) ose) esse ee eee ee 527
Summary of the year’s activities of the branches of the Institution_______ 2}
Ripyret GED) OL) ER ce sae pa a ce Ea xiii, 5, 57
SUV UMIEN LSBU ac Ms he ee ok, xi
Synthetic textile fibers, The new (Mauersberger) ----_------_____________ 211

7
Pn aR NT NON UN 5 Ea ee ee ee ee ea 12
SASEA AN OO Tes TN A GN ee ee ee ae xi
Mavior Walter Ws, \dlelsoa sola a he a ee Dg PA
OD EL eee ee 24
Thimann, Kenneth V. (Growth hormones in plants) ------_-____-___--__ 393
Tolman, R. P., Acting Director, National Collection of Fine Arts___ xii, 45, 46, 50
Treasurer of aie Institution’ (Nicholas: W. Dorsey))]22222 22 ee ix
AbReri hy Rss Pe ee ee ee eee xii
rie, webster 2. Chiet, editorial division=2 2222s eee eee ix, 12, 129

U
TTL Ha as): Oe et eo ee ee Ee a xi
lMmibedustates: OmecvoLcoauca tones. so 2c) eee ee Se ee 9
SSH elie rey oS (Ch eh) eee ae a A ee Te 401

430577—42——39
596 INDEX

V
Page
Vaughan, 1." Wayland 22023) 3420s Sok a he ae el a Oe a xi
Vice President of the United States (Henry A. Wallace, member of the
DAS EU GUC LOMT) | as See a Te el atl TY 1  s S ix
Vitamins and their occurrence in foods (Munsell) --____-___-_-_- 239
WwW
Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, Research Fund________-____________ 9
Waleott,.Mrs.-Mary: Vaux, Dequests128s 3220 2eu.ua yan 2a ete ee aoe 2, 9, 14
Walker) | Webert: eee o22 2 aie ue ae oy lai on aren ere A at yy ee Pak. Dee ea ne xi
Walker, Ernest P., Assistant Director, National Zoological Park________ xiii
(Care of captiye:animal s)) 0s) ee ae eee are ei Fe See a 305
Walker, John, Chief Curator, National Gallery of Art____________________ xii, 37
Wallace, Henry A., Vice President of the United States (member and regent
OF LH GENS GLE ULE LOND) 2 aa ao ES ele tg ey Rt 0 Me ix 218
WraltersRathbone Bacon scholarships sass ses ele ee 11, 16, 20, 28
Witt Ins 7 WValb de rr 2 Sere e ECE S SRA EN SEL SE SEAT RD, A, Se Ee xi
7,12) 0) ayAiNel (0) 010 Vf (AUS spi SEP RAN are Pe EPO UE ths oy ABARAT lr a 2G Lio 27
A ec) des nel FAS OLE [1 Da Ate a RL RRA PRU IAL OLD Le aa eg a8 oe 83
IWe@GeTE Wield ots ee Se as RO ee SA ene x, 16, 24, 25
Wenley, Archibald Gos 20 62 si er s  e ) eD xii, 5, 54
Wetmore, Alexander, Assistant Secretary of the Institution (in charge of
They National Museum) ites ats ae Pe a are ey ix, x, 16, 25, 26, 33
Wihat les thet ween ute ust rss (ACT) sete eae an ae 141
Whitebredd, (Charleg sce: tain 52 oo te ee earae i ea ete dee Need ee a xii
Whorf, Benjamin Lee (Decipherment of the linguistic portion of the Maya
TET OS yan Se ree Oe AE a Se Cle A 479
Wickard, Claude R., Secretary of Agriculture (member of the Institution) _ big
WiAadener YJ OSE ph Hos ea Se ee Sa rE nee xii, 36, 38
Willan ys Mia rior Tay eee a eke eee ee he NI ies xi
Walson, Charles Branches. 5s eR LED ct dT a RD x
Wings for transportation. (Recent developments in air transportation
equipment). (GWacighit)) S222 2 2 eS ee 563
ARVO CC ene yA ie ae SUT eS US SISA OL HS TP EA Pi
Woodhouse; :Saimiuel! Wyies 020. Sree Sk i er hee x
World is) Yours) Cher(radio program) 2 a= a ee oan 259) 105 1a
aT ented ec \anan DO wer eS gp ND ATED eae weaRree MENNAY NOR IN eibaWle eer Fees mie ane P ies ane NUTR earned OU PN Ae. 6, 78
Wright, Theodore P. (Wings for transportation) ________-_____-___-_-__-- 563
Y
WACLEP William wipe cee ines ee ee ae ee ee oe ee 136
Woung, Mahonrie Mires ss salts tae toe Oe ee a ee ee ee eee 46
Z
Tinsnerv CHAT] Cgc saw eels 5 Et Se ee ee ee eee 37

| ay?
iq

vl fe
( A
r ah

ry
jabs
Ek Sit

fu

nied (a '

Tete
ve Oy?

ee ea 7

ig
'

A

Any}
rr é

“ea a aege eek tae ee i Re ae
"7 a
. vida ata g aa el lhatetetely iy

> & We ae a ¥
ht fat Se
a eG G EN ade, ane Se
2 aes ie : aie “ “, Pee ‘ Ne e Sea
akc a ahatele ay hates 8 a tatiats * ans
ak Meese a “8, “ ates “ oe Net ah a tatatgtet wera
| Cala Oe aa EN ethene (48 6 ae
Tee ee es Sone oe ey Sate “ee Peay <
| eee tee ae eas oe eae ane aii
Pree ber bee ee |
ia © 7 s

ee 44 e fe
g a %,

eee uid a8 ae

a Stata tatty! sitet ihe

ees -

}
aN
&
sf
«

‘

a
we
‘f we 20 oom fe ae
ea rs a re nae “a
“a ¢ oy 4, ¢ #)
yaa. ry ee a a “Ne a!
hi ¢ 8 € @ 4 “e Hae gaet eet cm “ « ce w€
4 \ - % A as q 4 cy 4 a. &, a « a %, : .
ole € € @€e egg ga ek ee ee a 5 < ‘a’ re “t A |
5, RR RH eae teats ee eae ae ¢ @ «
jt @€ ed gee ge eae eG Ge ») “as [a ‘as
| a ee a See ee *s i x ee a La
ee oe oe ee oe ee af a * ue | Hh a8
| € 8 8 ee eg tee ee eee eee ee “e's ga
ted ee hd gee he ad ee ge a4 € <e e¢€¢ és
aee@e et Reade cee Oe Ee we

4

: A qa “*, Lk ew «* a}
i. ae ee a 604 qa i, 148, AA, ane a
ee ed ee @ 464 fetta “ ela a ee
8 @ 8 48 a4 RMR eee ewe | | a % q 3
| a@@et &@ ‘ OK Hee EE RY BS
434 8 4 4 a _ ke ek ee «asin "
tala & . a “ty oe 8 a we Rw A Me
if @a@ e @ ad nm eee e er Ry ey ws
Ae < “| « ‘t Hed gad eeu ) eh «
49 8 OA WHR eC Ree ee BY
fgg a € at a te ad eae ee
i & 4 t ig 4 ;

8 8 $44 2 kw a _ \ 4 @
pt Cf a 8g A ee 4 eG RE
. (Ae 7 UAa eta es ci a & .
(jo a da Go La GG gS ‘a age @ #
7 €hhlata leche elated :
eo “ale 4 a a" a. 1 Af A. i et PP A 4 6 oe @ , é @
-. 1 @ Pe a er a a
»

vo
7
st
2 ° <
© ° a
ogg cor peg
