oo
eee

Fea eee RD DP ae DD Dh

PRR RRERURR CS Be tate tats s

cetahaehatatetateta tata gtatatetetatatgicn

a eee RERURR Ewe ER Be
os ake see SE REREE,® erEE ER

oP eee be DP
| ener eye Ps ® “a ene x ah

es EET OT OD Oe |

(euy ®

naa
es
at ha!

ouraveueeUwUee ee &
a Se ee eee ft aA. ‘. ‘. _* eee
| Cette eee ee ey

aan
Leer e ew Pee Eee Pee Pe
tet “1

eve eueene » ©
One “< 7 ‘a «we ont ¥ ey ¥ |
Lt eet foceteennn Mf
i ae ce CPR ew eH © Rcweee ee
20 CCC Le eA eee ROE
at tc ee 1 i, ae 4, *, m * \s aieteh ®, . * =

oye,

See ee

See ae em
aa

Sasser

in) ee

ie iat
me ‘i ;
| eu

377TH Concress, ) HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. | Mis. Doc.
2d Session. f Ne: TT.

ANNUAL REPORT

OF THE

BOARD OF REGENTS

OF THE

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

SHOWING THE

OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION OF THE
INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR 1861.

WASHINGTON:
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE.
1862.
Peg

»
fy

iA
¥ ys Maite
be om

a I ee
re

,

q Ate 4) ‘

i ” mer Li as | ai: ; ie a

a

vm
-
4

ehepetotet tit

Geers tenet.

peeassrmse

"i :

OTE

My ace as paar
sbi aE

2 TET 10 val ui cs ef xu
Rare adh ies gage ve nae ne aS

ie

sie | ‘3 re how ovate BW 5!
rae nee iar aan th 7 ti
e} F r " OL, o # |

LETTER
SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, -

The Annual Report of the operations, expenditures, and condition of the
Smithsonian Institution for the year 1861.

June 5, 1862.—Ordered, That three thousand extra copies be printed for the use of the
members of the House of Representatives, and two thousand for the use of the Smith-
sonian Institution.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,.
Washington, June 4, 1862.
Sir: In behalf of the Board of Regents, I have the honor to submit
to the House of Representatives of the United States the Annual Re-
port of the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Smith-
sonian Institution for the year 1861.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JOSEPH HENRY,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.
Hon. G. A. Grow,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS

OF THE

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

SHOWING

THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION UP
TO JANUARY, 1862, AND THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD UP TO MAY, 1862.

To the Senate and House of Representatives :

In obedience to the act of Congress of August 10, 1846, establishing
the Smithsonian Institution, the undersigned, in behalf of the Regents,
submit to Congress, as a report of the operations, expenditures, and
condition of the Institution, the following documents :

1. The Annual Report of the Secretary, giving an account of the
operations of the Institution during the year 1861.

2. Report of the Executive Committee, giving a general statement
of the proceeds and disposition of the Smithsonian fund, and also an
account of the expenditures for the year 1861.

3. Proceedings of the Board of Regents up to May, 1862.

4, Appendix.

Respectfully submitted.
R. B. TANEY, Chancellor.
JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary.
OFFICERS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

‘ 2

ABRAHAM LINCOLN, *Zx officio Presiding Officer of the Institution.
ROGER B. TANEY, Chancellor of the Institution.

JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary of the Institution.
SPENCER F. BAIRD, Assistant Secretary.

W. W. SEATON, Treasurer.

WILLIAM J. RHEES, Chief Clerk.

JAMES A. PEARCE,
A. D. BACHE, | Executive Committee.
JOSEPH G. TOTTEN, |

REGENTS OF THE INSTITUTION.

H. HAMLIN, Vice-President of the United States.

ROGER B. TANEY, Chief Justice of the United States.

R. WALLACH, Mayor of the City of Washington.

JAMES A. PEARCE, member of the Senate of the United States.
W. P. FESSENDEN, member of the Senate of the United States.
L. TRUMBULL, member of the Senate of the United States.

S. COLFAX, member of the House of Representatives.

E. McPHERSON, member of the House of Representatives.

S. 8. COX, member of the House of Representatives.

W. B. ASTOR, citizen of New York.

W. L. DAYTON, citizen of New Jersey.

GEORGE E. BADGER, citizen of North Carolina,

T. D. WOOLSEY, citizen of Connecticut.

ALEXANDER D. BACHE, citizen of Washington.

JOSEPH G. TOTTEN, citizen of Washington.
MEMBERS EX OFFICIO OF THE INSTITUTION.

ABRAHAM LINCOLN, President of the United States.
HANNIBAL HAMLIN, Vice-President of the United States.
W. H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

S. P. CHASE, Secretary of the Treasury.

E. M. STANTON, Secretary of War.

G. WELLES, Secretary of the Navy.

M. BLAIR, Postmaster General.

E. BATES, Attorney General.

ROGER B. TANEY, Chief Justice of the United States.
D. P. HOLLOWAY, Commissioner of Patents,

RICHARD WALLACH, Mayor of the City of Washington.

HONORARY MEMBERS

BENJAMIN SILLIMAN, of Connecticut.
A. B. LONGSTREBET, of Mississippi.
CALEB B. SMITH, Secretary of the Interior.
PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION

OF THE

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

[PRESENTED IN THE FIRST ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SECRETARY, AND
ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF REGENTS, DECEMBER 13, 1847,}

INTRODUCTION.

General considerations which should serve as a guide in adopting a Plax
of Organization.

1. Witt or Smiruson. The property is bequeathed to the United
States of America, ‘‘to found at Washington, under the name of the
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, an establishment for the increase and dif-
fusion of knowledge among men.”’

2. The bequest is for the benefit of mankind. The government of
the United States is merely a trustee to carry out the design of the
testator.

3. The Institution is not a national establishment, as is frequently
supposed, but the establishment of an individual, and is to bear and
perpetuate his name.

4, The objects of the Institution are, 1st, to increase, and 2d, to
diffuse knowiedge among men.

5. These two objects should not be confounded with one another.
The first is to enlarge the existing stock of knowledge by the addi-
tion of new truths ; and the second, to disseminate knowledge, thus
increased, among men.

6. The will makes no restriction in favor of any particular kind of
knowledge ; hence all branches are entitled to a share of attention.

7. Knowledge can be increased by different methods of facilitating
and promoting the discovery of new truths ; and can be most exten-
sively diffused among men by means of the press.

8. To effect the greatest amount of good, the organization should
be such as to enable the Institution to produce results, in the way of
increasing and diffusing knowledge, which cannot be produced either
at all or so efficiently by the existing institutions in our country.

9. The organization should also be such’as can be adopted provi-
sionally, can be easily reduced to practice, receive modifications, or
be abandoned, in whole or in part, without a sacrifice of the funds.

10. In order to compensate, in some measure, for the loss of time
occasioned by the delay of eight years in establishing the Institution,
a considerable portion of the interest which has accrued should be
added to the principal.
8 PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION.

11. In proportion to the wide field of knowledge to be cultivated,
the funds are small. Economy should therefore be consulted in the
construction of the building ; and not only the first cost of the edifice
should be considered, but also the continual expense of keeping it in
repair, and of the support of the establishment necessarily connected
with it. There should also be but few individuals permanently sup-
ported by the Institution.

12. The plan and dimensions of the building should be determined
by the plan of organization, and not the converse.

13. It should be recollected that mankind in general are to be ben-
efitted by the bequest, and that, therefore, all unnecessary expendi-
ture on local objects would be a perversion of the trust.

14. Besides the foregoing considerations deduced immediately from
the will of Smithson, regard must be had to certain requirements of
the act of Congress establishing the Institution. These are, a library,
a museum, and a gallery of art, with a building on a liberal scale to
contain them.

SECTION I.

Plan of Organizaticn of the Institution in accordance with the foregoing
deductions from the will of Smithson.

To Increase KNowLepce. It is proposed—

1. To stimulate men of talent to make original researches, by offer-
ing suitable rewards for memoirs containing new truths ; and

2. To appropriate annually a portion of the income for particular
researches, under the direction of suitable persons.

To DirrusE Know.Lepes. It is proposed—

1. To publish a series of periodical reports on the progress of the
different branches of knowledge ; and

2. To publish occasionally separate treatises on subjects of general
interest.

DETAILS OF THE PLAN TO INCREASE KNOWLEDGE.

I.—By stimulating researches.

1. Facilities afforded for the production of original memoirs on all
branches of knowledge.

2. The memoirs thus obtained to be published in a series of vol-
umes, ina quarto form, and entitled Smithsonian Contributions to
Knowledge.

3. No memoir on subjects of physical science to be accepted for
publication which does not furnish @ positive addition to human
knowledge, resting on original research ; and all unverified specula-
tions to be rejected.

4, Hach memoir presented to the Institution to be submitted for
examination to a commission of persons of reputation for learning in
PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. 9

the branch to which the memoir pertains ; and to be accepted for
publication only in case the report of this commission is favorable. —

5. The commission to be chosen by the officers of the Institution,
and the name of the author, as far as practicable, concealed, unless
a favorable’ decision be made.

6. The volumes of the memoirs to be exchanged for the transac-
tions of literary and scientific societies, and copies to be given to all
the colleges and principal libraries in this country. One part of the
remaining copies may be offered for sale ; and the other carefully pre-
served, to form complete sets of the work, to supply the demand
from new institutions.

7. An abstract, or popular account, of the contents of these me-
moirs to be given to the public through the annual report of the Re-
gents to Congress.

I.— By appropriating a part of the income, annually, to special objects
of research, under the direction of suitable persons.

1. The objects, and the amount appropriated, to be recommended
by counsellors of the Institution.

2. Appropriations in different years to different objects, so that, in
course of time, each branch of knowledge may receive a share.

3. The results obtained from these appropriations to be published,
with the memoirs before mentioned, in the volumes of the Smithso-
nian Contributions to Knowledge.

4, Examples of objects for which appropriations may be made.

(1.) System of extended meteorological observations for solving the
problem of American storms.

(2.) Explorations in descriptive natural history, and geological,
magnetical, and topographical surveys, to collect materials for the
formation of a Physical Atlas of the United States.

(3.) Solution of experimental problems, such as a new determina-
tion of the weight of the earth, of the velocity of electricity, and
of light ; chemical analyses of soils and plants ; collection and pub-
lication of scientific facts accumulated in the offices of government.

(4.) Institution of statistical inquiries with reference to physical,
moral, and political subjects.

(5.) Historical researches and accurate surveys of places cele-
brated in American history.

(6.) Ethnological researches, particularly with reference to the
different races of men in North America ; also, explorations and ac-
curate surveys of the mounds and other remains of the ancient peo-
ple of our country.

DETAILS OF THE PLAN FOR DIFFUSING KNOWLEDGE.

I.— By the publication of a series of reports, giving an account of the
new discoveries in science, and of the changes made from year to year
in all branches of knowledge not strictly professional.

1. These reports will diffuse a kind of knowledge generally inter.
esting, but which, at present, is inaccessible to the public. Some of
10 PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION.

the reports may be published annually, others at longer intervals, as
the income of the Institution or the changes in the branches of
knowledge may indicate. -

2. The reports are to be prepared by collaborators eminent in the
different branches of knowledge.

3. Hach collaborator to be furnished with the journals and publi-
cations, domestic and foreign, necessary to the compilation of his re-
port ; to be paid a certain sum for his labors, and to be named on the
title-page of the report.

4, ‘he reports to be published in separate parts, so that persons
interested in a particular branch can procure the parts relating to it
without purchasing the whole.

5. These reports may be presented to Congress for partial distri-
bution, the remaining copies to be given to literary and scientific in-
stitutions, and sold to individuals for a moderate price.

The following are some of the subjects which may be embraced in
the reports :

I. PHYSICAL CLASS.

1. Physics, including astronomy, natural philosophy, chemistry,
and meteorology.

2. Natural history, including botany, zoology, geology, &c.

3. Agriculture.

4. Application of science to arts.

II. MORAL AND POLITICAL CLASS.

5. Ethnology, including particular Histcry, comparative philology,
antiquities, &c.

6. Statistics and political economy.

7. Mental and moral philosophy.

&. A survey of the political events of the world, penal reform, &c.

Ill. LITERATURE AND THE FINE ARTS.

9. Modern literature.

10. The fine arts, and their application to the useful arts.
11. Bibliography.

12. Obituary notices of distinguished individuals.

I1.—By the publication of separate treatises on subjects of general interest.

1. These treatises may occasionally consist of valuable memoirs
translated from foreign languages, or of articles prepared under the
direction of the Institution, or procured by offering premiums for the
best exposition of a given subject.

2. The treatises should, in all cases, be submitted to a commission
of competent judges previous to their publication.

3. As examples of these treatises, expositions may be obtained of
PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. 11

the present state of the several branches of knowledge mentioned in
the table of reports.

SECTION I.

Plan of organization, in accordance with the terms of the resolutions of
the Board of Regents providing for the two modes of increasing and
diffusing knowledge.

1. The act of Congress establishing the Institution, contemplated
the formation of a library and a museum; and the Board of Regents,
including these objects in the plan of organization, resolved to divide
the income* into two equal parts.

2. One part to be appropriated to increase and diffuse knowledge
by means of publications and researches, agreeably to the scheme
before given. The other part to be appropriated to the formation of
a library and a collection of objects of nature and of art.

3. These two plans are not incompatible one with another.

4. To carry out the plan before described, a library will be required,
consisting, 1st, of a complete collection of the transactions and pro-
ceedings of all the learned societies in the world; 2d, of the more
important current periodical publications, and other works necessary
in preparing the periodical reports.

5. The Institution should make special collections, particularly of
objects to illustrate and verify its own publications.

6. Also, a collection of instruments of research in all branches of
experimental science.

7. With reference to the collection of books, other than those men-
tioned above, catalogues of all the different libraries in the United
States should be procured, in order that the valuable books first pur-
chased may be such as are not to be found in the United States.

8. Also, catalogues of memoirs, and of books and other materials,
should be collected for rendering the Institution a centre of biblio-
graphical knowledge, whence the student may be directed to any
work which he may require.

9. It is believed that the collections in natural history will increase
by donation as rapidly as the income of the Institution can make pro-
vision for their reception, and, therefore, it will seldom be necessary
to purchase articles of this kind.

10. Attempts should be made to procure for the gallery of art, casts
of the most celebrated articles of ancient and modern sculpture.

11. The arts may be encouraged by providing a room, free of ex-
pense, for the exhibition of the objects of the Art-Union and other
similar societies.

12. A small appropriation should annually be made for models of
antiquities, such as those of the remains of ancient temples, &c.

* The amount of the Smithsonian bequest received into the Treasury of the
Sirmted: States is22 he ese see Lh Ss yt Sale a $515,169 00

Interest on the same to July 1, 1846, (devoted to the erection of the build-
242,129 00

ONE ee es ee ee eae ee et eee rE latin Does
ADDUAMANCOME) TOM: Une VEQUEBES = 2~ ss55 wo doee acne once aces sacs wane 30,910 14
12 _ PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION.

13. For the present, or until the building is fully completed, be-
sides the Secretary, no permanent assistant will be required, except
one, to act as librarian.

14. The Secretary, by the law of Congress, is alone responsible to
the Regents. He shall take charge of the building and property,
keep a record of proceedings, discharge the duties of librarian and
keeper of the museum, and may, with the consent of the Regents,
employ assistants.

15. The Secretary and his assistants, during the session of Congress,
will be required to illustrate new discoveries in science, and to ex-
hibit new objects of art; distinguished individuals should also be
invited to give lectures on subjects of general interest.

5

This programme, which was at first adopted provisionally, has be-
come the settled policy of the Institution. The only material change
is that expressed by the following resolutions, adopted January 15,
1855, viz:

Resolved, That the Tth resolution passed by the Board of Regents,
on the 26th of January, 1847, requiring an equal division of the in-
come between the active operations and the museum and library,
when the buildings are completed, be, and it is hereby, repealed.

Resolved, That hereafter the annual appropriations shall be appor-
tioned specifically among the different objects and operations of the
Institution, in such manner as may, in the judgment of the Regents,
be necessary and proper for each, according to its intrinsic import-
ance, and a compliance in good faith with the law.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

To the Board of Regents :

GENTLEMEN : In the discharge of my official duty as the principal ex-
ecutive officer of the Smithsonian Institution, I have the honor to pre-
sent to you a report of the operations of the establishment for another
year.

It could scarcely be expected that during the existence of an in-
testine war, and almost in the presence of two contending armies,
the Institution should be able to conduct its affairs with the same per-
sistence and success as in the tranquil years of its previous history.
The interruptions and embarrassments, however, although frequent,
and in some cases perplexing, have not prevented the continuance of
the general operations of the Institution, or the prosecution of most
of the special objects which had previously been determined upon as
falling within the scope of the plan of its organization.

At an early period of the war it was for a time proposed by the
government to occupy the building of the Institution as temporary
quarters of some of the troops which were suddenly collected in de-
fence of the capital. In relation to this proposition, it was repre-
sented to the War Department that there was no authority from the
Board of Regents to grant the use of the building for the purpose
intended, but that if the Secretary of War thought proper to take
possession of the premises on his own responsibility, the best arrange-
ments possible to secure the property from injury and at the same
time to accommodate the soldiers, would cheerfully be made. It was,
however, suggested that if an appropriation for such a purpose were
found to be necessary, it would be more in accordance with the spirit
of the Institution to employ the building as an infirmary. Fortunately,
there was judged to be no absolute necessity for the contemplated
occupation, and neither the building nor the grounds around it have
been occupied for military purposes. In this, as in other instances,
the government has evinced a considerate desire to protect the prop-
erty of the Institution and to foster its operations.

It has been lately stated in a foreign journal, and the statement has
14 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

been widely copied in this country and in Europe, that the bequest of
Smithson had been lost by improper investment; but those who are
acquainted with the history of the establishment know that this state-
ment is without the shghtest foundation in fact. The government of
the United States in accepting the bequest upon the stipulated terms
of the will, became, by an act of Congress, approved by the Presi-
dent, the trustee of the fund and guardian of the Institution. The
agent appointed to receive the money brought it to this country in
British gold, and deposited it in the United States mint in Philadel-
phia, where it was recoined into American eagles. The government
thus became, by express enactment as well as by the highest equita-
ble considerations, responsible for the security of the funds as well as
for the faithful administration of the trust. It is true that the Secre-
tary of the Treasury, before the money had been permanently in-
vested by Congress, lent it to several of the western States to assist
in carrying on their works of internal improvement; but it would
have been alike inconsistent with strict justice and the liberal policy of
our government, to devolve on the Smithsonian fund any risk or loss
which might result from this financial operation. Congress, there-
fore, declared, by a joint resolution, that the money of the bequest
was to be considered as a fund lent to the Treasury of the United
States, the interest of which, at the rate of six per cent. per annum,
is to be applied to the perpetual support and maintenance of the In-
stitution. It is proper to state in this connexion that the government
itself will in time, probably, be reimbursed for the money advanced
to the States, since, in accordance with a rule established by the Hon.
Robert J. Walker, when Secretary of the Treasury, all money re-
ceived in the Treasury on account of the States to which the loan was
made is to be retained until the debt of each is fully satisfied. In
this way nearly four hundred thousand dollars have already been re-
ceived.

Not only does the original fund of Smithson thus remain safe and

unimpaired in the treasury of the United States, but, after paying
~ for the building, collecting a library and museum, and conducting all
the operations which have given character to the establishment, out
of the income; an extra fund has been accumulated from the interest
itself, which, at the date of the last report, yielded seven thousand
seven hundred and sixteen dollars.

Unfortunately, a part of this fund has been unproductive during
the past year. <A petition from the Board of Regents was presented
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15

to Congress at two successive sessions requesting that the extra
fund which had been thus economised might be received into the
treasury of the United States, and form a permanent addition to the
original deposit. The proposition was favorably commended to Con-
gress by a report of the committees to which it was referred, but
from the pressure of business the recommendation was not acted on,
and the directors of the establishment were obliged to seek some
other investment of the money. State stocks naturally presented
themselves as apparently offering the safest means of accomplishing
the desired object, and accordingly a committee of the Board decided
upon the purchase of bonds of the States of Indiana, Virginia, and
Tennessee. About $65,000 were expended in the purchase of the
State stocks of Indiana, $50,000 in those of Virginia, and $11,000 in
those of Tennessee. It is scarcely necessary to state that no interest
has been received from Virginia and Tennessee since the date of the
last report, and it is not probable that anything will be obtained
from them for some years to come. The other sums invested in
State stocks have yielded the usual amount of interest. The Virginia
stock is still rated at 50 per cent. of its par value, and we trust that
the State will, in time, be again able to discharge her obligations to
this Institution; but in the interim there will be on this account a
diminution in the annual income of nearly four thousand dollars.

As an offset to this effect of the unforeseen condition of the States
above-mentioned, information has been received from London of the
death, at an advanced age, of Madame De la Batut, the mother of
the nephew of James Smithson, to whom an annuity was conceded
as a compromise by the Hon. Richard Rush, with a view to the more
expeditious realization of the Smithsonian legacy. The principal of
this annuity, amounting to five thousand and fifteen pounds (about
$25,000) will now be added to the bequest of Smithson, of which it
originally formed a part.

It has been considered advisable, in view of the distracted state of
the country and the failure of the States before-mentioned to pay
their interest, to curtail the expenditures of the Institution, as far as
practicable, without suspending what have been denominated the
active operations. Yet, while this cautious policy has been closely
observed, it is believed that the Institution has sustained its charac-
ter for efficiency, and that, although it has been exposed to the dis-
turbing incidents of a theatre of war, it has still accomplished much
during the year, and steadily advanced in the career prescribed by
16 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

its enlightened founder—the increase and diffusion of knowledge
among men.

Publications. —The thirteenth volume of the Smithsonian Contribu-
tions is partly completed, but, on account of the unsettled condition
of the times, it was thought prudent to delay the printing of several
expensive papers until the beginning of the present year. It will be
seen, however, in the course of this report, that the whole number of
pages of printed matter which has been issued, or is now ready to be
issued by the Institution, equals that of any previous year.

The first paper which has been printed for the thirteenth volume
is the concluding part of the results of the discussion of the observa-
tions of Dr. Kane, fully described in the last report. On the com-
pletion of this series of papers, a number of full sets of the several
parts have been bound, with a general title page, into a separate
volume, which is intended for distribution to astronomical and
meteorological societies to which the contributions in full are not
presented.

Another series of papers, partly printed, gives a full discussion of
all the meteorological observations made during the voyage of Sir
F. L. McClintock, in search of Sir John Franklin, in the English
steamer Fox, from the Ist of July, 1857, to September, 1859.

The records of these observations were presented by the com-
mander of the expedition to the Institution for discussion and publi-
cation, in accordance with the plan adopted for those of Dr. Kane;
and since they relate to the meteorology of this continent, and are
the results of a private expedition, it was thought entirely consistent
with the policy of the Institution to discuss and publish them at
the expense of the Smithsonian fund. It would be of great in-
terest to science, and particularly to the meteorology of this country,
if all the observations which have been made in the Arctic regions
were reduced and discussed on a uniform plan, like that adopted in
regard to the observations of Dr. Kane. A correspondence has been
commenced with the proper authorities in England in regard to the
importance of such a work, offering the co-operation of the Institution
in carrying it into execution.

In regard to the history of the observations made during the voyage
of the ‘‘Fox,’’ the following facts may be stated:

The last expedition of the British government in search of Sir John
Franklin returned in 1854, without doing more than confirming what
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 17

had previously been ascertained—that the missing ships had spent
their first winter at Beechy island. Later in the same year the cele-
brated traveller of the Hudson’s Bay Company, Dr. Rae, ascertained
that the missing voyagers had been seen on the west coast of King
William’s land in the spring of 1850, and that it was supposed they
had all died on an estuary of the Great Fish river.

The attempts, in 1855, of the Hudson’s Bay Company to explore
this river resulted in obtaining but little additional information and
a few relics from the Esquimaux. It was at this time that Lady
Franklin, who had previously sent out three expeditions, again urged
the renewal of the search, that the fate of her husband and his com-
panions might not be left in uncertainty. She, therefore, undertook
once more the responsibility and expense of a final effort to ‘‘ follow
their footsteps in their last journey upon earth,’’ and if possible to
give to the world the scientific results of the expedition for which
these gallant men had probably sacrificed their lives. In the spring
of 1857 Lady Franklin commenced the preparations for the contem-
plated expedition, and intrusted the command of it to Captain Mc-
Clintock. The small steamer ‘‘Fox,’’of 180 tons register, was pur-
chased for the service, and was put in readiness by the end of June.
The expedition sailed from Aberdeen July 1, 1857, and after a favor-
able run across the Atlantic, passed Cape Farewell, the southern
point of Greenland, on the 13th of July, and arrived at Fredericshaab
on the 19th of the same month. After taking in coal at Waigat,
they arrived at’ Upernavik, and then bore away on the 6th of August
directly westward, for the purpose of crossing Baffin’s bay, but on
the evening of the 8th their progress in that direction was stopped by
impenetrable ice in latitude 72° 40’ and longitude 59° 50’. They
then steered to the northward, in the hope of finding a passage west-
ward, but in this they were disappointed, and, on the 19th of August,
became entangled in the ice, and thus remained 242 days, until April,
1858. During this period the ‘‘Fox’’ drifted from latitude 75° north
and longitude 62° west, to latitude 63° 40’ north and longitude 59°
west, or 1,385 statute miles in a southeasterly direction, almost to
the lower extremity of Greenland.

On the 26th of April the ice suddenly and almost entirely disap-
peared, and the ship was again headed northward for another attempt,
and arrived on the 19th of June in Melville bay, and thence again
steered westward across Baffin’s bay, and finally entered Lancaster
sound in the beginning of August. They thence sailed westwardly

9

~
18 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

and southerly until they reached the longitude of 96° west; thence
returned along Barrow’s strait to the east, and southerly down Prince
Regent’s inlet to the mouth of Bellot strait, where, at a place named
Port Kennedy, the vessel remained from the 27th of September, 1858,
till August 9, 1859. From this point various excursions, with sleds,
were made in different directions. The expedition returned to Eng-
land in September, 1859.

During the whole continuance of the expedition a series of meteor-
ological and other observations was made. Those of the first year
were taken while the vessel was in a constant state of motion either
sailing through the water, or drifting down Baffin’s bay with the im-
mense field of ice. Those of a considerable part of the second year
were made while the ship was stationary at Port Kennedy.

The observations have all been arranged in four parts: the first
relating to temperature ; second, to winds; third, to atmospheric
pressure; fourth, to miscellaneous phenomena, such as auroras,
weather, specific gravity of sea-water, ozone, &c.

In the discussion of the records, the whole series has been divided
into two groups, one of which is referred to a point in Baffin’s bay,
and the other to Port Kennedy.

The discussion of the temperatures of each group embraces—

1st. Diurnal variation.
2d. Annual variation.
3d. Relation of temperature to the phases of the moon.
4th. Temperature of different winds.
5th. Temperature of sea-water.
The discussion of the winds includes—
1st. Resultant direction for each month, season, and year.
2d. Velocity for each of these periods.
3d. Frequency of winds from different quarters.
4th. Quantity of air which passed over the station.
5th. Rotation of the winds.
6th. Investigation of particular storms.

A similar series of discussions is also given with regard to the barom-
eter. These discussions have all been made at the expense of the
Institution by Charles A. Schott, of the Coast Survey, according to the
methods adopted by Sir John Herschel, in his admirable article on
meteorology in the last edition of the Encyclopedia Britannica. They
bring out a number of interesting results, particularly in regard to the
rotation of the wind, the effect of the moon on the temperature, and the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 19

connexion of changes of the weather in the arctie regions with those
in the more southern latitudes of the continent of North America.

The observations for temperature were made at equal intervals day
and night; in winter they were generally taken every two hours, in
the summer every four hours. The register extends over twenty-
seven months, and comprises a total number of 7,113 observations.

The highest monthly mean temperature occurred in July. In the first
year, 1857, in latitude 62°, it was 45°.53. In the second year, (1858,)
in latitude 74°.4, it was 36°.60. In 1859, latitude 72°, it was 40°.12.
The lowest monthly mean temperatures were in January. That in
1858, in latitude 73°.2, was —24°.87. The second, that in 1859, in
latitude 72°, was —33°.57.

The mean annual temperature of the year, as deduced from all the
observations at Port Kennedy, in latitude 72°, was 1°.85. The
highest temperature observed at the same place was 55°, which oc-
curred July 29, 1859, and the lowest —49°.8, January 21 and Feb-
ruary 15 of the same year.

The extreme range, therefore, was 104°.8.

The highest temperature observed by Kane at Van Rensselaer
harbor, in latitude 78°.37, was 51°, and the minimum —66°.4, giving
a range of 117°.4

The greatest daily range of temperature was in June, amounting
to 9°.60; the least in December, when it was 0°.84. At Van Rens-
selaer harbor, the greatest range occurred in April, and was 9°.09; and
the least in November, amounting to 1°, showing a correspondence
in amount of variation, but not in time.

On an average, the maximum temperature is reached between noon
and 1p. m., and the minimum between 2 and 3 a. m.; whereas at
Van Rensselaer harbor, as observed by Dr. Kane, these hours were
respectively 2 p. m. and 1 a. m.

One of the most interesting points of the discussion of the obser-
vations is that of the connexion of the phases of the moon with the
low winter temperatures. This connexion was early suggested by
arctic explorers, and was independently deduced from the observa-
tions by Kane. Inorder to investigate the question of this connexion
the mean daily temperatures were divided into periods of five days,
thus forming a table in which the dates of the occurrence of full and
new moon are given with the corresponding mean temperatures. By
taking the differences of the mean temperatures it is seen that the
mean temperature is lower at full moon than at new moon by about
20 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

7} degrees. This difference is less than that deduced from the ob-
servations of Kane at Van Rensselaer harbor, but of the same kind,
and serves to establish the fact of the occurrence of maximum cold at
the period of full moon. Mr. Schott, in his paper on the discussions
of Kane’s observations, has referred this cold to a secondary action.
The moon, as is now established by direct experiment, radiates and
reflects a considerable amount of heat to the earth, which is of the
kind called dark heat, or that of such low intensity as to be readily
absorbed by the vapor of our atmosphere, and particularly by clouds.
The effect, therefore, of the full moon is to dissolve the clouds, and
thus to give freer passage to the radiated heat from the earth into
celestial space.

In order, however, that this explanation should be true, it is
necessary that the heat from the moon should be more penetrating
and have more effect upon the clouds than that from the earth; and
that this is the case is not improbable, as a part of the heat from the
moon is that reflected from the full meridian sun, while that given off
from the earth is merely due to its own nocturnal radiation.

It is not probable, as we have stated in a previous report, that an
equal difference of temperature at the time of new and full moon will
be observed in middle latitudes, for, from the observations made at
this Institution, the waves, as it were, of cold which reduce the tem-
perature of the United States, frequently begin several days earlier
at the extreme west; and hence while the full moon occurs nearly at
the same moment of absolute time at all places on the surface of the
earth, the maximum cold might occur in one place at the new, and in
another at the full moon. In the arctic regions, on the other hand,
where the moon is at the same moment visible from every meridian,
the effects of its heat must be more perceptible and less masked by
the operation of other causes. In the observations of a long series
of years, however, the difference may, perhaps, be rendered manifest,
even in the latitude of Washington.

Professor Dove, of Berlin, has called attention to the remarkable
recurrence of cold about the 11th of May of each year, but nothing
of this kind can be deduced from the observations during the voyage
of the ‘‘ Fox,’’ although from the observations by Kane at Van Rens-
selaer harbor on the 13th of May, 1854, the temperature was 9°.3
lower than that computed for the mean of the same day at the same
place.

The diminution of temperature at this period is evident from the
-

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 21

observations for long series in this country as well as in Europe,
and has been attributed to some cosmical influence affecting the ab-
solute amount of heat received by the earth at this time.

The deductions relative to the elevating and depressing influence
of the wind upon temperature, show that in Baffin’s bay the south-
east winds are the warmest, and the southwest the coldest, and that
the temperature is lowest during calms.

They show, also, that at Port Kennedy the east winds are the
warmest, and the north winds the coldest; there, also, calms are at-
tended with a depression of temperature.

Observations were made upon the temperature of the soil, by sink-
ing a brass tube two feet two inches vertically into the ground. A
padded thermometer was inserted in the tube, and the whole was
covered with snow. The temperature in the external air was lowest
about the 19th of January, and that in the tube about the 10th of
March, when it reached + 5°, Hence the greatest cold in the ground
at a depth of a little more than two feet occurred fifty-seven days
later than at the surface.

In discussing the observations relative to the winds, the whole
period, as in the case of the discussions of temperature, is divided
into two parts——the first when the Fox was in Baflin’s bay, and the
second when she was at Port Kennedy. The number of daily obser-
vations varied from six to twelve; in all cases, however, at regular
intervals. The method of reduction is that of Lambert, improved by
Herschel and others, so as to include the velocity of the wind, and
not merely the relative frequency.

The amount of wind, as estimated by the continuance and velocity
from all directions, was resolved, plus and minus, into two direc-
tions—one, that of the meridian, and the other at right angles to it;
and from these two components a resultant was deduced for each
month, giving the average direction from which the wind came. In
this discussion Mr. Schott assumes the south point of the horizon as
the zero point, because azimuths in astronomy are read in this way,
and he prefers reckoning from the south to the west, rather than from
the south to the east, because the wind-vane is found to rotate more
frequently in the former direction.

The great variation in the direction and force of the atmospheric
currents renders the calculation of resulting values for shorter in-
tervals than a month unnecessary. At Port Kennedy the resulting
direction of the wind is remarkably constant for different seasons.
22 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

In winter it is northwest by north; in summer north $ths of a point
west; for the whole year, NNNW{W. The corresponding directions
for Baffin’s bay are nearly the same, and the final resultant direction
for the year at the two localities are practically identical.

In the first year, while in Baffin’s bay, the velocity of the wind
was greatest in February and March, and least in June and July.
In the second year, at Port Kennedy, it was greatest in October and
November, and least in March and April.

The greatest amount of wind, both at Port Kennedy and Baffin’s
bay, was from the northwest, in accordance with the theory of the de-
scent or sinking down of the heavier air in the colder regions, and its
flowing thence to warmer portions of the earth. For the purpose of
ascertaining the law of the rotation of the winds, the records were
examined in reference to the number of times the vane arrived at
each of the eight principal points, and also in reference to the sum
total of angular movement in a direct and retrograde direction.

From this investigation it appears that the direction of the shift-
ing of the wind in spring was direct; at other seasons tetrogade, and
that the tote’ amount of angular motion in the course of a year was
very nearly balanced.

At Rensselaer harbor the resultant rotation of the wind was found
to be direct, and this was also the case in Baffin’s bay, although it
would appear from these discussions, that the law of the rotation of
the wind which has been found to prevail in lower latitudes, does not
hold with the same constancy in the arctic regions.

In the year 1857-58, in Baffin’s bay, there were 26 storms of an
average duration of 19 hours; in these storms the prevailing winds
were, almost to the exclusion of all others, from the northwest and
southeast. At Rensselaer harbor, according to Kane, the winds
during the prevailing storms were from the same points of the hori-
zon. At Port Kennedy during the year 185859 there were 22
storms recorded, in which the wind was from the northwest; in a
few cases it was from the northeast; but in not one from the north-
west or southeast.

The third part of the McClintock observations relate to the pres-
sure of the atmosphere. These observations were recorded at equal
intervals of two hours at one period, and of four hours at others.
They were made with a mercurial barometer, and also with an
anerold.

The records of the readings of the two instruments were compared,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 23

and from them a correction obtained to be applied to the aneroid.
The differences appear remarkably regular, and show that the mean
monthly readings of the aneroid may be relied on to the hundredth of
an inch. The average correction was found to be .022 of an inch, a
quantity which, strictly speaking, is composed of two parts, namely:
of the true index error of the aneroid, and the specific differences of
the two instruments in different latitudes. In the mercurial barometer
a mass of metal is balanced against a mass of air, and, therefore, the
indications are independent of a change of gravity, for the same reason
that a pound weight in an ordinary scale balance is in equilibrium
with the same amount of the material weighed, in whatever latitude
the experiment may be made. Not so, however, with the aneroid
barometer; as this instrument, like the spring balance, indicates the
pressure by the reaction of an elastic material, it must be affected by
a change in gravity, and consequently varies in its indications with a
change of latitude.

The diurnal variation in the pressure of the atmosphere in the
higher latitudes of the arctic regions is very small, and can only be
satisfactorily traced by means of the combination of a great number
of observations, while the fitful variations in the atmospheric pressure
are frequently very large.

The minimum pressure both at Baffin’s bay and at Port Keunedy
occurred at about half after four o'clock a. m., and the maximum at
about half-past seven o’clock p. m. The range of the diurnal fluctua-
tion in Baffin’s bay is .028, at Port Kennedy .048, and at Rensselaer
harbor .010. There is, therefore, a diminution in the range as we go
northward, and at the same rate diurnal variations would become in-
sensible at about 80° of latitude.

The average height of the barometer varies in different months of
the year; it is greatest in April and May.

The occurrence of the minimum is not simultaneous at the different
stations; at Baffin’s bay it was in January, at Port Kennedy in July,
and at Rensselaer harbor in September, presenting results which
clearly indicate that more observations are required to fix with pre-
cision. the time at which it really takes place. The annual range of
the barometer at Baflin’s:bay was .44, at Port Kennedy .41, and at
Rensselaer harbor .21.

The relative pressure connected with different winds is also given.
In Baffin’s bay the north wind gave a maximum pressure; at Port
Kennedy, and also at Rensselaer harbor, the south wind produced
24 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

this effect. In Baftin’s bay the minimum pressure accompanied the
southeast wind, while at Port Kennedy the same effect was produced
by the northeast wind, and at Rensselaer harbor by the west and
northwest. The lowest reading of the barometer occurred just be-
fore the commencement of violent storms.

Among the miscellaneous observations, perhaps the most import-
ant is one which relates to the aurora borealis. Captain McClintock
observed that the streamers in all cases of the exhibition of this
meteor appeared to come from the surface of open water, and not in
any case from the fields of ice. This observation would go far to
establish the truth of the hypothesis that auroral displays are due to
electrical discharges between the air and the earth, and that these
are interrupted by the interposed stratum of non-conducting ice.

On the occasion of a visit of Lady Franklin last summer to the
Smithsonian Institution, I had the satisfaction of receiving, on behalf
of the Regents, her expressions of thanks for the discussion and publi-
cation of these observations, connected as they are with the memory
of her lamented husband.

Another paper which has been accepted for publication is entitled
‘¢ Ancient Mining on the Shores of Lake Superior.’’ This paper was
received in July, 1856, but, owing to imperfections in the manuscript,
its publication was indefinitely postponed. The subject, however, of
which it treats has lately received so much additional interest from
the investigations of the archeologists of different parts of Europe
that we were induced to submit it again to the author for correction,
and to have a more accurate map of the mining region prepared, as
well as corrected drawings of the implements made, under the imme-
diate superintendence of the Institution. The wood-cuts are now in
the hands of the engraver, and the memoir will be prepared for dis-
tribution without unnecessary delay.

On reference to the first volume of ‘‘Smithsonian Contributions’’
it will be seen that among the contents of the mounds of the Missis-
sippi valley, as figured by Squier and Davis, are implements and
ornaments of copper, such as axes, chisels, knives, spear heads,
rings, bracelets, &c. The copper of these articles frequently contains
small portions of pure silver—perhaps originally in the form of crys-
tals—which serve in a measure to identify the source from which
the materialcame. Pure copper is comparatively a rare mineral, and
nowhere on the surface of the earth has it been found in greater
quantity and in larger masses than in that remarkable projection from
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 25

the southern shore of Lake Superior, called Keweenaw Point. Through
the whole of this peninsula a band of metalliferous deposit extends
more than a hundred miles in length, and from one to six miles in
width. Within this band pure copper is found in immense masses,
also in thinner veins and small boulders.

The Jesuit missionaries as early as 1636 mentioned the existence
of copper in this region; their knowledge, however, was probably re-
stricted to small pieces of copper found in the streams. The first
actual attempts ‘at mining in this region within historic times were
made in 1791, by Alexander Henry, but it was not until about 1842
that active and successful operations were undertaken.

Previous to this period pits and small mounds of earth had been
observed in the metalliferous region; but it was only in 1848 that
these were discovered to be remains of ancient excavations con-
nected with the mining of copper. After this fact was clearly ascer-
tained, it was turned to a profitable account by modern explorers,
who found that their predecessors had industriously ferreted out the
rich lodes, and that copper was always to be found by the indications
of the ancient ‘‘diggins,’’? as these excavations are popularly called.
The ground is mostly covered with a dense forest, and, in many
cases, with fallen trees of a preceding growth, indicating a great
lapse of time since the excavations were made. The present Indians
of the region have no knowledge of the origin of these remains, or of
the purpose with which they were connected. The implements em-
ployed by the ancient miners were those which European archeolo-
gists refer to what they call the stone age, and to the transition period
denominated by them the bronze age. They consist of mauls and
adzes of trap rock, and chisels of flint and of copper. Fire was ‘not
employed to melt the metal, but apparently to assist in disintegrating
the rock. Levers of wood were used for elevating large masses, but
with the implements mentioned the earth could only be penetrated
to a short distance. For cutting wood, copper chisels and probably
adzes and axes of the same metal were employed. ‘he copper was
hardened by hammering when cold, and not in any case by admixture
with other metals. The primitive miners were unable to manage
large masses, and consequently sought for lumps which could be
readily beaten into the required shape.

The Lake Superior mining region does not appear to have been
the place of permanent residence of a large number of tribes, for no
26 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY,

human remains or sepulchral mounds have been discovered, nor any
evidence of the cultivation of the soil. From the extent of the works,
and the difference in their apparent antiquity, it is probable that a
large number of individuals were engaged, and during a long succes-
sion of years.

Miscellaneous Collections—The Miscellaneous Collections include
works intended to facilitate the study of the various branches of
natural history, to give instruction as to the method of observing
natural phenomena, and a variety of other matter connected with the
progress of science. Although the object of the Institution is not
educational, yet in carrying out the general plan it has been thought
important in some cases to publish elementary treatises, which will
not only furnish an introduction to special subjects to those who have
not access to expensive libraries, but also serve to point out the way
in which individuals by special studies can not only promote their
own enjoyment, but also co-operate with all others engaged in the
same pursuit in extending the domain of knowledge. The objects of
nature, like the specimens of high art, are the luxuries of the culti-
vated mind, and the awakening of a taste for their study affords an
inexhaustible source of pleasure and contentment to the most nume-
rous and the most important classes of the community.

In accordance with this view it was stated in the last report that
the following works were in preparation to introduce and facilitate
the study of conchology, a branch of natural history not only inter-
esting in itself, but also indispensable in the study of geology, as the
ages and relative position of rocks are principally determined by the
remains of this class of animals, which are found imbedded in their
strata:

Ist. Elementary introduction to the study of conchology, by P. P.
Carpenter, of England.

2d. List of the species of shells collected by the United States
exploring expedition, by the same author.

3d. Descriptive catalogue of the shells of the west coast of the
United States, Mexico, and Central America, by the same author.

4th. Bibliography of North American conchology, by W. G. Binney.

5th. Descriptive catalogue of the air-breathing shells of North
America, by the same author.

The first of these works was published as a part of the appendix

to the report of the Regents for 1860, and, in order to meet the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 27

special demand for the article, 1,000 extra copies were struck off
in pamphlet form for separate distribution. To illustrate this work
we have been promised by Dr. Gray, of London, a series of stereo-
type casts from the wood-cuts used in the British Museum catalogues.
They were not received in time to be inserted in the report. We
shall, however, distribute copies of them to all persons who have
received the work in a separate form.

Mr. Carpenter, the author of these lectures, who is well known to
the students in this branch of natural history, has presented in this
work an account of the present condition of our knowledge of the
molluscous animals, and completed a task which will go far to supply
a want which has been experienced by all who have commenced the
study of these objects. The only other popular introductory work
on shells in the English language of a reliable and representative
character, is Woodward’s Manual of the Mollusca, from which it differs
in some essential particulars, which better adapt it to the object in-
tended. It includes an account of the extinct as well as the recent
forms. The families and higher groups as well as the genera are
necessarily very briefly characterized, but sufficiently so to enable the
student, with perseverance and study, to identify the species and
recognize their affinities. One of the best features of the work, and
which will interest the accomplished naturalist as well as the ele-
mentary student, is a table of apparently similar shells belonging to
different families or genera; or of shells whose general appearance
is similar, but which, on account of more important characters, are
separated into widely different genera. It is also proper to remark
that the work is not confined to a description of the external covering
of the animals, but also includes that of their soft parts.

The other numbers of the above-mentioned series of works on con-
chology are still in course of preparation, and will be published as
soon as they are completed.

It was also mentioned in the last report that a series of articles was
in preparation to facilitate and promote the study of the entomology
of North America. This branch of general zoology is perhaps larger
than that of all the other branches taken together. In order to illus-
trate this statement we may mention, on the authority of Baron Osten
Sacken, to whom we are specially indebted ‘for advice and direction
in regard to the best means of promoting this object, that according
to the most recent computations, the number of species of insects in
all parts of the world, is believed to be rather above than below one

a
28 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

million five hundred thousand, a considerable portion of which there
is reason to suppose may be found in North America. To collect,
arrange, and study such a vast number of objects requires a cor-
responding number of co-laborers; but fortunately for the advance of
entomology, wherever a taste for it has been awakened, its votaries
outnumber those of almost any other branch of natural history.
There is scarcely one, says Osten Sacken, which offers equal facilities
to the student who prosecutes its study—scarcely one which is so apt
to become a favorite with every class of persons; and there is none,
even botany not excepted, in which the mere gratification of taste
can be so well combined with real scientific usefulness. It is adapted
to every condition of life, because the specimens take up very little
space, and require but trifling expense in collecting them; to every
degree of education, for the number of insects being inexhaustible,
any schoolboy may make collections or observations of great value to
the more scientific investigator; it can be combined with almost any
other pursuit, and can at any time be laid aside to be resumed ata
more favorable moment.

Advancement of knowledge, however, naturally precedes its diffu-
sion; therefore, before attempting to awaken a taste for the pursuits
of entomological studies, it was necessary to bring this branch of
natural history, as far as it relates to this continent, to a greater de-
gree of perfection than that to which it had attained. American en-
tomology is in this respect, as we are informed, far behind American
botany. The systematical knowledge of the plants indigenous to the
settled parts of North America is almost brought to perfection, and
excellent manuals have been prepared, making it comparatively easy,
even for a beginner, to identify most of the plants he may find. Not
so with entomology; by far the greater number of our insects
are still undescribed. The publications on American entomology
are scattered through a great number of scientific transactions, most
of which are in foreign languages, and therefore inaccessible to the
many who would otherwise be interested in the study.

The first object of the Institution was, therefore, to collect and
present in a compact and condensed form the existing knowledge;
next, to increase this knowledge by encouraging further research by
scientific men, so as to bring this branch of science to a certain degree
of completeness and of symmetry in its different parts, and not until
after this was accomplished to attempt its general diffusion. This
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 29

plan has been strictly pursued in the successive entomological works
undertaken for the Institution, as will appear from the following
account.

1. Among all the orders of insects which are found on the conti-
nent of North America, the Coleoptera (beetles) were the best known,
owing principally to the exertions of Dr. Le Conte, of Philadelphia,
What was wanted as regards this order for popular purposes was less
the increase of knowledge than the condensation above alluded to.
This has been aimed at in two publications by the Institution, namely,
Melsheimer’s Catalogue of the Coleoptera of the United States, revised
by Haldeman and Le Conte, and published in 1853, and the Classifica-
tion of the Coleoptera of North America, by Dr. Le Conte. The
first part of the latter appeared in 1861, and the second will be issued
soon. The first of these works facilitated research by furnishing a
list of all the described species, with references to the works or sci-
entific transactions containing them. The second will give a thorough
and detailed account of the systematical distribution of the Coleop-
tera of this country, and thus offer to the student a faithful delineation
of the present state of the science, and to the beginner a welcome
hand-book for its acquisition.

2. The Lepidoptera, (butterflies, moths, &c.,) have always been,
like the Coleoptera, a favorite order of insects, and a considerable num-
ber of descriptions of North American species was scattered through
various works, transactions, &c. It was decided, therefore, to issue
first, a list of these species, with references, on the plan of Melshei-
mer’s catalogue of Coleoptera; next, a republication in a compact
form of all these descriptions in English. Both these works were
prepared, at the suggestion of the Institution, by Dr. Morris, of Bal-
timore, and published, the one as a catalogue, in 1860, the other as a
synopsis of the described Lepidoptera of North America, in 1861. The
latter will save to the lepidopterist much trouble and expense, by
giving him in one volume what he would have had to look for in
more than fifty different publications.

3. The order of Neuroptera (dragon flies, may flies, lace-wings,
&c.,) contains, comparatively, a small number of species, and for this
reason it was possible to produce at once a more perfect and thorough
work on this order than has yet been prepared on any other. The
synopsis of the Neuroptera of North America, with a list of the South
American species, published in 1861, was prepared, at the request of
the Institution, by Dr. Hermann Hagen, of Konigsberg, one of the
30 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

first contemporary authorities in this branch, and principally from
materials furnished by or through the medium of the Institution. It
contains the description of 716 North American and a list of 507
South American species. The plan of this publication is essentially
different from that of the synopsis of Lepidoptera, the latter being a
mere compilation of existing descriptions, whereas the greater part
of the descriptions contained in the former were drawn by Dr. Hagen
from specimens in his possession, and thus the necessary uniformity
and accuracy have been secured. The original manuscript in Latin
was translated into English and prepared for publication by Mr. Ph.
R. Ubler, of Baltimore.

4. The order of Diptera, (flies, mosquitoes, &c.,) is known to be
exceedingly numerous and of rather difficult study, as much on account
of the minuteness and great fragility of most of the species as of
a peculiar inconstancy and comparative slightness of the characters
used for classification. In this case, asin preceding ones, the first work
directed by the Institution was one of condensation, namely, the Cata-
logue of the described Diptera of North America, by Baron Osten
Sacken. It was published in 1858, and includes a list of about 1,700
species, with references to ninety-five works and papers containing
their descriptions, principally in foreign languages.

The next thing to be done was either to furnish a republication
of all these descriptions, like that of the synopsis of Lepidoptera,
or to attempt at once to prepare a monograph of the order. Owing
to the large collections formed by Baron Osten Sacken during his res-
idence in this country, the latter was possible. It was deemed ad-
visable to put these collections into the bands of Dr. H. Loew, of
Meseritz, Prussia, one of the most eminent dipterologists now living,
who will prepare a series of monographs on the different families of
this large order, to be published by the Smithsonian Institution.
The first volume of this series is now in the press.

It may be proper here to call attention to the great importance of
having the first foundation of a study laid by the most eminent
authority. This is especially necessary in regard to the Diptera,
since, as we are informed, this class of American insects contains a
great number of species, closely allied to European species, and con-
sequently requires an intimate knowledge of the latter to identify the
former. Besides this, there are many insects of the same class in
this country altogether different from those of Europe, which will
require the formation of new genera, a work which can only be prop-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 31

erly done by one intimately acquainted with the entire subject.
Dr. Loew has found, for instance, that a genus (Paralimna Fab.
Hydromysidae) occurring in North America, and foreign to Europe,
had been also discovered in Africa, and previously described. Al-
most any one but Dr. Loew would have formed a new genus of this
insect, and the interesting fact of the occurrence of the same
genus in Africa and America, and not in Europe, would have been,
for a time at least, unknown to science. Some other curious re-
sults have been obtained by this naturalist from the study of Baron
Osten Sacken’s collections. A species of borborus, from Cuba, has
been found identical with an African species, and from the matter on
which this fly occurs (alvine dejections) it is probable that it has been
accidentally imported into that island by a slave ship. A still more
interesting result is the discovery of the striking analogy between
the present American and the fossil tertiary fauna, coinciding with
the analogy of the corresponding floras. Dr. Loew having- mono-
graphed the fossil Diptera preserved in Prussian amber, and having
described no fewer than 656 of such species, was better able than
any one else to trace this analogy. The remarkable fact appears
from his investigation that insects, some of them very singular, which
are absolutely extinct in Europe, are now found living in America.

Such have been, up to the present time, the entomological publi-
cations of the Smithsonian Institution. They do not as yet embrace
the three orders of Hemiptera, Orthoptera, and Hymenoptera. Mr.
Ph. R. Uhler, of Baltimore, who has for several years made the North
American Hemiptera (tree bugs, plant lice, &c.,) the special subject of
his study, is preparing for the Institution a work in regard to these
insects on the same plan as that of Hagen’s Neuroptera, which it 1s
expected will be soon ready for publication.

Little has yet been done for the Orthoptera, (grasshoppers, rear
horses, crickets, &c.,) although, owing to the small extent of this
order, it would be a comparatively easy task to produce a work similar
to the synopsis of Neuroptera, if a sufficient collection of specimens
were in existence. The Institution has adopted measures to have
this desideratum supplied. The study of North American Hy-
menoptera (bees, wasps, &c.,) was undertaken several years ago by
Mr. H. de Saussure in Geneva, and large collections have been fur-
nished to him by the Institution. It is expected that his manuscript
will soon be furnished for publication.
32 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

In order to complete the series of the entomological publications of
the Institution, a want of the intelligent public remains to be sup-
plied, that of a popular work on Entomology in general, designed to
serve as an introduction to this department of zoology, and to facili-
tate its acquisition by presenting its elements in an attractive form,
while at the same time infusing the true philosophical spirit of the
science. Such a work is in contemplation, and will promote more
than any other the diffusion of this branch of knowledge.

Reports. —The next class of publications consists of the annual Re-
ports to Congress. These reports, which are printed at the expense
of the Government, consist each of an octavo volume, limited to 450
pages. They contain the report of the Secretary, the acts of the Re-
gents, and an appendix, consisting of a synopsis of lectures delivered
at the Institution, extracts from correspondence, and information of a
character suited to the meteorological observers, teachers, and other
persons especially interested in the promotion of knowledge. The ap-
pendix to the report for 1860 contained three lectures of a course on
Roads and Bridges, by Prof. Fairman Rogers, the remainder of which
will be given in the report for 1861 ; an extended series of lectures
on Mollusca or Shell-fish, and their allies, by Philip P. Carpenter ;
general views on Archeology, by A. Morlot, translated from the
French ; a series of articles translated from foreign journals; and ex-
tracts from correspondence, principally on meteorology and natural
history.

Of this report 10,000 extra copies were ordered by Congress, of
which 4,000 were presented to the Institution for distribution among
its special correspondents. The requests for this work have been
constantly increasing, and the demand for back numbers to complete
sets has been greater than the Institution could supply.

The following general rules for the distribution of these reports
have been adopted :

1st. They are presented to all the meteorological observers who
send records of the weather to the Institution.

2d. To the collaborators of the Institution.

3d. To donors to the museum or library.

4th. To colleges and educational establishments.

5th. To public libraries and literary and scientific societies.

6th. To teachers, or individuals who are engaged in special studies,
and who make direct application for the volumes.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. Sa

The additional distribution of copies of these reports by Congress
serves still more widely to make known the character and operations
of the Institution, and to diffuse a species of useful knowledge which
cannot otherwise be readily obtained.

Ethnology.—F rom the previous reports it will have been seen that
the Institution has endeavored to promote various branches of the
science of ethnology. Besides the works on Indian Archeology, it has
presented to the world several papers which relate to language. Inthe
report for 1860 a list of original manuscripts was given, relating
to the languages of the western coast of North America, which had
been received through the assistance of Mr. Alexander S. Taylor, of
Monterey, California. Several of these have been carefully copied,
at the expense of the Institution, with the intention of insuring their
preservation and their subsequent publication. It has been suggested
that the publication of a grammar and dictionary of one at least of
each of the representative languages of North America would much
facilitate the investigation of the general relations of the several parts
of this branch of ethnology. With a view to carrying out this sug-
gestion, means have been adopted to obtain information as to all the
manuscripts which may possibly exist; and we have been so fortunate
as to enlist the co-operation, in this important work, of a number of
valuable collaborators. Among these are Mr. Alexander S. Taylor,
of California; the Catholic clergymen of the western coast of North
America; Mr. George Gibbs, of Washington Territory; Mr. Buck-
ingham Smith, late Secretary of Legation to Spain, and Mr. J. G.
Shea, of New York.

Mr. Shea, who has devoted much attention to the subject of com-
parative philology, has commenced the publication at his own expense
of a ‘‘ Library of American Linguistics,’’? which he is desirous of con-
tinuing as a labor of love; and since it would not be in accordance
with the policy of this Institution to interfere with so praiseworthy
an undertaking, but on the contrary to facilitate it by all the means
in its power, it has been thought proper to present to Mr. Shea copies
of all the collections which the Institution has yet made relative to
this subject, and to purchase from him for distribution to learned
societies a certain number of copies of all the works which he may
publish. By adopting this course, which has been warmly recom-
mended by some of the principal ethnologists of this country, more

3
34 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

service can be done in the way of advancing knowledge with the
small appropriation which could be devoted to this purpose than by
publishing the manuscripts, as was first intended, as a part of the
Smithsonian Miscellaneous Ccllections. In accordance with this view,
the grammar of the Mutsun language, mentioned in the last report,
has been presented to Mr. Shea, and has been published by him as
one of his series, full credit being given to the Institution in the title
page, and in a separate advertisement.

The Mutsun Indians inhabited the country northwest of Monterey,
California, comprising a district, according to Mr. Taylor, of 170 miles
long by 80 broad, and are the most northerly tribe known of whose
language the Spanish missionaries compiled a grammar. Their village
lay in the centre of a valley which abounded in rich land, and as late
as 1831 numbered twelve hundred souls. For the purpose of com-
parison this work therefore possesses great value. The late W. W.
Turner says that this language is clearly the same as the Rumsen or
Rumsien, one of the two spoken at the mission of San Carlos, and at
the mission of La Soledad, further to the south. It also bears a con-
siderable degree of resemblance to the language of the Costanos on
the bay of San Francisco, and also a fainter one to other languages
further north. The grammar is printed in superior style, on excellent
paper, by J. Munsell, of Albany, and forms Part IV of the linguistic
series above mentioned, the following being the titles of the three
previous parts, viz:

1. A French Onondaga dictionary, from a manuscript of the 17th
century. .

2. A Selish or Flathead grammar, by Rev. Gregory Mengarini.

3. A grammatical sketch of the Hévé language, spoken in the mid-
dle of the last century in Sonora; translated from an unpublished
manuscript by Buckingham Smith.

Besides the fourth number, the other works which have been placed
in the hands of Mr. Shea for publication are the Mutsun vocabulary,
the Yakama grammar, and the Sextapay vocabulary. The paper
on the languages of the western coast mentioned in the last report as
in preparation by Mr. George Gibbs is still in progress. He has
received several valuable additions of materials for comparison of
the different languages under investigation.

The publication in the last report of the general views on arche-
ology, by Morlot, of Switzerland, has awakened a new interest in the
remains of Indian art found in all parts of the United States, and
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 35

various collections are now being formed, which will be of great in-
terest in comparing analogous stages of the mental development of
the primitive inhabitants of this country and those of Europe. For
the purpose of assisting this comparison it is proposed to make pho-
tographic impressions of all type specimens which have been found
in this country, to be distributed to the most distinguished archeolo-
gists in Europe, and to invite a general exchange of illustrations and
articles of this character. Mr. Franklin Peale, of Philadelphia, has
arranged with artistic skill, in thirty tablets, nearly a thousand speci-
mens of arrow heads, hatchets, knives, chisels, and other instruments
belonging to the stone period, and has ascertained by actual experi-
ment that a photographic picture can be taken of each tablet of full
size, which presents the form and peculiarities of each article with
such distinctness that the impressions may serve almost as well as the
specimens themselves for comparative study.

Meteorology.—The system of meteorological observations, organized
and carried on successfully for several years past, has suffered more
from the disturbed condition of the country than any other part of
the operations of the Smithsonian establishment. But few records
have been received since the commencement of the war from Vir-
ginia, Kentucky, and Missouri, and, with two or three exceptions,
none from the States further south.

The withdrawal of the troops from the numerous stations along the
coast of the Pacific and from the interior of the continent has mate-
rially diminished the number of observers reporting to the office of
the Surgeon General.

The popular system of daily telegraphic reports of the condition of
the weather from distant parts of the United States has been dis-
continued ; the continuity of the lines to the south having been inter-
rupted, and the wires from the north and west being so entirely
occupied by public business that no use of them could be obtained for
scientific purposes.

We may mention in this connexion that a daily bulletin of tele-
grams relative to the weather in different parts of Europe, similar to
that established by this Institution, is published at the Imperial Ob-
servatory at Paris, copies of which are regularly transmitted to us,
through the kindness of the director, M. Le Verrier. From an ex-
amination of these records we find that the meteorological phenomena
36 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

of the temperate zone in the eastern hemisphere travel eastwardly,
or in the same direction that they are observed to follow in the
United States. The meteorologists, however, of London and Paris,
are by no means as favorably situated for predicting the coming
weather as those of Washington, New York, or Boston, since the
storm which approaches the former comes from the ocean and admits
of but very limited telegraphic announcement, while those which are
coming toward the latter can be heralded over thousands of miles of
wire.

We have continued to receive records of observations from the
northern and western States, Canada, the Hudson’s Bay Territory,
Mexico, and Central America.

It was stated in the last report that on account of the suspension
of the annual appropriation from the Patent Office for meteorological
statistics the process of reduction had been discontinued, and we re-
gret to say that we have not been able to resume this work during
the past year. The reductions, however, prepared by Professor
Coffin, under the direction and at the joint expense of the Smith-
sonian Institution and the Patent Office, for the years 1854—59, in-
clusive, are still in the hands of the public printer. The work can-
not be burried through the press, since much labor and care are
required for proper correction of the proof sheets ; the delay, how-
ever, has been mainly caused by the interruptions incidental to the
entire change of system of Congressional printing, and the estab-
lishment of a government printing office. The work will form two
large quarto volumes, the first of which is completed, with the ex-
ception of some introductory matter, and contains 1,270 pages. It
exhibits the monthly and annual reductions for the barometer, ther-
mometer, psychrometer, and rain guage, the observations on winds,

clouds, &c.
The following statement from this volume of the number of ob-
servers for the several years, shows the growth of the system:
1854, embraces 234 stations.

CEES RARE A NaBAE y Miinl:
P56 uk. Sage CoeU ae
DED Ea, ia 2h ooh haath Sie ahh
YA eae 221) Piao
TORO eon SO a ce ae

The second volume, which is also partly printed, will probably ,
contain as many pages as the first, and will give the observations on
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY, oe

periodical phenomena, such as the appearance and disappearance of
birds and animals, first and last frosts, dates of the opening and clos-
ing of rivers, lakes, harbors, &c. ; also, detailed observations for the
investigation of the principal storms of 1859; general tables of tem-
peratures of several hundred places in North America, deduced from
a series of years from all the reliable sources which could be com-
manded; also, a series of tables of rain at different places, deduced
from observations for a series of years. The special object of the
extended table of temperature is to furnish the materials for a more
accurate isothermal map of the United States than has as yet been
projected; and that of the rain tables, to present.the data for a more
reliable map of the average precipitation in the different parts of the
country. ;

The volume will also contain special thermometric observations at
stations distributed over the area extending from the Arctic regions
to the northern States of South America,’and from the Pacific to the
Atlantic coast, for the purpose of showing the progress of cold periods
across the continent, from the Rocky mountains to Bermuda. The
same volume will also contain daily notices of the weather for the
year 1859, gathered from published accounts, presenting items of in-
formation in a general and popular form, which may assist in the in-
vestigation of the movement of storms, and be of more interest to
the general reader than the tabular statements of the principal part of
the work.

The office work of the system of meteorology has continued in
charge of William Q. Force, esq., of this city, to whom has also been
intrusted the laborious duty of correcting the proof sheets of the
volumes above mentioned.

Magnetic Observatory.—It was stated ‘in the last report that as the
changes in the direction and intensity of the magnetic force at Toronto
were almost precisely the same as at Washington, it was concluded
that more important service could be rendered to science by sepa-
rating the points of observation to a greater distance. In accordance
with this view, the instruments of the observatory on the Smithso-
nian grounds were sent to Key West, one of the Tortugas, where the
United States has a military post, and the Coast Survey a tidal sta-
tion. This location has been found well adapted to the purpose, and
notwithstanding its proximity to the seat of active war, the photo-
graphic registration has been uninterruptedly kept up during the
38 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

past year, at the joint expense of the Coast Survey and the Smith-
sonian Institution.

Laboratory.—The operations of the laboratory during the past year
have been principally confined to the examination and classification
of the minerals which have been collected at the Institution from
the various exploring expeditions, preparatory to a general distribu-
tion of the duplicates. This work has been intrusted to Mr. Thomas
Egleston, of New York.

Facilities have been given to Professor Way, of London, for the
exhibition of his improved method of producing an intense light for
signals by means of the electrical deflagration of a stream of mer-
cury, and the Institution is indebted to this gentleman for the present
of a set of apparatus for exhibiting this light, and also of a powerful
galvanic battery. The apparatus of the laboratory has been increased
by a large Daniell’s battery, consisting of fifty cylindrical copper
cells, each six inches in diameter and fourteen inches high, with
appropriate zinc elements of pure metal, procured expressly for the
purpose from Mr. Wharton, of Pennsylvania.

Among the experiments which have been made, may be mentioned
a series by Dr. Craig, on the effects of the explosion of gunpowder
under pressure ; and another by the Secretary, on the burning of the
same substance in a vacuum, and in different gases.

A series of researches was also commenced to determine more ac-
curately than has yet been done the expansion produced in a bar of
iron at the moment of magnetization of the metal by means of a gal-
vanic current. The opportunity was taken, with the consent of Pro-
fessor Bache, of making these experiments with the delicate instru-
ments which had previously been employed in determining the vary-
ing length under different temperatures of the measuring apparatus
’ of the base lines of the United States Coast Survey.

It may also be stated that the Secretary was requested by the War
Department to report upon the practicability of employing balloons
for military purposes, and in accordance with this request the sev-
eral planus proposed by Mr. Lowe, of Philadelphia, and Mr. Helme,
of Providence, were examined and practically illustrated on the
Smithsonian grounds.

It may not be improper in this connexion to state that a consider-
able portion of the time of the Secretary, during almost every year
since the beginning of the Institution, has been devoted to investiga-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 39

tions pertaining to the operations of the general government. For
these services no compensation has been asked or received.

It is believed that the Institution, through its Secretary and other
officers, has been the instrument of important services to the govern-
ment, which have repaid in some degree the fostering care which the
latter has bestowed on the former.

Explorations.—For the purpose of obtaining a large number of
duplicate specimens of the Zoology, Botany, and Mineralogy of North
America, the Institution has not only furnished instructions and ren-
dered assistance, in the way of making collections, to the various
government expeditions undertaken during the last twelve years,
but it has also engaged the services of persons of the requisite
acquirements to make independent explorations. An account of
these explorations has been given in the several reports for previ-
ous years, and it is therefore only necessary to mention at this time
those which have been completed during the past year, or are still
in progress.

The exploration in Lower California, near Cape St. Lucas, the
southern extremity of the peninsula; by Mr. John Xantus, has been
completed. The labors expended in this field have been truly re-
markable. According to the statement of Professor Baird, Mr. Xan-
tus has sent to the Institution sixty large boxes filled with specimens
-illustrating almost every branch of natural history. His explorations
were not confined to the southern extremity of the peninsula, but ex-
tended many leagues up the coast on both the ocean and gulf sides.
He also visited Mazatlan, on the Mexican coast, and made a valuable
collection of birds. The specimens which he collected contain a
large number of species never before described. These have been
submitted for study and examination to some of the principal natu-
ralists in this country and Europe. In closing the accounts of the
explorations in Lower California it is necessary to acknowledge the
services rendered to the natural history of this country by the Coast
Survey, under the direction of Professor Bache, in affording Mr.
Xantus, while discharging the duty of tidal observer, the opportu-
nity of making these valuable collections at points which would other-
wise be almost_inaccessible to the naturalist.

The explorations by Mr. Robert Kennicott, in the northwestern
part of this continent, are still going on, the Hudson’s Bay Company
‘ having extended the time and afforded additional means for the prose-
cution of the work. From the latest advices from Mr. Kennicott,
40 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

he had reached Fort Yukon, on the Yukon river, a post in Russian
America, and in a region almost entirely unknown, not only in regard
to its natural history but also as to its geographys From this point
he intended to continue his explorations to the mouth of Anderson
river, on the coast of the Arctic ocean, and to return home about the
end of the year 1863. It is proper to remark that in defraying the
expense of this exploration the Institution has been assisted by the
University of Michigan, the Chicago Audubon Club, the Chicago
Academy of Natural Sciences, and by several gentlemen interested in
natural history, and that without the facilities afforded by the Hud-
son’s Bay Company and its officers the enterprise, as at present ex-
tended, could not have been accomplished. Not only has Mr. Kenni-
cott been received as a guest at the different posts, but free transport-
ation has been afforded for himself and his collections. It is gratify-
ing to the friends of this zealous and accomplished young naturalist
to learn that he has everywhere succeeded in exciting the sympathy
and awakening the interest of the officers and employés of the foreign
governments through whose territories his explorations have extended.
And, thus, while actively engaged himself in extending our knowl-
edge of these remote regions, he has diffused a taste for natural his-
tory, and enlisted the services of a number of active collaborators.

The officers of the Hudson’s Bay Company have instituted local
explorations at the principal stations, which, taken in connexion with
what Mr. Kennicott is doing, bid fair to make the natural history of
Western Arctic America as well known as that of any part of the
continent. Among the most active of those who have become volun-
tary collaborators of the Institution is Mr. Bernard R. Ross, chief
factor of the Mackenzie river district. From that gentleman we are
receiving, from time to time, valuable collections of specimens to
illustrate the natural history and ethnology of the region in which he
resides.

Another gentleman, Mr. Lawrence Clark, jr., of Fort Rae, has
contributed largely to our collection of specimens from the vicinity
of Slave lake. Besides these, I must refer to the report of Professor
Baird for the names of a number of other gentlemen who have made
similar contributions from different parts of the Hudson’s Bay terri-
tory, and other districts of North America.

Collections of Natural History, d&c.—In the last report of the Insti-
tution, a distinction was made between the collections of natural his-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. Al

tory and the museum of the Institution; the object of the former
being more essentially in accordance with the primary idea of the
establishment, namely, the advance of science, and that of the latter a
public exhibition of the natural history, principally of the North
American continent, for popular as well as scientific study.

While it has not been contemplated to employ any large portion
of the Smithsonian income in the support of a general museum, which,
under the most favorable circumstances, must be, in a considerable
degree, local in its influence, and can only produce its best effects
when connected with an educational establishment, as in the case of
the great museum now in process of being formed by Professor
Agassiz at Cambridge, yet much labor and money have been ex-
pended in making the collections, with a view principally to obtain
new materials for the investigation and illustration of the natural his-
tory, mineralogy, and geology of this country. As the primary ob-
ject. of the Institution is the advance of science, such a disposition of
the specimens is sought to be made as will best secure this end.

The specimens may be divided into two classes—Ist, those which
have been described in the reports of government expeditions or the
transactions of the Smithsonian and other Institutions; and 2d, those
which have not been described, and which consequently are con-
sidered of much value by the naturalists who are interested in ex-
tending the several branches of natural history. Of both classes the
Institution possesses a large number of duplicates, in the disposition
of which some general principles should be kept constantly in view.
After due consultation with naturalists, the following rules, which were
presented in the last report, have been adopted relative to the de-
scribed specimens :

First. To advance original science, the duplicate type specimens
are to be distributed as widely as possible to scientific institutions in
this country and abroad, in order that they may be used in identifying
the species and genera which have been described.

Second. To promote education, as full sets as possible of general
duplicates, properly labelled, are to be presented to colleges and other
institutions of learning that profess to teach the principal branches of
natural history.

Third. It must be distinctly understood that due credit is to be
given to the Institution in the labelling of the specimens, and in all
accounts which may be published of them, since such credit is not only
42 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

due to the name of Smithson, but also to the directors of the establish-
ment, as vouchers to the world that they are faithfully carrying out
the intention of the bequest.

Fourth. It may be proper, in the distribution to institutions abroad,
as a general rule, to require, in case type specimens to illustrate
species which have been described by foreign authors may be wanted
for comparison or other uses in this country, that they be furnished at
any time they may be required.

Fifth. In return for specimens which may be presented to colleges
and other educational establishments, collections from localities in
their vicinity, which may be desirable, shall be furnished when re-
quired.

In the disposition of the wndescribed specimens of the collection,
it is impossible to be governed by rules quite as definite as those
which relate to the previous class, but the following considerations
have been adopted as governing principles :

1. The original specimens ought not to be intrusted to inexperi-
enced persons, or to those who have not given evidence of their
ability properly to accomplish the task they have undertaken.

2. Preference should be given to those who are engaged in the la-
borious and difficult task of preparing tomplete monographs.

3. As it would be illiberal to restrict the use of the specimens, and
confine the study of them to persons who can visit Washington, the
investigator should be allowed to take them to his place of residence,
and to retain them for a reasonable time.

4, The investigator must give assurance that he will prepare a set
of type specimens for the Smithsonian museum, and will return all
the duplicates, if required.

5. In any publication which may be made of the results of the inves-
tigation, full credit must be accorded to the Institution for the facili-
ties which have been afforded.

At the last session of Congress an appropriation was made to assist
in the general distribution of duplicate specimens, and this distribu-
tion has been carried on as efficiently as the laborious character of
the work would allow. The mere distribution of the specimens among
colleges and educational establishments in this country, without labels
or descriptions, would be little better than scattering them to the
winds; but to present them correctly named and described renders
them important auxiliaries in the study of natural history, and indi-
rectly in the advance of this branch of knowledge itself. But this
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 43

work requires a critical knowledge of each particular class of speci-
mens, and consequently the co-operation of a number of experienced
naturalists, each of acknowledged authority in his special department.

The assortment and labelling of the larger part of the shells is still
in progress under Mr. Philip P. Carpenter, of Warrington, England,
assisted by Dr. Alcock. Certain marine families have been sent to
Professor Agassiz; a part of the fresh water shells has been named
by Mr. Isaac Lea, of Philadelphia; another part by Mr. W. G. Bin-
ney, of New Jersey; another class of mollusks has been consigned to
Mr. Busk, of England; and a third has been sent to Dr. Steenstrup,
of Copenhagen.

The botanical collection is still in charge of Dr. Torrey, of New
York, and Dr. Gray, of Cambridge.

The rocks and minerals have been partially labelled by Mr. Thomas
Egleston, late a pupil of the School of Mines, Paris, who will probably
finish the work during the present year.

The insects have been referred to Baron’ Osten Sacken, Dr.
LeConte, Dr. Loew, Dr. Hagen, Dr. Morris, Dr. Clemens, Mr. Ulke,
Mr. Uhler, and Mr. Edwards.

Certain classes of the mammalia have been examined by Dr. J. H.
Slack and H. Allen, of Philadelphia; the birds by Mr. John Cassin,
“Mr. Elliott Coues, Dr. Bryant, and Mr. George N. Lawrence; the rep-
tiles by Mr. E. D. Cope; the fishes by Mr. Alexander Agassiz, Mr.
F. W. Putnam, Mr. Theodore Gill, and students of Professor Agassiz;
the crustacea by Mr. Ordway and Mr. W. Stimpson; the radiata by
Mr. Verrill and Mr. Stimpson; the fossils by Dr. Newberry, Mr. »
Meek, Dr. Hayden, and Dr. Gabb.

The whole of this part of the general business of the Institution
has. been, as heretofore, under the special charge of Professor Baird,
to whose detailed report I would refer for a more particular account
of these operations. From his report it will also be seen that the
Institution has already distributed upwards of 80,000 specimens of
natural history, and when it is recollected that each of these has been
properly labelled and referred to printed lists, some idea of the
amount of labor and time which has been expended on this work may
be formed.

Type series of these specimens have been presented to the prin-
cipal museums of Europe, and to the different societies for the pro-
motion of natural history in this country. In every part, therefore,
44 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

of the civilized world, wherever natural history, is cultivated, the
name of the Institution has become familiar as a household word.

The distribution will be continued during the present year, pro-
vided no unforeseen event should occur to interrupt the operations
now in progress.

Museum.—Considerable advance has been made during the year
in improving the condition of the specimens for public exhibition in
the museum. It is intended to label each article distinctly and ac-
curately; but, although much labor has been expended on this work,
it cannot be fully accomplished until all the specimens shall be
thoroughly examined and properly described. A large number of
additions has been made to the museum, and many imperfect speci-
mens replaced by those of a better character.

During the past year Washington has been visited by a greater
number of strangers than ever before since the commencement of its
history. The museum has consequently been continually thronged
with visitors, and has been a never-failing source of pleasure and in-
struction to the soldiers of the army of the United States quartered
in this city or its vicinity. Encouragement has been given them to
visit it as often as their duties would permit them to devote the time
for this purpose.

Exchanges.—The system of exchanges has continued during the
past year to be the principal means of communication between the
scientific societies of the Old World and those of the New. As might
‘ have been expected, however, the number of copies of works sent
abroad in 1861 was less than that of the previous year. The whole
number of packages containing books, pamphlets, &c., sent abroad
during the year was 1,099, containing, at least, 10,000 separate arti-
cles. The number of packages received in return, for societies in this
country, exclusive of those for the Institution, was 1,406, which, on
an average, would amount to upwards of 17,000 separate articles.
During the same period there have been received by the Institution
for its own library 2,886 books and other publications.

In return for the generous assistance the Institution has received
in carrying on this system of exchange, it is proper to repeat what
we have stated in previous reports, that the Cunard steamers be-
tween New York and Liverpool, the North German Lloyd between
New York and Bremen, the Hudson’s Bay Company, the Pacific Mail
Steamship Company, and Panama Railroad Company, have carried
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY, | 45

our packages free of cost on account of freight, and that the New
York and Hamburg Ine has also generously rendered us a similar
service. Adams’ Express Company has transmitted our packages to
and from different parts of the country at reduced rates. This ap-
preciation of the objects of the Institution is as creditable to these
companies as it is gratifying to the friends of the Institution.

Inbrary.—Since the date of the last report the plan adopted in
regard to the library has been steadily acted upon, namely: to obtain
as perfect a series as possible of the transactions and proceedings of
the learned societies which have existed, or now exist, in every part
of the world. During the past year nearly 3,000 articles from societies
abroad, and copies of nearly everything which has been published by
societies in this country, in Canada, and South America, have been
added to the list of scientific works previously in the library.

We have received no definite information since the date of the last
report as to the progress which has been made, under the direction
of the Royal Society, in the preparation of the classified index of
all the papers contained in the transactions of learned societies, and
in the scientific serials of different parts of the world. The work,
however, is still going on, and will, without doubt, be completed as
soon as so extensive an undertaking can be properly accomplished.

The second and concluding volume of the catalogue of zoological
literature from 1750 to the present day, by J. Victor Carus, of Leip-
sic, which was mentioned in the last two reports, has been published;
and we would again commend it to the patronage of naturalists as the
best compilation which has yet appeared of the titles systematically '
arranged of isolated papers on zoology published in American as well
as foreign journals.

Among the more important donations since the date of the last
report are the following :

130 volumes from T. Einhorn, of Leipsic;

18 from the Institut de France;
27 from the Academy de Stanislas, Nancy;
13 from the Agronomical Society, of Poland;
21 from the Royal Swedish Society of Sciences;
11 from the Koniglich Preussische Technische Bau-Deputation;
10 from Oberlausitzische Gesellschaft at Gorlitz;
30 from the University of Chile;
8 from the Imperial Printing Office, Vienna;
AG REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

25 from the Royal Observatory, Greenwich;

33 from the Academy of Sciences, St. Petersburg;
and a valuable collection of works on natural history from one of
the regents, General Joseph G. Totten, of the United States army.

Gallery of Art.—The Stanley collection of Indian portraits and
scenes of Indian life, together with the Indian portraits received
from the museum of the Patent Office, still continue to form an
ethnological gallery of much interest to the numerous visitors of
the Institution. The small appropriation which was previously
made to repay Mr. Stanley for incidental expenses connected with
this gallery has been continued during the past year. The appli-
cation which Mr. Stanley has, for several years, made to Congress
for the purchase of his gallery cannot be expected at this time
to receive attention, although we hope that in a more favorable
condition of the treasury an appropriation for the purpose will be
granted.

The following are the additions which have been made to the col-
lection of objects of art during the past year: A large marble bust
of Pulaski on deposit; a colossal bust in plaster of Dr. Robert Hare.
Another, of the same size, of Hon. George M. Dallas; also a bust of
Thomas Jefferson, and another of Dr. E. K. Kane, all by purchase.
They are original works of art, of considerable merit, by Henry D.
Saunders.

Besides these, a series of busts in plaster, several valuable pieces
of sculpture in marble, and a number of pictures, have been received
from the museum at the Patent Office. Among the busts are the fol-
lowing : An excellent likeness of John Vaughan, for a long time libra-
rian of the American Philosophical Society ; one of Cuvier, the French
naturalist; of Hon.’ Dixon H. Lewis, late member of Congress, re-
markable for his immense bodily size; and of the Hon. Peter Force, of
this city. Among the articles in marble are a full-sized medallion of
Minerva from Pompeii, a half-size copy of the Apollo Belvidere, and
two other half-size ancient statues, all of elaborate finish. Among
the pictures is an original portrait of Washington by the elder Peale,
painted immediately after the battle of Princeton. In addition to jhe
foregoing, the collection has been increased by one hundred large
engravings presented by Charles B. King, a well-known artist, who
has resided many years in this city. These engravings are copies of
celebrated pictures, and are illustrations of the style of some of the
best masters of the art of engraving. They were to have been be-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. AT

queathed to the Institution, as Mr. King himself informed me, but
he has lately concluded to present them before his death. A list of
the engravings will be found in the appendix to the report of the
present year, from which it will be seen that they form an interesting
addition to the valuable collection of engravings already belonging
to the Institution.

It was stated in the last report that, in accordance with the policy
adopted by the institution, it would be proper to co-operate with Mr.
Corcoran in the liberal and generous enterprise he had undertaken
of establishing a free gallery of art in the city of Washington, and
to deposit in his collection the specimens which might belong to this
establishment, due credit being given to the name of Smithson for
all additions of this kind to the gallery in question. The condition
of the country has, however, for the present interfered with the prose-
cution of the original design of Mr. Corcoran, and the large and ele-
gant building which he has erected for carrying out his ideas is now
occupied by the government as a depot for military stores.

Lectures.—On account of the uncertainty as to the amount of in-
come of the Institution, and the distraction of the public mind in
regard to the war, it has been thought advisable not to make any
definite arrangements for the usual course of popular lectures during
the season of 186162. A few lecturers, however, have lately been
engaged, and at least a partial course will be given.

As stated in previous reports, the lecture-room of the Institution
is the most commodious apartment in the District of Columbia for
public meetings, and frequent applications are made for its use for
lectures and public assemblages not connected with the operations of
the Institution. The use of the room has been freely allowed under
the following conditions: First. That the object for which it was
required should be of a benevolent character, or in some respects in
accordance with the general operations of the establishment. Second.
That subjects connected with sectarianism in religion, discussions in
Congress, and partisan politics should be excluded. Third. That the
actual expense of the gas and attendance should be defrayed by the
parties who used the room.

The privileges granted with these restrictions, although, perhaps,
of advantage to the city, have been found to be attended with
unfavorable results to the Institution. At first the number of appli-
cants was small, and principally confined to cases in which the
a REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

privilege could be granted without hesitation; the number has,
however, been constantly increasing, and during the past half year
there has scarcely been a day in which the favor has not been urgently
solicited by some of those who flock to this city with plans and in-
ventions by which, as it is asserted, the government and the public
are to be greatly benefited. These applications are prompted not
only by the consideration that the use of the room may be obtained
without charge, but also by the desire to connect the name of the
Institution with the schemes or doctrines with which the public are
to be impressed.

Since the custom was first introduced of granting the use of the
room for the purposes before mentioned, a large amount of valuable
property has been accumulated in the building, which is especially
exposed at night to injury and loss from fire and other causes. On
this account, as well as that of the insulated and exposed position of
the grounds, an extra corps of watchmen is required for the protec-
tion of the property every time the building is open at night for
public purposes.

Again, it has been found a disagreeable matter to allow, even for
benevolent purposes, a charge to be made by other parties for en-
trance to the building while, in accordance with the policy of the
Institution, admittance is free to every one.

But the greatest difficulty which has been met with in regard to
granting the use of the lecture room for other purposes than those
of the Institution, is that of strictly enforcing the rules relative to
the discussion of political and sectarian subjects, and the conse-
quent impossibility of preventing the name of the Institution from
being associated in the mind of the public with topics alike foreign
to its peaceful character and its scientific reputation. It is in vain to
disclaim the connexion of the institution with the discussion of these
subjects. The popular mind, particularly at a distance, cannot dis-
criminate between the lectures given under the sanction of the Insti-
tution and those which are simply permitted to be delivered within
its building.

In view of these facts it becomes a matter of grave deliberation
whether or not the use of the lecture room ought to be granted for
purposes not connected with the operations of the Institution; but,
under existing circumstances, perhaps the subject had better be post-
poned for future consideration.

Respectfully submitted,
JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary.
APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

SMITHSONIAN [ystiTUTION,
Washington, December 31, 1861.

Sir: I have the honor herewith to present a report for 1861 of the
operations intrusted to my charge, namely: those which relate to the
printing, the exchanges, and the collections of natural history.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
SPENCER F. BAIRD,
Assistant Secretary Smithsonian Institution.
Prof. JosepH Henry, L.L. D.,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.

PRINTING.

The publications of the past year have consisted principally of
works belonging to the octavo series of Smithsonian miscellaneous
collections and reports, and they amount to about 1,400 pages.

EXCHANGES AND TRANSPORTATION.

As might have been expected, the operations in this department
show a decrease in magnitude as compared with 1860. That year,
however, was an exceptional one, and the receipts of 1861, though
inferior to those of 1860, are yet equal to the average of preceding
years. Many works of great value have been added to the library
of the Institution, and numerous series of foreign transactions com-
pleted to date. The transmissions of books and pamphlets on behalf
of American institutions has been very large, and the returns of cor-
responding magnitude.

It will be observed by the annexed table that the Smithsonian In-
stitution is not only the medium of literary and scientific communi-
eation between the Old World and parties in the United States, but
performs the same office for all the principal institutions in the re-
maining countries of America, as Canada, Cuba, Mexico, Chile, Bra-
zil, New Granada, &c.

In 1861, as in previous years, very important services have been
rendered by various transportation companies in the reduction or re-
mission of freights. Among these may be mentioned from previous
years the Pacific Mail Steamship Company, the Panama Railroad
Company, the Cunard steamers, the Bremen or North German Lloyd,
the Hudson’s Bay Company, the Adams Express Company, &c.
During the past year the directors of the New York and Hamburg

A
50 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

line have also authorized their agents to forward packages to or from
the Institution free of charge.

The Institution is under many obligations to Mr. A. B. Forbes and
Mr. Samuel Hubbard, of the Pacific Mail Steamship Company, in San
Francisco, for important services in facilitating and conducting its
general business of exchanges, shipments, &c., on the Pacific coast.

The domestic agents of exchange, consisting of Messrs. Swan,
Brewer & Tileston, Boston; D. Appleton & Co., New York; J. B.
Lippincott & Co., Philadelphia, and Robert Clarke & Co., Cincinnati,
have, as heretofore, received and distributed without charge the
copies of Smithsonian contributions to knowledge addressed to insti-
tutions within their reach.

A.
Receipt of books, dc., by exchange in 1861.
Volumes :
Oetavio: ssecsisse ses al over vias vekey CcomeesN ons Uaioe sets he GuaieNeLs asomecenen 572
Quarto sige helen sail) SileRefiel ol aiken sire, vorroksh in-use calketione (sven (eiiehis) eureh (a) ineust 196
ROUT ON eit coerce telerarecanel chee ce temete eae tehtcrekel cree ateve tence eieiaters 53
821
Parts of volumes and pamphlets :
Octavor cis sia Lelioh aiterie igltel ei epedate.. oi lenairettel ad fete vec atia, elletrerione 1 955
Quarto se eee ad Sisley thewonsnctelia: tee, thacllly. ee eotiaualis cacena lar ramemeee 583
Ney OP RO Soc oR Te Rr RCR NE Peat eed Caceres ee eee er Cie ak tee 107
1,945
Maps TAIN CHAT LG @ oselte tha ce tteue eit he rer ele otelchctetichone bent si ist cialeiieterts 120
UDO tre lberer tometer eyecoueve ic eterevametis loners. tumscctistel speteramelce Carte voters 2,886
Be

Table showing the statistics of the foreign exchanges of the Smithsonian
Institution in 1861.

a] “4 6 — g
‘. S 3 eS +3 S 2
mf 2 eo) irs
iS) er © ow A
Agent and country. j 2 S g oS a pe a=
gE || 2 | 34 | 38
E E E Shull ear
Z Z zw | =
1. Dr. Fevrx Friveen, Letpsic.
DWC Onis e es aja Wis cabal atte aera 13 ZOsn Waee eee eee mete aie eae
NOMWAY Siatbamas oc stecce suena se 6 Mb ifsst te Stee ea a2 sea.
Denimarin tae ae Soi cate er 10 16); ledacweialegeape Sls acietien
IRUGSIS, 25 oops oo eine h a shan ac ine nile 29 AES Se ES alle S56 GaSe Sen oes
GUANO esos a see ean ca \emicin a ticle 25 AG NSS ee eae ea cele ocean
GeMmMmalvienessss cee) eacateasee 232 BAZ REECSSeCIER CIES BE ae cee
Switverlang.: 22 Semen ca dow es 21 34 wieeeeOR ose ste cegctese
Bel sne een aoe neonate aeee ee 11 21 |e nee Siete wid fel etrotets &
347 541 30 278 7,840

eS
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 51

B.— Table showing the statistics of the foreign exchanges, &c.—Continued.

z X Bg a S
¥ 2 Es Bt 2 a
See) ees, 2 oh an ee
Agent and country. 3 P S < as S 5
SS ee a 2 CB ee
EI Sg E 4 5 me
5 3 5 = )
Z Zi ZA a =
2. Hector Bossance & Sens, Paris.
WranCG se no eee Neola eee) GOOG on Or UO nico ae Soe Sele onc ele oes
TELE AS 8 Sg I SR ey ee Ms RO IL) Saas eee Dad ee ee
SPUN sacs See AR SST CM GER GETTER, hokey [eke chats erate rots a ala aie
ON UOTE ett ante epee eet tn eg yn ye ey Mtl eer ae ee RN or as Le
94 2,588
3. Roya Socrery, London.
Great Britain and Ireland_--.---- 73 2, 030
APES OF UNO MDOTUA 2 sa wars Salma we ame 180 4,500
hotalls oie ose ee ase cce ass smsn 625 16, 958

N. B.—The total number of volumes in these 1,099 packages amounts to about 10,000.

C.

Addressed packages received by the Smithsonian Institution from parties
in America for foreign distribution in 1861.

Number of packages,
Albany, N. Y.—

New York State Agricultural Society: .---+- -+++-+-- 10
Boston, Mass.—

American Academy of Arts and Sciences.--+-+-+++-: 118

Boston Society of Natural History .-.-.-++++s+++-+-- 64

[er eGitaoel freaky I IG Hera i lorcyo) cle oso acrO Orc Gece cuciatcacue bedvah ofeucih an cade tah 20
Cambridge, Mass.—

American Association for Advancement of Science---- 53

Prof. A. Gray 5 artic uP Wer Won ees wate esp) evel epatieveneiiataeye selei s: iane xe OT
Chicago, 1ll.—

Lieut. Col. James D. Graham, U. S. A----+-- +--+ +++: 907
Columbus, Ohio. —

Ohio State Board of Agriculture-----+--s+++++s++se 100

Leo Lesquereaux aeiauene ells site «:s¥e\ elceJeXe (af sricive) elelie o's) 0/\6.\8 mires sce e 50

Dorchester, Mass.—
Wired |S arvis Ass. eae sss Et RUC NEAgE ESCAPADE pai eh 8 wick 88s 95
52 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

Number of packages.
Indianapolis, Ind.—

Institution for Deaf and Dumb...+ «2. -. + esse eee eee 18
New Haven, Conn.—

American Journal of Science: +++++ + sees eee eens 104

Ob ere STU Tate. os Ber sitet otdetettpacel erence, Inechionce ete el citey epee ciray's) 4
Intile Rock, Ark.—

THEOL PAT ICATISAN s oe tial 2c Suelo datas SRR wpten tera Met gate 800
New York.—

New York Lyceum of Natural History...........-... 68

Astor Library Taw thal get Not tea eual ore eile) wisp wiMelHOre mAnieM wt iPelhe moval Melranee Wc aeemet ES 6

Charles B. Norton ENaIBa e" se kavidecea pte ho ORS Le cei ahs tndeh ik lpi os ee alee eae esa ee 500
Philadelphia, Pa.—

Academy of Natural Sciences.+.+-+.. ees. cess ee eeee 173

American Philosophical Society ..-- +--+ .++.-+++++.. 119

Entomological Society of Philadotpnin eee eee ee ee eee 12
Princeton, N. J.—

Peo marmatinetyat. te rts cece js nace oes pach Un
Providence, R. I.—

Stator Moder Lal amy enaens ies: ceet avers snalliiecas tenet yn depen Cure ate 6
St. Louis, Mo.—

St. Louis Academy of Sciences---+ -.+-.. sees eee eee. 163
San Francisco, Cal._—

California Academy of Natural Sciences.............. 50
Toronto, Canada.—

MAGIA SIT EOE tee cee eae eee eee oe ae eee 5
Washington, D. C.—

US Parenti ices ees Pe a ae en ara 90

Us? Coast Survey SANT RSPRY ANT RER iat AT ae RTS. ae) eT ren cee 69

DOCTEbary Ol War eon: see tees se ngs olen teats sles CER 120

Captain A. A. Humphreys: ...- 2... sewer cee oe 2h 94

REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 53:

Addressed packages received by the Smithsonian Institution from Europe, for
distribution in America, in 1861.

Albany, N. Y.
bADMMNSitN be). = = oa/onahi = csemc
Dudley Observatory.............----
New York State Agricultural Society - -
New York State Library.....:......
New York State Medical Society.....-
Dr GRIN OW) aie ciaet aim Sie alam mi cloe

Amherst, Mass.

Amherst Collepeseuk Jet aeeisk vic cceen

Annapolis, Md.

State Wibranyvicesn ses oe Saw cies
Ann Arbor, Mich.

WDRERVELOl Yas cem sce = soc sn acs ccme
IPFOLCRROY BrunnOWwe cen sseeeoceeceee

Augusta, He.

State luibraryes= 5.558 se5cccc sees
Austin, Texas.
Biapenibranyee cece Seca cec eons ane
Baltimore, Mad.

Maryland Historical Society-.-..----
HNOWOOH biel Ole conan un cece ceetes

Baton Rouge, La.
LALORUTDTALY coctsccveroaeiities bo datas

Bogota, New Granada.

Number of
packages.

Number of
packages,

|| Geological Survey...---- --.-.-----

DOr bo “1% bo

bo

hk Or

me Or

Sociedad de Naturalistas Neo Granadi-
TV aT pS sep ar AR ag UE se eS

Sociedad Economica de Amigos del
Dee aya aaa Ne ae I yt Gs

Boston, Mass.

American Academy of Artsand Sciences
American Statistical Association ~..-.
American Unitarian Association....-..
Boston Society of Natural History... sf

|| Professor L, Agassiz-...----------- 25

Boston, Mass.—Continued.

Bowditch) Wibrary. 2 ooo. osmoaa= =

Le Se ol

Massachusetts Historical Society - ----
New England Historic-Genealogical
NOC csc L esses ca ctepeemeete
Prison Discipline Society-.-..------
Po blicrbibranyss\at— eines alone
State Library foe S.asesenceae os
James Barnardisc5..oaShoetse canine ==
MS Givardeoesosses <cec scene cee
Edward Habich.-...- Satbewenedbee sis
Drv. VabVisesc. os see S ce ee ee nok

Professor d tiles) Marcoiisise ceo aerciente
Professor Moreland and F. Minot.---
Professor W..B. Rogers... oeccee cae
Geos. Lickn or. 2o-5e2 24 see nee

BDF DD WH NH DORR

Brooklyn, N. Y.

‘Dr; Ouis: baveLses.ceeeteneb ase
Bi Ne pen ty. eis mca haters. Sisre ate

a

Brunswick, He.

BowdoiniCollepeysn eases or
Historical Society of Maine ----....
IA. |S; Packard tipo a sa tep aie iio is

bore co

Burlington, Towa,

Iowa Historical and Geological Insti-

Burlington, Vt.
University of Vermont .......--..- 4
Cambridge, Mass.

American Association for Advance-

INETD) Obs SCION CE een eae omn'o mo aie 14
Agtronomical Jourmal.censteme= = - +206
Astronomical Observatory .--------- 1
Harvard Collesem ice caste eee. 15
Nautical Almanac Office .-...-----.- 1
54 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

D.— Addressed packages received by the Smithsonian Institution, §c.—Continued.

Number of
packages
Number of
packages

Cambridge, Mass.—Continued. Concord, N. H.
GEE. Bomwdeieeeas see se tceeee es aceas 3 || New Hampshire Historical Society--.| 4
ProfessoriClark. a)iccensadceeseeeacs 1} State-Librarys=2stesccssessenesets 2
Drab wAMGould 25. oo. cn5 cose ce 10
Professor-Asa Giay = sseeeeds casa 11 .
Protessor Pierce.2- sofas cee cee ae 5 Dea Moines, Iowa. !
DRM eval U0 Ot het pee ahr ees Sate A eae ah 1 d :
oy Sah aiid. x oe so MOU re 1 State Library..-.-.. tuebiec tale Se 9
Ernest Schubert...... SERRE Seese 1
Mire sillivanes aces cess ace sees 1 Detroit, Mich.
Driluckerman’. ses. secs e one c a i
AHS Verrier a a2. see eee 1 || Michigan State Agricultural Society..| 9
Professor; Bi. "Worcester so. 2th 6 || Messrs. Palmer, Gunn & Stearns----- 1
Dr. Zena Pitcher and A. B. Palmer-- 1
Charleston, S. C.
Elliott Society of Natural History ---- 14 Phehesier » hess
Society“ bibrary = 22 - see cceae es oee 3 :
Draw Happoldtvesscesmnoseone cece 1 Dr, H. JArvib<< Jets Senepee Sanne. :
Professor J. EH. Holbrook............ 1
Wilmot De Saussure. -.......<.-.... 1 Kast Greenwich, N. Y.
Charlottesville, Viz. Asa Pitch s Jos occ svecee scat scams 1
y¢@ . . aula |
University of Virrinia=--22222.2---- 4 Fada
Oscnija, 10 Geological Survey of Kentucky----- 5
Academy of Chicapo 2 =. --2s=-25 2 1 ee eee 4
Chicago Historical Society..---...... 1 : :
Mechanics’ Institute. 2. ........ 26. 4 Garalien, Oni:
Messrs. N. 8. David and Byford.....- il
Galdiel Jy D. Graham... 200-4 .csad fl Se BON Be eae eo 2 =
Cincinnati, Ohio. Cm, ae e
American Medical College..-........ 1 eee eee SO ee ie :
Historical nnd Philosophies Saclay OL | 8 br ee
OHIO 222 oes cae Soe ee some 2 :
Mercantile Library 22.0322 .-222...- 4 Hanover, N. H.
ODSEIVALOGY <oo—eimemeniceieaoees 3 , ‘
Professor Mitchell ........-2--2-20-. Pee eer dove anes :
Dr. Newton rocoto ee 1 rolessor Young..---.-------------
Columbia, Penn. | Eien ir Heer:
Sh Sihaldeman~—-socesest aace noes 1 || State Mitmany soc wetdbesdee entice 4
Columbia, S.C. Hartford, Conn.
South Carolina College .....---..... 7 el eee Oe he 2 :
s Historical Society of Connecticut... 2
State abranyeciec.-cee coe oee saee se 2 State Tibrary ade 3
Golonins. Oo: | Young Men’s Institute....-.---.-.-- 3
Ohio State Agricultural Society ...... 25 Havana, Cuba.
State Library... s8Gesseateee aces 3 ||:
dkeo ‘LegquerenX, <n nn atemian’ wala aacere 1 || Meteorological Observatory -....--- 1

REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

55

D.— Addressed packages received by the Smithsonian Institution, &¢.—Continued.

Hudson, Ohio.
Western Reserve College...-=---.---
Indianapolis, Ind.

Indiana Historical Society...--------
Rtatior| bratya acc ae aa seoe a cio wn nin

Lowa City, Lowa.

State University -.2:-.222.-.-2.-..
Jackson, Miss.

miate, library co. .\3.sssseaen ne tae
Janesville, Wis.

State Institution for the Blind-......
Jefferson City, Mo.
Btaleibraryesctccs~sns soso she ce=

Lansing, Mich.

Michigan State Agricultural Society --.
Biatembraryec sesso ce sos< Boe skse

Lecompton, Kansas.
ptate Library ac sss scence cuceccn
Little Rock, Ark.
Stateof Arkansas: s2- 5-cccc--5e
SiaterLrbrary.. 52h -s2easl sels cas

University of Arkansas.............

Louisville, Ky.

Madison, Wis.

Historical Society of Wisconsin-....-
MIAteDIarys oo ee eae ee
Wisconsin State Agricultural Society...

McMinnvilie, Warren county, Tenn.
CO. HoHalconnetz: (ttt 23 saesech ee

Mexico, Mexico.

Sociedad Mexicana de Geografia y Es- |

CAGIBUICR eter eto cece cinco ease

|
|

Number of
packages

29

cow ©

Milledgeville, Ga.
State Dibrany.< <5: as92e2s2 ees
Montgomery, Ala.
State Drbraty.< a=. ssoes eee oe
Montpelier, Vt.

Historical and Antiquarian Society of
Mermont 00 Sea eae See eee

Montreal, C. E.

Natural History Society -...-..--..
Professor 'T., Sschontise «snes o. =
SITGWien ki sWOCAN. « cecmaaneescaemes

Nashville, Tenn.

State Library
Professom blacki€ 22 ss. eee=ee eee

ee eee

New Brunswick, N. J.
Professor George H. Cook.-.-......-
New Haven, Conn.

American Journal of Science -....--
American Oriental Society
Yale’ Collese 2222 sn-2-2e-S4s26 cc. -
Professor Ja Di) Danaeheecen= cee oe
Professor Ei loomis=--.<-cs-=ce— se
Protéssor Silliman 22S seces= —c< Pas
Professor W. D. Whitney..--......

New Orleans, La.

New Orleans Academy of Natural
DClENCeS oa mejsemsia saan ieee

New York, N. Y.

American Ethnological Society
American Geographical and Statisti-
cal Society =. s--= 4-5 —e =as- sees
American Institute .-.. ...----..--
ASTOR MIDEALy coo. -eesea eens an =
Board of Education. .......--------
Historical Society..-.-------------
Mercantile Library Association -----.
New York Journal] of Pharmacy ---.-
New York Lyceum of Natural History
Norton’s Literary Gazette

Number of
packages

ell alll cl

eo

ew

oo
NO ROO et Oo oo LS)
56

REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

D—Addressed packages received by the Smithsonian Institution, &c.—Continued.

New York, N. Y.—Continued.

Vntlversityy library. on... «nasi > s\~—=r |
J. Russell Bradford

eee

DavidoUndley Hield,.-ctoncemeone ae |
Messrs. Frank & Norton....-...--.--
Henpy Grinnell: 22 semen ese si= |
MEME AI Alb. mora anioceiciciwiee = se same ae
J. Ee umastontee 26.22 esoece ces
Hon. William Marvin........-..--.|
Professor Redfield
DTN ROPIMEDN - eee een eneeee cone
Bis Ges QUIET eae a ao eo evel
De woh Warren se same se aoe a= ees

Olympia, Washington.
Meritorial Wabrany#<<- = s-—— see se =
Omaha, Nebraska.

Permtoriall Wbvan yar e\ne oe oem ae |
Philadelphia, Penn.

Academy of Natural Sciences.-..----
American Philosophical Society------
Central High Sthooll 2222 -s5-52<ss4=
Hranklin Institute 222. oe aco een
Geological Survey, qja- == a2 asm = som
Historical Society of Pennsylvania--.--
Philadelphia Library Company
Wagner Free Institute ---..-_---.-.
WitG, BINNEY cece ccteas cee cits
Mrs (Cope esa sec seme a bee Aas
Dr Robley Danelison = cee ease ae
Messrs. Gross & Richardson......----
Professor Haldeman 2. 54225002 222.-
isaacil, HAVOS. oo Sects nos coe tease
Isaac Lea

eee ee mem mem eee

Dr wWoseph Leidy -.---..5 2-5 cmee!
William Sharswood
Professor Wagner

Portland, Me.
Neal Dow, Mayor of Portland -.....-

Princeton, N. J.

College of New Jersey
Professor Alexander

mn ww wm www eee

Number of

Professor A. Guyot

packages.

—
ht OS DD OD OS it er 0 OD

DI I a ell oo) ell eel SI el ee)

| Dr. John Ritter

|| Dr. B. F. Shumard

Providence, R. I.
Brown University. e222 eee
Rhode Island Historical Society --..-

State Libraty. 222 Sa 2e5 en Seca
John Carter Brown

Quebec, C. EB.
Observatory >. 2 22S Seen sess colace
Quincy, Ill.

Raleigh, N. C.

State diibramyooss sees sees ae ie

Richmond, Va.

|| Historical Society of Virginia----..-

State WulO nay asia ae este eteseste
Rio Janeiro, Brazil.

Inst. Hist. Geogr. of Brazil...-.----
Nautical Observatory ...2---.--2..-

Rock Island, Ill.

Benjamin DP Walshesn =< Sem cman
Sacramento, Cal.

State Library

St. Augustine, Fla.

|| Historical Society of Florida....----

St. John’s, N. B.
KanetsiCollege ns oaa.e— acetal ae

St. Louis, Mo.

Geological Survey of Missouri, (Co-

Lumibia, M0) ie nc eesepeeeendael
St. Louis Academy of Sciences....--
University Library..-.-.--------- :
Dr. George Bemays.<.s=0---5.- 2-2,
Dr. George Engelmann..........--
Messrs. Eginton & McPheeters-..-.-..-
Dri Adam Hammer eacaneataie oi
Mr, eslie seo oer ee esos cl emer
Dr. 8. Pollak

Number of
packages.

pt bo He

bo

bob

moo

CO et et DO tH et RO Or
REPORT OF ASSISTANT

SECRETARY.

57

D.— Addressed packages received by the Smithsonian Institution, &c.—Continued.

St. Paul, Minn.

Historical Society of St. Paul....---- |
Statewabrary2220lks Jase SS

Salem, Mass.
ingrexoimishitute LY e2Ls Ue ke Ske |

Professor King
Professor Russell. ........ Se

San Francisco, Cal.
California Academy of Natural Boienecs|
Santiago, Chile. |
Observatorio Nacional de Santiago -. .|
LUNTVETSItYy MPADTALY). ciate mone eS

Professor Lobeck
Drevigestagy S522 bite Looe tere

Savannah, Ga.
Georgia Historical Society.......----
Springfield, 1ll.
State Library

wiows Frat. Babjom=(<. 0. Sese 32. se |
Rey. Fachtmann

Springfield, Mass.
ASN E 704 UO ae ee a ee
Toronto, C. W.
Canadian Institute. ..........-.-...
Magnetical and Meteorological Obser-
VERbORVE ees reel toe tee ee Sree

Pumisy: College=ssu-ts 2 bee hee
Proiessor Kangston too be lh oo ee

Trenton, N. J.

Geological Survey of New Jersey. ..-.)
State Library_....... mete see aseems

STO AO GTERSOS Seep! re Sa a Send Se te ie ie re et Se
BRIsuOL DANCES. . torts anaes Soke ade Re eoa side gow cee a

|
|

kages.

Number of
| pac

10

Nor > bo

te bo

|

American Journal of Insanity

| National Institute

| Professor Bailey

|

Utica, N. Y.
Valdivia, Chile.

Dre mugen Von b0etk.s2. (a2 --1- 22
Valparaiso, Chile.

Dre Phonias/ AY Reid]. 225 ce seteee.

Washington, D. C.

Congress Library

National Observatory
Ordnance, bureaus: sooo. ese e tee
pectretary Of Wate <o- sense aemioe
U. 8S. Boundary Commission. .....--
U;S: (Coast Surveys a. 422 Sosa
Usa Patent. Office. suaseos ee sake

J. Ferguson
Lieutenant Gilliss
Dr. Charles Girard
Captain H. J. Hartstene
Professor W. E. Jillson
JaiC? Ge iennedyy. om aie ciapee en eee =
Lieutenant M. F. Maury.....------
Baron Osten Sacken-.-.=.-2-2:2-.--
George W. Riggs
EAT as Ry GS oo ee ee ae ae
John Av -Rockwell . se. cons eenee
Eee schooleraftece senses ee een eS
Wi btim pson 4 ees eee ee tees
Henry Ulke: ct ace saeeensecneee =

West Point, N. Y.

U.S. Military Academy

Majorsbowmane. esos) pot ccct aoe.
Worcester, Mass.

American Antiquarian Society.....-

Number of
packages,

bet ht OO tt Ct Ot HOD Do et Ot rt ATO re bw ot
58 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

MUSEUM AND COLLECTIONS.

Additions.—The receipts of specimens during 1861, as might have
been expected, were decidedly inferior to those of 1860, although
much of great interest to science has been added to the collection
since the date of the last report. Several explorations which had
been planned were, of necessity, abandoned, owing to various impedi-
ments and difficulties. Among these may be mentioned an explora-
tion of the region about Devil’s river, Texas, by Patrick Duffy, hos-
pital steward, United States army ; of Fort Churchill, by Lieutenant
John Feilner, United States army; and of Lake Winnepeg, by Donald
Gunn. These, it is hoped, however, are only deferred to be hereafter
resumed and carried out under better auspices.

No government expeditions have furnished any collections during
1861, excepting the Northwestern Boundary Commission, and their
collections were all made in 1860, only arriving in 1861. All the rest
were derived from resident correspondents of the Institution, or from
gentlemen making explorations in the field in its behalf. A full list
of all such receipts is given herewith, to which I would refer for par-
ticulars.

In addition to the operations of Mr. Xantus, Mr. Kennicott, and
officers of the Hudson’s Bay Company, mentioned specially hereafter,
I may state that important contributions to our knowledge of the re-
gions adjacent to the United States have been furnished by Mr.
Charles Wright, from Cuba; Mr. W. Thomas March, of Jamaica, and
Dr. Sartorius, of Mexico.

Very valuable collections of type specimens have been received
from Dr. Hartlaub, of the Bremen museum; Drs. Reinhardt and
Steenstrup, of the Copenhagen museum; Mr. P. L. Sclater, of Lon-
don; the Messrs. Verreaux, of Paris; and Professor Agassiz, of the
Cambridge museum.

The following are the explorations during the year from which the
largest results have been received: |

EXPLORATIONS.

Exploration of Cape St. Lucas and the Gulf of California, by Mr.
John Xantus.—In the two last reports reference was made to that ex-
ploration following one of the region about Fort Tejon, California, by
the same gentleman. I have now to report that the series of tidal
and other observations made for the Coast Survey having been com-
pleted by Mr. Xantus, he has left Cape St. Lucas and returned to the
east. The whole of the collections made by him have not yet arrived,
but enough has been received during 1861, in continuation of pre-
vious years, to exhibit the ability and industry of Mr. Xantus as a
naturalist. Over sixty boxes, some of large size, with contents em-
bracing (and almost exhausting) every department of natural history,
prepared and packed in a perfect manner, accompanied by numerous
measurements, notes, and biographies, and all made in the intervals
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. ne

of regular scientific duty, abundantly verify this estimate of Mr.
Xantus’s abilities.

In addition to the thorough exploration of the region immediately
round Cape St. Lucas and the mountains in the vicinity, Mr. Xantus,
since his residence there, has pushed his examinations many leagues
up the coast, both on the ocean and gulf sides, and directly or indi-
rectly extended them to a number of the islands, as Socorro, Tres
Marias, &c. He also made a visit to Mazatlan during the past spring,
and secured a valuable collection of birds.

The many new species collected by Mr. Xantus are in process of
elaboration and will shortly be published. Partial reports have
already been made on the birds by Mr. Xantus himself; on the rep-
tiles by Mr. Cope; on the fishes by Mr. Gill; on the insects by Dr.
Le Conte ; on the crustacea and asteriade by Mr. Stimpson ; on the
ophiuride by Mr. Lyman; on the myriapoda by Mr. Wood; on the
bats by Dr. Allen; on the plants by Dr. Gray, &e. The rich con-
chological materials are in the hands of Mr. P. P. Carpenter. It is
proposed when all these examinations are completed to combine them
in one general memoir, on the natural history of the cape, which will
then be as well or even better known than the extremity of the cor-
responding peninsula of Florida, equally included 1 in the limits of the
North American fauna and flora.

Exploration of the Hudson's Bay territory by Mr. Kennicott.—At the
date of the last advices from Mr. Kennicott, when the Smithsonian
Report for 1860 was presented, he was at Fort Resolution, on Slave
lake, where he had spent the preceding spring and summer, princi-
pally in collecting eggs of birds: He left Fort Resolution in August,
1860, and returned to Fort Simpson and proceeded immediately down
the Mackenzie to Peels river. From Peels river he crossed the
Rocky mountains to La Pierre’s house, occupying four days in the
transit,and arriving September 18th; left the next day for Fort Yukon,
at the junction of Porcupine or Rat river and the Yukon or Pelly
river, in about latitude 65° and longitude 146°. Fort Yukon, the
terminus of his journey, was reached on the 28th of September, 1860.

The latest advices now on file from Mr. Kennicott were written
January 2, 1861, up to which time he had made some interesting col-
lections; but these, of course, were limited by the season. He had
great expectations of success during the following spring, (of 1861,)
which have no doubt been abundantly realized.

No collections were received from Mr. Kennicott in 1861, with the
exception of a few specimens gathered in July and August, 1860, on
Slave lake. Those made at the Yukon will, however, in all proba-
bility come to hand in October or November of 1862.

Mr. Kennicott expected to remain at the Yukon until August, 1861,
then to start for La Pierre House and Fort Good Hope, possibly to
Fort Simpson, to spend some months, and endeavor by early spring to
reach Fort Anderson, near the mouth of Anderson river, (a stream
between the Mackenzie and Coppermine rivers,) and in the barren
grounds close to the Arctic ocean. At Fort Anderson he expected to
60 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

collect largely of the skins and eggs of birds, rare mammals, &c., and
to return to Fort Simpson in the autumn, (of 1862,) then to arrive at
Fort Chipewyan, on Lake Athabasca, by the spring of 1863, so as to
get back to the United States by the winter of the same year.

For a notice of the continued aid to Mr. Kennicott, rendered by
the gentlemen of the Hudson’s Bay Company, I have to refer to the
next division of my report.

Exploration of the Hudson's Bay territory by officers of the Hudson’ s
Bay Company.—The gentlemen of many of the Hudson Bay Com-
pany’s posts have largely extended their important contributions to
science, referred to in the preceding report. A large proportion of the
principal stations have thus furnished collections of specimens and
meteorological observations of the highest value, which, taken in con-
nexion with what Mr. Kennicott is doing, bid fair to make the Arctic
natural history and physical geography of America as well known as
that of the United States.

Pre-eminent among these valued collaborators of the Institution is
Mr. Bernard R. Ross, chief factor of the Mackenzie River district,
and resident at Fort Simpson. Reference was made in former reports
to his contributions in previous years; those sent in 1861 are in no
way behind the others, embracing numbers of skins of birds and
mammals, some of great variety, insects, &c., besides very large
series of specimens illustrating the manners and customs of the Es-
quimaux and various Indian tribes. Mr. Ross has also deposited
some relics of Sir John Franklin, consisting of a gun used by him in
his first expedition, and a sword belonging to the last one, and ob-
tained from the Esquimaux. Mr. Ross is at present engaged in a
series of investigations upon the tribes of the north, to be published
whenever sufficiently complete, and illustrated by numerous photo-
graphic drawings.

In making up his transmissions to the Institution Mr. Ross has had
the co-operation of nearly all the gentlemen resident at the different
posts in his district, their contributions being of great value. Among
them may be mentioned Mr. James Lockhart, Mr. William Hardisty,
Mr. J. 8. Onion, Mr. John Reed, Mr. N. Taylor, Mr. C. P. Gaudet,
Mr. James Flett, Mr. A. McKenzie, Mr. A. Beaulieu, &c.

Second in magnitude only to those of Mr. Ross are the contribu-
tions of Mr. Lawrence Clarke, jr., of Fort Rae, on Slave lake, con-
sisting of many mammals, nearly complete sets of the water fowl,
and other birds of the north side of the lake, with the eggs of many
of them, such as the black-throated diver, the trumpeter swan, &c.

Other contributions have been received from Mr. R. Campbell, of
Athabasca; Mr. James McKenzie, of Moose Factory; Mr. Gladmon,
of Rupert House; Mr. James Anderson, (a) of Mingan; Mr. George
Barnston, of Lake Superior; and Mr. Connolly, of Rigolette. Mr.
McKenzie furnished a large box of birds of Hudson’s Bay, while from
Mr. Barnston were received several collections of skins, and eggs of
birds, new and rare mammals, insects, fish, &c., of Lake Superior.

It may be proper to state in this connexion that the labors of Mr.

REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 61

Kennicott have been apap ia to the highest degree by the liber-
ality of the Hudson’s Bay Company, as exercised by the directors in
London, the executive officers in Montreal, (especially Mr. Edward
Hopkins, ) and all the gentlemen of the company, in particular by
Governor Mactavish, of Fort Garry, and Mr. Ross. In fact, without
this aid the expense of Mr. Kennicott’s exploration would be far be-
yond what the Institution could afford, even with the assistance re-
ceived from others. Wherever the rules of the company would ad-
mit, no charge has been made for transportation of Mr. Kennicott and
his supplies and collections, and he has been entertained as a guest
wherever he has gone. No charge also was made on the collection
sent from Moose Factory to London by the company’s ship, and in
every possible way this time-honored company has shown itself
friendly and co-operative in the highest degree to the scientific ob-
jects of the Institution.

Northwest Boundary Survey, under Mr. Archibald Campbell.—This
expedition has finally completed its labors in the field and returned
to Washington, bringing rich results in physical science, as well as
important collections in natural history. These, with what were pre-
viously sent hither from time to time, are in progress of elaboration,
and reports are in preparation to be presented to Congress when
completed.

It is with deep regret that I have to announce the death at sea, on
his homeward voyage in February last, of Dr. C. B. Kennerly, the
surgeon and naturalist of the Boundary Survey. Connected with this
expedition from its beginning, in 1857, and, in conjunction with Mr.
Gibbs, making the principal portion of its collections, his report on
them would have been one of great value. For many years prior to
1857, however, he had been in intimate relations with the Institution
as a collaborator, first while resident at his home, at White Post,
Clark county, Virginia, then in 1853, as surgeon and naturalist to the
Pacific Railroad Survey of Captain Whipple along the 35th parallel,
then in the same relationship to the Mexican Boundary Survey, under
Colonel Emory, in 1855. No one of the gentlemen who have labored
so zealously to extend a knowledge of the natural history of the west
within the last ten or twelve years has been more successful than
Dr. Kennerly. Many new species have been first described by him-
self or from his collections, while his contributions to the biography
of American animals have been of the highest interest.

IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIMENS.

The identification of the unnamed species in the Smithsonian collec-
tion has been carried on as rapidly as possible, with the co-operation
of many naturalists of distinction. Some of it has been prosecuted
within the building; most of it, however, by gentlemen who either
came to Washington and made their selections or had specimens sent
to them. The following persons may be specially mentioned in con-
nexion with the several - portions of the collection:
62 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

Mammals.—The monkeys and South American mammals generally
have been studied by Dr. J. H. Slack, and the bats by Dr. H. Allen,
both of Philadelphia. Several species not previously described have
been found among them by these gentlemen. _

Birds.—Mr. Cassin has continued his examinations of the South
American birds. Mr. Elliot Coues has monographed the North Ameri-
can Tvringece, or sandpipers; the Laride, or gulls; the Colymbide, or
divers, and the Aegiothi, or pine finches. Several of these have
already been published. Dr. Bryant has examined the (uillemots
and large hawks, and Mr. Lawrence has identified the humming-birds.

Reptiles —Mr. E. D. Cope has studied the exotic reptiles generally,
and has had special reference to those from South America, Mexico,
and the West Indies. Many new species have been described by
him from the Smithsonian specimens. Professor Agassiz has not yet
returned the Smithsonian collection of turtles.

Fishes.—Professor Agassiz has still in hand the Exploring Expedi-
tion fishes, a collection of nearly one thousand species. Mr. Alexan-
der Agassiz has examined the Smithsonian Embiotocoids, or vivipa-
rous fishes of California. Mr. F. W. Putnam has completed the study
of the Etheostomoids, and entered on that of the Cottoids. Several
other important families have been sent to the Museum of Compara-
tive Zoology, for investigation by students of Professor Agassiz. Mr.
Gill has made particular study of the west coast fishes, and those col-
lected at Cape St. Lucas by Mr. Xantus.

Crustacea. —Mr. Ordway has examined several groups of the crus-
tacea, and others have been studied by Mr. Stimpson.

Radiates.—Mr. Stimpson has finished the study of the Asteriades,
and Professor Agassiz has had in hand other of the star fishes. Mr.
Verrill has made a detailed examination of all the corals.

Mollusks.—Mr. P. P. Carpenter has had in his hands for investiga-
tion, aided by Dr. Alcock, all the shells of the west coast of America,
and many of the exotic collections. Certain marine families have
been sent to Professor Agassiz. Mr. Isaac Lea has named all the
Unionide. Mr. Binney has taken charge of the land and fresh-water
Univalves; Mr. Bush-has the Polyzoa. The Cephalopods have all been
sent to Dr. Steenstrup, of Copenhagen, for a report.

Insects. —Dr. Le Conte and Mr. Ulke have examined the North
American Coleoptera ; Baron Osten Sacken and Dr. Loew the Diptera ;
Dr. Hagen the Newroptera ; Mr. Edwards and Drs. Morris and Clem-
ens the Lepidoptera, and Mr. Uhler the Hemiptera.

Fossils. —Dr. Newberry has studied many of the fossil plants. Mr.
Meek, aided by Dr. Hayden, has identified all the fossils collected by
the latter gentleman. Dr. Gabb, of Philadelphia, has mvestigated a
number of the tertiary and cretaceous shells.

Rocks and Minerals.—Mr. Thomas Egleston, jr., has been engaged
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 63

for several months in the determining and arranging of the minerals
and rocks of the collection, aided in a portion of the labor relating to
the latter work by Dr. Newberry and Mr. Gibbs.

Plants.—The plants have been in the hands of Drs. Torrey and
Gray and Mr. Eaton, who are making much progress in the labor of
selecting and labelling a complete series.

Results of many of the above investigations have already been pub-
lished, others are nearly completed, while some will require a con-
siderable time to complete. All, however, when presented to the
world, are announced as being based upon the Smithsonian material,
while the greater portion either have been or will be published by
the Smithsonian Institution, as detailed in your report.

All the specimens thus submitted to examination are carefully
labelled, and the duplicates set aside to be distributed as types to the
institutions having strongest claims to them. As the work progresses
the amount of material available for such distribution increases, and
new collections are more readily used to a similar end.

The labor of cataloguing and registering the specimens has been
continued as rapidly as other duties would allow, the result at the end
of the year being stated in the annexed table. In this I have been
much assisted by the gentlemen named above, as well as in addition
by Mr. John M. Woodworth, Mr. W. Prentiss, Mr. R. B. Hitz, and
Mr. Fitzgerald.

DISTRIBUTION OF SPECIMENS.

The distribution of specimens has been carried on very largely
during the year. About fifty sets of duplicate shells of the United
States Exploring Expedition have been sent to as many institutions,
while large numbers of species in all classes of the animal kingdom
have also been supplied. A rough estimate gives 40,000 species and
80,000 specimens of natural history as thus distributed up to date,
while many more are nearly in readiness. When it is considered that
all these have been named and labelled by naturalists admitted to be
of the highest authority in their respective departments, and that all
have thereby the character and value of types, many of them be-
longing to species first described from Smithsonian specimens, or
serving as the materials of elaborate monographs, it will be readily
understood how much their systematic and judicious distribution by
the Institution all over the world must conduce to the advancement
of science.

¢

WORK DONE IN THE MUSEUM.

~ Good progress has been made during the year in the proper arrange-
ment and labelling of the specimens in the museum hall. Many of
the shelves have been edged with black strips, and many stands
whitened and renewed. Additional cases have been erected at the
east end of the hall for the accommodation of the large birds which
crowded inconveniently those already filled. A number of floor cases
have been constructed to receive the large collection of shells.
64 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

Much labor has been expended on the identification and labelling
of the exotic birds, but this work is now nearly finished. When, in
accordance with the plan, these, as well as all the other specimens
in the hall, are accurately and legibly labelled, with both their scien-
tific and vernacular names, the gratification of the public in exam-
ining the rich treasures of the museum will be greatly enhanced.

Table exhibiting the total number of entries on the record books of the Smith-
sonian collection at the end of each year from 1851 to 1861, inclusive.

1851. | 1852. | 1853. | 1854. | 1855.| 1856. 1857. 1858. 1859. 1860. | 1861.

pes) eee Se
Skeletons and skulls....| 911 1,074 | 1,190 | 1,275} 2,050; 3,060) 3,340) 3,413 4,350} 4,459
Mammals 2,046} 3,200] 3,226 4,575 | 5,550
Birds. ... 5,855} 8,766} 11,390 20,875 | 23,510
Reptiles.. 106 239] 4,37 4,68 6,088
Fishes.... ++. 155 613} 1,136 2,975} 3,643
Begs of birds ....... Aisa woods |Aocune| eee n= vaweleieifin iis etni[fere eiotele’at liners totes 1,032 4,425} 4,830
Crustaceda....ssseeeeees | sesece|eocees earser| cesses} ocsecelsseseees|escesee- 939 79) 1,287
MOollusksS.... 2. cceccec|sccces|evnces|eeesar|sscees| cocver| sees sone ee Coco 8,832} 9,718
Radiates cose eeeese reece) seeee:|eeeeer/eeeeee|eenves|eeeees [tovapaie sip ia cis3s Orainrerail shaine asta 1,308} 1,890
Fossils .....cececscceses JBaSd05 logsoessaadec sono6h) Weeahoal Ss osealleAcmiocesy ozcsoson 705} 1,031
Ay irc le RIROn ARETE CF COS lenbced Pomenond nade so) tered Moor coNeeor tr aa neice tcl aoe sen 1,132} 3,500
Ethnological specimens.}...0+.|seeee-|seeees|seeees|eaeees Jeveavece|evsvcoec|evceceve 550 550
Annilids ........ 0008 ties] cecctee|oscciele| wevewsllicevses|ceswus Lig atciars ofcie| nie sip oninigl| ror siaYerere/el clelefe =iatallfelslalebe sm 109

91 | 1,188 | 1,388 | 5,979 | 7,675 | 11,222) 16,158] 25,506 55,369 | 66,075

Entries during 1861, 10,686.

LIST OF DONATIONS TO THE MUSEUM IN 1861.

Akhurst, J.—Mammals from Bogota.

Allen, W. T.—Egegs of birds from Virginia.

Ambrose, Rev. J.—Skin of Merqulus alle.

Anderson, (a) James. —Wolf-fish from the Gulf of St. Lawrence.

Austin, J. B.—Menobranchus, from Chicago.

Backus, Miss Julia E.—Australian boomerang.

Baird, S. F.—¥Four boxes minerals and rocks, of Essex county, New
York, and one bottle Coregonus of Lake Champlain.

Baird, W. M.—Sigillaria, from Schuylkill county, Pennsylvania.
Barnston, George.—Horns of caribou, skins of mammals and birds,
skeletons, nests and eggs, insects, &c. Lake Superior.

Beadle, D. W.—Fishes from Canada West.

Beaulieu, A.—Skins of birds, &c., McKenzie river. (Through B. R.
Ross.)

Bishop, F. A.—Soils and earths collected in Utah. (Through De-
partment of Interior.)

Boardman, G. A.—Skins and eggs of birds of New Brunswick.

Boetiner, Gustav A.—Insects, &c., of Kansas. ,

Boyle, P. F.—Chicken with four legs.

Brandt, Henry.—Mammals, birds and eggs of Kansas.

Bremen Museum.—Five mounted Arctic birds, and skull of European
brown bear.

Brevoort, J. C—Mammals from Central America.

Brewer, Dr. T. M.—Nest of eggs of Helminthophaga ruficapila.

rf
\

REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 65

British Government.—Fragment of meteorite from India.

Bryant, Dr. H.—Skins and eggs of birds.

Buckner, Rev. H—Bitumen from the Cherokee nation.

Burling, William.—Skin canoe or cayak, and skin dress of Indians of
N. W. America, (through J. W. Raymond.)

Cambridge, Museum of Comparative Zoology.—Kight species embioto-
coids of California, and seven of ophiurans.

Campbell, Archibald.—Collections of animals, plants, rocks, &c.,
made by Dr. C. B. Kennerly and Mr. George Gibbs, naturalists
and geologists of the northwest boundary survey.

Campbell, R.—Skins of mammals from the Hudson's Bay Territory.

Canfield, Dr. C. S.—Shells of the coast of California.

Chambliss, S. O.—Crystallized quartz from North Carolina.

Clarke, jr., Lawrence—Very large collections of mammals, birds,
eggs, &c., of Slave lake.

Conradsen, R.—Egegs of Fulix marila, Iceland.

Cooper, Dr. J. G.—Birds’ eggs from Rocky mountains.

Copenhagen, Royal Museum.—Skins of Arctic birds: Echinoderms, &c.

Couper, W.—Skins of ducks and of Saxicola enanthe from Quebec.

Dawson, Professor J. W.—Pleistocene and Devonian fossils of Canada.

Dodd, P. W.—Skins and eggs of birds, &c., of Sable island.

lett, Jas.— Birds, &c., from La Pierre House, H. B. T. (through
B. R. Ross.)

Foreman, Dr. H.—Minerals, rocks, animal tracks, &c., from near Em-
metsburg, Maryland.

Fuller, Mr.—Shells of the coast of Maine.

Gaudet, C. P.—Birds, &c., from Peel’s river, H. B. T., (through
B. R. Ross.)

Gibbs, George.—See Archibald Campbell.

Gilliss, Captain J. M.—Kight bottles alcoholic specimens from Atlan-
tic ocean. .

Gilpin, Dr. J. B.—Skins of mammals of Nova Scotia.

Gladmon, Mr.—Nests and eggs from Hudson’s Bay.

Gould, C. IZ.—Sea birds in the flesh, and in skins, from the coast of
Maine.

Gove, Captain.—EKggs of birds from Utah.

Greenwood, Mrs.—Specimens of algae from the coast of Massachu-
setts.

Greenwood, Thomas L.—Nests and eggs of birds.

Gruber, F’—Skins and eggs of birds of California.

Hardisty, W. L.—Mammals, birds, &c., from Fort Liard on the Yu-
kon, (through B. R. Ross.)

Haymond, Dr. R.—Nest and eggs of Mniotilta.

Heerman, Dr. A, I.—Skins and eggs of North American birds.

Hewett, Dr. Thomas.—Two mounted ducks.

Hitz, R. B.—Nests and eggs of birds of Pennsylvania.

Holder, Dr. J. B.—Eggs of birds from the Tortugas.

Holt, Hon. Jos.—Chameleon, centipede, &c., from Jerusalem.

Kautz, Captain A, V.—Skins of salmon of Puget Sound.

Kellogg, F.—Leggs of birds from: Texas.

5
66 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

Kennerly, Dr. C. B. R.—See Archibald Campbell.

Kennicott, Robert.—Zoological specimens, plants, &c., from Great Slave
lake.

Kirtland, Prof. J. P.—Living Nerodia er ythrogaster, or red bellied
water snake, from Ohio.

Krider, J. —Mounted tanager, egg of Nauclerus furcatus, or swallow-
tailed hawk, skins of birds.

Laszlo, Ch.—Nest, eggs, and bird of Saurophagus derbyanus, Mexico.

Lazar, Count Coloman.—Skins and eggs of birds of Hungary.

Lincoln, FE. D.—Box of eggs from Massachusetts.

Lockhart, James.—Mammals, &c., from the Yukon, (through Bb. R.
Ross. 4-4

Loweree, R. G.—Reptiles from Gaudalaxara, Mexico.

MacFarlane, k.—Birds, &c., from Fort Good Hope, H. B. T., (through
B. R. Ross.)

McKenzie, A.—Birds, mammals, &c., from Liard river, H. B. T.,
(through B. R. Ross.)

Major, J. J—Reptiles from Gaudalaxara, Mexico.

March, W. Thos. —125 skins of birds of Jamaica.

Maximilian, Prince of Wied.—Skins of European mammals.

Mowry, Lieut. Sylvester.—Skeleton of camel died in California.

Newberry, Dr. J. S.—Mammals from Lake Superior.

Onion, J. S.—Plants from the Mackenzie river, (through B. R. Ross.)

Otis, G. N.—Specimens of Helix pulchella.

Page, Capt. T. J—Fossil wood from Buenos Ayres, and specimens of
the materia medica of Paraguay.

Parkinson, D. F.—Box of birds of North California.

Poey, Prof. F.—Types of new species of Cuban fishes.

Prentiss, Wesley.—Skins of birds.

Prince, Miss S.—Annelid from the coast of Maine.

Raymond, J. W.—See Burling.

Reid, J.—Skins of mammals and birds, &c., from Great Slave lake.

Repetti, A.—Fossil fishes from Monte Bolca.

Reynolds, Henry.—Minerals, shells, &c., of Maine.

Ross, B. Rk.—Very full collections of the animals, plants, eggs,
ethnological curiosities, &c., of the Mackenzie’s river region
of Arctic America.

Ross, Mrs. Christina.—Insects, curiosities, &c., from Mackenzie’s
river, (through B. R. Ross.)

St. Charles College, La.—Reptiles, eggs, &c., of Louisiana.

Samuels, L.—Microscopic slides.

Sartorius, Dr. C.—Birds, mammals, reptiles, and insects, from near
Vera Cruz.

Savage, Dr. Thos. L.—Reptiles of Mississippi.

Scott, Mrs. Dr.— Hippocampus, or sea-horse, from Rappahannock river.

Smith, Mrs.—Skin and nest of Lmipidonax acadicus.

Smith, Jas. L.—Two serpents, Rhinostoma.

Smith, Dr. N. H.—Skin of Albino blackbird.

Starbuck, Alex.—Shells, &c., of Massachusetts.

Starkey, J. S.—Silver ores from Oregon.

®@
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY, 67

Sternbergh, J. H.—Alcoholic specimens from Panama.

Stone, H.—Egegs of birds.

Taylor, A. S.—Insects, shells, &c., of coast of California.

Taylor, N.—Birds, &c., from Fort Norman, H. B. T., (through B. R.
Ross.)

Vander weyck, P. H.—Minerals from Manhattan island, N. Y.

Vuille, Wm.—Skins and eggs of birds, Siskyon county, California.

Ward, Prof.—Cast of skull of Ursus spelaews from the Cavern of
Iserlohn, Germany.

Willis, J. R.—Mounted ptarmigan from Newfoundland, and specimens:
of natural history of Nova Scotia.

Winston, W. G.—Skins and eggs of birds of Nova Scotia.

Wood, W. S.—Eges of birds.

Worthen, Prof. A. H.—Tertiary fossils of Mississippi.

Wright, Chas.—Birds, shells, reptiles, &c., of Cuba.

Xantus, J.—Large collections of animals, plants, fossils, minerals,
eggs of birds, &c., of Cape St. Lucas; and skins of birds, &c.,
from the Three Maria’s islands and the vicinity of Mazatlan;
skins and eggs of birds from the Farralone islands.
68 PUBL®MATIONS AND LECTURES.

LIST OF SMITHSONTAN PUBLICATIONS DURING 1861.

Classification of the Coleoptera of North America. Prepared for
the Smithsonian Institution by John L. Le Conte, M. D. 8vo. pp.
302, and 47 wood cuts. Pp. 1-208; published May, 1861; 209-278,
March, 1862.

Synopsis of the described Neuroptera of North America, with a list
of the South American species. Prepared for the Smithsonian In-
stitution by Hermann Hagen. July, 1861. 8vo. pp. 368.

Extracts from the proceedings of the Board of Regents of the

Smithsonian Institution in relation to the electro-magnetic telegraph.
(Reprinted from proceedings of the Board of Regents for 1857.) 8vo.
pp. 40.
MeN sisal Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, showing the operations, expenditures, and condition of the In-
stitution for the year 1860. 1 volume, 8vo., pp. 448; seventy-two
wood cuts.

LIST OF LECTURES

=

The following lectures have been delivered auring the months of
January, Fobruary, March, and April, 1862:

Two lectures by Rev. H. W. Pierson, peaaicnene of Cumberland
College, Kentucky, on ‘‘ The private life of Thomas Jefferson.’

One lecture by Professor A. Ten Brook, late United States consul
at Munich, on the celebrated religious exhibition in the Bavarian
Highlands, called the ‘‘Drama of the Passion,’’ the only relic of the
kind which has reached us from the middle ages.

Four lectures by Dr. I. I. Hayes, of Philadelphia, on ‘‘ Arctic Ex-
plorations,’’ with an account of his recent expedition.

One lecture by Rev. J. C. Richmond, of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, on
‘‘The origin and Saxon strength of the English tongue.’’

One lecture by*Rev. W. A. P. Martin, a missionary, on ‘‘ China
and the Chinese.”’

ae lecture by Rev. A. Cleveland Coxe, of Baltimore, Maryland,

n ‘* Popular taste in art and literature.’

© Brae lectures by Professor Fairman Rogers, of Philadelphia, on
‘‘The Glaciers.’’

Three lectures by Rev. Francis Vinton, of New York, on ‘‘ The
Gentleman,’’ ‘‘The Philosophy of War,’ and ‘‘ Italy and Dante.’’
LIST OF METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS

OF THE

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
FOR THE YEAR 1861.

BRITISH AMERICA.

© =, * eS
| | E E Bl ee
, rh = 5 S
Name of observer. Station. = E : Savane bets
| s a P= s [Ss
ae = z 6*
ae ee Win Serine
| |
fron eed Feet
Acadia College.....,....| Wolfville, Nova Scotia......... .| 45 06 64 25 Oo) PACs eertss 9
RARER crcls visisin.sisinicis's > Stanbridge, Canada East .... ssc. 45 08 COMNUS Drees alt Wim aaceenle 1!
Clarke, Mrs. Lawrence, jr.. Fort Rae, Great Slave Lake. ......!).seeee eee. Seems acon igs Feel Be vcetesere 3
Craigie, Dr. W....=-..... Hamilton, Canada West......-..,| 4315 IDE | oscars Br aiclaseetetss 12
Delaney, Edward M. J...| Colonial Building, 8t. John’s,New-| 47 35 52 40 170 | B.T.R. a} 12

foundland. H
Gunn, Donald...........| Red River Settlement, Hudson’s| 50 06 97 00 893) | aaa Lo
Bay ‘Territory.

Hall, Archibald, M. D.,..| Montreal, Canada East...........| 45 30 TENCT geal We NWR A ceo ie Lie
Hensley, Rev. J. M......| King’s College, Windsor, Nova 44 59 64 07 ZOU) HBA eric 6
Scotia. , |
Magnetic Observatory ...| Toronto, Canada West...........| 43 39 TOIT | VE LOS WA. sete) ee
Mackenzie, John........ Moose Factory, Hudson’s Bay Ter- } ol 15 S045 | oo. cae | Be Le Boat Le
| ritory.
Phillips, H ..............| Niagara, Canada West.......... -| 43 09 79 20 TU ie sean 8
Rankin, Colin.......... AA Michipicoton, Canada West......| 47 50 Gaya’ |acierkiars-|)) Me ereainre sts 10
Richards, Thomas...... | Kenogumissee, Hudson’s Bay Ter-| 49 50 | 984 OO 0002 (UES ste.
“| ritory. | |
Ross, Bernard R....+ +e. Fort Simpson, Eludson’s Bay Ter-| 61 51 [YABB olck selec ae Eevee
ritory. |
Royal Engineers....... " Meteorological Observatory, Hali-| 44 39 63 37 8 | SAiyorerse 2
|" fax, Nova Scotia.
Smallwood, Dr. Charles... | St. Martin, Isle Jesus, Canada EB. | 45 32 73 36 118 | A.wssese-] 12
| |
ALABAMA,
5 ) | Hiqta
Bis hroesee || Kh Yee ees
| i = | ee ee
Name of observer, Station. County. A 3 by aeoueeyt S hanes
Bae in = RIA a:
S) o rao a on
y ! z e | # | = |4
Lavaca ip AA Mee, | eets |
Shackelford, Prof. Josephus} Moulton.......| Lawrence.....| 3437 | 8725 | 643 /A..... 4
Tutwiler, Henry .........-| Havana.......| Greene........ | 32°50 | 8746 | 500 | T.R..... 2
Waller, Robert B..........| Greensboro’ ...| Greene........ |; 38240 |. 87 34 350° | A wseeese 4
| | | |
*A signifies Barometer, Thermometer, Psychrome- P signifies Psychrometer.
ter, and Rain Gauge. R signifies Rain Gauge.

B signifies Barometer. N signifies No instrument.
T signifies Thermometer. jy Above Lake Ontario.
70

METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS,

ARKANSAS.

| i ae or yr alee
= = = as
4 = Gn 5 = 2
Name of observer. Station. County. = 5 3 E Paes!
= z & Bot wae

z | ce Saag

ea! ol Feet
Blackwell, W.H ......... Perryville ..... PeIrY...6. seeuc 35 05 93.16 | is0csss: Nise. 3
Graham, Paul. .......... Bentonville.. Benton........ 36 23 QATON) UR90 SN Sane 5
Howard, J. S.......e.00..| Mountain Home} Marion ........ 36° 30 92° SD! | savstosee] Nivieveses| | to
Moore, Alex. P., M. Pas ....| Washington. .,| Hempstead ..../ 33 39 IS LN Saisie te! bang) 55 l
Smith, Dr. Nathan D,.....| Washington. ..| Hempstead....| 33 44 ae 8 i RS Oe be al ioe 4
CALIFORNIA.

Ayres, W. O. 2 CUD Date eisile San Francisco.| San Francisco. 37 48 122 27 ASB 2 5| Ate wa serie
Belcher, W. C.........0e.| Marysville.... | Yuba..:.. 2s 39 29 121 30 80) |) BR) 4
Blakeslee, Rev. Dev cies sell POIBOM Ml eleleie aeiais SACrAMeENtO ooo} secs ccses|acvcac cuss vee Pasog te Me aes 8
Boucher, Wesley K....... Mokelumne Hill) Calaveras....../ 38 18 120°28) | 1, 502" | Ne sree
Dunkum, Mrs. E.S....... HONCUt cee secs] WUUM cee es fants 39 25 121 30 Ssanea pd esse 12
Frambes, Prof. Oliver S...| SantaClara....| Santa Clara...| 37 18 122 00 LOOT GA stedes 3
Logan, 'thomas M.,M.D..| Sacramento ...| Sacramento .. 38 35 128 28 Als || VAN lesteemieilimee
Whitlock, James H........| Meadow Valley; Plumas........ 40 20 120°15 |35700) | BOP aR.) oad

CHEROKEE NATION.

Hitchcock, Isaac B...... | Lee’s Creek. ...}| Sequohyah ,... ie eee ee ee 2
COLORADO.
| > |
BVM Ur PW. Tete acess « | Mountain city, Araptionso 39 35 105 40 | 8,000 ASG eet 10
| |
' DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
!
MacKee, Rev. C. B. ... Georgetown ...| Washington .. | 38 54 WMOSM cde ahes Lekeaee | 12
Smithsonian Institution...} Washington ...| Washington ...| 38 53 77 Ol GO] ANS ictainin 12
|
CONNECTICUT.
| |
Cases Warylsicocec pedecies | Canton........| Hartford.......| 42 00 | 73 00 (OOP Te eter 1
Harrison, Benjamin F.... | Wallingford....) New Haven...| 41 27 72 50 ee aan we yao 12
Hunt, Rev. Daniel ........ | Pomfret .......| Windham.....| 41 52 72 23 HOD ANS. cee a eploe
Johnston, Prof. John....../ Middletown .,.| Middlesex .... | “41 32 72 39 eae Sans 12
Rankin, James -.......0008) | SayeeOae t=: Middlesex .....| 41 18 72 20 LOS PER 6
Rockwell, Charlotte.... Colebrook . Litchfield ..... 42 00 OUOG EM Eta aiauste aie! Melon nama iis 12
Yeomans, William H......| Columbia...... Tolland . ses. 41 40 CaM taslatelaise TD ais erator 12
DAKOTA.
Norvell, Freeman. ........| Greenwoo0d....|..000+.s05+0000+| 42 52 98 24 | 1,900 | 1 be Been | 5
FLORIDA. :
er eae nome ee OS Te EE ae tt SR, (ce a aaa eet 2 i
Allen, George D......... ) | Magnetic Ob- | Monroe...... 24 33 el 48 Eleaf Sei BEL 12
Frergugon,(Gs yb ot odecte crcl} servatory,
Oltmanns, ihm maceite ous 013% Key West. |
Bailey, James B . seseeeees.| Gainesville ....) Alachua.......] 29 35 82 26 184 | T.R.....) 2
Dennis, William C.........) rene eee -| Monroe . 24 33 81 28 16 BoD. sexo
Steele, Judge Augustus... Atsena Otie....) Levy .......... 29 08 83 04 Df) er | ae
Se hobo 30 24 84.17 | i bes fied Co escicy cic 4

Whitner, Benjamin EN ares Tallahassee .. i Leon

METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.

=]
ee

GEORGIA.
SR ie g
=) 3 = aa
| 2 | & 5 se
Name of observer. Station, County. | = | = oe S Es
hee Bay ie
| > 2S =
| a = = = a
Sg Bed Feet
Blewitt, Rev. W..... ‘ apes Bastony. si sds Thomas ....s. 31 60 SATOONaa Hee ccees TR as 2
Camp, Benjamin F. -..| Covington ..... Newton ....... 33 40 84 00 AGS | IN ciate 4
Gibson, R. T.. : Savannah .....| Chatham .....- 32 02 81 OL Lar | shor cee 4
McAfee, J. R. ‘M. D. | Dalton ........| Whitfield..... 34 50 85 00 775 Baek 3
Pendleton, E. *M., M. D.: eS Pata cast clic. Hancock ......) 33 17 83 09 EU) Rd hele 4
Van Buren, Jarvis. .... seat Clarksville ....| Habersham....| 34 35 83 3) | 1,632 | 'T.P..... 4
ILLINOIS.
7
PGEICMS IVEIVecesce ssjncs >) LISKINWA so.ccs| BUFCAU Sexe vee]? 4) 1D 89 66 OU Ng lacataterei lane kee
Allison, Jesse. .... 22.0.0. | Bloomington...| McLean .,...... 40 30 89 00 Miata otatelatl  Wuitstetetatate 7
Armstrong, M.C........ | on
Sc aiianies TUN Oe t Chicago ....... CooKisdecaviesiee [Seagieisie sine [artnenenua| sarees ped b oe =
Babcock, Andrew J. ......| Aurora .....0.. IG Glass oe eee} 41 41 88 17 650 | TOR. 2
BaUGOGK Pin cccct scons ease} Maileyijec<ireseies MecHenry...jcca; 42) 12 88 20 ZOO) o|) Maivetaipts 12
AG TORE eee See nonede Willow Creek..|] Lee.......+...| 41 45 Bay5oes jl 0407. | RE seers
Ballou, N. E., M.D. ....-- Sandwich .-...| De Kalb....... L431 88 30 515" | TRS: cline
Bandelier, Adolphus F., jr.) Highland ......| Madison....... | 388 45 ET MBS Sy aocale a MSS S52 2!
Bassett, George R.........| | Woodstock ....| McHenry...... he aoe 88 30 Jensen Teer ets 3
Boettner, Gustav A........ | Chicago , il) COOK etait ptosis 41 54 89 40 Gouac af alieet hras 4
Bowman, DE. 20 <!e's-6 | Edgington . sania Rock Island . 41 25 90 46 (aes Wa be Meee al a)
BR COM COME masons enlesi ena | Peoria. 0. eee Peoria..... aS 40 38 89 46 512) | T. Rewes| 12
Brendel, Frederick, M.D..| Peoria......... Peoria.........| 40 43 89 30 BGO lt Avene eta lctaiw) | eile
Brookes, Samuel..... | Chicago...... Golan sc senate 42700 Fides) til PREIS es Ney mn} Db!
Cobleigh, Rev.Nels.E-,D. D Lebanon...... SteClair. concep (OSS? 89 56 500 | B.T.R..| 12
Collier, Prof. Geo. H. ..... | Wheaton ...... Du Page. ...+. 41 49 88 06 G82: 7 ACe eels
Crandon, Frank........-.. )\ Batavia... <2 Kaneoacitcdecs | 41 52 88 20 GG We rece 1
Dudley, Timothy..... é .| Jacksonville...) Morgan....... | 39 30 SOMO cxcreses AL Rerctaters 12
Fitch, Dr. Joseph .... | Channahon....| Will.... 41 15 88 16 Sedna] LTA gane 4
Grant, John. ccc. cts. es ».| Manchester....| Scott.......... 39 33 90 34 G83") Alerssietsieisi pele
RISES oe Os ME. Dis cies sins Ottawa........ La Salle .... 41 20 88 47 POO |) haan Eexterete 12
Little, J. Thomas......... VED ERON vers each | Lee .. 41 45 COTS le ecient Wkeasiceate 12
Livingston, Prof. Wm.,...,| Galesburg...... | Knox..... elena |ievaels-seas |esee sens wallrorescee| Avevece |: LL
Meads. By MM. Ds..-. 00. | Augusta........ |} Hancock......; 40 10 91 00 2203] pNP see
Mead, Dr. Thompson......) Batavia........ Kane ... -| 41 52 88 20 636 | A. . 2
Meeker, Ralph B..........) Dongola... .. Union..... Bete 37 26 89 21 sie stiee el truteh erases 9
Newcomb, John B.........; Elgin......... Kane) seem 42 00 88 15 iit. AeeNG A Goss 3
Olds, Warren........ eae ANI Leo (etnies Whiteside.....! 41 40 90 16 GOO Nicene 12
Pashley, J.S.,M.D.......| Osceola Starkisceatevicscel! a tuelo 90 17 Be CCD Dd Bole aed 5
Patrick, Dr. JohnJ.. .....| Bellville. ..... SiiG@lairecce. esis) oor eo 90 06 GOOF [SB eee ere eo
Riblet, J. is ese soph) Lee nepeere Tazewell......| 40 36 89 45 lem are/a) inelaatl ER statatatet mei es
Rogers, O. P. and J.S..... Marengo....... McHenry......| 4214 | 88 38 843.5) Bas Bia] ode
Tolman, James W.........| Winnebago De- | Winnebago..... 42 17 89 12 900 | B.T.R..| 12
pot.
Trible, Mrs. Anna C...... | Upper Alton,..| Madison......| 39 00 S10. aoeodeicny) 2\n ve 2
| |
* Above low water mark at Quincy.
INDIANA
Anderson, H.H......... ..| Rockville....... Barkexse...- tee 36 00 u
Austin, W. W........ ....| Richmond..... PAV Vial tse reste 39 47 5
Bartlett, Isaac......... Logansport ....| Cass sess. eee.) 40 45 6
Bullocks were «2... Shelbyville ....| Shelby.........| 39 00 3
Chappelismitb, John .....-| New Harmony.| Posey .........| 38 08 12
Dawson, William.... .....| Cadiz ....es.e, Hentivesiciclsie evrel ur ausao 12
Dayton, "James H. ........| South Bend....| St. Joseph.... 41 39 12
Haines, John. ....| Richmond...... Wave snus sea 39 52 12
Larrabee, William H. Green Castle...) Putnam...... 39 30 7
Smith, Hamilton, jr. ‘, Cannelton...... BELL ates sire 37 57 12
Spratt, Wey WU ig Wem awisrststie|) lu Obesweis sstew MED eeseemrcnlinendateea’ 1
Webb, Miss Georgiana ... AN Gris uc,sins ais 41 10 3

:| Fort Wayne. te

72

METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.

IOWA.
a | | E
3 2 aS 4
= & | £ |e8
Name of observer. Station. County. 3 z reat = ES
= a = / 5 So
BL ee lle | oe ee
z e cs 5 Zz
; ng Ss il, Feet
Beals Dextenvesssniccnars : E z
Baa Wilkie a ct Grove Hill.....| Bremer...ss...| 4245 | 8715 |....c00.| Te seeeee] 12
Belfield, DE sects s cisions -
Chamberlain, John. Breteler Davenport..... ScOtt,.... sisaen 41 30 90 40 TST. ol Abe, eanntaai| mae
Dunwoody, Wm. P...... |
Boyle, C.K. vas eeeeeseees| Washington...) Washington...| 42 30 91 55 O8Fix WeDo late 2
Collin, Hee <a aoe Mount Vernon.| Linn...........) 42 00 OIHOO! ||iarcrsrere stew am eaete ees | mie
Deering, D Rath areiele ts «0558 Independence..| Buchanan....../)sesseee Cece ceerloesvccss| Desesece 1
Doyle, L. I ae vevesss e| Waterloo ......| Black Hawk...| 42 30 O9).31 ib vat MN o 12
Foster, Suel..... si sbstafaleinieleve Muscatine .. ..| Muscatine..... 41 26 S2OON Gl cients lhl Acinic 12
Gidley, Isaac M........+..| Bangor.........| Marshall....... 42 00 93-00 |rcccecee| T. Ressee 2
Horr, Asa, M.D..........| Dubuque......} Dubuque...... 42 30 90 52 GEG IWACec cee 12
Hudson, A.T., M.D. Lyons.... .:..| Olinton........ | 41 50 90 10 401 | T. el eee
Langer, Dr. Ignatius HONEA Davenport.....| Scott..........| 41 31 90 42 55D 6 NAL SEs Lune
McConnel, ‘tian. Pleasant Plain.| Jefferson ...... 41 07 94 54 950° | TR 12
McCoy, Franklin, M.D..
McCoy, Miss Elizabeth... Algona .... | Kossuth ....< 43 01 94:04). |.15500. AT ete. 12
McCready, Daniel.........| Fort Madison..} Lee........... 40 37 QU 2B © lheielainrs ecco |) vet eatetets wie /| eal
Marshall, Gregory...... Vernon Springs.| Howard........ 43 20 1 Pel AS ccemaaee Bie cae 6
Millard, As Jie. .\00ce sees si) SIOUX OILY cane Woodbury...... 42 33 6127 S258) he eee) ek
Parvin, Theodore S.......| Iowa City.. Johnson. ... alalpeslelole\ aici aj etsteole\viviniall \etchela Bot es Sedo baiae 12
Reid, Isaiah ..............| Kossuth........| Des Moines... 41 00 91 13 esieieisinl| uN ssteininietse 5
Sheldon, Daniel..........-| Forestville..... Delaware.... 42 40 OTT5O) | |e scaeeecla De atectees 12
Ufford, Rev. John.........| Muscatine..... Muscatine... 41 25 92 02 586 | A.. 12
Williams, H. B....... eseee| Hesper....e. Winneshiek . 43 30 91 46 720 | Te. sense 3
KANSAS,
Blackman, W. J. R....... Lawrence......| Douglas . 39 00 | 95 12 | BOO lieAcsremsiare 10
Fish, Lucian..............| Burlingame....| Shawnee . sfaeieis's oo.cis[isenisie lees e|smnnseee| (lleiivncine 3
Goodnow, Isaac T........ Manhattan..... ) EST aagioridoadaall SH) Us 96 45 | 1,000 | T.R..... 12
Goss, B. Fuss... Neosho Falls...) Woodson...... 38 03 OSB ee eee cl ba ee eee | 9
McCormick, Wm. Rew eeeee-| Lecompton ....| Douglas... ... 39 03 95 10 | 825) piacdtesiaislane | 3
Scott, James. Risto ere ctera ein )\| MGRAKAE Os, sere arcs le OWNSOMNsisisiaccre afatajeceiote|aiala\| ima, sjuigisia bits) | cig xie)sT=is}] i Lata 8
BE ih io seni AAAIBOOGEE at ae Leavenworth.. 39 18 | 94 32 896 FT ssteyncite)| eee
|
KENTUCKY.
Barbage, JoshuaC......... Hardinsburg....| Breckenridge ..| 37 40 86 15 500) iloINe wee ts 8
BSA OF, enietecetiaiaisie\aiaionicle Danville.. aioceei|) BOVIE..)... cisiesle 37 40 84 30 900° |, Be@ Rt iad
Mathews, Jos. MeD:, ,D. D .| Nicholasville ..| Jessamine...... 37 58 84 18 9400}; Alesstetare< oil nae
Mattison, Andrew. seen! PACH CAN s.c/0,.015 Mt. Cracken . 37 00 87,21 eleinye IN stelle 12
Miles, Thomas He She Bardstown..... Nelson .... «ees 37 52 COGS: Fl cael) eale.n]| Wdlesiee snes so]
Savage, Rev. G. s. ae D.. Millersburg ....| Bourbon.......; 38 40 84 27 804 | B.T.R 12
Swain, John, M. De. Ballardsville...| Oldham.......; 38 36 85 30 461 | Acta tetets : 12
Williams, Prof. M. G...... Newport .... Campbell.... .| 39 04 83 24 812 | B.T.R 5
Woodruff, E. N........... Louisville...... Jefferson ......; 38 20 ety Cletell Fanoo canal) 2 cooagac 10
Young, Mrs. Lawrence....| Louisyille....., Jefferson . | 388 07 85 24 570 | Anececces 12
| |
LOUISIANA.
Harrison, Thompson ..... New Orleans...| Orleans ....... 29 58 90 00 SUR MOAN Cale crane. s 2
Taylor, LewesiB:.... 5.0. New Orleans...) Orleans... 29 58 QOUOR Nsietat ell Whe Bees 2
MAINE. :
Adams, John W,...-.....: Portland. ...... Cumberland 43 39 70 00 180 INEtiaats uber
Brackett, G. Emerson......| Belfast.........| Waldo......... 44 23 COO UB Paw ten tele Pike 12
Dana, Wm. D.......-..-..| North Perry....| Washington....; 45 00 67 6 TOO" Dy (Alcceaameraly ale

=~
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.

=I
oo

MAINE—Continued.
é ) | 2
3 E eae =
= os |
: aS Sp = 2 2
Name of observer. Station. County. & 3 a =I eS
S © ‘O w One
Z Ee = & z
| ora eet Feet. |
Gaines, Rev. A, G.........| Bethel. ......%.| Oxford ........ 44 20 70 52 | 650 | T.R.....) 12
Gardiner, Rob... . 6.60 sees Gardiner....... Kennebee ..... 44 40 69 46 90 «| Bute i
Gould, M...... s ceeeveeeee| N’th Bridgeton.| Cumberland 44 03 70 45 300) |) Ba DTS) ie
Guptill, G. W......-....--| Cornishville ...| York........ .| 43 40 7044 | 9800 | T.R..... 12
Johnson, Warren... Topsham .,....| Sagadahoc.. 44 00 70 00 100 | B.T.... 8
Lord, W.G..... ..-| Limington.. WOFK catsiohiotaron tats 43 40 70 45 UO! i bane, «iscele-ere 2
Moore, Asa P. Seles} LEME MOM ear etetate§ pdpOScoEa 44 00 70 04 130 | T.R..... 12
i a eee Steuben ....... Washington....| 44 44 Guise |. S| Ancketk. 12
Pratt, J. Frank, M. Dd: ««eee| New Sharon....| Franklin....... 44 37 ROMOE che cravslernte Wires 6
Reynolds, Henry. Saxiaafaeicic| PAStavValtone. « Franklin.......| 44 44 POM ar |Iisteisceve sei HUN wc elewis 9
Van Blarcom, James......| Vassalboro’....| Kennebec ..... 44 28 GIVAT \\siarore inisin's|| a Dteieerore} 9
Verrill, G. Washington, jr..| Norway........| Oxford....... 44 10 THULE Shae occ hitbtesictate’s/e 1
WBE, AS ie sche scige® 3 - | COMMISH 0. Brera MONK: a's ania telele 43 40 7044 | 784 | 7. R..... 12
Wilbur, Benj. F...........| Dexter,........| Penobscot...... 44 55 69 32 | 700 | R........ 12
Wilson, Dr. J. B.... ws | Exeter.........| Penobscot......| 44 58 GAGS Osama siekie | T.Reseee} 8
|
|
MARYLAND.
Baer, Miss Harriott M. Sykesville .....| Carroll). .ntaisen 39 23 76 57 TOU: | DeeRee 12
Bell, Jacob E. ... Leitersburg....| Washington 39 35 UCGDD) |) creieiwisie.cyo\| Marat ee sin | eee
Dutton, Prof. J. Russel. Chestertown...) Kent .......... 39 12 75 59 [eee sees rN CASES 12
Goodman, Wm. R.... ...- Annapolis.. .. Anne Arundel.. 38 59 76 29 | 30's |PAg css 12
Hanshew, Henry E........ Frederick......| Frederick...... 39 24 77 26 fies Boba es rican reclame les
Johns, Montg., M. D......| Agric’! College.| Prince George..|.... ..s.s|-ccccevses|seeecees WAC snail epics
Lowndes, Benj. O.... .... Bladensburg....| Prince George.. 38 57 76 58 | Opp leet bespicaed antes
Stephenson, Rev. Jas...... St. Inigoes..... St. Mary’s..... 38 10 76 41 | 5) a Aetna ar feb
°
MASSACHUSETTS.
Astronomical Observatory.| Williamstown., Berkshire. ....) 42 43 73 13 Zp igs bad 5 ees 12
Bacon, William........... Richmond..... | Berkshire,..... 42 23 73 20 | 1,190 | T.R.. 12
Brown, Nathan W........ Mopeneldcececes | USHER Ae ene, | ees ea ctienen | setmemeesline acess Reson | 12:
Davis, Rev. Emerson...... Westfield. ....| Hampden...... | 42 06 72 48 PROP NAR Se coe 12
Mallon, JOR... f0-: “sic0\e's Lawrence...... Bssex.... ....| 4242 ey: HOST WAG taste 1z
Metcalf, John G., M. D....; Mendon ....... Worcester..... | 42 06 Fle \]+, rerenmiaterei|ie se lkwe'sm ste 12
Mitchell, Hon. Wm....... Nantucket | Nantucket.....| 41 17 70 06 SO eer ewe 3
Morse, Geo. M.,M.D.. CO) Vit Te eeone Worcester...... |} 4225 MAD eh Statels ves MPa ixtersye 3
Normal School............ Bridgewater....| Plvmouth...... 42 00 71 00 150 s-| Alvar twcreaie 4
Prentiss, Dr. Henry C.....| Worcester .. ..| Worcester. .... 42 16 71 48 DORE Ace oreeitr 12
Raymond, George.........| Fitchburg...... | Worcester......! 42 35 71 50 484 | P. aay 12
Reynolds, Orrin A......... Randolph .....| Norfolk....... 42 10 71 00 3l1 | N........| 2
Rodman, Samuel..........| New Bedford.. f Bristolesehaaes 41 39 70 56 GOLA ee cae) cole
Scandlin, Rev. Win. G..... Grafton ...... | Worcester'.....|csecee ee efes ceeseee|seeeeeee Bs Tio... 6
Snell, Prof. E. S...... «...| Amherst. ......| Hampshire..... 42 22 72 34 DEY NipAennaces 12
Terry, Charles C........+. VaR RIVED. ceiem | MSTESEO Petviovete co oe nies alle clellwalctstataete Millctelsininelste Apes nae 3
Whitcomb, L. F........... | Plorida ......., | Berkshire..... 42 41 73702)1| 2,000. |; Baneeees|' 2
| 1
MICHIGAN.
Blaker, Dr. G. H., jr....... | Marquette.....| Marquette . 46 32 87 41 G30) Ase ems. 12
Bowlsby, George W...... Monroe .......| Monroe ...... 41 56 83 30 584 B. h
Coffin, Matthew .......... Otsego .... .<.| Allegan. ...... 42 28 85 42 CEs eIN apenas 11
Cresby; J.-B. .;... ae oie New Buffalo. ..| Berrien ... .... 41 45 86 46 | 661 | B. 7
Pitcher, Dr. Zena......... Detroit... 2.20.) Wayne .... 000. 42 24 B28) 097 | CAnsaitas ss 10:
Smith, Charles C., M.D Redford Centre.,; Wayne ........ 42 28 83 10 650 | T. 3
Smith, Rev. L.M.8.. Mill Point .....| Ottawa........ 43 06 Repel ates 'saverciac Dis pdacee 12
=o Holland .......| Ottawa........ 42 00 GN | Been BBae JIB] ARSE 12
Strong, Edwin A.......... | Grand Rapids... WGN Osis aiahieae 43 00 86 00 Pel tliat aaa 4
yWwalkets a Octavia C...| Cooper .... ...; Kalamazoo....| 42 40 85 30 690 | T.R.. 12
elple iss Helen I. | | , g
Whelpley, Miss Bareuce | Monroe .......| Monroe .......| 4156 | 8323 | 590 | T.R..... 12
sees eeee| Ypsilanti..... . Washtenaw.... 42 15 Sapa ils asp Ae stews ye bs

Woodard, C.S.

74

METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.

MINNESOTA.
. Ch) mn
3 = | ae
= = = oi
Name of observer. Station. County. z 5 s | = Ee
= = Sut Woe o8
o o ly a oe
Z E tes Zz
oa eal Feet. |
Garrison, 0. BE... .... St. Cloud......| Stearns ....... 45 45 94 23 sh carta rr 10
Kelley, Oc Hiccsaidevis. Ttaseas, 2! s<iw| ANOKA Wswenves 45 16 93 32 so i Wat DS ni ie 7
Riggs, Rev. S.R....... Pajutazee .....| Brown... 45 00 94 00 cooses| De Rovse.|) LI
Smith; A. Ciwvesve--.ss0- | Forest City ...%|) Meeker....5.5 45 45 95 00 ACI liad lens FAs 12
P 7 Chatfield ...... BUM ORES Sots wei teosteianisisine||'s'o/apte tot site POsOnt| Uta Rien, 5
Thiekstun, T. F...4+ +... } Hastings.. ..../ Dakotah fol erate Pps iciore fists rane sc bees Seyi ii
Wieland) Cs 5.0. 6.5... see] Beaver Bay...) LAK... seovcs 47 12 91 18 850 | Better 12
MISSISSIPPI
Cribs Tue osiasverasiene viaeni| MONtCLNO:... <. Lawrence..... a1 34 | 90 00 COD) AEs 2
McCary, Robert......... «.| Natchez. ...... PROGINS ees ieieiats 3l-34 | 91 25 264 | BT. R 6
Robinson, Rev. E. 8.... Prairie Line...| Jasper....... 3210 | 89 20 Srora| kc 200 Q
Swasey, Col. C. B.... .... Yazoo City ....| Yazoo AG. 32 55 | GURSIOA I. cewieteten INS eicies 3
MISSOURI.
RUA SI Sicenemigeasisaadan Dundee .......| Franklin ..... 38 30 91 10 536 | T.R.. 6
Bowles, 8S. B., M. D.......| Greenfield.....| Dade ..... ... 37 22 B24 all C00! |} NG ccwintsieiie iG
Christian, Folin .c.« eeeee| Harrisonville ..) Cass sce saseelis «alia «0's s}|/s\eisinisiajnioiaiai|{(s0\e\e1<\e\<1- Ni. siesia 12
Engelmann, George, M. D..| St. Louis ......| St. Louis .... "33°37 90 15 ABD As istseis 12
Fendler, ey eeoe-| St. LOUIS ...0..| St. Louis ..... 38 37 90 16 470 | B. T.P 12
BANA Boh Eel wile siete eeis'e(es)|) MUTA) ao sal LAT Ketelolee sisinicte 40 28 Sy let one Ni cscome 2
LOR VVi Ely os csin | siclarcjern Hornersville . Dunklin.......| 35 03 90 00 Ap cscs tS oons 3
Koning, Rey. P. Wacle ces] Ste Louis ......| St. Louis......| 38 40 90 15 CVBY ONG Goose 12
Maxey Wie Bsc Beice vivce| PaTiSieciste << roe Monroe.... ... 39 30 92 00 700) Ti. Ryne ie UL
Myers, J. He. sc. nes. 000s) Kirksville ..... Adair ,........| 40 38 92°50 |, 1,000 | Nu... Bl rhe)
Ray, George P...........- WANTON eee). setaie a | LAWS ese sietplaisieslleipinsiete erates, ve ac tatece mati ate dpadasl) Mikaeoction 4
Sutherland, Norris ........ Boonville ......] Cooper ...... 38 55 92 30 Boost iNigeccen 5
“Tidswell, Miss Mary Alice.; Warrenton...., Wiarren\...c. _ 38 37 91 16 S200 || Lanckae 12
Vid LSE Vis Uinistevelule|cfereveieial |) AOLLV Alin wieleleiniafeil LOL ateterie octeie : "37 29 Qa TADS dlire cs .nlsvcial| GNP olbfereiet 1
Wells, Willidm: <.......00.| Stockton ..c.0| CALs. .ccencies 39 36 93 48 800 | T. R... 1
Wilson, Posey 8...... «e«-| Lexington ..... Lafayette..... 39 30 BAC Gee Issnnooel Ws foRene 4
Wyre, MoU ices eoamnc| CASSVINE sc 005] DAITY. «eee viccis 36 41 93157 4 |"3,,000) eT Ras mst! oO
|
NEBRASKA.
Allan, James P.... . -.| Omaha City ...| Douglas ....... 41 15 9610, Atl S00) ides 2
Bowen, Miss Anna M. J.. .| Elkhorn City...| Douglas ....... 41 22 96.12 | 1,000 | T....... 12
Child, LL Sass tsa | Glendale ..... oi [Casson .easecce) . 40 Lo OB00)\.eeesease Re sie 3
Evans, John..... Ononcaccen | Fontenelle..... 41 31 96 45 12
Hamilion, Rev. Wm....... | Bellevue ...... 41 08 95 50 4 1
Bardee) HO es ccc ssceeeee| BOCK BIUHSl 40 54 95 54 i 2
Rosseau, M.C.... ........| Fort Pierre... 44 00 TOOEOO | eect Ne 5
White, Bela ...... Seine siete | MENOSDBremeere 40 51 95454: (1050 SNe ects 12
NEW HAMPSHIRE.
Bell [VIOUS sales ss 1050 sie | Farmington... | Strafford ...... | 43 20 71 00 . 800) BT. R:. 1
Bell, Samuel N............| Manchester. ..| Hillsborough...| 42 59 71 28 300 | B.T.R.,) 4
Brown, Branch ........085 Stratford ...... GOOS erecreretraretels 44 08 aS: Su a (318) 1) let Bred 8S | ab
‘Chase, Arthur ..... neers Claremont. sees Sullivan, ...... 43 22 72 21 539 | B.T.R..) 12
Nason, Rev. Elias......... Exeter ........| Rockingham...) 42 58 70 55 LPS Wal lal sy bea fe s2.)
‘Odell, Fletcher ...........| Shelburne......| Coos ......c00» 44 23 71 06 700 [58d Mae, 1)
Pitman, Charles H.,...... NorthBatnstead) Belknap.......| 43 38 CUS Tallisieistsyslss|s)|| .Lisiesenisay a 12

* Above La Crosse.

t Place of obseivation mouth of Cherry creek, Cheyene river ; same in 1860.«
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.

NEW JERSEY.

~]
on

/ (Phe 3 | 2
E = a zs
= i) 5 ®
Name of observer. Station. 4 County. | & Pa es es
| = OEE a= = ee
ais ae 2 ei
hea ake" = a= 5 Z
meh Sue \aatoet.
Barer sgn Or Listgswies ois Riceville....... | Monmouth ....| 40 24 WospOus: LT: Us abe 8
Rhees, Morgan J.{ M.D...) Mount Holly... Burlington..... ROR SRaee Bacaer one oy ||) Beane 12
Stokes, Howard A......... Long Branch ..| Monmouth .... 40 20 74 06 | pC ai it 3 ie, <i 2
Thompson, George W.....| New Brunswick) Middlesex. ...:| 40 30 75 31 | +90 | N.. was, 12
Thornton. Dr. 8. C........ Moorestown... Burlington ...| 39 58 TAD elisciee «ves Ne Kee Ae je tas
Whitehead, W. A, .......| Newark. ...... | Bssex..... rok uae ao 74 10 30 |: B. T.R...| 12
Wis Os ltescseass<sene>| Mreehold si. Monmouth. 40 15 74 Qi PSEC al LSA | 12
NEW YORK.
Arden, Thomas B......... Garrison’s..... Putnam ...... 41 23 MANO2 en}, L80ps,)ediat teers 12
pe ap ioe 9 | Bordham......% Westchester...) 4054 | 73 57 | 447-|B. Tee] 5
rents Noe Pee elanisie ce, seas. | Vermillion..... | Oswego.......| 43 26 77 26 2c, ee 12
Beauchamp, Wm. M......| Skaneateles ...; Onondaga ..... 43 00 76 30 | 932 | B. = 12
Bowman, John..... aaieratntats Baldwinsville..| Onondaga..... 43 04 AG! ALS We aininteia lesa Liseiatsivistn 12
Brown, Rev. John J....... | Dansville...... | Livingston..... 42 38 1054 | 672 4) AL cee 5
Clarks BErenG seco osc. 6: | Constantia.....| Oswego ......- 43 17 "O,05e0)) 424) pi Rar 1
Cowing, Philo ............ | Seneca Falls Seneca .... 42 54 76 51 463 | B.T. 8
PONTE wees eslee cs aos | Auburn... | Cayuga..... 42 55 TAR OBE sie rsincle tN iataietebe lobe 12
Denning, William H....... | Fishkill Landing| Dutchess ...... 41 34 74 18 AQ) VRB MER ae |e ae
=a" aaa Rochester .....| Monroe ....... 4308 | 7751 | 516 | B.T.R..| 12
Flint. Prof. Weston. .....- Otto ...... ....| Cattaraugus ...| 42 22 79 00 | 1,300 | T....... 2
Gregory, S. O....... Mamet EENCSA salewess | a CHELSO MI wan eer 44 12 Rov AS. lo GSG0) juliet Bereta 10
Guest, W. E..... .esseeees| Ogdensburg....| St. Lawrence..| 44 43 PST) 232%) Re naesenfey ds
Haskin, Wm. L..... Ferd | LEOM Teta das Rensselear ....| 42 44 73 37 | 5B | An caves 6
Heimstreet, John W...... Troy ..........| Rensselear ....| 42 44 Toad oy 5S vitals edest 12
Hibberd, A. A .. -..e..| Hermitage.....| Wyoming.....| 42 09 WEEE alles masiceia pce ttys + 12
Holmes, Dr. E. Sat slates |) WHSOM cece secs Niagara .......| 43 20 TENG o al SST a a aS 19
House, John C............, Waterford .....| Saratoga.......| 42 47 73 39 | (ie |e sere ic 12
Howell, Robert .... Eieie | NICHOLS c.c0cle'ci- Tioga .... 42 00 De al eRe ees hd be 12
Ives, William. .....-...0. «| Buffalo..... souf Brie oes. oe 42 50 78 56 600 | A. 12
Lattimore, Prof. S. A. ....! Lima,......... Livingston..... 42 53 77 51 RRR id See bhal 2 2
Mackie, Matthew ...... Perle Oly derives snes Wayne........ 43 10 77 10 400 | B.'T.. 12
Malcom, Wm. &., -.| Oswego .......| Oswego ....... | 43 28 76 30 950 | B.T.R..| 12
Mathews, M. M., M. Di ..| Rochester. ....| Monroe...... 43 08 vital 525 Ac araeieioie 12
Morris, Prof. 0. Wid on | New York.....| New Yerk... 40 43 74 05 ZY Ae eect ke
Packard, evi S:.\... veoese| Spencertown ..; Columbia......; 42 18 73 32 CAU tvkgesst 6
Potter, C. D..M. D.. | Adams Centre. | Jefferson ......| 43 48 Comey 632% | Be kiss 3
Russell, C. H. ‘..| Gouverneur ,..| St. Lawrence..) 44 19 ES OSU | ctersisiest oe Bocas 12
Slade, Fred. J. New York..... New York..... | 40 45 73 59 Us dug he Xeynciaciae 5
Spooner, Dr. Stillman. +... Wampsville | Madison....... | 43 04 75 50 500 | TR. 12
Sylvester, Dr. E. Ware....| Lyons......... UE gn Se G54! Secysepncd) lsdacdeneod acoomoce [ed 12
Titus, Henry Wm....... «» Bellport.... Sutlaligcsenatele 40 44 72 54 1 Gye es apoce 12
Wadsworth, LS {Se aeegeen .| Henrietta...... | Monroe .......| 43 06 77 SL | 600) | Bent gb proper
Wakeley, Charles C., Ruth- | | |
erford’s Observatory Schsks: New York.....| New York..... 40 44 73°59 Cs Yoridncicic 5
White, Aaron.............| Cazenovia..... | Madison. oa 42 55 75 46 | 1,260 A veveee-| 12
NORTH CAROLINA.
Adams, Prof. E. W... Goldsborough..| Wayne.... oe| 35 20 to 102 | 'T. 3
Craven, Rev. B..... Trinity College.| Randolph...... 35 45 80 00 400 | Ar 1
McDowell, Rev. A Murfreesboro’..,; Hertford...... | 36 30 CATAL | ee eriege | A 4
Moore, Geo. F., M. D..... Green Plains... Northampton.., 36 32 FECTS || aera Ua be 3
Phillips, Prof. James, D. D.| Chapel Hill... | Orange......... 35 54 PESTON aaeceb aa lars 4
| | pebas.) |
OHIO.
SUT Rs eee Welshfield ...| Geauga........| 4123 | 8112 | 1,205/T.R....| 12
Adame; DaP ice diesscoces.| Marietta. .c.s.<| Washington . ..| 39 25 81 31 Gone Ree
Ammen, J....... Seeesaces| RipPleyosss coos} BYOWN .oceeces] sO ol oii) lll (A Se Be De teeters
Benner, J. F.. oP New Lisbon...| Columbiana...; 40 45 80 45 961 | B.T.R..| 12
NATE, Wiis Ps Kemttae! | caces Medina....... i Medina mss <:0 | 41 07 81 47 1,255 | A ce sels
Colbrinp, Edward ........) Cleveland.....! Cuyahoga | 41 30 81 40 665:4) Dic Ram aleee

METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS,

OHIO—Continued.

{

= g | SON
r= =) vA =
3 = = SS
Name of observer. Station. County, = a : = EF
s = =| 5 pies
E E = eB hse
Zz e = cS z
Cotton, D. B., M.D. .....| Portsmouth....| Scioto......... 38 45 12
Cannes Gporge Wie-esies Bethel. ........| Clermont...... 39 00 6
avidson, H. M.........
SH ee t Freedom ......| Portage... ...| 41 13 ll
DilleSsrdeliecat ace sseaes: Newark . Licking ....... 40 07 12
Fuller WiiGiad. smite . Harmar .......| Washington ...| 39 24 3
Hammitt, John W .......-| College Hill.. Hamilton...... 39 19 il
Harper, George W......... Cincinnati..... | Hamilton......| 39 06 12
Haywood, Prof. John. Westerville....| Franklin ...... 40 04 12
Bills FG cn... Dallasburg..... Warren\s<.We52 39 30 12
Hillier, Rev. ‘Spencer 1a Brecksville ....| Cuyahoga..... 41 15 2
Huntington, George C..... Kelley’s [sland.| Erie. .......e.. 41 36 12
Hyde, Gustavus A ........ Cleveland ..... Cuyahoga.... 41 30 12
Ingram, John, M. D.......| Savannah ..... | Ashland....... 41 12 12
Johnson, Thos. H......... Coshocton.....| Coshocton.... 40 18 4
King, Mrs. ArdeliaC...... MadisGn\s casein] ad Gurctocrsencies 41 56 12
Lumsden, Rev. Wm......| West Union...| Adams........ 38 47 1
McClung, Charles L.......} Troy .......0. Miami. .... 0. 40 03 12
MeMillan, Smith B........) East Fairfield..| Columbiana ... 40 47 12
Newton, Rev. Alfred...... Norwalk ......| Huron.......«: 41 15 12
Peck, Wm. R.)MiD....: | Bowling Green.| Wood.... .... 41 15 12
Phillips, R. C. and J. H....| Cincinnati..... Hamilton.... 39 06 12
Pierce, Warren...........| Garrettsville...| Portage........ 41 15 6
Pillsbury, Mrs. M.A.......| East Cleveland.| Cuyahoga .... Al 31 12
Shields, Rev. Robert ......| Bellecentre....} Logan......... 40 30 3
Spratt, Or. Wm. W.......| Andrews ......| Morrow....... 40 45 4
Sperry, Mark ........0 0 ees F
Thompson, Rew iianee Croton. sc c=] SACKING svececi 40 13 12
SMVER AS Samcniecaaloce acs Western Star..| Summit....... 41 04 6
DAP PAM PIM ay tortie ct sine 5 Cincinnati.....| Hamiilton...... 39 07 5
Trembley, J. B., M. Diss! Toledo 2... 2.4: UCAS" jhrce vee 41 39 12
Ward, Rev. L. F ptagecaraters sein MSC VINES. 0 02 tm cinys Medina........ 39 59 9.
Warder, A. A......-......| Cincinnati Hamilton...... 39 08 12
Williams, Prof. M.G......| Urbana........ Champaign ... 40 06 4
Wilson, Prof. J. H.........| College Hill . Hamilton...... 39 19 12
oe ak a eee } Hudson .. ....) Summit ....... 41 15 12
; OREGON.
|
Crawford, Thomas H...... Salem..... a Marion........ | 44 55 122 45 | MAR chip | t
|
PENNSYLVANIA.
Latrobe .......! Westmoreland.) 40 20 79 16 569 | T.R,.... 1
Boyers, W. Re s..-sr.ees Blairsville.....| Indiana......., 403! | 7443 | 1,010| T.R..... 3
Brugger, Samuel.......... HIEMIN GT. srisioieiell | OCMILE s asicyens (ein 40) Io 77 53 heli pu uag iy Ban. 12
Coffin, Selden J fs
TIGA OWN. EE rotecis\sietee'e Towanda......| Bradford ......| 41 47 76 34 =| 840) BuT.. 7
Kingsbery, J. H |
Darlington, Fenelon....... Parkersville...| Chester .......| 39 54 UDO hearer) Rt al ee 12
Eggert, John..... arate feliateist Berwick...... Columbia...... 41 05 76 15 apeB IN es YES SH 9
RUSIGM DS cite ta efile siea:a caress oye | Shamokin ..... | Northumber’d 40 15 76 30 AOU hake ele ous 12
Hance, Ebenezer Morrisvillie... | Bucks. ........| 40 12 74 48 30M SBD ke aie
Heckerman, Rev. Henty.. Bedford ....... | Bedford.......| 40 01 dByO0!, ol. mee.cciel Leen ey 12
Heisely, Dr. brtot ake: Harrisburg..... Dauphin .....; 40 16 POOLS \o)| cate haat binds. Reels ee
Heyser, William, jr.. .... Chambersburg .| Franklin....... | 39 58 77 45 ORO) kia ce woth il
BICKOE WO. ccincccinense HWarrisburg..... Dauphin. ...... } 40 20 76 50 | Bol | ON RS ac 12
Hoffer, Dr. Jacob R....... | Mount Joy..... | Laneaster..... 40 08 16830) || esaeeese [BAKcat so: 12
Houghton, George S....... SASEOM \in'e csa'eels Northampton ,.| 40 43 75 16 BADIA TAS s(oisinie eis 12
HUVECS Onis sens ieaiee ce Nazareth ...... Northampton..| 40 43 (a2 ie ee Be. Roe
Ear Hev.M.. rit} Gettysburg ....] Adams........) 3949 | 77 15*| 624] B.T.R..| 2
Kohler, Edward. | N. Whitehall ..| Lehigh . «| 40 40 75 26 250 Ab GHCG 12
Lyceum, Jefferson a College. Cannonsburg .. Washington . 40 17 80 10 $36 rs ices 10
Martin, R. ‘AS Supine Harrisburg .... Dauphin. Malas 40 16 76.55 laces cone BLT RA 3

*Above low water mark of Ohio river.
+ Above low water in the Ohio river at Cincinnati.

METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.

T7

PENNSYLVANIA—Continued.

3 AS : 2
3 3 2 Es
& ash S $3
Name of observer. Station. County. z : 5 ES
= S S Fd Se
= B = = Gi
3 2 2 a °
A = =| = a
aay 5 Feet.
Martindell, Isaac . “| Byberry .......| Philadelphia... 40 05 75 00 70 | T. 10
Martindale, Jos. C., ;M. D.. Philadelphia,..| Philadelphia ...; 40 05 WONDD \ieiereiars even) NEE 1
Meehan, Thomas .........| Germantown ..| Philadelphia ...|...... eeesjseeseesees|eere sisicels INR 12
Mowry, "George Ri chate ete Somerset......| Somerset ..... 40 00 79 03 2, 195 An. 12
Muller, Prof. Rudolph. . Latrobe,. ....| Westmoreland.| 40 27 79 32 985 | B. 12
Ralston, Rev. J. Grier... Norristown ....| Montgomery...} 40 08 75,19 153),)) Avast 12
Saurman, Jonn W.........| Byberry ....... Philadelphia .. 40 00 AWAD Vecec\a sss IDy Re vees 2
Scott, Samuel.............| Worthington ..| Armstrong.... 4150 | 79/31 1,050 | T. Rivs.. 12
Smith, Wm., D. D.........| Cannonsburg ..| Washington .. 40 17 80 10 936 | B.T.R..| 12
Speer, Alex. M., M. D..... Pittsburg ..... | Alleghany ..... 40 32 80 02 | 850 | Bal. Re. 1
Swift, Dr. Paul ...........| W. Haverford..}| Delaware...... 4000 | 75 Qi AOOMMR OS Ne5. 12
ohn Ti. 2. ec. : ‘
Tey Geoteb *- L! Sewickleyville.| Alleghany ..... 40 38 | 8014 656 | B.T.R. | 12
RHODE ISLAND.
Caswell, Prof. A... Providence ....| Providence... 4l 49 | Hlaeo’ |p) )e TROWAL Santee 12
Sheldon, H.C ......2..00- Providence ....| Providence .... 41 50 | MI QS  |\s'ow ae alee B.T.R 1.
SOUTH CAROLINA.
| | | ]
Cornish, Rev. John H.....| Aiken...... so«| Batnwellwere.<|. 33/02.) (Sl 34 565 | TOR. .t 2
Glennie, Rey. Alexander ..| Georgetown...) All Saints ..... 3329 | 79 17% SOME As estan 4
Johnson, Joseph, M. D..
Dawson, J. L., M. D....- Charleston reel Charleston , re] 32 46 80 00 20'| B.T. RK... 9
Pelzer, George S..M.D.. } | / |
Ravenel, Thomas P....... Black Oak tee Charleston | 33 00 | 80 00. OO RAM, ele sicinl« 3
| | |
TENNESSEE.
et be Su. a ae : eres os | a i. ae :
Barney, Chas. R.........- University Pl..| Franklin ..... | 35 12 | 86 00 2,000; B.T.R 3
Dodge, J. W., & Son......| Pomona.......| Cumberland. 36 00 | 85 00 Det Way staeacton 4
Jennings, S. K., M. D.....} Austin ........| Wilson........ 36 20 86 20 | 2,000;/T.P.R 5
Stewart, Prof. Wm. M.....| Clarksville ....) Montgomery... 36 28 87 13 ABI Ale cesar 12
Mitchel), R. W., M. D.....| Memphis......| Shelby ........ 35 08 90 00 DOO PAL ststetts 3
TEXAS.
|
Allis, Melvin H........ ».-| Gonzales..... | Gonzales...... 29 35 97 30. 3
MEP ENP ANG) telcaaserenietne ciclelcs EOSGOD ae stara crac] PEO WIE s cxrsiniecies 32 25 94 40 2
Gantt, Dr. Wm. H......... Union.........| Washington .. 3011 | 9631 Q
Glasco, J.M..... lobes wieiet ats) /GEHLTELEL te alsielajaini || (CS Uti  ateies oe 32 46 94 51 9
PRONG ES Es wncislcecllewicewacti]) VVIICCLOCK. we. Robertson ..... 30 50 96 30 1
Rayel, James.............| Turner’s Point.| Kaufman...... 32 30 | 96 00 ]
Schumann, Bruno.. Round Top....| Fayette ....... 30 06 96 37 4
Van Nostrand, J.... J ATEN Spadecon| ll tha aagdeincers 30 20 97 46 4
NES SeP TONG) os vic'e ws) cleleeten Burkeville..... Newton .....-. s1 00 | 93 31 4
Yellowby, Prof.C. W.. Webberville ...| Travis......... 30 10 97 31 4
= | i
UTAH
| |
Pearce, Harrison .........| Heberville.....| Washington... HOTU OR Os): TU ie 4 | ThesBunerace 9
Phelps, W. W............| Great Salt Lake| Salt Lake ..... 40 45) 111 26] 4,250 | A....... lL

City.

|
| 114 00
|

| |

78

METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS,

VERMONT.
| vier - aay [rie see Pees iin re
| | o o | a
Loos = fener =A
Name of observer. Station. County. 7 "| 5 fe = oe
Satis ce] Sees
CS) | o ‘o z So
i Dera 8. ew eres Re
| % |
{ | a el SR LL,
Buckland, David . Brandon...i3..| Rutland seeks 43 45 | LOMO Mller aches ata ker keer | arlye
Chickering, Rev. J. ARE Springfield . | Windsor ...... 43 18 72 33 LE Bel et BE) 1 ele att
Cutting, Hiram A ......... Lunenburg ....| Essex....... . | 44 28 | CV GAM AD 4\s AN raratptoleo aan ee
Fairbanks, Franklin. . St. Johnsbury,.} Caledonia .....| 44 25 | 72 00 540 | B.T.R..) 1
Paddock, James A........| Craftsbury.....| Orleans ....... 44 40 72) 29) eVVOO! | TR towel) ele
Parker, Joseph............| West Rupert...| Bennington....| 43 15 73 11 TOOL) Dy ratcieate 5
Petty, McK.............. | Burlington....| Chittenden ... 44 27 73 10 iO AC araiaters 12
Toby, James K...........| Calais .... ....| Washington... 44 22 TEU acercaceal lil tay Rear eeal ies oe
| |
VIRGINIA.
£ ion x —— ert oh eee
Abell, J. Ralls ............| Charlottesville.} Albemarle .. . 38 00 78 31 GPA LY, cae 4
Astrop, Col. R. F .........| Crichton’s Store} Brunswick .. 36 40 77 46 DUO; |S. ae 1
Dickinson, George C...... Cobham Depot.| Albemarle .. . 38 05 78 21 450 oe ecces 4
LOU TR Ug 6 GSS econieneaad Wardensville ..| Hardy .... .... 39 30 78 03 | 1,720] A. ......| 5
Fraser, James ............| New England..| Wood .........| 39 20 81700) cic s'sisisil Nic wemene| (yok
Jones, Silas B............| Fork Union....| Fluvanna...,.. 37 40 Ziel) tal ainda | Odie moneih | Se
Kendall, James E.........] Kanawha C0. H.| Kanawha .. 5 Re oF 1
*Meriwether, Charles [ ....) Richmond .. Henrico.... Ii [Base 4
MMarvin=(VOOn WY <c.cc nach Winchester. ..| Frederick . NR 5 4
Park, William K......,...| Lexington .. ..| Rockbridge . . AN otelalate 3
Purdie, John R., M.D..... Smithfield .. Isle of Wight ..| 37 02 76 37 100 |; T.R. 3
Robey, Charles H......... Fredericksburg | Spottsylvania,.| 38 20 77 20 GOON Neate cteicil 3
MOCAE] WV Drie seekle sean Wytheville ....) Wythe........ 36 55 SIO0 25287" || Whee 4
Stalnaker, J. W. M. D Lewisburg .. ..| Greenbrier ....) 37 49 80 28; 2,000; T.R. 3
Van Doren, Abram... ....| Falmouth :.. Stafford ....... 38 15 77 34 300) | TR o. 3
WISCONSIN.
PANITIRLTOMP 5) Sisieieisiehienivie'viet Caldwell Prairie) Racine........ 42 48 | SBy1S) laareterrete sDeves ll
Atwood, Isaac.,..... arate Lake Mills ....| Jefferson ..... 43 00 OOOO ecstaiancere | N....... 12
Bell, James Bc... <is)ees oer Kilbourn City..; Columbia. ... 43 30 90 00 G45 INNS sieve nine 12
Curtis, W. W ....... ...-| Rocky Run....| Columbia. ... 43 26 BODO Rernvetete ce) || ebten EN eieiea! ike
Ellis, Edwin, M.D........ Ashland .. .... Ashland .. .... 46 33 91 00 OHO Pa brs Scat oi
Gridley, Rev. John........| Kenosha ..... Kenosha ....6s 42 35 87 50 600 | B.T.R..| i2
Kelley, Charles W........ | Delafield . Waukesha..... 43 06 88 36 900 | B.T....) 12
Kelsey, Prof. Henry 8..... Beloiti te gante ate FXO C Kiantinrsieletants 42 30 89 04 PION us oighe a) ka cd] ee
Lapham, Increase A......| Milwaukee . ..| Milwaukce... 43 03 87 56 | BB vektodinAcrey |) etc
Harkin, Prot. (By.Pipes secre Milwaukee . ..; Milwaukee.. 43 02 87 55 | 684 / B.T. I
Liips, Jacob....... SAaage? Manitowoc . Manitowoc... 44 07 87 45 658} B.T. 12
Mann, William ........... Superior....... | Douglas....... 46 46 92 03 680; T.R. 12
Mason, Prof. R. Z ....0.. .| Appleton. .... Outagamie ... 44 10 88 35 | SOON PAV erseicieee 12
Mathews, George......... Burlingion.....| Racine ........ 42 39 hanes) OOS) ING ctatetelerete 12
Parker, Melzar ....... +. Weyaumega...| Waupaca ; 44 15 88 50 | S70) leet latnielots 5
Pease, Dr. Clark G.. Janesville .....| Rock...... 42+. 42 48 89 09 | ASLO bed Poses Sar 10
Phelps, Hiland W.........| Racine ...... Racme ss. 42 45 87 48 | 650 | BLT. 1
Towers, M. H ........+...| Dartford....... Green Lake 43 30 8025), aiace B.T....| 10
Ealane Wilkndemele: “g Madison. ...... | Dane . ses. e0s. 4305 | 8925} 1,068) A......| 10
Struthers, Re Hi as. seecyeisies Rural . -...| Waupaca.... 44 20 SY Beco cess he! Cesapelse 9
Winkler, Carl, M.D ...... Milwaukee ....| Milwaukee . 43 03 87 57 | 600 | B. T.R. 8
Wood, William. +«s-| Weyaumega...| Waupaca... 44 15 88 50 | 850) Desceeniein)|| te
MEXICO.
i hate oe | a
| Z 2.
5: | z |33
Name of observer. Station. | = = ros = Fe
| = ‘ | =a | = S 2
oa) = econ ee| s -
= 3 | s a =
4 =) _
zt Bee. y | aFitn PE BTS 2) PAAR 5 A | inal ah Fe
} Sen! Say Feet.
Laszlo, Charles........... | San Juan Bautiste, Tabasco.....| 17 47 92 46 40 | Aes 2
Sartorius, Charles ........| Mirador, Vera Cruz... .... 19 15 96 25 3,600 | A ...ees 12

METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS. 19

CENTRAL AMERICA.

s
: g eas
Name of observer. Station. & = ic = FE
= = = 5 | Ss
2 Sra ears a 6”

4 eee yee 5 Zz

= |
| te S Feet.
Canudas, Antonio ........ Gautemala College, Gautemala.. 14 37 90 30 4,856 | A 12
.WEST INDIES.
. |
Carothers, A. G ..... «.. Pork-sHESlANG’./ ci a ceca Celeetaeret 21 31 71 08 1S Bebo, | g
Garland, Samuel G........ Salt Cay, Turk’s Island......... 21 00 el ats 20 | B. T at 1
BERMUDA.
Royal Engineers, (in the | Centre Signal Station, Saint |.. ccccecsfecesssceee|-seecees AXvasiniseul) 12
Royal Gazette.) George’s.
SOUTH AMERICA.
PICT E Oe seca iciele's weds Gpvernment) Plantations usa sirepts via vcld elf seiacelele cia] siciee weil Aste! sip a's 8
tenberg, colony of Surinam, r
Dutch Guiana.

Brown, George aed AU Aye CLM ils ciel a leialeielcie)sciajtonier 12 008. 75 15 | 10,500 | B. T. P.. 1

DEATHS OF OBSERVERS.

George P. Lockwood, Wheeling, Virginia, early in 1860.
Dr. Thompson Mead, Batavia, Illinois, March 30, 1861.

Colleges and other institutions from which meteorological registers were received.
during the year 1861, included in the preceding list.

NOVa SCOUAE = seco s scans ; Acadia. College. aaticcsioe ~---sassee Wolfville.
hKingis College: .ser Le eae Windsor.
Gatidteern cece. cance = Grammar School seen see e see aes Niagara.
| Magnetic Observatory.......--.---- Toronto.
| University of McGill College._----- Montreal.
J eh ee a er | Baptist Female Institute-...-....... Moulton.
Cahitormidnes soa. os aks University of the, Paciic. 2.520.028 Santa Clara.
Connecticut:...2--.-=2. ft Wesleyan. Univeritys 2s: 2322. 2202 Middletown.
MNOS -.<2.- A ae oe Lombard University 222. -242.. 2508 Galesburg.
| McKendree College........-..----- Lebanon.
University of Chicago. Jo... 22222222 Chicago.
Wheaton’ Collesestaccaookee ses aoe Wheaton.
MMO NaS ioe site aie eo sia nim ComellCollereSsssoceGse eee oes Mount Vernon.
Griswold! Collese se as eo oer | Davenport.
Iowa State University....--. Tacs Siar Towa City.
Yellow Spring College......-...... Kossuth,
PAINE ya cics asia sae Mount Alba College..........-.... Harainsburg.
pete) O8eph Ss Colleces sucess Bardstown.
IMaITICRE eens. oe oe aoe rank School 2h. Ue em see ae oe Topsham.
Spake Grove. Seminarye.soo= sue see Vassalboro’.
Marylands.. 7... 32... .2.- | Agricultural College. -...=...--2-<- Prince George county,.
| Washington College.........-.-..- Chestertown.
Massachusetts.........- ATINeteG COUSLEL sane xara eden mete | Amherst.
NoTmMaA Choo lease cae ae | Bridgewater.

380

METEOROLOGICAL CONTRIBUTIONS.

Colleges, &c., from which meteorological registers were received, §c.—Continued,

Massachusetts.......---

DHCHICBY soos sacle ara
Missouri ..------ sees
New Jerseyoaeoeeene eae
Wey *YOnk,. cose se

rer owe 225 8 eee so
Pennsylvania

monode: Island) o222 6.2
Mennessee jee sa oe ase
Pextig sae cee Soe

Wiretaps cscs spect sce
Wisconsine =. sess ce ce cee

Central America......--

LIST OF METEOROLOGICAL

State Lunatic Hospital............-

Williams’ College--......- De eats :

Marnine* Hospital 2252. soe <ss0 ses -
St; LowistUniversity. -ooaace-s-ceer
Freehold Institute
Genesee: College .. 2 aaeeehieoe aes
Institution for Deaf and Dumb....-.
Ob Johns: Collegesees-nossee eee
University of Rochester..........-
Young Men’s Association. -....-.---
Trinity College sj. Sieh. cae see
Earmers. Colleges.a 52. s28stiabecses
Haleyon,Academy-\2u22% ssees 28252
Otterbein University..-...---.----
Urbana Universities -esce ser
Western Reserve College...-..-..--
Woodward High School....--------
Wallamet, Unjversity,.- == .-2-2->—-=-
Haverford College. < sence manos ee
Jefferson College. 25-.\2c2s22-----
Marine Hospitallso. st seeeees ao.
St: Vineent’s: Colleges: - 224. o-25-5
Sewickleyville Academy ..---.---.-
State Lunatic Hospital_....--.---.--
Susquehanna Collegiate Jnstitute- --
Brown University.--=22-42-5-c2-<5
Steware- College: 2. 5 .cstas =caceemn
Deaf_and Dumb Asylum._.-..-----
Parsons) #séniinary es sees eee oo See
Virginia Military Institute-..-......
Beloit \Collese (= a orto ee mine
[awrence Umiyersiby oacoms6 eee
Milwaukee High School SSheiocc aceoe
Racine Colleser eess6 2. 22s. ao Scee
WiHSCOnSINy OMIKersiby aes eee ae oe
Guatemala College

REGULAR OBSERVATIONS.

Worcester.
Williamstown.
Detroit.

St. Louis.
Freehold.
Lima.

New York.
Fordham.
Rochester.
Buffalo.
Randolph county.
College Hill.
Croton.
Westerville.
Urbana.
Hudson.
Cincinnati.
Salem.

West Haverford.
Cannonsburg.
Pittsburg.
Latrobe.
Sewickleyville.
Harrisburg.
Towanda.
Providence.
Clarksville.
Austin.
Webberville.
Lexington,
Beloit.
Appleton.
Milwaukee.
Racine.
Madison.
Guatemala.

MATERIAL CONTRIBUTED IN ADDITION TO THE

Austin, E. P., Assistant U. S. Lake Survey.—Aurora noticed at Love
Island, Lake Huron, in June, July, and August, 1860.
Blackwell, Thomas.—Daily means of observed temperatures during the

year 1861, at two

adjacent stations, Victoria Bridge and Point
St. Charles, Montreal, Canada, at the hours of 9 a.

m., noon, 3

p- m., and 6 p. m.; and also temperature of water of the River
taken daily at noon; also a summary for the

St. Lawrence,

year. 8vo

» pps..13.

Table showing the proportion of rain at Montreal, Canada, due
to winds bearing rain from the surrounding regions, for the

year 1859.
METEOROLOGICAL CONTRIBUTIONS. 81

Boettner, Gustav A.—Original drawings of forty-three different forms
of snow crystals, made during 1861 and 1862, at Chicago,
Illinois.

Brackett, George Emerson.—Monthly summaries of observations made
at Belfast, Maine, in 1861; published in the ‘‘ Republican
Journal.’’

Buchner, Dr. Otto.—Analyse des Meteoreisens von Rasgata in Neu-
granada, von Prof. Wohler in Gottingen, mit notizen uber das
Vorkommen und die physikalischen Eigenschaften desselben
von Director Partsch, wirklichem mitgliede der Kaiserlichen

_ Akademie der Wissenschaften. Miteinertafel. 8vo. pp. 11.

Uber den Meteorsteinfall bei Ohaba im Blasendorfer Bezirke in
Siebenbirgen, in der Nacht zwischen dem 10. und 11. Octo-
ber, 1857. Von Dr. Moriz Hornes, vorstand des k. k. Hof-

_ Mineralien-Cabinets. Wien, 1858. 8vo., pp. 8.

Uber den Meteorsteinfall bei Kaba, sudwestlich von Debreczin,
am 15. April, 1857. Von Dr. Moriz Hornes. Mit einer Tafel.
Wien, 1858. 8vo., pp. 6. :

Die organische Substanz im Meteorsteine von Kaba. Schreiber
des correspondirenden Mitgliedes Fr. Wohler an Dr. Hornes,
mitgetheilt von W. Haidinger, wirklichem Mitgliede der Kai-
serlichen Akademie der Wissenschaften. 8vo., pp. 2.

Der Meteoreisenfall von Hraschina bei Agram am 26. Mai, 1751.
Von W. Haidinger. Wien, 1859. 8vo., pp. 30.

Notiz uber das Meteoreisen von Nebraska. Von W. Haidinger.
8vo., pp. 3.

Das Doppelmeteor von Elmira und Long Island. Von W. Hai-
dinger. 8vo., pp. 4.

Der Meteorsteinfall von Parnallee, bei Madura, in Hindostan.
Von W. Haidinger. 8vo., pp. 3.

Neuere Untersuchungen uber die Bestandtheile des Meteor-
steines vom Capland. Schreiben des Fr. Wohler an W. Hai-

_dinger. 8vo., pp. 3.

Uber das von Herrn J. Auerbach in Moskau entdeckte Meteorei-
sen von Tula. Von W. Haidinger. Moskau, 1861. 8vo., pp. 16.

[The above ten papers on Meteors are also published in the
Transactions of the ‘‘ Kaiserliche Akadamie der Wissenschaf-
ten,’’ at Vienna. | i

Die Feuermeteore, insbesondere die Meteoriten historisch und
naturwissenschaftlich betrachtet, von Dr. Otto Buchner. Gies-
sen, 1859. 8vo., pp. 192. .

Versuch eines Quellenverzeichniss zur Literatur uber Meteori-
ten, von Dr. Otto Buchner. Frankfurta. M., 1861. 4to, pp. 17.

Canudas, Antonio.—Printed summary of observations with a full set
of instruments, for the year 1861, made at the college in charge

, of the Jesuit Fathers of Guatemala.

Caswell, Prof. Alexis, D. D.—Monthly summaries of observations
made at Providence, R.I., during 1861; published in the
‘Providence Daily Journal.’’

6
82 METEOROLOGICAL CONTRIBUTIONS.

Dawson, William.—Thermometer observations at Cadiz, Indiana, for
the years 1857, 1858, 1859.

Hourly thermometer observations from 4 a. m. to 9 p. m., during
October, November, and December, 1861.

Dewey, Rev. Chester, D. D.—Printed summary of observations at
Rochester, N. Y., for the year 1861.

Gardiner, R. H.—Printed summary of observations at Gardiner,
Maine, for the year 1861, and the means of twenty-four years.

Graham, Lieut. Col.—Annual report of Brevet Lieutenant Colonel J.
D. Graham, Major U. 8. Topographical Engineers, on the im-
provement of the harbors of Lakes Michigan, St. Clair, Hrie,
Ontario, and Champlain, for the year 1860. (The volume
contains half hourly observations from January 1 to July 1,
1859, on the rise and fall of the surface of Lake Michigan,
and discussions to establish a lunar tide on the lake.)

Heimstreet, John W.—Printed summary of observations at Troy, N.
Y., for the year 1861; published in the ‘‘Troy Daily Budget’’
newspaper.

Hewitt, C. H—Barometer and thermometer observations taken at
6 a. m., noon, and midnight, on steamer between San Francisco
and Panama, in August and September, 1861.

Hildreth, S. P., M. D.—Monthly registers for the year 1861, at
Marietta, Ohio, completing his series of observations from 1824.
The whole series has been received at the Institution, and re-
duced preparatory to publication.

Kaiserliche Geographischen Gesellschaft zu St. Petersburg.—Repertorium
fur Meteorologie, herausgegeben von der Kais. Geographischen
Gesellschaft zu St. Petersburg; redigirt von Dr. Ludwig
Friedrich Kamtz, Kaiserl. Russischern Staatsrath und Pro-
fessor zu Dorpat. Dorpat, 1859, 1860. 4to.

Kingston, G. T.—Mean meteorological results at Toronto, Canada,
for the year 1861, by G. T. Kingston, M. A., Director of the
Magnetical Observatory, Toronto.—(From the Canadian Jour-
nal for March, 1862.) 8vo., pp. 8.

Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskabs, Copenhagen, Denmark.—
Collectanea meteorologica, sub auspiciis Societatis Scientiarum
Danice edita : 5

Fasc. I. Observationes meteorologice a cal. Juniis, 1824, ad cal.
Junias, 1825, Apenroz in Ducatu Slesvicensi facte ab A.
Neuber, Doctore Philosophie, Medicine et Chirurgie, urbis
et prefecturee Apenroensis Physico. Hafniw, 1829. 4to., pp.
246.

Fasc. II. Observationes meteorologicea 1 Jan., 1823, ad 1 Aug.,
1837, in Islandia facta, a Thorstensenio, Medico. Hafniz,
1839. 4to., pp. 234.

Fasc. II. Observationes meteorologice per annos 1829~-'34, et
183842, in Guinea facte, a J. J. Trentepohl, R. Chenon, F.
Sannom. Haunie, 1845. 4to., pp. 136.

METEOROLOGICAL CONTRIBUTIONS. 83

Kongliga Svenska Vetenskaps-Akademien, Stockholm, Sweden.—Mete-
orologiska Iakttagelser 1 Sverige utgifna af Kongl. Svenska
Vetenskaps-Akademien bearbetade af Hr. Edlund.  Forsta
bandet, 1859. Stockholm, 1860. Oblong 4to, pp. 108.

Koniglich Preussische Statistiches Bureau, Berlin, Prussia. —Ueber-
sicht der Witterung im nordlichen Deutschland nach den Beo-
bachtungen des Meteorologischen Instituts zu Berlin. 1859,
Ato, 28 pp.; 1860, 4to, 32 pp.

Koninklijk Nederlandsch Meteor ologisch Instituut, Utrecht, Holland.—
Uitkomsten van Wetenschap en Ervaring aangaande Winden
en zeestroomingen in sommige gedeelten van den Oceaan.
Uitgegeven door het Koninklijk Nederlandsch Meteorologisch
Instituut. 2e omgewerkte druk. Utrecht, 1856. 4to, pp. 163.

Lake Winnepissiogee Cotton and Woollen Manufacturing Company, N.
H.—Amount of rain for each month in 1861, at the outlet of
Lake Winnepissiogee, in the town of Laconia, and also at Lake
Village, about four miles south on the same stream of water.
(Similar statements have been previously received for the
years 1857 to 1860.) Transmitted by Josiah W. French.

Lapham, Increase A.—Notes of Periodical Phenomena and weather,
made at Hudson, N. Y., 1790 to 1794, copied from an inter-
leaved almanac.

Lewis, James.—Hourly mean temperature at Mohawk, N. Y., for the
year 1861, and several shorter periods. Also fac simile speci-
mens of the records made by his metallic self-recording ther-
mometer.

Martindale, Isaac.—Summary of observations made at Byberry, Penn-
sylvania, during the year 1861.

Martins, Professor Ch.—Essai sur la Théorie de la Variation diurne
barométrique, sur la Constitution de Ether, et sur Analogie
de ce Fluide avec la Fluide électrique. Mémoire présenté a la
Société Académique de |’Aube par le Docteur C. L. Henry,

* membre associé. Troyes, 1860. 8vo., pp. 144.

Annuaire Meteorologique de France pour 1850, 1851, 1852. 8vo.

Du Froid Thermometrique et de ces relations avec le Froid Physio-
logique dans les Plaines et sur les Montagnes. Montpellier,
1859.. 4to, pp. 52.

Sur le Froid exceptionnel qui a regné a Montpellier dans le cou-
rant de Janvier, 1855, les differences notables de temperature
observés sur des points tres-rapproches et leur influence sur
la vegetation. Montpellier, 1855. 4to, pp. 16.

Hssai sur la nature et l’ origine des differentes espéces de Brouil-
lards secs. Versailles, 1850. 8vo. pp. 21.

Des causes du Froid sur les hautes Montagne. Paris, 1860. 8vo.,
p- 38.

Des climats de la France et de leur influence sur son aoe ae
et la genie de ses habitants. Versailles, 1850. Pp.

Mémoire sur les températures de la Mer Glaciale a la ar a
de grand profondeurs, et dans le voisinage des Glaciers du
Spitzberg. Paris, 1848. 8vo., pp. 72.
84 METEOROLOGICAL CONTRIBUTIONS.

Meade, Cupt. George G.—Register of water-level and meteorological
observations from January to June, 1861, under the direction
of Captain George G. Meade, U. 8. Topographical Engineers,
Superintendent Survey of the North and Northwestern Lakes,
as follows :

Sackett’s Harbor, N. Y., by Henry Metcalf.

Charlotte, N. Y., by Andrew Mulligan.

Fort Niagara, N. Y., by Louis Leffman.

Monroe Piers, Mich., by John Lane.

Thunder Bay Island, Mich., by I. I Malden.

Ottawa Point, Mich., by John Oliver.

Grand Haven, Mich., by Heber Squier.

Ontonagon, Mich., by Henry Selby.

Superior, Wis., by George R. Stuntz, assisted by EH. H. Bly.

Meteorological Society of Scotland —Quarterly reports and other regu-
lar publications of the society.

Fall of rain at thirty-seven stations in Scotland during each
month in the year 1856; published in the Edinburg New Phil-
osophical Journal for April, 1857.

Fall of rain at fifty-five stations in Scotland during each month in
1857. Edinburg New Philosophical Magazine, April, 1858.

Morris, Prof. O. W.—Summary of observations from 1854 to 1860,
inclusive, kept at the Institution for Deaf and Dumb, New York.

Muller, Prof. Dr. Rudolph.—Summaries and diagrams of observations
made at St. Vincent’s College, Westmoreland county, Penn-
sylvania, during the year 1861.

Nason, Rev. EHlias.—Record of events, meteorological and general, in
Exeter, N. H., during the year 1861. Pamphlet, pp. 16.

Naturforschende Gesellschaft, Emden, Hannover.—Die Thermische
Windrose fur Nordwest Deutschland, von Dr. M. A. F. Prestel.
Mit vier figurentafeln. Hingegangen bei der Akademie am 18
Nov. 1860. (Besondrer abdruck aus Band XXVIII, der Ver-
handlungen der K. L.-C. D. A.) Jena, 1861. 4to, pp. 36.

Meteorologische untersuchungen betrefferd die verbreitunig des
Moorrauchs in den Tagen vom 20. bis 26. Mai, 1860, die
isobaromotrischen Linien am 22. Mai und die Gewitter am 20.
und 26. Mai, 1860. Von Dr. M. A. F. Prestel. Kleine schrif-
ten der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft im Emden VIII. Mit
2 tafeln in steindruck. Emden, 1861. 4to, pp. 24.

Bildliche Darstellung des Ganges der Witterung vom 1. Decem-
ber, 1859, bis 30. November, 1860, im Konigreich Hannover, '
Nach den Beobachtungen der meteorologischen stationen ent-
worfen von Dr. M. A. F. Prestel.

Navy Department, Bureau of Medicine and Surgery.—Monthly registers
kept at—

Naval Hospital, Chelsea, Mass., year 1861.

Naval Hospital, New York, year 1861.

Naval Hospital, Philadelphia, year 1861.

Naval Hospital, Portsmouth, Va., January, February, and March,
1861.
~

METEOROLOGICAL CONTRIBUTIONS. 85

Observatoire Impérial, Paris.—Daily meteorological observations, by
telegraph, from various parts of Europe. (Lithograph. )

Reale Osservatorio, Palermo, Italy.—Giornale Astronomico e Meteoro-
logico del Reale Osservatorio di Palermo, publicato dal Prof.
Domenico Ragona. Vol. 1. Palermo, 1855. 4to, pp. 188.

Ross, Bernard R., Chief Factor of Hudson's Bay Company.—Observa-
tions at Lake Nipegon, from October 1, 1841, to June 13, 1845.
‘Thermometer at 6 a. m., noon, and 10 p. m.; wind, weather,
and remarks. No thermometer after March 25, 1845; instru-
ment broken. Register kept by James Anderson, chief factor.

Observations at Fort Simpson, Mackenzie's river, Hudson’s Bay
Territory, from November 1, 1837, to May 24, 1839. Ther-
mometer observed in morning, afternoon, and evening; wind
and weather in a. m. and p. m.

Saunders, Henry D.— Results of the meteorological observations made
at the observatory at Vilna, Russia, from June, 1860, to May,
1861; and at Warsaw in 1860. (2 pages.)

Schmid, Dr. Ernst Erhard—Lebrbuch der Meteorologie bearbeitet
von Dr. Ernst Erhard Schmid, Professor zu Zena. Nebst
einem Atlas von 21 tafeln. Leipzig, 1860. 8vo., pp. 1010.

Atlas von einundzwanzig Kuppertafeln zu Ernst Erhard Schmid’s
Lehrbuch der Meteorologie. (Allgemeine Encyklopadie der
Physik, xxi. Band.) Leipzig, 1860. Oblong 4to.

Sheldon, H. C.—Monthly and annual summaries of observations at
Providence, R. I., during the year 1861; published in the
‘¢Hvening Press.’’

Smith, Rev. L. M. S.—Summary of observations made at Mill Point,
Michigan, during the year 1861; published in the ‘‘ Grand
Haven News.”’

Smallwood, Dr. Charles.—Contributions to Meteorology for the year
1860, reduced from observations at Isle Jesus, Canada Hast,
by C. Smallwood, M. D., L.L. D., Professor of Meteorology in
the University of McGill College, Montreal. 8vo., pp. 4.

Same for 1861, 10 pages.

State Department.—Statistics of the weather and health at Frankfort-
on-the-Mayne during the year 1861, by William M. Murphy,
U. 8. Consul General at Frankfort.

Sternbergh, W. H.—Register of thermometer and face of sky at
Panama, in July and August,'1861. (Newspaper.)

Tolman, James W.—Summary of observations made in 1861 at Win-
nebago, Illinois; published in the ‘‘ Rockford Register.”’

Wagner, W. H., Chief Engineer of the Fort Kearney, South Pass, and
Honey Lake Wagon Road Eaxpedition.—Record of barometer,
thermometer, winds, and clouds, made on the route of the
expedition, May 29 to August 16, 1860.

Whitehead, W. A.—Monthly and annual summaries of observations
made during the year 1861, at Newark, New Jersey; pub-
lished in the ‘‘Sentinel of Freedom and Weekly Advertiser.’’

Unknown.—Summary of the meteorology of St. John, New Brunswick,
for October, 1861, in the ‘‘ Morning Freeman’’ of November 9,
signed ‘‘M.’’
86

CATALOGUE OF ENGRAVINGS.

CATALOGUE OF ENGRAVINGS

PRESENTED TO THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION BY C. B. KING, DECEMBER, 1861.

27.
28.

29.
30.
31.

. Jupiter and Leda. From a picture by F. Vieira, a Portuguese.

Apollo. Cazenave, del et sculpt.

. Venus and Adonis. B. West. (Bn. 1738, obt. 1820.)
. Jupiter and Semele. West. Cook, sculpt.
. Alfred the Great. West. Sharp, sculpt.

Adoration of Virgin. Rubens. (Bn. Cologne, 1577, obt. 1640.)
Sayers, sculpt.

. Mucius Scevola. Rubens. Marchand, sculpt.

. Massacre of Innocents. Rubens. (Engraved by Pontius, 1643.)
. Landscape. J. Asselyn. (Flemish, 1610 and 1660.) Major, sculpt.
. Dividing the Booty. Simonini. (Bn. Parma, 1689, obt. 1760.)

Vivares, sculpt.

. Christ in Tempest. Rembrandt. (Bn. 1606, obt. 1665.)

. Trial of Christ. (Etching, 1636.) Rembrandt.

. Nymphs Bathing. Dietricy. (Ser. 1712.)

. St. Sebastian. Titian. (1477 to 1576.) Cumego, sculpt.

. Charles Seymour. Titian. Baron, sculpt.

. Apollo. (1590)

. Paris and Helen. (Unknown.)

. Virgin, Child, and St. John. Van Dyck. (Bn. 1599.) PV.

Green, sculpt.

. Charles I and Duke d’Espernon. Van Dyck. Baron, sculpt.
. Charles I and Court. Van Dyck. Baron, sculpt.

. Viscount Fordwich. Van Dyck. Baron, sculpt. _

. Cartoon, the Annunciation. (Coll. Soc. Jesus.) Cornelio.

Engraved 1571.

. Golden Calf. N. Poussin. (1594, 1665.) Baudet, sculpt.
. Woman taken in Adultery. N. Poussin.

. Architectural Designs. M. Angelo. 6 plates.

. The Cardinal Virtues. Domenichino. rey, sculpt.

They consist of four plates, viz:
A. Justitia.
B. Temperantia.
C. Fortitudo.
D. Prudentia.
Bacchanals. Cesius. ;
Battle Scene. (Alex. Great.) Pietro Berretini, born 1596,
called Da Cortona. Florentine.
Battle Scene. (Unknown.)
Diana and Acteon. P.Morelze. Dutch, 1571. Mcetham, sculpt.
Scene from Roman History. Giulio Romano. (1492, Rome.)

i,
32.
33.
34.
30d.

36.
3T.
38.

39.
AQ.
41.

42.
43.
44,
45.
46.

47.
48.
49.
50.
51.

52.
53.

54,
55.
56.
5T.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.
64.
65.
66.
67.
68.
69.
70.
TH
72.
13.
TA.
75.

CATALOGUE OF ENGRAVINGS. 87

Scene from Roman History. Giulio Romano.

Dance of the Hours. Giulio Romano.

Diana and Acteou. Carlo Maratti. (Bn. 1625.)

Mary Washing Christ’s Feet. P. Veronese or Cagliari. (Bn.
Verona, 1532.)

Ancient Naval Show in Circus. P. Veronese.

Last Supper. P. Veronese. Saenredam, sculpt.

Le Testament Dechire. J. B. Greuze. (French, 1726.) Le-
vabeur, sculpt.

Le Veuve et Son Cure. J. B. Greuze. Levabewr, sculpt.

Le Gateau des Rois. J. B. Greuze. F'lipart, sculpt.

Death of Oedipus. Fuseli. (Swiss. Livedin London. 1741—
1825.) Ward, sculpt.

Caractacus. Fuseli. Birrell, sculpt.

French Second Rate Ship. Vandervelde. Tompuns, sculpt.

Spanish Second Rate Ship. Vandervelde.

Nymphs Bathing. Jos. Vernet. (Bn. 1714.) Laurie, sculpt.

Celadon and Amelia. R. Wilson, R. A. (1714—1782.) Wool-
lett, sculpt.

Mine of Fahlun. Vanlerberghe. JMalgo, sculpt.

Venus Aphrodite. Jas. Barry, R.A. (1741—1806.) Green, sculpt.

Vulture. Northcote, R. A. (1746—1831.) Reynolds, sculpt.

Heron. Northcote, R. A. Reynolds, sculpt.

Death of Captain Faulknor. Stothard, R. A. (1755—1834.)
Blackberd, sculpt.

Marriage at Cana. J.B. Jackson.

Dutchess Yorke. Hoppner. (German. Born in London.
1759—1810. Dickinson, sculpt.

Mrs. Whitebread. Hoppner. Reynolds, sculpt.

Duke of Leeds. Lawrence, R.A. (1769—1830.) Meadows, sculpt.

Infant Hercules. Reynolds. (1723—1838.) Walker, sculpt.

Sir Wm. Hamilton. Reynolds. Hudson, sculpt.

Duke of Clarence? Reynolds. Watson, sculpt.

George IV as Prince of Wales. Reynolds. Haward, sculpt.

Duke of Yorke. Reynolds. Jones, sculpt.

Sir J. Leicester. Reynolds. S. Reynolds, sculpt.

Lord Romney. Reynolds. Finlayson, sculpt.

Lord R. Manners. Reynolds. Dickinson, sculpt.

Mrs. Siddons as Tragic Muse. Reynolds. Haward, sculpt.

L’ Allegro. Reynolds. Watson, sculpt.

Viscountess Townshend. Reynolds. (Green, sculpt.

Hon. Mrs. Parker. Reynolds. Watson, sculpt.

Hon. Lady Delme. Reynolds. Green, sculpt.

Viscountess Crosbie. Reynolds. Dickinson, sculpt.

Mrs. Blake. Reynolds. Dixon, sculpt.

Lady Talbot. Reynolds. Green, sculpt.

Mrs. Tollemache. Reynolds. Jones, sculpt.

(Unknown.) —

Balbec. (Ruins, 5 plates.)

Design. (Gateway to Carlton House.)
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

The Executive Committee respectfully submit to the Board of Re-
gents the following report of the receipts and expenditures of the
Smithsonian Institution during the year 1861, with general estimates

for the year 1862.
RECEIPTS.

The whole amount of Smithson’s bequest deposited in
the treasury of the United States is $515,169, from
which an annual income at six per cent. is derived of

The extra fund of unexpended income is invested, as
follows, viz :

In 75,000 Indiana 5 per cent. bonds, yielding--------

In 53,500 Virginia 6 per cent. bonds, yielding nothing
during 1861.

In 12,000 Tennessee 6 per cent., yielding nothing
during 1861.

In 500 Georgia 6 per cent., yielding nothing during
1861.

In 100 Washington 6 per cent., will be paid, but not
collected in 1861.

Reta iCOUAG -\«,cccbsleut Aenbes = .enckemereeee
Balance in the hands of the treasurer, Jan. 11, 1861--

Total receipts++++++++e++eseeeee:

EXPENDITURES
For building, furniture, and fixtures--..- $1,734 62
For general expenses -+++++ s++e+e see 10,899 69
For publications, researches, and lectures 10,764 96
For library, museum, and gallery of art. - 5,137 65

Total expenditure -----+++++++-++-

Balance in the hands of the treasurer, January 9, 1862

$30,910 14

3,750 00

————-.

34,660 14
16,521 95

51,182 09

29,136 92
22,045 17

——e
ee

REPORT OF COMMITTEE.

Statement in detail of ihe expenditures during 1861.

BUILDING, FURNITURE, AND FIXTURES.

89

Building WITOTOGIIEIG = scae etetes chore ater areha ah shane. $906 19
Furniture and fixtures in general----.------- 1TT 26
Furniture and fixtures for museum:-----+»--- 651 17

——_——— $1,734 62

GENERAL EXPENSES.
Meetings GIAEUTL OCHO REEL cer etela chs shale cee debe hanats aoate $66 00
Lighting and heating.----- --+--+++++ eee 1,074 94
Postage 5.0.0.6 son aCes Ont go fae SORES Pe tee eee eee 389 O8
Transportation, general---+ +++. sees eee eee 656 24
Exchanges SEPCULAS eng ee Sets Kiclate Seeks Oates Ty3 OT
Stationery EMRE A ctoMata” comet, eiaeten ts cuntalle o elehels whete cls 194 60
General printing .....- +... .-.... eee ee eee 50 16
Apparatus Be SM SEUSS ee | GA Ree oa Tit 7
Laboratory RSME eRe Sees he rete Ne) Sh Aa eS, 6 142
Incidentals, general.----+--++-++ ee eee ee eee 400 38
Weererclorke hire oss. 202 Jes 28 ea 434 10
Salaries, secretary ------ see e ee cere eee eee 3,500 00
chief clerk, bookkeeper, messenger,

an@taburere ss: o% fed .'o% ake: . 2,468 00

10,899 69.

PUBLICATIONS, RESEARCHES, AND LECTURES.

Smithsonian Contributions---. «+--+ eee eres $3,936 85
Smithsonian Reports---- -- weeeeeee 915 00
Smithsonian hiatelnaelas Gulleebiuets 1313 Nieto 01,627 63
Other publications Sree ficenat creer INES che 310 50
Meteorology Pe Oe LO ce Re eae ok 3,059 04
Researches and investigations--------.+----- 111 00
ME Geaees Garth eae tomer: ets RE ae 804 94

F ———— 10,764 96

LIBRARY, MUSEUM, AND GALLERY OF ART

Cost of books and binding---- +++-+++-++++++: $915 78
Pay of assistants in library---+ +++. +--+ -++--- 1,141 00
Transportation for library.----.-+++-+++- mee» 126 87
Incidentals for library ---+ +++. sees cree eee 23 12
Museum, salary of assistant secretary-------- 2,000 00
Transportation for museum--+-++-+++e+e+ +: 406 35
Incidentals for museum ---- +--+ sees eee eee ATT 35
Explorations «+--+ ++ +++ + esse ee cee cece eee: 432 25
Gallery of art----- kee te ROPE IM Sy. Ki tehdh eal kk Alsons: © 914 95

5,737 65

Total expenditures et Ge Ne ee ee ee ee ae ee 29,136 92

90 REPORT OF COMMITTEE.

On account of the delay in obtaining the interest due from the
United States at the beginning of the year, the foregoing accounts
for 1861 were made up to the 9th of January, 1862.

It will be seen that the whole income during the year 1861 was
$34,660 14, instead of the estimated income of $38,626 14. This
difference is caused by the failure of Virginia, Tennessee, and Georgia
to pay the interest on their bonds, and by the treasurer not having
as yet collected the $6 from the corporation of Washington.

The expenditures during 1861 were $29,136 92, leaving $5,523 22
to be added.to the balance in the hands of the treasurer on the 11th
of January, 1861, making $22,045 17 in hand for paying in cash the
expenses of the operations of the Institution as rapidly as the bills
are presented.

The foregoing statement is an actual exhibit of the Smithsonian
funds irrespective of credits and disbursements which have been
made in behalf of other parties. For example: the Institution fre-
quently advances money to pay for the transportation of packages in
connexion with its general system of exchange, and in all such
cases the money when refunded is credited to the appropriation from
which the expenditure was originally made. Again: the use of the
lecture room is, in many instances, granted for charitable and literary
purposes without any other charge than that for the gas consunied
and the pay of the necessary attendants, the whole amounting to
ten dollars each night. Half of this is credited on the books of
the Institution to the account of ‘‘lighting and heating,’’ and the
other half paid directly to the persons employed.

The appropriation from Congress for the preservation of the col-
lections of the exploring and surveying expeditions of the United
‘States has been expended as usual, under the direction of the Secre-
tary of the Interior, in assisting to pay the expenses of extra assistants
in the museum, and the cost of arranging and preserving the speci-
mens. The sum received from this source has been credited to the
museum, and has served to diminish the amount of expenditures for that
object on the part of the Institution, although it has by no means been
sufficient to defray all the expenses to which the establishment has
been subjected, on account of the preservation and public exhibition
of the specimens.

The articles intrusted to the care of the Institution are in good
«condition, and the work of the distribution of the duplicates of the
government as well as those of the Institution is in active progress.

A part of the expenditure on the building is due to the introduc-
tion of the Potomac water, but a further expenditure during the pres-
ent year will be required for the same purpose.

Although the income of the Institution during 1861 has been
nearly $4,000 less than was estimated at the beginning of the year,
yet the Secretary, by a proper curtailment of the operations in view
of the unsettled condition of the times, has reduced the expenditures
to $5,000 less than the actual income. All the outstanding obliga-
tions of the Institution for works which have been commenced would
mot exceed $2,000, so that the establishment could to-day wind up
REPORT OF COMMITTEE. 91

its affairs with $20,000 in cash, besides the undiminished original be-
quest of Smithson in the treasury of the United States, and $141,000
invested in State stocks, from which it is hoped at some future time
the full interest may be received.

It is impossible, in view of the uncertainty of the future, to present
even an approximate estimate of the expenditures during 1862. The
committee would, however, submit the following as a general guide
to the Secretary :

,

Pier ATIC GINO: 55 6 snd ao po SS pm eats de Se ape See eyed wd wih) $34,666 14
Estimated expenditure :

For building, furniture, and fixtures----- $2,000 00

For general expenses-+++++ s+eeeeereee 10,500 00

For publications, researches, and lectures. 10,500 00
For library, museum, and gallery of art. 9,000 00
— 32,000 00

The comriiittee have carefully examined the books and accounts of
the Institution for the past year, and find them to be correct.
Respectfully submitted.
J. A. PEARCE,
A. D. BACHE,
J. G. TOTTEN,
Executive Committee.
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

OF THE

BOARD OF REGENTS

OF

THE SMITHSONIAN ENSTETE Troe

WASHINGTON, January 15, 1862.

In accordance with a resolution of the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution, fixing the time of the beginning®of their an-
nual session on the third Wednesday of January of each year, the
Board met this day in the Regents’ room at 11 o’clock a. m.

Present : Hon. H. Hamlin, Hon. J. A. Pearce, Hon. E. McPher-
son, Hon. 8. 8. Cox, Hon. Richard Wallach, and the Secretary.

The Secretary stated that since the last session of the Regents the
following changes had taken place in the Board, viz:

Hon. HannipaL Hamuin, as Vice-President of the United States,
has become ex officio a member of the Board. The vacancy occasioned
by the death of Hon. Richard Rush, has by joint resolution of Con-
gress, approved March 2, 1861, been filled by the appointment of
Hon. Wiuiiam L. Dayton, of New Jersey ; the vacancy caused by
the expiration of the term of Hon. Gideon Hawley, by the appoint-
ment of Wituiiam B. Astor, of New York; and that by the expira-
tion of the term of Cornetius C. Feuron, of Massachusetts, by the
reappointment of the same gentleman.

The Secretary also stated that on the Tth of March, 1861, th® Vice-
President of the United States reappointed Hon. James A. Prarcna
Regent for the term of six years, and on the 4th of December, 1861,
he appointed Hon. W. P. Frssenpen, of Maine, and Hon. L. Trum-
BULL, of Illinois, to fill the vacancies occasioned by the decease of
Hon. 8. A. Douglas and the removal of Hon. J. M. Mason; and that
on the 19th of December the Speaker of the House appointed Hon.
S. Cotrax, of Indiana, Hon. S.S. Cox, of Ohio, and Hon. E. MtPuerson,
of Pennsylvania, as Regents for the term of two years.

In addition to the foregoing, Hon. RrcHarp WALLACH having been
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 93

chosen Mayor of the city of Washington, in place of Mr. Berret, re-
signed, has become ex officio a member of the Board.

The Secretary made a statement relative to the present condition
of the Institution and its operations, but as several of the Regents
were obliged to leave on account of congressional duties, the Board
adjourned to meet on Saturday, February 8.

SaturDsy, February 8, 1862.

The Board of Regents met this day at 10 o’clock a. m. in the Re-
gents’ room.

Present: Hon. H. Hamlin, Vice-President of the United States;
Hon. James A. Pearce, Hon. Lyman Trumbull, Hon. 8. Colfax, Hon.
S. S. Cox, Hon. Edward McPherson, Hon. R. Wallach. In the ab-
sence of the Chancellor, Hon. Mr. Hamlin was called to the chair.

Mr. Pearce presented the report of the Executive Committee, con-
taining an aétount of the receipts and expenditures for the year 1861,
and estimates for 1862, which was read and approved.

Mr. Pearce also gave an account of the financial arrangements of
the Institution, the care exercised in expenditures, the examination
of vouchers, &c.

1. The disbursements are authorized by the Secretary, in accord-
ance with the appropriations made by the Board.

2. The accounts are audited by the Chief Clerk, and in the more
important cases are examined by experts as to the reasonableness of
the charges.

3. The bills are next presented to the Secretary for approval and
for orders on the Treasurer to pay them.

4. They are then copied in detail into a day-book in chronological
order, and the amounts posted in a ledger under the heads of the
different appropriations.

5. The accounts and vouchers are semi-annually placed in the
hands of Mr. W. B. Randolph, (Chief Clerk of the Treasurer of the
United States,) for critical and final revision, and for the preparation
of a general statement of receipts and expenditures during the year.

6. At the end of the year all the books and accounts are carefully
examined by the Executive Committee, and the result reported to
the Board of Regents.

The Secretary presented his annual report of the operations of the
Institution during the year 1861, which was read and approved.

The Board then adjourned to meet at the call of the Secretary.
94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS.

Wasuineton, May 1, 1862.

The Board of Regents met this day at ten o’clock a. m. in the Re-
gents’ room.

Present: Hon. L. Trumbull, Hon. Edward McPherson, Hon. R.
Wallach, General J. G. Totten, Professor A. D. Bache, Dr. Theodore:
D. Woolsey, and the Secretary.

General Totten was called to the chair.

The minutes were read and approved.

The Secretary announced that since the last meeting of the Board
Dr. C. C. Ferton had deceased, and that Congress had by joint reso-
lution appointed Turopore D. Wootsry, LL. D., President of Yale
College, to fill the vacancy thus occasioned.

Professor Bache, after a few appropriate remarks, offered the fol-
lowing resolutions, which were unanimously adopted: |

Resolved, That the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion deeply mourn the loss of their fellow-regent, Cornelius Conway
Felton, the distinguished President of Harvard University, whose
profound learning and ready use of the rich stores of ancient and mo-
dern lore excited general admiration, while his genial temper, af-
fectionate disposition, and open manners, endeared him as a friend to
every member of this establishment.

fesolved, That in the death of President Felton our country, in
the hour of its trial, has lost a wise and influential citizen, our gov-
ernment a warm and eloquent supporter, Harvard University a
learned and efficient head, and this Institution an active and valued
regent.

Resolved, That we sincerely condole with the bereaved family of
President Felton, and offer to them our heartfelt sympathy in their
deep affliction. .

Resolved, That Dr. Woolsey be requested to prepare a suitable no-
tice of President Felton, to be inserted in the Journal of the Board
of Regents.*

Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be communicated by the
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution to the family of the deceased,
and to the Faculty and Corporation of Harvard.

Hon. Mr. Trumbull made some remarks relative to the late Judge
Douglas, and offered the following resolutions :

Resolved, That in the death of the Hon. Stephen A. Douglas the
Smithsonian Institution has been deprived of a most zealous friend ;
the Board of Regents of an active and attentive member; and the
country of a distinguished and influential citizen.

Resolved, That the Board of Regents deeply sympathize with the

* Dr. Woolsey’s eulogy will be found at the end of these proceedings, page 109.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 95

bereaved relatives of the deceased, and that a copy of these resolu-
tions be transmitted to them.

ftesolved, That the Hon. 8. 8. Cox be requested to prepare a suit-
able notice of the Hon. S. A. Douglas to be inserted in the Journal
of the Board of Regents.*

The resolutions were unanimously adopted.

The Secretary stated that during a recent visit of Rev. Francis
Vinton to Washington he. had obtained from him some additional
facts relative to the Wynns estate, of which the Smithsonian Institu-
tion is the provisional legatee.

Mr. Thomas Wynns, born in North Carolina, resided for a long
time at Grand Turk, Turk’s Island, where he accumulated a consid-
erable fortune, and married at an advanced age Charlotte Arthur, a
daughter of John Arthur, a woman much younger than himself. He
afterwards removed to Brooklyn, New York, where he died about
1851, leaving his widow and one child, adaughter. To the former he
bequeathed a life annuity of $1,500, and to the latter his whole estate,
subject to the foregoing annuity. In case of the death of this daugh-
ter without issue, the estate, now valued at from $60,000 to $70,000,
is bequeathed to the Smithsonian Institution. The property is se-
curely invested in bonds and mortgages, and is under the care of Edw.
Coffin, now residing in London, and Rev. Francis Vinton, of Trinity
church, New York, as trustees. The accounts are rendered to the
surrogate of Kings county, New York.

After the death of her husband, Mrs. Wynns returned to the West
Indies and married Captain Anderson. She now resides, with her
daughter Charlotte Arthur Wynns, in England. The latter is about
seventeen years of age.

The Secretary gave an account of the circumstances connected with
the money left in England by Hon. Richard Rush, as the principal of
an annuity to the mother of the nephew of Smithson, and presented
the following communications from Fladgate, Clarke & Finch, of
London.

40 CRAVEN STREET, STRAND,
London, W. C., May 16, 1861.
Sir: We had the honor, in the year 1838, of acting professionally
for the President of the United States in the suit in the English court
of chancery, under which the funds for the foundation of the Institu-
tion (of which we address you as the manager) were decreed to be

* This eulogy will be found at the end of these proceedings, page 117.
~~

96 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS.

paid over to him for the purpose of establishing the Institution. We
have now to make to you as the manager thereof the following com-
munication :

On referring to the papers connected with the Institution you will
find that a sum of £5,015 three per cent. consols, part of the estate of
Smithson, the founder, were retained in the court of chancery to
answer a claim of one Madame de la Batut. That person was, in fact,
entitled to a life interest in the fund, and at her death it was to revert
to the President as an additional fund forthe purposes of the Insti-
tution.

Madame de la Batut is now dead, so that the fund has become
transferable to the President, and it will be requisite for him, or some
person duly authorized by him, to take the necessary steps to obtain a
transfer.

We have had some communication with the solicitor of the lady’s
family, who writes as follows:

‘‘My client, Mr. La Batut, upon taking ont administration to his
late mother, Madame La Batut, to whom Lieutenant Colonel Henry
Lewis Dickinson, by his will dated 17th July, 1819, gave half of the
income of his property, for her life, will be entitled to an apportioned
part of such income from the last payment, on the 22d March, 1858,
to 10th September, in the same year, which would amount to
about £70.

‘‘The property originally consisted of French 5 per cent. rentes,
payable 22d March and 22d September, but by order of the court a
sum of £5,015 three per cent. consols was invested in the name of the
accountant general in this suit, to the separate account of Mary Ann
de la Batut, the annuitant, to meet the payments of the life income.
By the law of France, the life income is apportionable and payable
up to the time of death, and Lieutenant Colonel Dickinson having
been domiciled in France at the time of his death, that law will apply
to this case.

‘Will you be good enough, under these circumstances, to obtain |
the consent of your client in presenting a petition as to the £5,015
and the arrears of dividends due thereon, to ask for the payment to
my client of the apportioned sum out of such arrears, without obliging
him to go to the expense of proving the law of France upon this sub-
ject. I will hand you the necessary proof of death, the expense of
which can be included in the necessary costs of the application.’’

We should recommend that the request contained in this letter be
complied with.

We have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient servants,

FLADGATE, CLARKE & FINCH.

To the SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

Washington, U. 8.

40 CRAVEN STREET, STRAND,
London, W. C., October 26, 1861.

Sir: Your letter of the 14th August reached us in the long vaca-
tion which has just terminated, and we hasten to reply to it.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 97

All that will be requisite to be done in the first instance is, that we
should have the authority of the President of the United States to
present a petition for an order to have the fund paid to him. On our
obtaining this order, a power of attorney will be sent out to the Presi-
dent authorizing some person here to receive from the court of chan-
cery, and transmit to him, or to the manager’ of the Smithsonian In-
stitution, the fund in question.

Having in the suit had the honor of acting for the President, it
might be within our functions to present the petition even without an
express authority, but we did not deem it right to do so without some
communication with the President or with the managers of the Insti-
tution.

Of course, although the order might be obtained without, the fund
can only be dealt with on the signature of the President.

We have the honor to be, sir, your very obedient servants,

FLADGATE, CLARKE & FINCH.

JosepH Henry, Esq.,

Smithsonian Institution, Washington.

On motion of Mr. Trumbull, it was

Resolved, That the Secretary and Executive Committee consult with
the President of the United States and take such action as may be
necessary for obtaining the money referred to in the communication
from the solicitors in London.

The Secretary stated that Congress had passed a joint resolution
granting to the Institution a set of the volumes of the United States
Exploring Expedition.

The Secretary gave an account of the organization of the ‘‘Kstab-
lishment,’’ and stated that although he had regularly given notice to
the members, no meetings had lately been held.

The Secretary presented the manuscripts, maps and collections of
the expedition to the Arctic regions of Dr. I. I. Hayes, which were
referred to Professor Bache.

The Secretary made a statement relative to the system of inter-
national exchange conducted by the Institution, and presented the
following letter :

HampurG AMERICAN PACKET COMPANY,
New York, October 21, 1861.
Dear Sir: In reply to your favor of October 18, we beg to state
that we shall be most happy to accommodate the Smithsonian Insti-
tution in furthering the wishes you express, and take on freight, tree of
charge, any packages which you desire to ship, be they specimens of

7
98 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS.

natural history, books, or other articles desired to be forwarded to
Germany or the continent of Europe, irrespective of bulk.
Very respectfully, yours,
KUNHARDT & CO.

On motion of Mr. McPherson, it was

Resolved, That the thanks of the Board of Regents be presented to
the ‘‘ Hamburg American Packet Company,’’ for their liberal co-
operation in assisting to advance the objects of this Institution.

The following letters were presented by the Secretary as illustra-
tions of the correspondence of the Institution:

CHATEAU OF ECLIPENDS,
Canton de Vaud, Switzerland, January 17, 1861.

Str: I beg you to express to the Institution of which you are the
Secretary my sincere thanks for the remittance which you have just
made me of three volumes of your reports, (Annual Reports of the
Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, 1856, 1857, 1858.)
The learned memoirs contained in these volumes possess great interest
for me, and I am happy to testify my sense of your kindness,

Together with this letter I have forwarded to Dr. Flugel, at Leipsic,
five copies of a volume, which I have but just published, on the ‘‘ La-
custrian Habitations of Ancient and Modern Times,” (XVII plates, 380
figures.) I would ask the favor of you to accept ascopy for the Smith-
sonian Institution, as a slight testimony of my high appreciation. As
regards the other four copies, you will confer a sensible obligation on
me if you will present them, in my name, to such scientific societies
of the United States as you may deem most interested in researches
of this kind.

I have had the satisfaction of sending you heretofore some commu-
nications on the lacustrian habitations of Switzerland. Since then
these researches have been prosecuted with success, and we are be-
ginning to make discoveries of remains of the same kind in Wales,
Germany, Scotland, and elsewhere. Africa, Asia, and Oceanica pre-
sent similar constructions. The floating gardens of Mexico are refer-
able to the same usages, and it would appear to me that you must
have in your own lakes remains similar to those of Switzerland. It
has seemed to me important that the discoveries of this kind made in
Europe should be grouped together in one work, with the historical
results which may be deduced from them. You will readily perceive,
at the same time, that it is not the history of the race which is alone
concerned in these inquiries, but that the natural sciences have also
an important interest in them. I would venture, then, to recommend
to your favorable attention and to that of your honorable colleagues a
labor whose interest is by no means confined to the boundaries of
Switzerland.

Be pleased, sir, to accept the assurance of my high esteem and
entire consideration.

FRED. TROYON.
To the SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 39

LAUSANNE, January T, 1862.

Sm: I have to acknowledge the receipt of your letter dated July
18, 1861, and of a copy of my paper on archeology, which has ap-
peared translated in the Institution’s report to Congress printed in
1861. It is agreat honor which has thus been conferred on my little
tract, and I hereby express my sincere thanks for the favor. The
translation is, as you remark, rather literal, but it is wonderfully cor-
rect, as far as the sense is concerned, and this is the capital point.
In due course of time I hope to publish some more papers on the same
subject, and I shall not fail to communicate them to the Institution.

The United States are at present going through a crisis which, for
the moment, cannot be favorable to scientific pursuits. Let us hope
that Providence will so lead matters that the final result shall turn in
favor of the great and noble cause of liberty and of progress. Switzer-
land has seen sad times of intestine discord and of ferment from 1830
to 1847, when a short but decisive civil war settled the question, and
now we are enjoying a state of prosperity such as we never knew
before. May a similar fate await your own country.

As you mention that some more copies of my paper might be sent
to me, I take the liberty of letting you know that they would be very
acceptable.

Believe me, sir, to be yours, very respectfully,
‘ A. MORLOT.

The SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

Sr. Paun, Minnesota, August 13, 1861.

Sir: A friend of mine, Mr. Byron M. Smith, tells me that on the
occasion of a short sojourn in Washington last winter he paid a visit
to the Smithsonian Institution, and, amongst other things, understood
that there was in preparation, under your authority, a general map
of the aboriginal or other earthworks of North America.

. As this is a subject in which I have always taken a great interest,
I shall be pleased to assist in the compilation of sucha map. If I
can be informed by the draughtsman, of the scale intended, I will for-
ward a correct geographical outline of the country between Lake
Superior (west end of) and the Missouri river. On a map sent to-day
by mail, I have marked in red the localities of such groups of small
mounds as exist to my knowledge. Although these works are utterly
insignificant when compared with those of Ohio and Wisconsin, yet a
knowledge of their exact localities may be useful in connexion with
inquiries in reference to the movements and history of the modern
tribes.

Respectfully, sir, your obedient servant,
ALFRED J. HILL.
Prof. JosepH Henry,
- Washington, D. C.
100 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS.

RoyvabL ACADEMY OF MORAL AND POLITICAL
Science or Maprip, BMadrid, July 16, 1861.

This Royal Academy, being impressed with the fact that nothing
contributes more efficiently to the advancement and propagation of
moral and political science than a frequent communication with per-
sons devoted to its cultivation, has resolved to invite’to a reciprocal
correspondence all the principal learned bodies, whether national or
foreign, whose studies or investigations are analogous to those of this
Institute.

As this Academy is the most modern it is proper that it should pro-
pose the commerce of the ideas and theories necessary to the progress
of moral and political science. And it does not hesitate an instant
in sending to your Institution the account of its own commencement
and organization, as well as the publications that have marked its
short life.

The credit which your Institution has acquired for taking so much
interest in all that favors the advancement of civilization and improve-
ment of the people, inspires the Academy of Madrid with confidence
that its wishes will be accomplished, and that the illustrious body to
which it directs itself to-day will honor it with its correspondence, and
accept the exchange of memorials or other works which have been
or will be, published in future.

MANUEL GARCIA,
Acting President.

By order of the Academy.

PEDRO GOMEZ DE LA SERRA,

‘ Secretary.
The SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

‘

MEXICAN SOCIETY OF GEOGRAPHY AND STATISTICS,
Mexico, February 13, 1862.
‘Dear Sir: After some delay this society has received your letter
and the accompanying books.

The society desires me to return sincere thanks, and to Say that it
fully appreciates the generous offer that you make in the name of
your Institution.

Our society accepts your propositions. It will soon send, in the
manner that you suggest, some of its literary and scientific pro-
ductions, and also those of the other learned bodies whose works you
ask for. It will also take care to put in the hands of the agent you
refer to, all the periodical publications as they appear.

With the highest consideration, &c., I remain,
D. V. GUADALOUPE.

The SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 101

KOENIGSBERG, November 23, 1861.

Sir: I have the honor to apprise you of my return from England,
and the result of my labors in the interest of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution; but I must first tender my thanks for having been enabled to
pur sue the study of American Neuroptera, to be found in English col-
lections or described by English entomologists.

I must say that my har vest was pretty. good, for in most cases I
was able to remove the doubts left in my preceding work. In the
collections of the British Museum, especially, I found the types of
species I did not know, and some also in the collection of Mr. West-
wood, at Oxford, and Mr. Saunders, in London. I hope that with
these new species, received after having sent my manuscript to Wash-
ington, I can make a tolerably large supplement. But the extent of
this supplement and the comparison of species already described by
‘me will require considerable time. I therefore believe it will be
more convenient to have my work published as soon as printed, and
to give afterwards the nov velties and corrections in a separate supple-
ment, which will probably make a pamphlet of about eight to ten
sheets. You may rest assured, sir, that I shall endeavor to perform
this labor as soon and as well as possible; but since I cannot always
dispose of my time, I fear, considering the extent of the labor, that
it cannot be done before six months.

I find that the translation, the first eighteen sheets of which I have
seen, is of perfect accuracy. Unfortunately the work itself leaves
much to be desired. I must, however, consider it a consolation that
for a first attempt I have attained so much, and that my work may
serve as assistance to further and more fruitful researches of the
entomologists of your country. J would be gratified if my, so imper-
fect, labor should call forth numerous rectifications and augmentations
from American naturalists. At any rate the interest for the advance-
ment of science will always urge me on to make the synopsis better
and better.

T have the honor to remain your devoted,
H. HAGEN.

Prof. Hunry, cc., ce:

—

[The following letter is given as an illustration of a number of a
similar character received relative to the distribution of specimens :]

HamILTon Couuecs, N. Y., February 1, 1862.

Dear Sir: I presume the president of our college has officially
acknowledged the receipt of the box of shetls sent us last month from
the Smithsonian Institution. We consider this donation a valuable ad-
dition to our collection, and our local papers have given very favorable
notices of it. When we arrange the shells in our cabinet we intend
to have printed on each ticket ‘‘From the Smithsonian Institution.’’
102 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS.

We shall be glad to receive any other objects of natural history of
which you have duplicates to spare. Skins of birds, d&c., botanical
specimens, fossils, and minerals will be acceptable ; also, relics of our
Indian tribes. We have a good collection of Indian antiquities
mainly derived from the ancient seats of the Iroquois, and we should
like to improve our collection by adding specimens from the western
Indians.

Yours, respectfully, &c.,
O. ROOT.

Prof. JoserpH HENRY.

Orrawa, Canapa, March 10, 1862.

My Dear Sir: I have “to-day received your valuable donation of
books, for which I beg to return my most sincere thanks both to you
and also to the Institution you so ably represent. They are, indeed,
a most valuable addition to my small stock, and are all the more so
from the fact that they were totally unexpected.

A great debt of gratitude is due by the world at large to the
munificent founder as well as to the enlightened gentlemen that con-
trol the Smithsonian Institution, for the great service rendered to the
cause of science by the distribution of such works as those you sent
me. How many thousands are there who, although they have an
earnest desire for scientific and useful knowledge, are, for the want
of such works as these, unable to obtain it? As one of these allow
me again to tender my most grateful thanks for your kindness.

Believe me, dear sir, yours, respectfully,
J. ARTHUR CODD.

Prof. JosepH Henry,

Smithsonian Institution, Washington.

New Haven, Jl/arch 27, 1862.

My Dear Sir: I have only time to make a few suggestions in ref-
erence to your letter.

It is very difficult to make out a list of mineral species at present.
The most trustworthy authorities on the subject are Haidenjer,
Kennjott, and Rammelsberg.

I think that the names, consisting of a single word, should be
adopted. Where this was bestowed by the discoverer (author) of the
species, I think his name should follow in small capitals; but in italics
only, provided he merely changed the name from a chemical one, or
a long, inconvenient compound designation, to a single one.

The well-settled species might be given in rather large capitals;
those which are less settled, but at the same time probable, in smaller
capitals, while the rest may appear in small type.

I object to the plan of pasting printed or even written names on
specimens. It is nowhere followed in the great collections abroad.
It might answer in the case of large rock specimens and fossils, but
all mineralogists would exclaim against it upon choice specimens,
many of which, as the single crystals, would be concealed by the
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 103

application. Indeed they very rarely use printed names at all, but
instead employ elegantly written cards, each label costing about 12
or 15 cents. ‘Tt would cer tainly confer an advantage upon our public
cabinets if you would strike off sets of labels of all the important
species upon thick card-paper, which might, as required, have the
localities inserted with the pen. This would give uniformity to our
museums, and prove extremely useful.

I would suggest that before distributing your duplicates, you re-
tain them for six months in order to permit exchanges for things
needed by your collection ; such exchanges to be made at Washing-
ton. Afterwards the duplicates should be given to each of the States.

I shall be very happy to form an exchange of meteoric specimens,
in order to obtain a supply of your St. Rosa . (New Mexico) iron.

I am very glad you intend to bring the minerals into order. Many
valuable contributions will thus be secured.

Excuse the haste in which I write, and believe me, very truly, yours,

C. A. SHEPARD.

Professor Hrnry.

UNIVERSITY Coutuecr, Toronto, January 31, 1862.
: ’ y 3

Dear Sir: At the request of the faculty, students, and board of
curators of Knox College, the theological institution of the Canada
Presbyterian church, I have ventured to write to you on the subject
of our museum.

We are anxious, by an energetic and united effort, to accomplish
three things.

1. To awaken throughout the country an interest in the world of
nature. '

2. To collect, as far as possible, specimens illustrative of all the
zoological, botanical, and mineralogical species of Canada. We think
that the solution of several important scientific problems—the north-
ern limit of species, &c.—are involved in this. The ground is being
gradually occupied. The Geological Survey, the Botanical Society,
the Montreal Natural History Society, the Canadian Institute, &c.,
are all doing their share in the work of research ; but there is a wide
field still open.

Our third object will be to supply societies, museums, &c., with
specimens from this country. In doing this we shall always bear in
mind the fact that the Smithsonian is the great central institution for
the continent, and that in no other way can our ultimate object be so
well attained as by working with you.

A part of our scheme was to issue circulars giving information on
the best methods of procuring, preserving, and forwarding specimens.

Could you furnish us with three hundred copies of your ‘‘ Direc-
tions?’ We will, with your permission, append a short circular
stating our plan, and appealing to the people to join with us in car-
rying it into execution, and then without delay try to put them all
into the hands of parties who will make a good use of them. Please
aid us all you can in the matter. We have just enough of articles on

104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS.

hand to form the nucleus of a good museum ; for the rest we look to
the future—to your kindness and to the blessing of nature’s God on
our exertions. If you can spare the pamphlets we will gladly remit
whatever you value them at.

Thanking you most earnestly, dear sir, for the reports and cata-
logues, I have the honor to be, yours, very truly,

JAMES HUBBERT,
Secretary Board of Curators, Knox College Museum.
Prof. JosepH Henry, LL. D.,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.

RoyaL HorticuLTuRAL SOcIety,
South Kensington, W., December 21, 1861.

Dear Sir: I am requested by the Secretary, while acknowledging
the receipt of your letter of October 18th, to acquaint you that the
council have much pleasure in acceding to the request that this so-
ciety’s journals should be sent to’the various institutions therein
named, with a view to interchange. A parcel will therefore be sent
to Mr. Wesley in a few days for transmission to you.

Tam, dear sir, yours faithfully,

HENRY J. DOWDEN.

JOSEPH Henry, Hsq., Washington.

Copoure, Canapa West, April 1, 1862.

My Dear Sir: I take this opportunity for expressing my warm-
est thanks for your repeated kindness in furnishing me with so
many valuable publications on the insects of this continent, without
the aid of which my progress in the study of entomology would ve
but slow and difficult. I can speak for others in this country, as well
as for myself, when I say that we are deeply grateful for the assist-
ance we have received from your noble Institution; and that but for its
liberality the natural sciences would have hardly made what advance-
ment they have in this country during the past few years.

I shall be only too glad to reciprocate your kindness to the best of
my ability by furthering the objects of the Institution in any way
that lies in my power.

Tremain, my dear sir, very gratefully yours,

CHARLES J. BETHUNE.

Professor JosppH Henry, LL. D.,

Secretary to the Smithsonian Institution.
HONOLULU, SANDWICH ISLANDS,
february 10, 1862.

Dear Sir: I am in receipt of your favor granting me a suite of the
duplicates of the shells of the northwest coast of America in the
hands of Mr. Carpenter.

I had, a short time previous to the arrival of your letter, forwarded
to the Institutiof a package containing shells and rare crustacea, not
included m my remittance to you two or three years since.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 105

It is my intention to supply you a full suite of the mollusca of our
islands, including typical specimens of those described by myself, and
also one to Mr. Cumings, of London, whose collection I learn from
Dr. Gray will be eventually added to the British Museum.

I venture to ask of you an addition to my library, of the Reports
of the Smithsonian Institution. Ihave purchased the ‘‘Contributions
to Knowledge,’’ but the Reports are not on our islands. One in par-
ticular Iam wanting, which I learn contains a catalogue of transac-
tions or proceedings of scientific societies ; also a few copies, say half
a dozen, of the Check List of the shells of North America, published
by the Institution. Should you be pleased to furnish me the above, be
so good as to forward them to Bailliere Brothers, New York city,
who send me a box of books every few months.

I have been attempting to invent a simple apparatus for the meas-
urement of the tides at our islands, but do not succeed very well.
Natives cannot be depended on for watching any such instrument.
It should be self-registering. [am satisfied that a register of winds
should be kept in connexion with it, and perhaps also a barometrical
one. If you take any interest in such researches I would be pleased
to hear from you in regard to them as to assistance or advice.

I remain yours truly,
W. H. PHASE.

Professor JosEPH HENRY,

Smithsonian Institution.

[Notr.—Dr. Bache, of the Coast Survey, has lent Mr. Pease a
tide-gauge on the responsibility of this Institution. ]

CIRCULAR OF THE INSTITUTE OF RuPERT’S LAND,
Assiniboia, February, 1862.

We announce this institute to the public, knowing our many disad-
vantages, but still with alively hope that our labors will be rewarded
with some good results. Our numbers are small; but we have among
us many who will devote the greater part of their time to collecting
and observing, and these, with their admirable opportunities, cannot
fail to accomplish much good work. Already we have the nucleus of
a library. Specimens are coming in faster than we can take care of
them. Necessaries for collecting and observing are being distributed
and communications have been received.

We will shortly be presented with £150, by the friends and admi-
rers of Sir George Simpson, for the purchase of a ‘‘Simpson’’ Tele-
scope, and £60 from the friends of the late much esteemed Dr. Bunn,
for the purchase of achromatic microscopes. And now, with this
commencement, we feel the right, and do ask for countenance and
assistance from scientific men and societies in all countries, promising,
in return, all that energy and zeal can do in the cause of science.

_ A prospectus accompanies this circular, giving all the necessary
information, and we would ask communications from all to whom those
106 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS.

are sent, with any requests, observations, or information by which
we may benefit them, or they us. |
WILLIAM MACTAVISH,
JOHN SCHULTZ,
Secretaries.
The SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

Wasuineton, D. C., March 27, 1862.

Sir: In compliance with your suggestion, I beg to set before you a
few facts respecting Liberia College, in the republic of Liberia,
West Africa.

1. The college is the offspring of the benevolence of citizens of
Massachusetts who, in 1850, organized themselves into an association
for educational purposes in Liberia, with the title of ‘‘ Trustees of
Donation for Education in Liberia,’’ and an act of incorporation was
obtained the same year from #he legislature of Massachusetts.

2. Their sympathy and exertions have been so generously seconded
that the trustees have been enabled to erect a capacious and substan-
tial building on the heights of Monserrada, in the city of Monrovia,
the capital of the republic. The college building is three stories in
height, with piazzas surrounding it; with dormitories capable of ac-
commodating between thirty and forty students, apartments for two
professors and their families, lecture and dining rooms, chapel, &e.
This building, the material of which is brick, cost nigh $50,000, and
is now finished. The college building has been presented, as a gift,
to the republic of Liberia, for a national institution, and is to be gov-
erned by a body of Liberian trustees, nominated by the President of
the republic, and elected by the senate.

3. Besides the above expenditure, that is for the building, the
‘‘Trustees of Donations,’’ &c., have, under their own control, at
interest, an endowment of about $30,000, and a sum of about $40,000
has been left in legacies, for the purposes of Liberian education, and
is under the control of other colonization societies, which will,
without doubt, be ultimately appropriated to the ends of the Liberia
College. A furthersum of $50,000 1s promised for the Liberia College
by the several members of an eminent family in New York, in heu of
a like sum left by their father on his decease, for the college, but
which was lost by a legal decision. _

4, Liberal donations of minerals and large gifts of books have been
made to the college, both by distinguished individuals in this country
and by Harvard and Yale Colleges.

A faculty has already been elected; two of its professors inaugura-
ted; and the college has already, this year, commenced operations.

The undersigned, authorized by the American trustees for the pur-
pose, respectfully requests the addition of the publications of the
Smithsonian Institution to the collections already made for the Liberia
College.

Iam, sir, your obedient servant,
ALEX. CRUMMELL.

Prof. Henry.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 107

RECOMMENDATION OF SHEA’S INDIAN LINGUISTICS, REFERRED TO IN THE
SECRETARY'S REPORT.

We recommend Mr. Shea’s series of grammars and dictionaries of
the Indian languages to the attention of the Smithsonian Institution,
and think that a subscription which will insure the continuance of the
series will be eminently within the scope of the foundation, by pre-
serving a number of rapidly perishing monuments of human knowl-
edge, and securing to posterity, in the languages of the native tribes,
the surest clue to their origin and affinities.

E. B. O’ CaLLaGHaN. GEORGE LIVERMORE.
Jno. V.. L. PRUYN. GrorcE H. Moors.
S. B. WooLwortu. GrorcEe W. Rices, JR.
JARED SPARKS. Peter Forcs.
GEORGE GIBBS.
».

MR. SHEA’S ACCOUNT OF HIS LIBRARY OF AMERICAN LINGUISTICS.

With the increasing interest felt in the science of ethnology, much
attention has of late been given to the study of the languages of the
aboriginal tribes of America, and it must be confessed that more
philosophical research, talent, and investigation have been bestowed
upon them in Germany than in our own country. Yet the science is
still in its infancy. Relying on crude or hastily taken vocabularies,
which often confound different languages, many have set on foot
theories, and entered into criticisms, which fall to the ground on the
examination of a carefully prepared grammar or dictionary of the
language. Fortunately, of very many American languages such
works exist, often the labor of early missionaries, whom a long resi-
dence with a tribe, a knowledge of their habits, manners, and usages,
enabled to write with accuracy and judgment.

Very few of these works were printed. Most have remained in
manuscript, and are liable to perish by accident. Every investigator
knows that many which survived till a few years since are now irre-
coverably lost.

The language of a tribe is its most important relic. The mechani-
cal arts were rude, and the remains so scanty, that mound and bone
pit, and deserted village, have given us scarce a clue to the history
of the peoples to whom they belonged. But language is the great
key to the affinities of the tribes, and often enables us to trace their
migrations, and in all cases to determine their kindred.

We owe it to posterity to allow the work of destruction to go no
further, and to put in a permanent form every work now in manu-
script, giving the grammatical structure or a full vocabulary of an
Indian dialect. Our national honor is interested, and the learned
abroad even now begin to wonder at our indifference.

Impelled by a desire to save these works, I began a series of them,
printing a few copies of each, from the original manuscripts, my ob-
ject being to preserve them; and six grammars or dictionaries of dif-
108 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS.

ferent tribes have already been issued. So much, however, is yet’
to be done, that I appeal to the public libraries, the historical socie-'
ties, and literary institutions of the country, as well as to ethnolo-
gists, here and abroad, to aid me, by subscribing to the series, as
the greater the number of subscribers, the lower the works can be
afforded, and the greater the number of volumes that can be issued.

The works are handsomely printed on good paper, and carefully
edited, forming a series of royal 8vo. volumes creditable to any col-
lection.

NOW READY.

1. A French Onondaga Dictionary. From a manuscript of

the seventeenth century --+--++ +++ esse tees ceeee $4 00
2. A Grammar of the Selish, or Flathead Language. By
Eeoig Ge OuIE NG AGENT petals. cpa bic ke daweie cain ges ove nan Rakes nek eee 4 00.
3. A Grammar of the Heve (Sonora) Language. Edited |
from a manuscript of the seventeenth century. By
B. SMITH, Esq... +--+ cece ee cee eee cee eee cee cee 1 008
4, A Grammar of the } Mutsun( California) Language. By ,
F, Fevire ARROYO DE LA CUESTA++ +++. eeeeee cesses 2 50
5. A Grammar of the Nevome (Pima) Language. Edited
from a manuscript of the seventeenth century------ 4 00
’ 6. A Grammar of the Yakama Language. By the Rev. M.
(CC OPAN DOSY winielaisicedicic.ti' Sur & erases © ee beetle tae 2 50

IN IMMEDIATE PREPARATION.

7. A Vocabulary of the Sextapay (California) Language. By PapRE
B. SITs AR.
8. Vocabularies. Collected by the late W. W. Turner.
9. Maillard’s Grammar of the Micmac Language.
10. Arroyo’s Vocabulary of the Mutsun.
11. Potier’s Radical Words of the Huron Language.
12. Bruyas’ Radical Words of the Mohawk Language.
13. A French-Hlinois Dictionary.
14, Potier’s Huron Grammar.
15. Lefevre’s Vocabulary of the Montagnais Language.
16. Bruyas’ French-Mohawk Dictionary.

Various others will be added, and, if encouragement is given, the
series will include an English translation of Molina’s ‘‘ Mexican
Dictionary.’’

JOHN G. SHEA,
83 Centre street, New York.

The volumes of the series may be ordered of Trubner & Co,
London ; Charles Reinwald, Paris; B. Hermann, Leipzig.

The Board of Regents, having examined the library, collections,
museum, &c., adjourned sine die.
EULOGY

OF

CORNELIUS CONWAY FELTON, LL.D., &C.,

ONE OF THE REGENTS OF THE

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

PREPARED AT THE REQUEST OF THE BOARD, BY THEODORE D. WOOLSEY, LL.D., PRESIDENT OF YALE
COLLEGE.

Ata meeting of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution,
held May 1, 1862, Professor Henry, the Secretary, having announced
the death of Dr. Felton, one of the Regents, Professor Bache made

a few appropriate remarks, and offered the following resolutions,
which were unanimously adopted:

Resolved, That the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution deeply

mourn the loss of their fellow Regent, CorNELIus Conway FE.ron, the dis-
tinguished President of Harvard University, whose profound learning: and ready
use of the rich stores of ancient and modern lore excited general admiration,
while his genial temper, affectionate disposition, and open manners, endeared him
as a friend to every member of this establishment.
Resolved, That in the death of President Felton, our country, in the hour of
its trial, has lost a wise and influential citizen, our government a warm and elo-
quent supporter, Harvard University a learned and efficient head, and this
institution an active and valued Regent.

Resolved, That we sincerely eondole with the bereaved family of President
Felton, and offer to them our heartfelt sympathy in their deep afiliction.

Resolved, That Dr. Woolsey be requested to prepare a suitable notice of
President Felton, to be inserted in the journal of the Board of Regents.

Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be communicated by the Secretary
of the Smithsonian Institution to the family of the deceased, and to the faculty
and corporation of Harvard.

HU LOGY.

The duty has been laid upon me of preparing a brief tribute to the
memory of Cornelius C. Felton, late a Regent of the Smithsonian
Institution. I undertake this office the more readily, because a
friendly and most pleasant acquaintance of nearly thirty years standing,
cemented by common pursuits and unbroken by any of those jealousies
which sometimes divide men of the same literary calling, has
110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS.

enabled me to form a definite opinion of the worth and services of one —
whose death the country, in common with Massachusetts and with
Harvard University, deplores. )

Cornelius Conway Felton, the son of worthy but by no means opu- ©
ient parents, was born at West Newbury, Massachusetts, November
6,1807. The first decided impulse in the direction of scholarship and of
a taste for letters was given to him by Simeon Putnam, who kept a
private school at North Andover, with whom he remained as a pupila
year and three months. In this year and a quarter prior to his entrance
into college, Putnam awakened so great an enthusiasm in the mind of
his pupil that the latter, according to a statement in manuscript
drawn up by one of his friends, ‘tread Sallust four times, Cicero’s
Orations four times, Virgil six times, Dalxel’s Greca Minora five or
six times, and the poetry of it till he could repeat nearly all of it from
memory, the Annals and History of Tacitus, Justin, Cornelius Nepos,
the Anabasis of Xenophon, four books of Robinson’s Selections from
the Ihad, the Greek Testament four times, besides writing a trans-
lation of one of the Gospels, and writing a translation of the whole of
Grotius de Veritate, which he brought in manuscript to college ; also
he wrote a volume of about three hundred pages of Latin exercises,
and one of about two hundred pages of Greek exercises, and studied
carefully all the mathematics and geography requisite to enter
college.’’ That the severe study necessary in order to do all this
in so short a time might be detrimental to his health will be readily
believed. He suffered from these overstrained efforts during his resi-
dence in college and afterward. Still he continued his course of
earnest study through his college life, devoting a good deal of spare
time to extra Greek, and forming an acquaintance with several of the
modern languages and with the Hebrew. Besides which he con-
tributed to his own support in several ways, especially by keeping
school during parts of his sophomore and junior years, and in the
latter year by teaching mathematics for six months in the Round-
hill school at Northampton, under Messrs. Cogswell and Bancroft.
He was prepared, by this introduction into the art of teaching and
by his excellent scholarship, for the employment in which he was
engaged for two years from the time of his graduation—the charge
of a high school at Geneseo. New York, which he undertook in com-
pany with two of his classmates. From Geneseo he was called back,,
in 1829, to his Alma Mater to fill the office of Latin tutor, from which
department he was transferred the next year to the Greek. His elec-
tion to the chair of college professor in 1832 showed the estimation
in which he was held by the authorities of the University. On the
resignation of Dr. Popkin in 1833, who had the chair of Greek lit-
erature upon the Eliot foundation, Mr. Felton was appointed his
successor, and continued in this professorship until his elevation to
the presidency in 1860. Thus thirty years of his life were spent in
cultivating and teaching Greek letters.

As a Greek scholar, he was not surpassed for breadth and accuracy
by any other in the land. His nature was many-sided, and he strove
after complete scholarship both in what pertained to the language
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 111

and in what pertained to all the branches of the literature of the
Hellenic race. Yet, like every other scholar, he had his favorite
departments of pursuit, while other sides of it had less attraction for
him. To linguistics and general philology and to the verbal side of
Greek learning he was not so much drawn as to all the manifestation
of the Greek mind and life. Here again it was Athens in her palmiest
days ; it was her unrivalled dramatic poets, and especially that prince
of the ancient comedy, who disclosed to us the life of Athens at the
pinnacle of her renown, and when she was sliding down from her
eminen¢e—it was this age and these monuments of Greece which
had the greatest charms for him. The spirit of Aristophanes lodged
in Professor Felton; he had the same sense of the ludicrous, the same
keen judgment of character, the same underlying earnestness of patri-
otism, the same political conservatism.

A mind which had such a strong relish for exhibitions of life in the
concrete forms would be apt to convey pleasant and profitable instruc-
tion. Professor Felton seems to have been a very genial instructor,
clear in his conceptions and explanations, sufficiently strict in gram-
matical analyses and in keeping his pupils to their tasks, and yet re-
lieving the tedium of the recitation room by lively illustrations of the
author read, so that the lesson was not more a task than a pleasure,
enriching and beautifying everything by reference to ancient art, as
well as by a pure manly taste which went along with its whole schol-
arship.

This esthetical power of his mind deserves a more distinct men-
tion. He had within him a love of art, and his judgment, natively
sound, was improved by devotion to a language and a literature which
cultivate the taste more than any other. To him, therefore, the life
of Greece consisted not solely in its poets, orators, historians, and
philosophers, but in the euphonies of its words, in the rythm of its
periods, in its wondrously exquisite and varied poetical metres, in its
simple but grand architecture, in those works of its sculptors and
founders which immortalized over again the materials of a literature
already immortal.

Here we may add that he had two opportunities of inspecting the
monuments of Greek art, and of visiting that land where so many of
his thoughts had dwelt. In 1853 and the following year he devoted
five months of a European tour to Greece, ancient and modern, to her
present life and the remains of her past glory; and again in 1858 he
spent part of another summer in the same land. Whatever reminded
of ancient days and enabled him to conceive more clearly and under-
stand more fully the meaning of the ancient writers, together with those
reliques of art which time and barbarism have spared—this naturally
claimed his attention first; but he sympathized also with the free,
hopeful, restored Greece of the present; he examined the workings
of her political institutions, visited the halls of legislation at the cap-
ital, formed an acquaintance with the learned men who adorn the
University of Athens, and returned in the faith that modern Greece
has a noble destiny before her. He was led by his tours to connect
the Greek and the Romaic languages more closely together, to urge
the importance of studying the latter, and to advocate the application
112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS.

of the modern pronunciation to the literature of the ancient tongue.
Not long after his return from his first journey, in the year 1856, he
published selections from modern Greek writers; accompanied with
explanatory notes, and a little earlier enriched an American edition
of Smith’s ‘‘ History of Greece’’ with a preface, notes, and a continu-
ation of Greek History from the Roman conquest until the present
time.

While engaged in the daily duties of a laborious profession, Mr.
Felton found leisure to prepare for the press a number of editions of
Greek authors and other works within the same department. His
maiden work of this kind was an edition of Homer’s Iliad, published
in 1833, with English notes—which were carefully revised and en-
larged in subsequent editions—and with the addition of Flaxman’s
illustrations. Next, in 1840, he sent forth from the press a Greek
reader, containing selections from writers of the best stamp—a work
which has been repeatedly printed, and has mantained its ground
among the principal introductions to the study of that language.
This was followed in the next year by an edition of the Clouds of
Aristophanes, with an introduction and a commentary, which appeared
again in a revised form and was republished in England. In 18453,
in conjunction with Professor Edwards, of Andover, and Professor
Sears, then of the Baptist Theological Seminary at Newton, he pub-
lished a work entitled Classical Studies, consisting principally of
translations from the German, his contributions being selections from
the works of Frederic Jacobs. In 1844 he rendered a valuable ser-
vice to classical literature by translating, in conjunction with Pro-
fessor Beck, Munk’s Treatise on Greek and Roman Metres. Three
years afterward appeared his editions of the Panegyricus of Isocrates
—that much polished closet-oration of the ‘‘old man eloquent,’’ and
of the Agamemnon of Adschylus—that difficult chef-d’ ceuvre of the
earliest dramatist. Both of these passed into second editions. In
1849 he brought out an edition of the Birds of Aristophanes, and in
1852 ‘‘Selections from Greek Historians,’’ namely, from Herodotus,
Thucydides, Xenophon, Polybius, Diodorus Siculus, Arrian, and
Pausanias. In the course of the same year appeared a tribute from
his pen to the memory of his immediate predecessor in the Eliot
professorship, entitled ‘‘Selections from the Writings of Dr. Popkin,
with a Biographical Sketch.’’

These were his principal contributions through the press and
bearing his own name, to the main study of his lite. But we ought
not to pass over his frequent lectures and anonymous writings, tending
to illustrate and recommend Greek learning, such as his four courses
of Lowell Lectures, and his frequent contributions to the North
American Review.

Nor ought the briefest sketch of Mr. Felton’s life to omit his lite-
rary labors beyond his own immediate province. As his mind strove
to grasp universal knowledge, and as he maintained a lively sympathy
with the literature of most of the cultivated nations, so, from time
to time, he poured forth through the press the gatherings of his rich
and many-sided mind. Among his original works we mention his
-

PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 113

“Life of General Eaton,’’ in the ninth volume of the first series of
Sparks’s ‘‘American Biographies ;’’ his biographical notices accom-
panying Longfellow’s ‘‘ Poets and Poetry of Europe ;’’ his articles in
the North American, upwards of fifty, and in the Christian Examiner,
upwards of twenty-five in number; his contributions to the New
American Encyclopedia,* and others less elaborate in the daily journals.
If with these we take into view the help which he lent in various
ways to education and science, as one of the Massachusetts Board of
Education, as one of the school committee for the town of Cambridge,
and as Regent of the Smithsonian—to which trust he was elected on
the resignation of Mr. Choate, in 1856, and re-elected for the full
term of six years in February, 1861—and if we bring into account,
also, his labors for a number of: years in the office of Regent in Har-
vard University, and that at the same time he gave instructions in a
school under the charge of Professor Agassiz, we shall wonder that
one man, besides the duties of a very laborious professorship, was
able to do so much, and perhaps wonder still more that he did it all
so easily to himself and so well. It is rare, we imagine, to find a life
of so much faithful, patient industry united to a temper so genial and
social as his, so capable of finding entertainment and recreation on
every side.

The services of such an academical officer could not fail to be prized
and honored. Years before his election to the presidency of Har-
vard, his name was prominent among those who were thought of for
that post ; and when President Walker felt compelled by ill-health
to retire from the station which he had filled so wisely and satis-
factorily, the voice of the public anticipated the votes of the boards
which constituted Prof. Felton his successor. He was inaugurated
into bis new office July the 19th, 1860, and those who heard his ad-
dress pronounced upon that occasion. if they had not known the man
before, must have felt assured‘that his administration would be firm
and vigorous. The distinct opinion which he there avows, that no
offences against civil order can be tolerated in a college which wouid
not be borne in the wider circles of citizens—that academical walls
ean furnish no refuge for crimes, nor academical relations justify out-
rages on gentlemanly propriety, or on the feelings of fellow-students,
was one which commends itself to all who are acquainted with our
higher institutions of learning, and which, if united in the carrying
of it ont with such kiridliness as was manifest in the character of
President Felton, would strengthen and secure everything that is
good in a college life. Whatever temporary obstacle or local custom,
‘*more honored in the breach than in the observance,’’ might oppose
for*a time, it is certain that the claims of law and order would at
length prevail, and the state of things afterwards become so much
the better. '

President Felton entered thus into his new duties, with the con-
fidence of the wisest and best on his side, and gave himself up chiefly

* Some of these were on Agassiz, Athens, Attica, Demosthenes, Euripides, and Homer.

8
114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS,

to administrative functions, not without deep regrets, we are sure,
at leaving those pleasant toils which had filled thirty years of his
life. But Divine Providence had scarcely invested him with his new
authority when he was summoned away from these earthly responsi-
bilities and labors. A little less than two years of his official life
had elapsed when the complaint of which he died—hypertrophy of
the heart—showed itself in an aggravated form, after having mani-
fested its presence in his system for some twenty years. He was not,
however, so ill at first but that he could undertake a journey, and it
was hoped that a change of climate might do him good. Setting out
for Washington—where he intended to be present at a meeting of
the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution—he had reached the
house of his. brother in Chester, Pennsylvania, and was seized with
an attack of disease during the ensuing night. Here he breathed
his last, Wednesday, the 26th of February, 1862. His remains were
removed to Cambridge, where a sermon on his death was preached,
March the 9th, by Dr. Peabody, Preacher to the University, and ap-
propriate resolutions, in honor of his memory, were passed by the
Governing Boards, the Faculties, and others.

We have spoken of President Felton as a scholar and a worker,
earnest and successful, in the field where Providence placed him.
But the man is far more in the scale than the scholar. Let us then
look for a few moments at the man in his traits of mind and character,
and in the conduct of life.

His mind, as may have already appeared from what we have said
of his scholarship, was a rounded, well-balanced, many-sided one,
where no trait was deficient. Yet the predominance of the esthetic |
faculty, with the attendant pleasure derived from art and the works
of creative intellect, may have given that direction towards scholar-
ship and belles lettres, towards the concrete form rather than the
abstract metaphysical principle, which somewhat characterized him.
His simple, correct taste, and his judgment, which estimated prob-
abilities aright, and looked below the show and the surface, although,
no doubt, cultivated by the study of language, and especially of Greek
literature, must have had, beyond question, an independent natural
foundation. He had a native curiosity and thirst for knowledge, which
felt and grasped on every side; if you wanted to know about Jasmin,
the Provengal Burns, he had read his poems, he could speak of the
Finnish mythology, and in his later years especially he entered with
zeal into the progress of natural science. Nor ought his keen sense
of the ludicrous and his humor to be forgotten here, which made him
the most entertaining of companions without undermining the manli-
ness of his character. And the easy play of his faculties, working
rapidly and smoothly, without jar or much effort, deserves especial
notice.

Among the traits of President Felton’s character may be mentioned
kindness and sympathy, united with moral energy, courage and firm-
ness in acting up to his convictions. His kindly nature showed itself
in the forms of sociality, friendliness, and generosity reaching to
self-sacrifice. His friendship extended widely beyond the borders
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 115

of his way of thinking in religion and politics, and men of various
opinions and. convictions sought his companionship, and partook of
his regards. Few men have had more friends or fewer enemies, and
yet he never shrunk from avowing his own principles. He enjoyed
society, of which, by his pleasantries and other colloquial powers he
was made to be the life. ‘‘He was generous,’’ says his friend Pro-
fessor Peabody, ‘‘to the last degree; no income could have made him
rich, while there were the needy around him; and of time, more
precious than gold, and of the wealth of intellect, he was no less lavish
than of the inferior goods, which he prized only as the means of
making others happy. The labor of hand and brain, which might
have been employed in building up his own fame, was freely given to
all who sought it. Many have been the literary works and enterprises
with which his name was never connected, which owed a large portion
of their merit and success to materials which he furnished, or to his
advice, revision, or criticism.’ And the same friend bears witness
to his sympathy with ‘‘every noble and generous work for human
progress and well being.”’

If the stranger, after an evening’s acquaintance, may have been led
by Mr. Felton’s companionableness and flow of mirth to regard him
as wanting in moral earnestness, such a judgment would be pro-
nounced hasty and superficial: by the many grave and good men who
gave him their friendship and respect. He by no means lacked any
of those qualities which constitute the man ofan earnest and dignified
life. As has been beautifully said of him, ‘‘his force of character, .
hidden on ordinary occasions by his gentle and sunny temperament,
appeared impregnable whenever it was put to the test.’ He had firm
settled convictions and well digested rules of action; he had purposes
which could not be shaken by other considerations than those ad-
dressed to the reason and conscience; he had a noble, manly courage
which could carry him onward in the face of opposition. These quali-
ties, with fidelity, uprightness, and simplicity of character, as displayed
in his college duties, and in other relations of life, secured for him the
esteem and respect of all.

The union of kindness and firmness with sound judgment and per-
spicacity made him an excellent college officer. But for his character
asa ruler over students we will appeal again to what Dr. Peabody says
ofhim: ‘‘I well remember the early years of his official connexion with
the college; his fraternal sympathy with the students; his gentle dis-
cipline when forbearance was safe and right; his reluctant, yet uniform
corsent to sterner measures, when the cause of order and virtue de-
manded them; his tender consideration for those who were struggling
as he had struggled, bravely and honorably against adverse circum-
stances; his readiness to sacrifice his own ease in aid of those who
sought to transcend the required measure of study, to furnish facil-
ities for their researches, and to contribute from the funds of his own
thought and learning for their growth in knowledge. Such was his
course during his entire life as a teacher; and could we number up the
youth who have been animated by his example, stimulated by
the genial fervor of his enthusiasm, encouraged by his patient and
116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS.

unselfish devotion to their welfare, and sustained in their worthy
ambition after they left these halls by his persistent and effective
friendship, we should have a record of quiet, unostentatious benefi-
cence, that would distance and belittle many life-works of world-
wide and long-enduring fame.’

President Felton was in his feelings and opinions, like the greater
part of scholars, a conservative, not without sympathy with forward
movements in society, but led by his tastes and acquaintance with
the past to look with suspicion on sudden changes in the established
order of things. In a similar spirit he showed no mercy towards
what he regarded as false pretensions to science. It will not soon be
forgotten with what zeal he followed up the spiritualists, putting their
claims to the test, driving them from point to point, and exposing
what he considered to be intentional fraud. In his political principles
he may be described as a conservative whig, a friend and admirer of
Daniel Webster. In his religious faith he was a Unitarian: Dr. Pea-
body characterizes him as ‘‘reverent and devout,loving the Word
and Ordinances of God, meekly yielding himself to the teaching and
leading of the Saviour, strong in the hope that is full of immortality.’”’

He was twice married ; the first time in 1838, to Miss Mary Whit-
ney, who died in April, 1845, and again in September, 1846, to Miss
Mary L. Cary, who survives him. He has left five children.

Such is a brief sketch of one of the recently deceased regents of the
Smithsonian Institution*—a man who, by his industry and vigor of
mind, made himself; a man whose genial nature and social qualities
created friends for him on every side ; a man who to the highest
attainments in one department united in an uncommon degreea large —
and liberal acquaintance with the circle of knowledge ; a man of fine
tastes, of most kindly sympathies, of strict uprightness ; a man who
adorned his professorship by the best qualities of a teacher, and the
mingled kindness and firmness of a wise disciplinarian, and who brought
to the presidential chair of Harvard the firm purpose to raise the
standard of that ancient University in everything that was good and
noble.

* President Felton took a lively interest in the Institution, and actively participated in
the proceedings.of the Board. His communications appearing in the reports of the Board
are as follows: In the report for 1857, p. 79, areport on the present of a book from Greece ;
p- 82, one on the purchase of Stanley’ s Indian gallery; p. 88, one on Professor Henry’s
communication relative to the telegraph ; and in the report for 1859, p. 104, a eulogy on
Professor W. W. Turner, and, p. 106, one on Washington Irving. In addition to which
he gave several lectures on Greece, and made a number of confidential reports on com-
munications relative to linguistics, which had been referred to him for examination by the
Secretary.
EULOGY

OF

HON. STEPHEN ARNOLD DOUGLAS,

PREPARED AT THE REQUEST OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, BY HON.
SAMUEL 8. COX, OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.

At a meeting of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, held May 1, 1862, Professor Henry, the Secretary, having
announced the death of Judge Douglas, one of the Regents, the fol-
lowing resolutions were offered by Hon. Lyman Trumbull, and unani-
‘mously adopted.

Resolved, That in the death of the Hon. SrEpHEN A. Dovatas, the Smith-
sonian Institution has been deprived of a most zealous friend; the Board of Re-
gents of an active and attentive member; and:the country of a distinguished
and influential citizen.

Resolved, 'That the Board of Regents deeply sympathize with the bereaved
relatives of the deceased, and that a copy of these resolutions be transmitted to
- them.

Resolved, 'That the Hon. 8. S. Cox be requested to prepare a suitable notice of
the Hon. S. A. Douglas, to be inserted in the journal of the Board of Regents.

EULOGY.

In February, 1854, Stephen A. Douglas, of Illinois, while a senator
from that State, was appointed one of the Regents of the Smithsonian
Institution, and continued a member of the Board until the time of
his death, on the morning of the 3d of June, 1861. From the pur-
suits of his life and the peculiarities of his course, it might be thought
that he was not well qualified to discharge properly the duty of a
trustee of a fund intended for the increase and diffusion of knowledge
among men. But this would be a mistake, for, although he had
given no special attention to any branch of science, yet his mind was
of that comprehensive cast which enabled him duly to appreciate
the nature of the bequest and the general principles of the different
plans which had been proposed for carrying it into execution. It is
true, as I am informed, that before he was elected a Regent he had
adopted the popular idea that the bequest was intended merely to
diffuse useful knowledge among the people of the United States; yet
when he came to study the precise words of the will of the founder,
and caught, as he immediately did, the peculiar idea of the object in-
118 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS.

tended, namely, the extension of the bounds of science, and not merely
the teaching of what is already known, he fully adopted the views on
which the present organization of the Institution is based, and ever
after continued a warm advocate and an able supporter of the
measures now in successful operation for the realization of the liberal
and enlightened intention of James Smithson.

In accordance with the usage heretofore observed in similar cases,
a resolution having been adopted directing the preparation, for the
proceedings of the Board of Regents, of a sketch of the characteristics
and incidents of his life, and the duty of furnishing this having been
assigned to me, I address myself to the task with an earnestness that
is only tempered by my fear that I have neither sufficient time nor
sufficient ability to do full justice to the memory of one whom I ad-
mired as a public man, and sincerely loved as a friend.

It is, indeed, pre-eminently fitting thatthe name of Douglas, so
fondly cherished by the nation, and so familiarly spoken wherever
American statesmanship is known, should be honored in the journals
of this Institution, for whose prosperity he evinced «so earnest a
desire. It was not merely as one of its Regents that he showed him-
self the true and enlightened friend of objects kindred to those of this
establishment. He ever advocated measures which served to advance
knowledge and promote the progress of humanity. The encouragement
of the fine arts, the rewarding of discoverers and inventors, the or-
ganization of exploring expeditions, as well as the general diffusion of
education, were all objects of his special regard, whether in the
councils of his State, or in the hall of the Senate of the Union.

Stephen A. Douglas was born at Brandon, in Vermont, on the 23d
of April, 1813. Like many, perhaps I should say like most, of the
rural neighborhoods of New England, Brandon contained a highly
intelligent and energetic population, independent alike in thought,
speech, and the conduct of their public affairs; and doubtless the fact
of his early years having been passed under the influence of the daily
life and conversation of such neighbors, had some share in imbuing
the boy with the sturdy independence and resolute energy which the
man was so remarkably and so triumphantly to exhibit throughout
his at once brilliant and laborious career.

His ancestors were of Puritan descent; and his father was a physi-
cian of both ability and reputation, but died at a prematurely early
age, leaving his widow in very straitened circumstances, if not even
in actual distress. It may, indeed, be only too reasonably feared that
the latter was the case, for, excellent mother as she was known to be,
she yet was unable to give young Stephen the full education he so
much desired and so well deserved. He attended the district school
during only one-third of the year; during all except the four winter
months he was engaged in the hard labor of a farm or in the shop of
a cabinet-maker. In this alternation of manual labor and imperfect
and interrupted schooling he continued till he was twenty years of
age, when he migrated to Illinois, where he taught school for his sup-
port, while he resolutely studied law. In 1834 he was admitted to
the bar, and we may judge of the character of his early efforts in the
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 119

eourts from the fact that in 1835, being then only twenty-two years
of age, this young man, whose short life had been so largely taxed
by adverse circumstances, was elected State attorney. From that
time he was continually in the public service. He was, in turn, State
attorney, member of the legislature, secretary of State, judge of the
supreme court of Illinois, and registrar of the land office; and sub-
sequently he was a member of the lower house of Congress, and three
times in succession he was elected by his adopted State to be United
States Senator; and, as is well known, not long prior to his death he
was the very popular though unsuccessful candidate for the highest
executive office in the gift of the nation.

These are the prominent points in the career of Douglas, whose life,
commencing in obscurity and continuing through nearly the half of
its whole duration under the most adverse circumstances, ended in
the full light of high position, and- the full glow of popular favor.
The principles which he advocated, and to which he unwaveringly
adhered, as well as the measures he proposed, have been the theme
of both criticism and eulogy elsewhere, but the discussion of them
here would be out of place, and in violation of a rule early adopted
by the Board of Regents, that in the affairs of this Institution parti-
san politics shall forever be unknown. The points, however, in his
personal character which enabled him to obtain so important a posi-
tion, and gave him so great an influence, not only over intimate friends
and colleagues, but also over the public mind, may well claim our at-
tention as a study no less important than interesting.

If continued success be the test of merit, then must all admit that
Judge Douglas was no ordinary man. That success ina single effort,
which may be referred to a fortunate concurrence of circumstances
over which the successful man had no control, is not the true criterion
of talent is a truth which must be readily admitted. But when the
course of an individual is marked through a series of years by a con-
tinual advancement in the same direction, and especially when that
advancement requires forecast, knowledge, perseverance, and energy,
his success most assuredly is evidence of talent, if not of genius.

Courage, energy, and a working power, both mental and physical,
which have rarely been surpassed, were the qualities which chiefly
served him in his earlier years. The son of a poor widow, and com-
pelled to spend in bodily labor the time which other boys of his age
pass in school, he would probably have remained a poor and obscure
individual had it not been for the resolute WILL to elevate himself,
and the courage, force of character, and determination to Act in ac-
cordance with that will which characterized his whole life. But of
itself alone, that seemingly inexhaustible power of labor which ob-
tained for him the suggestive sobriquet of ‘‘the little giant’? would
have been insufficient to effect the great success which he actually
achieved, had it not been directed and aided by other mental charac-
teristics, which some even of the warmest admirers and eulogists of
the politician Douglas seem to me very insufficiently to appreciate.

In addition to the characteristics which I have already attributed
to him, Judge Douglas was remarkable for his quick perception of the
120 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS.

nature of events, and of the consequences which, with almost mathe-
matical precision, he could predicate as to their results. He had, to
a wonderful degree, the power of seizing on general principles, and
of making them a part of his intellectual stores to be referred to in
whatever particular case he might have to deal with; and his retentive
memory enabled him on the instant to call up alike a general truth,
and a host of particular facts in effective illustration of his premises,

These qualities might have been modified, but could not have been
increased, or even strengthened, by classical training; nay, in becom-
ing more refined and fastidious, it is far from certain that his mind
would not, at the same time, have become less robust, energetic, and
bravely self-reliant.

We do not intend by this remark to throw doubt on the importance
in general of that early mental discipline which is furnished by the
training of the schools, but to present the suggestion that in particu-
lar cases of extraordinary native vigor of intellect, determined on a
single line of action, the gifts of nature cannot be essentially improved
by the moulding influence of ordinary early education. These cases
are, however, the exceptions to be avoided in directing the minds of
youth, and not the examples of the rule to be generally followed.

Although Judge Douglas was no scholar in the pedantic significa-
tion of the term, yet his mind was duly cultivated in the study of the
law, a branch of knowledge which, when pursued merely in its details
and practiced in its daily routine of office forms, may tend to obscure
the perception of truth in frequent endeavors to make the worse ap-
pear the better cause, is yet in its proper study, through the expo-
sitions of Blackstone and the other systematic writers on English
jurisprudence, one of the most liberalizing and enlarging pursuits to
which the mind of youth or early manhood can be directed. The
generalizations of this branch of knowledge were particularly fitted
to improve the mind of young Douglas, and to prepare him for his
future career.

But even the intellectual qualities we have mentioned are insuffi-
cient alone to account for the distinctive character of the eminence
he attained. With these he might have been the dexterous pleader,
the sagacious judge, the acute politician, and yet have fallen very
far short of that perfect empire which he held not only over the
minds of the few, but also over the hearts of the many. He had other
qualities which may be cultured, but which cannot be created.

The lively sympathy with friends and associates, the intelligent.
and appreciating glance, the frank and hearty tone, the kindly grasp
of the hand, the prompt and obviously disinterested service, these
give to him to whom they belong a despotism which we are, perhaps,
too proud to own, but which we cannot, if we would, resist. In the
mere personal presence of Stephen A. Douglas there was a singular
fascination. When you had once experienced the magic of his influ-
ence you were bound to him forever; his spirit seemed to dare you
to rebel, and what was commenced by admiration for his commanding
ability was consummated by his kind and genial manner. Bold, fierce,
at once haughty in defiance and dexterous in fence, he necessarily
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 121

commanded admiration. But to admire is little else that to wonder;
we admire a brave and gifted enemy quite as much, and, if a little
terror be mingled, we may admire him even more than our true but
less brilliant friend. But in the case of Douglas we loved while we
admired. And this is the true key to his general popularity. His
intellect conquered, but his heart secured the conquest. His innate
and ineradicable kindness, and his genial manner conciliated all who
fell within the influence of his power. His political and public life
exhibited but the mere outward husk of the man within; it was when
you looked upon the gentle amenities of his home life, upon his love
and devotion to his wife, tenderness to*his children, and respectful
attention to his friends, that beneath that somewhat rough exterior
you could discern the character it concealed.

It will not, I trust, be considered improper for me to refer to the
fact that I was one among the many young men of the west who were
honored by his confidence and bound to Judge Douglas by ties of en-
thusiastic friendship, and that therefore I speak from personal expe-
rience when I refer to the magic of his presence and the controlling
influence of his character.

As I have already said, this is not the place or the occasion for en-
tering into particulars as to his political opinions and acts, but, alike
to his friends and his foes, I must say from the convictions ‘of my
head, as well as the suggestions of my heart, that history will be false
to her trust if she does not record the fact that Douglas was a true
patriot as well as a sagacious statesman. If he was a partisan poli-
tician, he never wore his party uniform when his countryewas in dan-
ger. It was a striking illustration of his character in this respect,
that when the administration of our national affairs was committed to
his political antagonists, he gave his hearty and generous support to
the government at the moment it required his aid.

Some have lamented his death as untimely and unfortunate for his
own fame, since it happened just at the moment when the politician
was lost in the patriot, and when he had an opportunity to atone for
past errors. But man does not change his nature so readily; Douglas
was the same from the beginning to the end of his career, with views
merely modified or enlarged by the expanding horizon which opened
upon him from year to year, in his increasing elevation of thought
and position. The words which escaped him in his last hour were
the expressions of the real sentiments of his inner life.

Observant of the causes which have led to our present civil war he
ever strove by adjustment to avoid their disastrous effects. ‘‘I know
not,’’ said he, ‘‘what our destiny may be, but I try to keep up with
the spirit of the age, to keep in view the history of the country, to
see avhat we have done, whither we are going, and with what velocity
we are moving, in order to be prepared for those events which itis -
not in the power of man to thwart.’’

Placed at the head of the Territorial Committee of the Senate, it
was under his direction that Territory after Territory and State after
State were admitted into the Union. The comprehensiveness of his
views was exhibited in his great speech on the Clayton and Bulwer
122 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS.

treaty, on the fourth of March, 1853, wherein he enforced a con-
tinental policy and refused to prescribe limits to the area over which
the principles of our government might safely be extended.

His position on the Committee of Foreign Relations gave him a
breadth of view in regard to our relations with other countries, which
was enlarged by personal observation in foreign travel, and in special
historic research. His knowledge on this subject was conscientiously
applied in the way which he deemed best fitted to advance the com-
mercial and financial interests of our whole country.

He died in the midst of the people of a district where he had been
cherished and honored during the whole of his public life; in a city
whose commercial and material improvement was the pride of his
heart, and a type of his own character. The maturity of his growth,
the fertility of his resources, and his sturdy energy, rendered his life
a microcosm of the great section of our country with which he was
so closely identified. We may toll the slow bell for his departed
spirit, we may drape ourselves in the emblems of grief; but if his
friends and admirers would truly honor his memory, they will en-
deavor, like him in his last days, to moderate the heat of party strife,
enlarge their views of political science, and emulate his growth in
moral character and clear-sighted patriotism.
GHNERAL APPENDIX

REPORT FOR 1861.

The object of this Appendix is to illustrate the operations of the
Institution by the reports of lectures and extracts from correspond-
ence, as well as to furnish information of a character suited especially
to the meteorological observers and other persons interested in the
promotion of knowledge.

*
LECTURES,

ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF BRIDGES,

By FAIRMAN ROGERS,
PROFESSOR OF CIVIL ENGINEERING IN THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA.

[Continued from Appendix to Report of 1860, p. 150. ]

Aut the structures for spanning openings which we have thus far
considered, have been so arranged that portions of them are subjected
to a tensile strain; the materials used in them are adapted to resist
such a strain, and also to receive such fastenings or connexions as will
enable them ‘safely to transmit the forces applied.

The building material, however, which is most universally at our
disposal, stone, although it is admirably fitted to bear a compres-
sive force, is not adapted to resist tensile str ain, and in making use of
it in bridge- -building we must apply it
in such form and such a manner as. to
overcome this difficulty.

If we have two pieces of stone,
neither long enough nor strong enough
to span an opening in the way of an
ordinary beam, we may arrange them
as shown in Figure 43, preventing them
from separating below by the tierod A B.

Should it be desirable that the space between the stones or tim-
bers be left without any encumbrance, the tie rod A B may be re-
placed by two abutments, so
firmly seated on the ground
that the thrust of the struc-
ture will not be sufficient to
push them apart or to over-
turn them, as in Figure 44,
where the reaction of the
ground takes the place of
the tension rod.

Now, if it be necessary to

Fig. 44.
126 LECTURE

sustain three loads instead of a single one, we shall have a structure
such as Figure 45.

If the number of loads
is very great, or, what is
the same thing, if the load '
is distributed over the
whole span, we shall have
the framing in the form
of a polygon of a great
number of sides, or an
arch, as in Figure 46.

Since the pieces com-
posing such a framing or arch are small, and are only subjected to a
force of compression, they may
be economically made of stone
or of cast iron.

In Figure 44, by a well-known
principle of mechanics, the
amount of thrust, or tendency to
ie (jaa lom separate the abutments, com-

ry Fig. 46. “ pared with the weight supported,
(W,) may be readily determined,
and it will be found to increase with the nearer approach of the

Fig. 47,

oblique pieces to the horizontal position, so that a framing, like

Fig. 48.

Figure 47, or an arch, like Figure 48, will exert a greater thrust
than either Figure 44 or Figure
46, when loaded with the same
weight. The distance, A B, is
termed the rise of the arch, C D,
the span, and upon their relative
values the thrust of the arch will
depend. In a semi-circular arch,
Figure 49, no thrust is exerted at
its very lowest pomts, A and B; it
Fig..49. does not become sensible until we

ON BRIDGES. 127

reach a point a little
higher, C D, and_ then
the arch acts as in Figure
46.

What is known as a

bow-string girder, Figure ' Fig. 50.

50, is only a cast-iron

arch, with a tension rod, and the single iron mass may be replaced
by bricks, as in Figure 51,
while, still further, by tak-
ing away the tie rod and
substituting the abut-
ments, we come again to
the familiar form of the
arch, as in Figure 48.

In fact, we may build
an arch which has no curved surfaces of any kind, as in Figure
52, in which it is evident
we have sacrified nothing
of the principle by per-
mitting the spaces above
and below the dotted lines
to be filled up by the
projection of the arch
stones.

Since the weight upon
an arch acts always vertically downwards, the portion at the crown
or top, A, Figure
53, acts with all its FE

Fig. 52.

weight in the direc- ; : oe ee
ahs of a radius, A = ery LO eee

O, of the circle, but ==’ ow See
the portions of the IY By =
load towards the -; ey EE eases
haunches, as at B OC, Seay ae ===
only act with a por- 7 : = ‘ O =
tion of their weight Saeare= og eeas ence
in the radial direc- a Seen ose
tion B O; and if we Sana Senses
desire to equalize Fig. 53.

these radial strains,

Wwe must increase the weight upon the haunches by loading them
with additional material, as at D. Theoretically the upper surface
of this loading should have the form. shown at H, in order that the
forces acting along all the radii should be equal: in practice it is
usual to build up to the level of the top, as at F, by which the con-
ditions of the problem are nearly fulfilled. Sometimes in large works
the roadway over the part E is supported by small arches, the space
under them being left open, thereby more nearly conforming to what
is required by the theory.
128 LECTURE

Should the arch have the simple form of Figure 46, especially if
the depth of the arch stones is small compared with the span, there
is danger that the weight near the
crown, acting with more effect in the
radial direction than that near the
haunches, will rupture the arch, as
in Figure 54, the crown sinking and
the joint there opening on the inside,
and the haunches rising. Conversely,
if an arch is loaded too heavily on
\ the haunches, as it may be by the

Fig 54. weight of masonry at F, in Figure

53, or by soft earth in the same

position, it will fail by the pushing up of the crown. Judgment is,
therefore, required in planning such
works, in order to avoid these accidents.

The cusped arch, Figure 55, much
used in certain styles of architecture,
was originally designed to prevent the
failure shown in Figure 54. It is evi-
dent that the inner points or cusps at
the haunches would resist a change of
form, as in Figure 54, by increasing the
moment of resistance of the particles
near the outside. This arch should properly be made of only four
stones, as in the figure, and is therefore adapted to small structures,
such as the heads of windows.

The form is avery ornamental and pleasing one apart from its
utility, and admits of elaborate decoration, which 1 Is hardly the case
with a simple circular arch.

We must not permit the curved form to become too intimately
associated with our idea of. the arch. We have seen in Figures 47,
52 that an arch need not strictly have any curved surface at all, and,
on the other hand, a curved beam is not by any means an arch merely
from its form. The cast-iron structure in Figure 50 ceases to be an
arch when we remove the tie rod which prevents its ends from
spreading, and unless we prevent such spreading by fixed abutments,
a comparatively small weight will cause it to fail, by giving way to
the strain of tension along its lower side, just as any other beam
would do.

In a stone arch the wedge-shaped pieces or arch stones continually
tend to press or pack more tightly together,. and thus to keep up the
stiffness of the structure.

Technically, the inner surface of an arch is called the zntrados, the
outer the extrados.

Frequently, as in Figure 49, the curves of these surfaces are simi-
lar and parallel ; sometimes they differ, this being to a certain extent
a matter of taste or of the fancy of the architect.

Curves other than circles may be employed for the intrados, ac-
cording to certain necessities of construction. The ellipse, as in

ON BRIDGES. 129
Figure 59, is frequently employed, for reasons that we shall consider
further on. Such curves are called by the French engineers basket-
handles, (anse de panier.) For arches which bear no load except that
of their own weight, the catenary curve—that which a chain assumes
when fastened at both ends and allowed to hang
freely—is sometimes used.

Circular arches may either be semicircular,

(full centre,) as in Figure 49, or segmental, as in
Figure 48.

Two segments of a circle of equal radius are
sometimes joined at an angle more or less acute,
as in Figure 56, a form known as the Gothic arch. j
This form is frequently used in architecture, but Fig. 56.
‘rarely in bridge-building. The aqueduct of Spo-
letto is a rare instance of its employment in an engineering structure.

Suspension bridges, formed by stretching a rope or chain over a -
chasm, and supporting the foot-way from it, were very early used,
since the principles involved in their construction are simple, and
the materials for them are readily obtained in new countries. In
parts of South America they are frequently seen across mountain
chasms and streams, the material used being either flexible rods, or
poles properly joined, or tough vines, such as the grape, forming a
sort of rope, from two of which the foot-way 1s ; suspended or on
which it is laid.

There are accounts of very ancient iron chain bridges found in
India, constructed upon the same principle.

The suspension bridge may be regarded as the converse of the
arch, since it is not only inverted in form, but all its parts are sub-
jected to a tensile strain instead of one of compression. Wrought
iron is the material which is naturally the best adapted to this method
of construction, and is generally used.

A suspension structure, to bear a given weight, may be made with
but little waste of material, since tensile strains are usually trans-
mitted with great directness, and, being easily calculated, the mini-
mum of material may be used. For this reason suspension works
are characterized by lightness and cheapness, two great advantages.

The principal objections to them are, first, their flexibility, which
can be provided against with proper care, and the space which they
occupy beyond their true span—only objectionable in certain locali-
ties.

The weight of the bridge and its load tend to draw the extremities
of the chains together, and if they were merely fastened to the tops
of the towers which support them, these towers would be overturned.
It is necessary, therefore, to extend them on the land side of the
towers, and to anchor them in the ground at a considerable distance
from the foot of the tower to prevent such action. In a city this is
an objectionable feature, since the land chains interfere with the free
passage in the streets. The fundamental principles governing the
suspension bridges are so simple that it will not be necessary to dis-
130 LECTURE
cuss them more at length than we can in treating of the practical
points of their construction.

There are evidently other matters to be considered in building a
bridge than the mere theoretical principles involved in the action of
the ‘beam, the arch, or the suspension chain, and of these we shall
now treat. In designing a bridge for a certain locality, the engineer —
must be governed by what are sometimes termed the limits of location.
They may be defined as the two horizontal lines above or below
which the bridge cannot go. The upper limit is fixed by the nature
of the matter which is to pass over the bridge, and by the topography
of the place at which it is to be built. If the structure is a foot
bridge, the upper limit may be high above the surface of the stream
or its banks, since pedestrians can easily mount up to almost any
elevation. If it is for pack-horses or mules only, as is the case
with some of the bridges of Switzerland and other mountain coun-—
tries, the ascent may still be steep. Jor carriages the ascent must
be less, and the top of the bridge must be more nearly on a level
with the banks. For a railroad the upper line of the bridge must be
still more nearly on a level with the surrounding country.

The other limit, or lower line, will be determined by the level of
the stream, by the freshets that occur in it, and by the headway re-
quired under the bridge, if the river is a navigable one. In a locality
where the stream is deeply sunk below its banks, the problem is
simple ; but where the country is low, and the stream apt to be
swollen by freshets, the engineer must exercise considerable judg-
ment in determining upon the best and most economical limits.

Fig. 59.

Comparing Figures 57, 58, 59, we see that the beam gives for a

ON BRIDGES. 131°

given height of roadway the clearest headway under all its parts,
although it is nowhere quite as high as the centre of the arch in the
other figures.

In Figure 58 a small rise of the surface of the stream will much
diminish the water-way just at the time when it should be the largest,
a.case that will not occur in Figure 57.

To avoid this the elliptical arch, Figure 59, is often used when the
structure must be arched, and it presents the other advantages of in-
creased headway and more agreeable lines to the eye.

When the engineer has determined the upper and lower limits of
his intended work, (to do which he must carefully study the banks
and surrounding country and collect all the information possible as to
the freshets of the stream,) he must examine the ground with a view
to the foundations and approaches of his bridge. Should it have but
one span or bay, as in the figures, the abutments will be nearly, if not
quite all, on dry land, and the difficulties to be met with in their con-
struction will probably not be great. Should the width of the stream
however be so great as to require several spans, piers must be built
in the water, an operation requiring expensive and troublesome ap-
pliances.

The piers of a bridge contract the water-way and cause eddies and
currents oftentimes very disturbing to the navigation, and the engi-
neer must endgavor to use as few as possible with a due regard to the
cost of the structure that he is designing. Modern practice has ex-
hibited much fewer and thinner piers than were used by the ancient
builders. With them the semicircular arch, with piers almost as
wide as the openings, contracting the water-way nearly one-half, was
frequently used, while now the spans are increased and consequently
the number of intermediate supports diminished, while the piers
themselves are made as thin as they can safely be, to support the su-
perincumbent weight of the structure. Where the current is swift
the piers should be in its direction as nearly as possible, since any
obliquity to the current will give rise to violent eddies, which serve
still further practically to contract the water-way, as in the case of
the Rock Island bridge, on the upper Mississippi, at which the navi-
gation, especially for rafts, is made exceedingly dangerous by such
an arrangement of the piers.

Many experiments have been made upon the proper form to be
given to.piers in order that they may obstruct the passage of the
water as little as possible, resulting in the fact that the same form
which enables a vessel to move easily through the water, permits the
water to flow past a fixed pier with the least commotion.

When the number and size of the piers are decided upon, the bottom
of the river must be examined with a view to their foundations.
«Many ways of providing a firm base on which to rest the masonry
liave been adopted, the simplest being to remove by a dredge the
soft mud which generally lies on the bottom and then to drop rough
stone on the proper point until the pile appears above the surface,
when the masons can commence their work. This method suflices
where labor is dear and stone plenty, and where the contraction of
132 LECTURE

the water-way by such masses is not of importance. Another plan is
to make strong timber cribs and to sink them, filled with stone, to
the bottom, permitting them to reach just to the surface of the water,
a method largely adopted in this country with good results.

The neatest, though much most expensive way, is to build a water-
tight wall or coffer-dam around the place of the pier, and after pump-
ing out the water so as to lay bare the bed of the stream, to build up
the foundations to the surface with concrete or with regular masonry.
The coffer-dam is usually made by driving two rows of piles, one
outside of the other, around the space to be laid dry, and then by
packing clay in between them so as to render the enclosure imper-
vious to water. Pure clay is not as good for the packing as that
which has a slight admixture of fine gravel or sand. When the-
stream is deep it will be very difficult to prevent the water from
soaking through the clay puddling, and a steam pump is often re- :
quired to keep the space free from leaks and breaks which greatly
delay the work and add to its cost; but it is quite practicable, with
proper precautions, to lay foundations in this way in very deep and
rapid rivers.

We have so far supposed that the natural bottom is suited to bear
the weight of the structure, but frequently we find soil of such a na-—
ture as not to be able to do so, especially if the pier is thin, and there-
fore presents only a small bottom surface; in such cases it will be
necessary to provide some means of solidifying the bottom, or of dis-
tributing the weight over a surface sufficiently large to prevent its
sinking. Where the bottom is nearly firm enough, a platform of wood,
somewhat larger than the pier, carefully laid, will be sufficient to pre-
vent any sinking. Such a platform will last under water for cen-
turies, many having been found in a good state of preservation under
old Roman bridges.

In place of a wooden platform a bed of concrete or beton may be
employed, composed of a mixture of mortar made, if necessary, of
hydraulic lime and gravel or broken stones, with some sharp. sand,
which is thrown into the space excavated to receive it, rammed and
levelled, and allowed to harden into a solid mass, upon which the
masonry is built. Concrete should not, as a general thing, be ex-
posed directly to the action of running water, since it may be rapidly
worn away, but with the proper precautions it forms the best of
foundations.

Should the soil of a particular locality not prove sufficiently strong
for this, however, recourse must be had to piling; that is, to driving
posts or piles of timber to such a depth that they will not settle any
further, and laying a platform upon their heads on which the masonry
will rest. The piles, with the bark stripped off, the points sharpened
or shod with iron, and the heads defended by iron rings, which are
afterwards removed, are driven by a heavy weight falling upon them
until they will go no further, or rather only a fraction of an inch with
several strokes. They are placed in rows, at distances apart depend-
ing upon the nature of the ground, and then their tops being sawed
ON BRIDGES. 133

off to a level, heavy timbers are bolted to them to receive the plat-
form.

Whenever there is any doubt of the foundations, piling will be
found to insure the greatest safety and permanence, although it is
frequently costly; it is only interfered with by natural springs in the
ground which loosen the material around'the piles and cause them to
settle or to rise. Piles may also be used to advantage to prevent the

spreading out of a loose, yielding material, such as quicksand. For
this purpose piles sawed out square, so that they will fit tightly to-
gether, are driven around the material to be enclosed, touching each
other, and connected at the top by string-pieces; the soft material
thus confined will present a good bearing mass, after being covered
with a wooden platform.

Solid rock is generally the most certain and satisfactory foundation,
but the labor of preparing its surface under water to receive the first
courses is considerable; hard, gravelly clay and cemented sands are
nearly as good; sand, which makes the best of foundations on the
land, must be narrowly watched under water, since it is easily moved
by currents by the obstruction in the channel, which may wash it
away and undermine the structure.

The abutments or land supports of the bridge may, of course, be
founded in the same manner as tlie piers; but being mainly on dry
land the difficulties attending them will usually be less.

Piers have been sometimes founded in a stream by building them
on the bottoms of flat scows or caissons and permitting them gradually
to sink, as the weight of masonry is increased, until the whole mass
rested upon the bottom, which has been dredged level to receive it;
the sides being detached, the bottom is left’ under the pier as a plat-
form. .

Cast-iron piles, terminating in an auger-shaped flange, which en-
ables them to be screwed into the soil, invented by an Englishman
named Mitchell, have been extensively used with good results, es-
pecially in the foundation of light-houses and beacons along the coral
reefs of the Florida coast. They are easily screwed down in places
where ordinary piles are difficult to manage, and their resistance to a
vertical pressure is enormous, owing to the surface exposed by the
wings of the screw.

Within a few years since the general introduction of iron into en-
gineering practice, a system of foundations by means of cast or
wrought-iron cylinders sunk into the bottom of the river has come
into favor. These cylinders or pneumatic piles, as they are called,
were first proposed and used by M. Triger, an engineer of the north
of France, for sinking a shaft through a quicksand; and are known in
England as Pott’s pneumatic pile, although he is really not the in-
ventor. The cylinders, from six to ten feet in diameter, prepared in
the proper lengths, are bolted together and sunk vertically until the
lower edge rests on the earth; the top is then closed by a plate, to
which is fitted an air-lock or chamber furnished with double doors,
like the vestibule of a house, so that a person can enter the lock and
134 LECTURE

shut one door behind him before opening the other, which leads into
the interior of the cylinder.

All being made tight, air is pumped into the cylinder by an engine,
and the water forced downwards in the pile until it is all driven out
at the bottom; workmen then enter through the air-lock, which only
permits a small portion of the enclosed compressed air to escape as
the doors are opened, and descending to the bottom excavate the soil
under the edge of the pile and in the centre allowing it to sink down
gradually by its own weight. It is directed in a vertical position by
guides above. As the pile sinks, new cylinders are added to the top,
when necessary, and after the whole is down to a firm foundation the
interior is filled up with rough stone or concrete, the air-lock removed,
a permanent cap substituted, and the superstructure raised upon it.

In loose, sandy bottoms these piles have been sunk by permitting
the air to rush out under the edge of the pile and by carrying out
with it the sand so as to make an annular channel into which the —
settles by its own weight.

Many bridges in England and on the continent, and some in this
country, have been built in this way with great success. One of the
most interesting examples is that of the new bridge over the Rhine
at Kehl, near Strasburg, where caisson piles were ‘sunk to a depth of
sixty feet below the surface of the water.

Frequently the bed of the river, between masonry piers and for
a short distance above and below them, is paved, planked, or covered
with loose stone, to prevent the current from undermining the
structure.

The foundations having been completed, and the piers having been
built up to a certain level, the bottom of the beam of a truss bridge
and the spring of the arch of a stone bridge, preparations must be
made for adding the superstructure.

The truss or beam may be either made on the shore and floated
and raised bodily into its position, as in the case of the water tubes
of the Britannia bridge, or it may be built in its place upon a scaf-
folding or false work erected to support it, as in the case of the land
tubes of the same bridge and of most of the truss bridges built in
this country.

For a stone or cast-iron arch a frame called a centring must be
employed, as shown in Figure 60, the top of which has the form of the

inner side of the arch, so that when the stones are laid upon it they
ON BRIDGES. | 135

come into their proper places in the curve. If the stream can be
occupied during the construction of the bridge by piles driven across
it, the form of the centring will be simple enough, for it can be
supported along its whole length from below ; but if the water-way, ~
as is frequently the case, must be left clear all the time, considerable
ingenuity is sometimes required in designing a structure which, only
supported at its ends, shall sustain the varying loads during the pro-
gress of the work without change of form.

After the centring is up, the construction of the arch is com-
menced by laying the first stones near the abutments on both sides,
and gradually building up towards the centre ; and as the weight is in
this way increased from the ends of the frame towards its middle, the
centring must be so trussed as to resist the change of figure which
this operation has a tendency to produce.

After the arch-stones, which are cut previously of the proper size
and shape, depending upon the curve of the intrados, are all properly
laid up to the middle, the last stone, usually called the keystone, is
fitted tightly into its place at the crown of the arch, and after per-
mitting the structure to rest for a short time, the centering is slightly
lowered to permit the stones to commence to bear tightly upon each
other. To enable the centre to be thus lowered, or struck, as it is
termed, it is made at first to rest on wedges on the lower part of the
frame, and these wedges being slowly driven back the centre gradu-
ally sinks. f

In the bridges of the Alma, the Invalids, and of St. Michael’s, all
in Paris, an arrangement, invented by M. Beaudemoulin, was substi-
tuted for the wedges with success. Upon the fixed portion of the
frame a series of sheet-iron cylinders filled with fine dry sand, rested,

into which fitted wooden plungers which rested on the sand, and upon °

these plungers rested the centring. When the centre was to be
struck, a small hole left at the bottom of the cylinder was opened,
and the sand running slowly out permitted the upper works to settle
down gradually.

When the engineer considers the mortar sufficiently set, the centre
is lowered still further and taken away, leaving the arch to support
itself ; the rest of the masonry work is then carried up, the spandrels
filled in to the level with the crown of the arch, and the pavement,
sidewalks, and parapet walls added.

Great care must be taken that the rain-water which falls upon the
surface of the bridge is not allowed to percolate through the struc-
ture ; as it not only carries portions of the lime with it and disfigures
the surface and the under side of the arches, but is frozen in winter,
and thus tends rapidly to destroy the bridge. Gutters must be laid
on the top, and the water from them conducted away in pipes through
the piers, while the use of asphalte or bitumen as a water-tight cov-
ering to the backs of the arches, is highly to be recommended.

As a general rule, it seems well to avoid much architectural orna-
ment on a stone bridge, unless it has some obvious connexion with
the constructive features. Many of the European bridges are in-
136 LECTURE

jured in appearance by pediments, cornices, columns, and pilasters,
which are entirely out of place.

There are enough projections and other features which occur natur-
ally in the construction to give the necessary relief, and structures
depending upon these alone have always a neater, bolder character
than those which are encumbered and enfeebled by useless ornaments.

In the United States but few, if any, very large stone bridges have |
been built, and we must look to Europe for examples. The ancient
aqueducts, the characteristics of which are usually very high, thin
piers and small arches, are among the most beautiful of the remains
of Roman enterprise and magnificence, while the river bridges of the
same people, however good of their class, are surpassed by those
constructed in the sixteenth century and later, when larger spans,
lighter piers, and segmental and elliptical arches were introduced by
Ammanati, Perronet, and others.

The ellipse or more properly the curve of several centres, Figure 59,
presents several advantages over the circular curves. Apart from
the increased water-way, its form is much more pleasing to the eye,
not only in its own variety, but because in it the broken line which
occurs where a segmental arch joins the face of the pier or the abut-
ment is avoided, and because the flatness of the arch near the top
gives an appearance of lightness which cannot be got in any other
way. The bridge of the Trinitaé over the River Arno, Florence,
Italy, built by Ammanati, in 1566, is the most graceful structure of
its kind that has yet been produced, and it owes its beauty principally
to the use of this curve. The piers of this bridge are, however,
thicker than they should be, since practice has reduced these parts
very much in later structures, with advantage both as to appearance
and to the water-way left beneath them.

At the present time, when many large bridges are built in isolated
places for railway purposes, cheapness and quickness of construction
are matters of the first importance, and as these necessities have led
to the general use of wood and iron, we shall finish this subject by a
description and comparison of two of the most important works of late
date. When the Chester and Holyhead railroad was to be carried
across the Menai straits, which separate the island of Anglesea from
the main land of Wales, a suspension bridge something like a famous
carriage bridge built by Telford at the same point, was proposed, but
the opinion of the distinguished engineer, Robert Stephenson, sup-
ported by nearly the whole of the English profession, was, that it was
impossible so to overcome the flexibility of a suspension bridge as to
fit it for railway traflic, and the idea was accordingly abandoned.
Several plans were then proposed—among them that of a cast-iron
arch—but owing to the restrictions placed on the work by the admi-
ralty, some arrangement was required which would avoid interference
for any length of time with the free passage of vessels through the
strait, and nothing like centring could be used.

Mr. Stephenson first determined to have a wrought-iron truss with
strong top and bottom, and thin plate sides or web supported by
chains at the central point; the chains, however, were afterwards
ON BRIDGES. . 137

abandoned and the simple beam decided upon. The bridge is com-

osed of four spans, the two ceutre ones being 460 feet and those at
the ends 230 feet. The land beams, or tubes as they are called, were
built in their places on scaffolds raised from the ground; but the tubes
occupying the centre spans were built on platforms on the shore,
afterwards floated into position, and raised by hydraulic presses to
their places, one hundred and four feet above the level of the water.

It is difficult, without a detailed description, to give an idea of the
magnitude and interest of this operation; but when we know that
each beam weighed 1,589 tons, was 470 feet in length, and had to be
floated during a single tide, from its original place on the shore, sev-
eral hundred yards to the foot of the piers, brought nicely into a
niche in the masonry while still on the floating pontoons which sup-
ported it, and then hoisted steadily through a vertical height of 104
feet, we can readily imagine that the work required the greatest care
and the most perfect arrangements. There being two large spans to
_ the bridge and two beams to each span, for the double track, there
were four to be thus moved, and the successive operations were
watched with great interest by the large crowds that assembled to
witness them.

These operaticns, as well as the magnitude of the work, gave this
bridge a place in the public mind, and a world-wide importance that
perhaps it hardly merits in an engineering point of view.

The two large spans are 460 feet in the clear—the small ones 230.
The total length of the bridge is 1,511 feet, and the single line weighs
3.1 tons per lineal foot. ‘‘The two tubes, in their entire length and
their complete state, contain 9,360 tons of wrought iron, 1,015 tons of
cast iron, and 165 tons of permanent way. They are composed of
about 186,000 separate pieces of iron, pierced by seven millions of
holes, and united by upwards of two millions of rivets. They con-
tain 435,700 feet or eighty-three miles of angle-iron, and their total
weight is 10,540 tons.’’ The total cost of the bridge was about three
millions of dollars.

Elaborate preliminary experiments, costing over twenty-five thou-
sand dollars, were made to determine the proportions of the beams,
by Mr. Fairbairn, to whom much of the credit is due.

The history of this bridge and its construction, in two beautiful
volumes, with elaborate plates, by Edwin Clark, will always be
considered a classical work both by the practical engineer and the
student of science.

The other structure to which I referred is the celebrated bridge
built over the Niagara river for the railroad passing through New
York and Canada, by John A. Roebling, C. E. The difficulties here
to be overcome were the crossing of a chasm 800 feet wide and 245
feet deep, at the bottom of which was a deep river with a furious
current, in which no boat could live or no scaffolding could be fixed; —
of course no central piers could be used, and a single clear span was
required.

A carriage-bridge had been constructed at this spoint, which is
138 LECTURE

about a mile and a half below the falls, by Charles Ellet,* in 1848,
and in 1852, it having been decided to carry the railroad across the
river, the large bridge was commenced at the same locality, by Mr.
Roebling. The fact that the English engineers had decided that sus-
pension bridges were impracticable for railroad purposes, made the
proposition to construct one at this place a bold enterprise, and
great praise is due not only to the genius and skill of the engineer,
but also to the president and directors of the road to whose liberal
views the engineering profession is indebted for this grand experi- —
ment.

Suspension bridges for ordinary traffic were in common use in Hu-
rope and in this country, and the well-known one at Fribourg, with a
span of 807 feet and an elevation of 167 feet above the water, built
in 1830, had remained in good condition after more than twenty years
of use; but the doubt existed whether such a structure could be made
stiff enough to resist the undulations caused by a moving weight as
heavy as that of a locomotive and a loaded train of cars.

The cables of the Niagara bridge are four in number, each ten
inches in diameter, and made up of 3,640 iron wires of No. 9 gauge,
anchored firmly into the solid rock about 230 feet from the edge of
the cliff, and passing over massive stone towers 76 feet in height, and
from these the roadway is suspended by wire ropes. ‘Iron drawn into
the form of wire is known to have its strength greatly increased in
proportion to its weight, and, therefore, it can be much more econo-
mically employed than in the form of rods or chains.

Were the roadway merely made strong enough to support the load
to be brought upon it, the bridge would be depressed, owing to the
flexibility of the cables at the point occupied by the load, and would
rise at other points, inducing an oscillation that would soon be destruc-
tive to the bridge, and the roadway is therefore trussed or framed
after the manner of a timber bridge, so as to resist any local depres-
sion and to distribute the weight over a great length of the cable,
and thus prevent such oscillation.

In addition to that, a number of wire stays run from the top of the
tower to points in the truss, on the principle shown in figure 19, which
fix those points and thus add materially to the stiffness. Again, the
track itself rests upon longitudinal girders of great strength, which
serve to distribute the immediate load-to more distant parts of the
truss. These are briefly the points upon which the stiffness of the
bridge depends. The railroad is placed on the upper floor of the
truss, while the lower is used for carriages and foot passengers.

It was held by English engineers that a-truss which would give
sufficient stiffness to the cables would be strong enough to sustain it-
self and the load, or that the cables would be useless, but this is
plainly disproved both by calculation and by the practical result of
the Niagara bridge, in which the truss is exceedingly light, and when
it serves only the legitimate purpose of stiffening, while the weight

* While these pages are going through the press our country is called upon to mourn
the untimely death of this eminent engineer, who, with generous patriotism, devoted his
talents and his life to the defence of the Union.
ON BRIDGES. 139

is borne by the cables themselves. The bridge has now been in con-
stant use, and since the eighth of March, 1855, when the first engine
passed over it, with perfect success.

It is the duty of the engineer to construct his works so that, while
durability is insured, the object shall be attained at the least cost.
It has been frequently said that there is no limit to engineering
achievements but the want of money, and much less credit is due to
him who accomplishes an important result with a large expenditure
than to him who does the same with limited means. This is espe-
cially true of the public works of this country, where the lines of com-
munication are very long and frequently pass through sparsely settled
regions, which could not by their local traffic support expensive struc-
tures. It will be interesting, therefore, to compare the cost and
weight of the two structures which we have described with the view
of determining their relative merits on these grounds.

The Britannia bridge is 1,511 feet in length, the Niagara 800.
The weight of one line of the first is 4,680 tons or 2,340 tons for 155
- feet against 1,000 tons for the 800 feet of the second, or nearly twice
as much. Again, the Britannia bridge, completed, cost three millions
of dollars for a double track, while the Niagara bridge cost four hun-
~dred thousand for a single track—rather more than half the length;
and taking into consideration that the piers, foundations, &c., would
cost almost as much for a single line as for two, the ratio of cost would
be about one to two and a half, a vast difference in favor of the sus-
pension bridge.

The proof of the practicability of cheap bridges of great spans, due
to Mr. Roebling’s talents, forms a new era in the art of engineering.
Communications which were hitherto considered impossible may
now be made; regions like those of the west coast of the United
States, intersected by deep ravines with vertical sides, may be tra-
versed by railroads, and rivers may now be spanned by bridges at
places which were before entirely impassable.

Mr. Peter W. Barlow, C. E., of England, after a careful personal

examination of the Niagara bridge, has not hesitated to propose a
plan for spanning the river Mersey, at Liverpool, by a suspension
bridge three thousand feet long, at a-height of one hundred and fifty
feet above the water, with towers four hundred and fifty feet high, at a
cost of five millions of dollars.
. The greatest engineer is not, however, he who builds the largest
work at a greatest cost, but he who, by the introduction of new prin-
ciples, or by the ingenious application of those already understood,
extends the practice so as to enable us to surmount new difficulties
with economy and safety.
LECTURE

ON

THE RELATIONS OF TIME AND SPACE.

By PROFESSOR S. ALEXANDER,
OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

i ANY of the truths with which we are conversant have not so much
co do with things as with the relation of things. There are no such
things, in themselves considered, as 3, 4, 7, or 24; and even length,
breadth, thickness, and capacity are not things in themselves consid-
ered, although they belong to all material substances. As with us,
so far as we have to do with them, time and space are not things, but
the relation of beings and things. We occupy space, and pass our
lives in time. There was, therefore, force as well as truth in the ob-
servation of Franklin: ‘‘ Dost thou love life, then do not squander
time, for time is the stuff that life is made of.’’ We avail ourselves
of this pithy saying of his Poor Richard in order that we may vindi-
cate the necessity for our going a little further and ascertaining the
material of which time itself is constituted. This, in the largest sense
of the term, is duration. Now, without attempting to define either
space or duration, we may readily describe both. Thus it will be con-
ceded that space is that wherein there is room for the whole material
creation, so that bodies in it may exist apart. And so, in a somewhat
metaphorical sense, duration is that wherein there is room for events
to occur; it is that wherein, in one sense, things may happen, or in
which it is essential to space that its portions should be diverse in
position. All experience tells us that our right hand cannot occupy
the same place with our left, and the accurate experiments of natural
philosophy abundantly confirm this conclusion. Not only so, but also
when my right hand goes to the place where my left hand was, it for-
sakes its place, leaves behind that part of space it occupied, and goes —
to another part of space, so that it is essential to space that the por-
tions of it should be diverse in position. It is just as essential to
duration, in so far as we have to do with it, that its portions should
exist in succession. Tuesday cannot, by any device, become Wed-
nesday; it has preceded that day. Thursday cannot, in like manner,
become Wednesday; it must succeed it. It is essential to space, there-
fore, that its portions should be diverse, and essential to duration that
its portions should exist in succession. It is, moreover, a result of all
RELATIONS OF TIME AND SPACE. 141

experience that within the same portion of duration, as far as can be
discerned, there is room for the same or similar events to occur in
the same way. It is the result also of all experience, so far as we
can trace the matter, that one portion of duration is like another, so
‘that no portion of it goes on faster than any other. Now, it is the
uniform continuous flow of duration, thus parcelled out, that consti-
tutes absolute time. Relative time is a portion of duration whose
limits are marked by events. You have something to mark when
that duration begins and when it ends. Absolute time will flow on
whether you mark it or not. When that portion of time is marked
by events, so that you know where certain periods of time begin
and end, it becomes relative time. As then we must speak of the
limit when a portion begins, not when it ends, it is desirable that we
should distinctly indicate what we mean by limit, whether of space
or duration.

Now with regard to the limit of anything that occupies space. The
outside of this table before me is no part of the table; it is only pre-
cisely where the table ends that outer space begins. The outside is
not somewhat in the same sense with the table itself, but only some-
where—where the table ends, and the outer space begins. But this
is still somewhat in its own sense. It has breadth, it has length and
superficial extent, such as may be measured by a square foot. But
the outer edge is not somewhat even in the sense that it covers some-
thing; it merely penetrates space, instead of dividing it. The very
end of the outer edge is not somewhat even in the sense of a line, for
although the outer edge was long, penetrating space, the very end of
it is only somewhere. Thus it is with the centre of a sphere. It is
not somewhat. When we depart from it at all we fersake the central
position we occupied. But you may ask is it not somewhere? Oh,
yes; precisely at the middle; at the same distance from the surface
on all sides. So also with the midnight, with which Tuesday shall
end and Wednesday begin. It is not somewhat in duration. It does
not last at all. When midnight arrives, that instant the following day
will be here. It is not somewhat in duration, but only somewhere; it
is at the precise time when one day ends and another begins that,
if I may be permitted to coin a word for the occasion, it is somewhen.
It lasts not at all, and therefore is only a point of time, that is an
instant. There is a distinction between an instant and a moment,
for a moment isa real portion of duration—a small but indefinite per-
tion—while an instant is no portion of duration whatever.

The natural measure of time, Lord Kames tells us, is the succession
of our thoughts. When the varied incidents of a pleasant journey
pass before the mind in review, the interval thus spent appears to
have been a long one. But if during a tedious journey, or a fit of the
toothache, or, to come still nearer home, a dull lecture, we find time
to be long, it will certainly not be long in review. So, then, time
may appear long or short, according to circumstances, and it is per-
fectly evident that this rule of Lord Kames cannot answer as a good
measure of time. It has been also supposed that the insects which
142 LECTURE ON THE

live but for a day—the ephemera—may have so many sensations (we
cannot call them ideas) during the course of that day that this period
may appear on the whole as a long life. Such a measurement of time,

varying according to circumstances, is inappropriate ; it is evident,
therefore, that some other must be sought.

Ina good standard of measure of time there are two or three prop-
erties which are indispensable. And first, it should be readily acces-
sible: a measure shut up so that it could not be reached would be
good for nothing. Second, it should be convenient, both as to size
and mode of application. Third, the measure should, if possible, be
invariable. Now, there is a standard in nature which embraces these
three properties, and that is, the rotation of the earth about its axis.

It is for some purposes convenient, as regards size and mode of ap-
plication, inasmuch as it is nearly the length of the ordinary day. It
possesses the third property, invariability. But how do we know that
the rotation of the earth is invariable? This fact may be ascertained
by comparing it in the long run, or with something else known to be
invariable. To illustrate this, suppose the minute hand of a clock by
‘some means to go too fast; when it arrives at 12 the hour hand will be
some way behind the position which it would otherwise have occu-
pied; and this discrepancy, however small at first, if permitted to go on,
will become more and more evident. The moon revolves about the
earth in a certain mumber of days, as days now are. Now, if counting
ages backward, the day had been changed, the whole number of days,
according to our present measurement, would not correspond to the

-exact number occupied in the moon’s revolution, and therefore the
position of the moon *ona given day, by this backward reckoning,
would be found to be untrue. That this is not so is found by a com-
parison of computation with the observation of an eclipse of the
moon more than seven centuries before the Christian era, and from it
is safely concluded that the rate of the earth’s rotation has not changed
one three-hundredth part of asecond. There are causes which might
change this. The most prominent among these is a change of bulk
arising from a loss of heat. The loss of heat does not, in every case,
produce a shrinking. Cast iron presents a familiar example, as it at
first expands in cooling. It may, therefore, happen that within the
earth a great deal of expansion and contraction occurs, though there
is no sensible shrinking on the whole. Evenif the earth actually:
shrunk, the loss of heat and size would not diminish the force of rota-
tion at all, but the time of rotation will diminish with the circuit. If
I take a ball with a string attached, and, by means of the string, cause
it to revolve around my arm, and then wind up the string, as it pro-
ceeds in its revolutions the motion of the ball will become quicker
and quicker, until the string is entirely wound up.

Let me here observe that the earth has more than one motion. It
revolves around its axis, and in that revolution pauses not, while it
also moves around the sun. Before proceeding to consider this fact,
it is desirable to ascertain when a sphere which has two motions has
completed a rotation.
RELATIONS OF TIME AND SPACE. ~ 143
.

For this purpose, suppose two spheres to be situated as in Figure

1, the one at A, the other at B,
/
Wy

lel to a meridian on the other, and
that the angular welocity of rota-
tion is the same in both. The au-
dience will perceive that the me-
ridian will continue parallel, and be
so found at the end of the rotation.
If, instead of this, we suppose that
the sphere A, while it revolved,
was also transferred to the place of
B, then the meridian on A, when
it arrives at B, would be found at
the completion of its rotation to be
parallel to its first position. Noon
at any place occurs when the plane
of that meridian passes through the sun in the direction of C. If,
after one rotation, the earth were transferred to B, then the meridian
already shown in the figure must be in a direction parallel to its
former position. But noon will not have occurred. To accomplish
this the earth must have revolved as much more as the direction of
noon has meanwhile changed ; that is, until the meridian reaches the
line in the figure passing from B to the sun. Now, if the earth’s due
eastern motion in its orbit™ were
equable, the solar days would be
equal, for the excess above a whole
rotation (already described) would
-in every case be the same. This
cannot be the case, especially be-
cause of two reasons: The first is
found in the oblique position of the
orbit itself. The earth does not move
due east, but eastward, insomuch that
if the direction of the circle passing
through A, in Figure 2, represent a
due eastern direction, the circle
through B would represent that in
which the earth is actually moving.
It will be perceived on either supposition that a quarter revolution
eastward would be accomplished in '
the same time, or the position as re-
gards a due eastern motion would be
the same at four points, these being
the equinoctial and solstitial points.
This is artificially registered on Figure
5, in which the first curve A is made
to intersect the horizontal line at the
times of the equinoxes and solstices.
Now, in passing from the equinox
to the solstice, the due eastern motion, as in Figure 3, E B, is less

_ having a meridian on the one paral-

Wi

144 LECTURE ON THE

than that of E A, the actual motion in the orbit. With reference to
its average motion in a due eastern direction, it may be said to lag
behind in its reckoning. The excess of the solar above the sidereal day
will, therefore, be less than usual. Our time by the sun must gain, and —
a full quarter of the revolution will still be completed, as before shown,
at the solstice. The fact that time by the sun must gain during
this interval is indicated artificially in Figure 5 by the portion of the
curve A which corresponds to that interval being placed above the line.
In passing from the solstice to the equinox the opposite effect will
take place; our time by the sun will lose, and this is indicated artifi- ,

cially in Figure 5 by the portion of the curve

A which corresponds to that interval being
t placed below the horizontal line. The other
cause of irregularity is found in the orbit
itself. This is elliptical. The deviation from
the circle is exaggerated in the representation
of Figure 4.

The case of motion in the curve requires
that the space, such as C A B, passed over in
a given time by a line drawn from the sun at
A should be equivalent to the space, D A H,
passed over in the same time when the earth
is passing through any other portion of its

E orbit. It willbe seen that it will require the

Fig. 4. angular velocity of revolution about the sun

to be greater when the earth is nearer to him.

Each half of the elliptic, F B D, will be described in the same time.
In passing around from F to D, that is, from January to July, the
due eastern motion of the earth will, for the reasons now stated, be
greater than the average. This will cause the excess of the solar

A C

Fig. 5.

above the sidereal day to be greater than usual, and our time by the
sun will lose. This is represented artificially in Figure 5 by the por-
tion of the curve B which corresponds to that interval being placed
below the horizontal line.

During the other half of the year the opposite effect will take
place. This is indicated by the other portion of the same curve
RELATIONS OF TIME AND SPACE. 145.

being placed above the horizontal line. The mean solar day is the
average of all the solar days in the year, and the deviation from it,
arising from both the causes already specified, being proportionably
represented at any date in the year on the two curves, A and B,
already described, the effect arising from the combination of the two
will be represented by curve C, which indicates the equation or cor-
rection of time. This will be found to be nothing at irregular inter-
vals, to wit: about the 15th of April, 15th June, Ist September..
and 24th December.

It may be well to notice to some extent the difference of local time,
as it will enable us readily to answer a curious question that has often
been discussed at much length : If from a first meridian, at which it is
noon—say of Tuesday—we count around eastward, we shall find it to
be later and later in the afternoon of Tuesday, until arriving at the
opposite side of the earth, in longitude 180, we shall find it to be the
midnight with which Tuesday is about to end and Wednesday begin ;
but if from the same first meridian we should count around westward,
we would find it to be earlier in the morning of Tuesday, until arriving
again at the longitude of 180 degrees, we should find the time to be
the midnight with which Tuesday is about to begin. By comparing
these two results it will be perceived that the difference of time between
two places situated beyond 180 degrees—one on the one side and the
other on the other—must be all of 24 hours. This difference, which
existsjabout midnight, must continue to exist as time moves on, at any
other hour of the day. In passing this limit, therefore, the name of
the day of the week must be changed in the reckoning. Now, as
Christianity, and with it civilization, are overspreading the earth, 1
would seem most suitable that the first meridian of reference should
be the meridian of Jerusalem.

The question to which allusion has already been made, is as follows:
Suppose a traveller to be transferred westward as fast as the earth
revolves from sun to sun eastward, so that if at the outset it were
noon with him it would continue so, it is required to know when and.
where it would be necessary for him to change the name of the day.
Now, it has already been seen that the place where this ought to
happen, is in the longitude 180 degrees from the first meridian fixed
upon, and the time when this must occur is noon by the very condi-.
tions of the problem.

I will now notice the calendar, though I may do it but briefly. It
has, of course, for its object the distribution of time, a primary
division of which is the day. Anciently the twenty-four hours of the
day were named after the sun, the moon, and the five planets, as
follows: Sun, Venus, Mercury, Moon, Saturn, Jupiter, and Mars.
The first hour of the first day was named after the sun. This also
gave name to the day, and it was called Sunday. The other hours of
the day were named after the other planets, &c., in the series; and
then the series was begun anew, and having been gone through in
this way three successive times, twenty-one hours received their
names, and the remaining three -hours were named by commencing
the series a fourth time and proceeding as before. ‘The first hour of

10
146 LECTURE ON THE

the next day received the name of the fourth in the series, to wit,
the moon; and this also gave name to the day, so that it was called
Moonday or Monday., Thus the several days of the week were named.
The French names of the days of the week still bear marks of this
process. Inthe English names of the days the names of the old
Saxon deities are introduced in place of those of the gods of ancient
heathenism. Thus we have Sun’s-day, Moon’s-day Tuisco’s-day,
Woden’s-day, Thor’s-day, Friga’s-day, and Seterne’s-day.

With regard to the months, January is named from Janus; Febru-
ary from Februa; March from Mars; April from the Latin Aprilis,
called from aperio, to open, being a spring month of the year; May
from Maius; June from Juno; July from Julius Cesar; August from
Augustus Cesar, and the remaining months from their order in the
Roman calendar, September being the Tth, October the 8th, Novem-
ber the 9th, and December the 10th. Our present irregular arrange-
ment is said to have arisen in part from the pride of Augustus Cesar,
who insisted on having as many days in the month named after him
as that named after Julius; in consequence of this but twenty-eight
days were left for February.

In the next place we come to epochs ; an epoch is the period from
which any number of years is reckoned. The birth of the Savior is
an epoch, and the years reckoned from it constitute a Christian era.
According to the Christian era, then, we have arrived at the year
1860. The question whether 1850 ends the first half of the century,
or whether it begins the second, is not a question for speculation.
It isa mere question as to what is the fact. It is somewhat analo-
gous to the question whether a railroad company had directed the first
milestone to be placed at the beginning or end of the first mile, and
so onward. At the outset it might be a speculative question as to
which position would be the better ; but after the arrangement had
been made the question would be merely what had been done. Now
it is a fact that those who had the arrangement of our chronology
so settled the matter that the year one should indicate the first year
of Christ ; so that the year one did not end until the first year was
completed. Hence, the first 100 years did not come to an end until
the year 100 was completed. The first 1800 years did not come to
an end until the year 1800 was completed; and 1850 years of the
Christian era will not have come to an end until the year 1850 shall
have been completed. The succession of 100 years constitutes a
century, the longest period yet employed in the measure of time,
because (observes La Place) ‘‘ the interval that separates us from the
most ancient of known events has as yet required no other.’’ Dura-
tion, however, is inexhaustible, and we next proceed to consider the
infinites both of space and duration.

Now, whether we regard space forward, backward, sidewise, up-
ward, downward, or obliquely—it matters not in what direction—it
is absolutely without limit. Not merely is the limit so remote that
you cannot ascertain it, but space is really boundless in all directions,
absolutely infinite ; so, too, antecedent to all things we still behold,
self-sustained upon the throne of His adorable perfections, the great
First Cause, He who, being the origin of the first beginning, Himself
RELATIONS OF TIME AND SPACE. 147

has none, but ever was, as now, from everlasting. It is in this per-
petual precedent, this underived antecedent of the divine pre-exist-
ence, that we find the realization of eternity past ; so, too, far beyond
the ages to come—innumerable though they may be made by the
flight of years, immeasurable though they may be by the flight of
centuries—must still continue the ceaseless, unalterable being of Him
who alone hath immortality underived, and in that is eternity future.

Now it is the combination of both of these, nothing less than this,
nothing short of it, that constitutes for us the absolute infinite of
duration ; that is, from everlasting to everlasting.. Dividing the two
eternities, as it w6re, the one from the other, in all worlds at once
stands the instantaneous present. Thus it was from the first moment
of the existence of the first created being, or thing, and thus it will
be when the present system of things, like a worn-out garment, is, as
it were, folded up and laid aside. Through the ever-present now, the
eternity future flows by, and in the metaphorical sense is transferred,
moment by moment, to the eternity past. We recognize this fact
even in our ordinary language ; thus we say when to-morrow comes
[to us] and not when we come to to-morrow.

We are now somewhat prepared to discuss the question whether, if
all the material creation were annihilated, what might be called space
would remain? On the one hand it would seem that it would not be
so, because the outside of this block, for instance, is not somewhat,
but only somewhere, and disappears when the block is removed.
Hence, we might conclude that what is still more complete outside

.would disappear if all else were gone. On the other hand, the outside
of this block has a dependent existence. It goes with the block,
though it cannot exist by itself. Wherever the block goes the outside
goes with it. But the block occupies a portion of space and leaves it
behind when it is removed to another. Hence, if all else were gone
it would seem as if space must still exist. Now the statement that
if all the visible creation were removed, there would still be room for
another, proves nothing. It but argues that if there were another
creation it would exist as now in space. But it does not show what
would happen if all these things were gone, or in the absence of
everything tangible. This is a matter so far beyond the pale of our
experience we can assert nothing with respect to it. We care not,
however, whether this question be decided in the one way or the
other ; but we most uncompromisingly assert that space cannot exist
independent of the great First Cause, from whom not merely all things
were created, but by whom they also consist ; who has not merely
made these things what they are, but as they are. On Him are de-
pendent not only all things but all relations of things.

Could space, indeed, exist by itself? It would be a thing by itself
and not a relation of things ; then must it also be independent, and
if it were independent it would be self-existent ; if self-existent it
would be interwoven with the existence of the Almighty. We know,
therefore, of no space which is not pervaded by His presence, as we
know of no eternity which He inhabiteth not.

Let us, for a moment, compare and contrast finite with the infinite
148 LECTURE ON THE RELATIONS OF TIME AND SPACE.

and perhaps a simple illustration, contained in Figure 6, will serve the
purpose.

Fig. 6. ‘

If a point (A) be assumed in a straight line which we may term
specifically infinite, the line in either direction from that point will be
interminable ; and the two portions, one on each side of the point,
- may be regarded as being wn effect equal. If, again, another point
(B) be assumed in the same line, however remote from the former,
the two portions, one on each side of it, may be regarded as being in
effect equal ; though the whole intervening distance between A and
‘B will have been added to one of the portions into which the line was
divided at the first point (A) and subtracted from the other portion.
It appears, therefore, that any such distance, however great, must
be regarded as nothing in comparison with a straight line intermin-
able in only one direction. As the point assumed in the interminable
line in effect divides that line into two halves, so the instantaneous
present divides the eternity past from the eternity future. It does
so, in so far as can be discerned, in all worlds at once ; as the same °
plane in the figure cuts all the three straight lines which penetrate it,
and which are to be regarded as interminable in both directions from
the dividing plane. The present thus divides those two eternities
now. Through the limit thus ever-present the current of time passes,
in a metaphorical sense ; and moment by moment the eternity future
is transferred to the eternity past, and any portion of time however
long must be regarded as nothing in comparison with either. We
may thus, in some very humble measure, learn how it is that in the
view of the infinite minda ‘‘thousand years’’ should be as ‘‘one day,”’
and one day as a thousand years.

The relations of things being, as already maintained, constituted
relations ; and they being also constituted in some respects alike, as
appears from the comparisons of time and space, we may even rev-
erentially proceed a step further and conclude, that as any finite, or
even in some respects boundless, space is worthless, or to be regarded
as of no value in comparison with the absolute infinite of space;
and as, again, any finite portion of duration is also-a relative zero in
comparison with the absolute infinite of duration ; so, also, must the
highest created intelligence and lowest among men be alike worthless,
or regarded as nothing in comparison with the alone infinite one.

Here, therefore, with humble reverence would we rest; for this
discussion has led us to the consideration of great and awful themes ;
but here, also, with heartfelt gratitude would we bow, since He has
revealed Himself, and how He may be to us the Father of Mercies.
LECTURE

ON

ARGTIC EXPLORATIONS.

By DR. I. I. HAYES,
COMMANDER OF THE LATE AMERICAN ARCTIC EXPEDITION.

I appear before you, in obedience to an invitation with which I
have been honored by the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution,
to give an account of my late expedition to the Arctic seas. That
expedition, some of you may remember, sailed from Boston in July, ©
1860, and returned to the same port in October, 1861. Before pass-
ing to my narrative, a brief statement of the objects of the expedition
may not be out of place.

It was my good fortune to have sailed in 1853 with the lamented
Dr. Kane, as surgeon of his expedition, and I remained in that ser-
vice until late in 1855. Upon my return to the United States I
formed the plan of another expedition. There were many circum-
stances of discouragement, not least among which was an impression
which then had possession of the public mind, that any further efforts
. toward the North Pole must be fruitless, and must involve an unjus-
tifiable exposure of life. It was only after many endeavors that here
and there the influences favorable to my design began to affect the
community. The most important of these was, of course, the sanction
given to my plans by those associations by whose opinions the mass
of men are governed in relation to scientific matters; and it gives
me pleasure that I am to-night enabled, on a public occasion like the
present, to express my acknowledgments to the Smithsonian Institu-
tion for the liberal support which was rendered by it to the expedi-
tion, not only by its contribution of scientific apparatus, but through
the encouragement which was given towards effecting its organiza-
tion by the influence of the distinguished gentleman who is the prin-
cipal executive officer of the establishment. To this approval of the
Smithsonian Institution, so widely known and respected, were added
that of the American Philosophical Society, the Geographical Society
of New York, the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, the
American Association for the Advancement of Science, the American
Academy of Arts and Sciences, the Boston Society of Natural History,
and the assistance and encouragement of individuals, among whom
the renowned head of the coast survey, Dr. Bache, was the most con-
spicuous. Yet, in spite of the efforts made in many quarters, my outfit
was a very small one. My original plan embraced two vessels, one
a small steamer, and the other a schooner, the latter to be placed in
a convenient harbor, near the mouth of Smith strait, and the former
to be used for penetrating the ice to the northward; but to obtain so
large an organization as this plan involved was found to be impracti-
150 LECTURE ON ARCTIC EXPLORATIONS.

cable. Upon leaving Boston, July 10, 1860, my entire party numbered
only fifteen persons, and we sailed in a schooner of only one hundred
and thirty-three tons burden.

My purpose was to follow up the line of research opened by Dr.
Kane; I allude, of course, to that of Smith strait and Kennedy channel.
You will readily understand that I had no such idle purpose as was
sometimes popularly attributed to me, viz: that of merely reaching —
the north pole of the earth as a feat of adventurous exploration.

The general object was to procure as much information as the
restrictions of our voyage would allow beyond the termination of Dr.
Kane’s labors, and in the same direction in which they tended. The
space between the point at which his personal observations ended —
and the North Pole is about six hundred and fifty miles, an interval
sufficiently large to admit of very numerous and important observa-
tions.

Coinciding with him in the opinion that at some portion of each
year there exists a large body of water about or near the Pole, I
hoped to extend the evidence which he had collected on this subject
as well as on many others.

It would, of course, have been a source of the highest satisfaction ©
to have succeeded in setting at rest the question of open water, but
it was by no means the sole object of the expedition.

Various questions connected with the physical condition of the
earth remain to be solved by observations in high latitudes, such as
the currents of the air and water; the temperature of these movable
elements; the pressure of the former and the tides of the latter; the
variation of gravity; the direction and intensity of the magnetic force;
the aurora borealis, &c. Relative to all these it was my intention to
make observations, and I trust when the results which I have obtained
are discussed, as they will be, under the direction of the Smithsonian
Institution, they will not disappoint the reasonable expectation I have
formed of their value.

I esteemed myself fortunate in obtaining the services of Mr. August
Sonntag, the able astronomer and physicist of Dr. Kane’s expedition,
who early volunteered to fulfil the same duties during my own, and
also to aid me as second in command, and upon him were to be de-
volved the most important of the observations. His death soon after
entering our winter harbor left me with the aid only of three young
men, who were dependent almost wholly upon my instruction and
supervision. :

I have made these explanations in order that you may the better
appreciate the difficulties which embarrassed us, and that you may
not in advance be induced to overrate the unpretending collections
made during my cruise; yet it is due to the truth to say also that,
notwithstanding these difficulties, the zealous aid of my young asso-
ciates has enabled me to return with some valuable additions to our
previous stores of knowledge.

In order that you may in the outset have a clear idea of the route
of the expedition, I will call your attention to the rude diagram sus-
pended on the wall, representing the Arctic regions in circumpolar
projection. The centre of the map, therefore, represents the position
LECTURE ON ARCTIC EXPLORATIONS. 151

of the North Pole, and, as far as known, this point of extreme north-
ness is in the centre of a great ocean, almost mediterranean in its

_ character, for you will observe that the shores of Greenland, America,

Asia, and Europe invest it almost completely, while the islands of
Nova Zembla and Spitzbergen interrupt the only broad entrance to
it from the south.

It has long been supposed by physicists that this large body of
water could not be frozen over, that an open sea of varying extent
would be found within the ice belt which was known to invest it ;
and the correctness of this hypothesis seemed to be, at least partially
confirmed, by the researches of the old Dutch and English voyagers,
and more recently by those of Scoresby, Wrangell, and Parry. To
these evidences were added the important discovery of open water
by one of Dr. Kane’s exploring parties to the northward of Smith
strait.

The great difficulty which has been experienced in solving this in- .
teresting problem has been an inability either to push through the
ice belt with a vessel, or to travel over it with sledges sufficiently far
to obtain indisputable proofs.

My experience with Dr. Kane led me to believe that the chances
of success were greater by the route which had been pursued by
Dr. Kane than any other, and I conceived the idea of carrying a boat
over the ice belt to the open water, having previously penetrated as
far as practicable with a vessel.

You may remember that Dr. Kane’s highest northing with his ves-
sel was latitude 78° 37’ on the eastern side of Smith strait. It
seemed to me that the chances of success would be greater if a ves-
sel could be taken up the west coast, and from my own observations
in 1854, it appeared probable that a latitude between 79° and 80°
could be obtained for a winter harbor. For means of transport across
the ice I relied upon dogs.

How far I was able to execute my plans, it will be my purpose to
inform you in this lecture.

The schooner in which we sailed was originally built for the West
India trade; she was carefully strengthened for the ice encounters
by heavy beams and braces internally, and externally by a thick
wooden sheathing, and by heavy iron plates over the bows and cut-
water. Agreeably to my petition, her name was changed from
‘‘ Spring Hill’ to ‘‘ United States,’’? by act of Congress.

I will not dwell upon the details of our voyage to Greenland, which
was unusually boisterous. The schooner was unavoidably so heavily
laden that her deck was never more than eighteen inches above the
water, and was never dry. After touching at Proven and Upernavik,
we reached, on the 21st of August, Tessuissak, the most northern of
the Danish stations, in latitude 73° 40’. At all of these places we
were kindly received, and the officials furnished me with every facil-
ity in their power for procuring the requisite furs and dogs for sledge
travelling.

A brief description of these settlements may not be out of place in
this connexion. You are all, no doubt, aware that Greenland is a
possession of Denmark. It is divided into two principal districts or
152 LECTURE ON ARCTIC EXPLORATIONS.

inspectorates, each of which is presided over by a viceroy or royal
inspector. These principal districts are known as North and South
Greenland, the seat of government of the former being Godhavn,
situated on the southern extremity of Disko island; and of the latter
at Godhaab. Hach of the inspectorates is subdivided into smaller
districts, which are under the immediate control of chief traders or
governors, who are directly responsible to the royal inspector. The
most northern district is that of Upernavik, the seat of government
of which is at the settlement or colony of that name, situated on a
small island, in latitude 72° 40’. The settlements of Proven, Tessuis-
sak, and many others of a similar character, are comprised within
that district, and are subordinate to the central authority at Uperna-
vik. The outposts comprise generally only a trader’s house and a
few native tents. Upernavik has besides the government house, a
missionary house, a church, and school-house, two storehouses, a
shop, two blubber-houses, and about a dozen Esquimaux habitations.

The Greenland colonies are for the most part profitable to the
Danish government; and they maintain the government employés and
natives in comfort and abundance. The people live exclusively by.
hunting and fishing; and from the district of Upernavik alone, two
vessels, of three hundred tons each, are annually freighted with the
products of their industry and hardy skill, consisting of whale, seal,
and shark oil; seal, fox, reindeer, and bear skins; eider down, walrus,
and narwhal ivory; codfish, and other articles of less value.

My purpose in halting at the several stations which I have men-
tioned was to obtain furs and dogs for my proposed sledge travelling
at the north. Having, through the kindness of the Danish officials,
obtained the needed supplies, as also three Esquimaux hunters and an
interpreter, we set out from Tessuissak on the 22d of August for the
field of our future explorations. Our route lay thence northward
through Melville bay, the usual track of the whalers. That bay was
entered on the morning of the 23d of August, during a-thick snow
storm, with a heavy gale and a high sea following us; and without
having encountered any ice we reached Cape York in fifty-five hours. _
This passage of the bay was remarkable.

Standing close in under Cape York, I kept a careful watch from
the masthead for Esquimaux, and I soon had the gratification to see
a group of them running down toward the beach, making signs to
attract attention. The schooner being hove to, | went on shore in a
whaleboat, and was met at the beach by an Esquimaux, whom [I
quickly recognized to be Hans, Dr. Kane’s young hunter. Upon his
expressing a desire to accompany me, I took him, together with his
wife and child, on board, and again stood northward.

Beyond the parallel of the Carey islands, near which the whalers
annually pass, and thence to Smith strait, our track was the same as
that of Dr. Kane. The distance from the northern limit of the whale
fishery to Smith strait, you will perceive, is not great, and with a fair
wind we ran it ina few hours. The chief interest of our voyage
commences, therefore, on the 26th of August, on which day we were
a little to the northward of the position of Baffin in 1616, and Ross
LECTURE ON ARCTIC EXPLORATIONS. 153

in 1818, twenty miles south of Cape Alexander, the entering cape on
the Greenland side of Smith strait.

The strait was entered on the 27th of August; but we were un-
fortunate in meeting near its mouth an ice-pack of extraordinary
thickness, through which no passage could. be effected. This pack
trended off to the south and west, and appeared to adhere to the
western coast. Our efforts to find a navigable lead were interrupted
by a heavy gale which broke suddenly upon us and drove us out of
the strait. The gale continued with great force for three days,
during which we were a second time driven out of the strait, and,
having at length sustained serious damage, we made the land and an-
chored. ’

At that place I went on shore and, from an elevation of twelve
hundred feet, obtained a view to the west and north. The ice was
everywhere closely packed and heavy. On the following day we were
blown from our anchorage, and were much damaged against some ice-
bergs which had drifted in with the current. It was as late as the Ist
of September that we again entered the strait, again to be blown out
and crippled by a sudden return of the gale. It was not until the
evening of September 2d that we effected a permanent lodgment in
the strait. Failing to find an opening toward the west shore, I de-
termined to seek one higher up, near Cape Hatherton; but when
among the ice off Littleton island the schooner became ‘‘beset,’’ the
iron sheathing on the bows and the cutwater were carried away, and_
the rudder was rendered useless. After some hours we reached a
place of safety and anchored., We put to sea again on the 6th, but
failing to pass Littleton island, and the temperature having fallen to
12°, when navigation was no longer safe, I was obliged to go into
winter quarters in Hartstene bay, ten miles northeast of Cape Alex-
ander, in a harbor which I have named Port Foulke, in honor of my
friend William Parker Foulke, esq., of Philadelphia, who was the
earliest and has been one of the most constant friends of the expedi-
tion. Subsequent observations gave our position, latitude 78° 17! 41”,

longitude 72° 30’ 57’ W., twenty miles south of the latitude of Rens-
-selaer Harbor, (Dr. Kane’s winter quarters.) and distant from it by
the coast line about ninety miles.

At the time of going into winter quarters the vessel was badly
‘crippled by frequent collisions with field ice, and by twice being driven
upon icebergs. The weather was not only very boisterous from the
time of our first entering the strait, but thick snow was almost con- .
tinually falling. I regretted very much that,we had not steam-power.

My plans of exploration being based upon reaching the west coast,
and there attaining a harbor above or near latitude 79°, which I had
thought practicable from personal observations made in 1854, you will
perceive that our winter harbor was very unfavorable for the accom-
plishment of my purpose. I could not attain even as convenient a
position as that of Dr. Kane, whose line of travel, being near the
Greenland coast, was freed from some of the obstacles attending our
passage across the strait, with dog sledge, to Grinnell Land.

Our preparations for the winter were similar to those of Dr. Kane.
A house was built on shore to receive our stores, and the hold of the

‘
154 LECTURE ON ARCTIC EXPLORATIONS.

vessel was converted into a room for the men. The upper deck was
covered with a house made of boards, which had been brought for the
purpose. The ship’s company lived in health and comfort. During
the autumn and winter the officers were engaged in various scientific
observations.

Soon after entering our winter harbor an observatory was erected
upon shore near the vessel, under the superintendence of Mr. Sonn-
tag. It was a frame structure, covered first with canvas and then
with snow, and was eight feet square. In this a fine pendu’um appa-
ratus, constructed under Mr. Sonntag’s supervision by the Messrs.
Bond, of Boston, after the plan of. Foster’s instrument, was imme-
diately mounted, and satisfactory sets of experiments were then

made by Mr. Sonntag, assisted by Mr. Radcliff. *The pendulum

beat nearly seconds; that is, rudely, 3,607 beats in 3,600 seconds of |

time. The readings were made when the knife- edge passed the zero
point of the graduated arc. The interval of the readings was ten
seconds, and eleven readings generally made a set. These observa-
tions were continued from September 26 until October 12. They are
yet unreduced, and I am therefore unable to announce to what con-
clusions they lead. I may mention that experiments were made by

Mr. Sonntag and Professor Bond at the Cambridge Observatory prior |

to the sailing of the expedition, and that the instrument will be
placed in Professor Bond’s hands for a repetition of the experiments
at the same place.

Upon removing the pendulum apparatus, a unifilar magnetometer
was mounted upon a firm support in the centre of the observatory,
and the scale readings were recorded hourly every seventh day,
and three times daily during the interval, from November to March.
The same instrument was subsequently used for making several sets
of experiments in declination, deflection, and vibration. A corres-
ponding number of sets of experiments for the determination of dip
were also made with a well-adjusted instrument. . These four classes
of magnetic observations were, with certain omissions, subsequently
repeated at Cape Isabella on the west side of Smith strait, at Netlik in
Whale sound, at Upernavik, and at Godhayn. All of these observa-
tions are yet unreduced. I should mention that the instruments were
furnished to the expedition by Professor Bache, superintendent of
the United States Coast Survey, under whose supervision the con-
stants had been carefully deterrained, and to whom the instruments
will be returned for correction. .

Near the observatory a suitable shelter was erected for a number
of thermometers, which were read hourly every seventh day, and three
times daily in the interval. These instruments were carefully com-
pared at every 10° of temperature down to —40°, and these records
were referred to a standard which was brought home, and has been
placed in the hands of the maker, Mr. Tagliabue, for further compari-
son. Some of the instruments were manufactured by Mr. Green, of
New York, and were furnished by the Smithsonian Institution. The.
remainder were presented by Mr. Tagliabue. These observations
were continued during our stay at Port Foulke, from September, 1860,
to July, 1861. I may mention in this connexion that throughout the
LECTURE ON ARCTIC EXPLORATIONS. 155

cruise a bi-hourly registry of atmospheric temperature was made with
a single instrument, mounted on the vessel when at sea, and on a post
upon the ice when in winter harbor. A like number of barometer
readings was also made and recorded. A careful record of meteoro-
logical phenomena, including direction and force of wind and general
atmospheric conditions, was kept up during the cruise.

Although there has been no discussion made of these observations,
yet there are some manifest general results which may interest you.
Our winter was much milder than either of the winters of 1853~54
and 1854—’55, passed by Dr. Kane at Rensselaer harbor, twenty miles
further north. The weather was, unlike that experienced by Dr.
Kane, generally stormy. Northeast winds, frequently very strong,
prevailed—a fact at least in part accounted for by the open water
which was during our stay at Port Foulke constantly visible outside
of the harbor, and it was doubtless due to the same fact that we ex-
perienced a modification of temperature. March was the coldest
month. It was during this month, and while absent at Rensselaer
harbor, that I recorded the lowest temperature, —68° F. It is re-
- markable that on the same day the lowest temperature registered at
Port Foulke was only —29°, and on the day previous, when I expe-
rienced a temperature of —66.5° near Rensselaer harbor, the tempe-
rature at Port Foulke was —27°.

In the autumn I made, in connexion with Mr. Sonntag, a survey of
a glacier which approaches the sea through a valley opening from the
head of the bay in which we wintered. -This had been discovered
by Dr. Kane, and by him named ‘‘ My Brother John’s Glacier.’’ Its
face is nearly two miles from the sea, which it is gradually approach-
ing. With the view of determining its rate of progress, we ascended
to its upper surface and carefully measured a base-line in its axis.
From either end of this base-line angles were taken, connecting it
with fixed. objects upon the mountains on each side. Lateral sta-
tions were next established, and these were connected with the base-
line, and with the before-mentioned fixed objects. The angles were
repeated by me after an interval of eight months, and the result
showed a downward movement of the glacier, amounting to ninety-
four feet.

In October I performed a journey upon this glacier and the mer de
glace to the eastward of it, penetrating about fifty miles into the inte-
rior. Our angle of ascent was, at first, about six degrees, decreasing
gradually to from one to two degrees. The surface was at first some-
what broken and irregular, but as we advanced it became smooth and
the ascent regular. Our elevation upon setting out to return was
i ated at about 5,000 feet, when we were quite out of sight of
and.

The sun was absent from us 130 days, and I attributed the remark-
able healthfulness of our party, during that long period of darkness,
in a great measure to the abundant supplies of fresh animal food
which we were enabled to obtain. The reindeer, the blue and white
foxes and hares were quite numerous in the immediate vicinity of
Port Foulke, and through the persevering energy of our hunters a

156 LECTURE ON ARCTIC EXPLORATIONS.

full supply was procured before the winter set in, not only for the
ship’s company, but for the dogs.

With the winter, however, came serious misfortunes. <A disease
which has been for several years prevailing throughout all Northern
Greenland broke out among the dogs, and by the middle of Decem-
ber all of them had died but eleven. It became then necessary to
open communication with the Esquimaux of Whale sound, with the
view of obtaining a new supply. It will be remembered that my
plans of exploration were based entirely upon the use of dogs asa
means of transportation across the ice; and from our unfavorable sit-
uation it appeared evident that with our reduced force I had not the
means to prosecute my purposes with the success which I had antici- ~
pated.

Mr. Sonntag early volunteered to go to the Esquimaux for the pur-
pose before named. His offer was accepted, and he started on the
22d of December with a sledge drawn by nine dogs, and accompanied
by Hans, (Dr. Kane’s young native hunter,) whom, as before stated,
I had found at Cape York. This expedition was attended by an
event which cast a gloom over our whole party. Mr. Sonntag lost —
his life in attempting to cross Whale sound. As reported to me by
Hans: In the act of passing a crack which had been recently frozen
over, he broke through the thin ice and became thoroughly wetted.
He was assisted out of the water by his companion, but before they
could reach a place of shelter, five miles distant, Mr. Sonntag was so
badly frozen that he was insensible, and he died soon afterwards. The
body was subsequently recovered and interred near the. observatory
at Port Foulke. |

Hans continued southward and accomplished one of the purposes
of the journey; but, in consequence of bad management and over
driving, five of his team were killed, and I was left, upon his return,
with only six dogs. The Esquimaux having learned through Hans
of our being at Port Foulke, came to us in the spring, and from them
I was enabled to obtain a sufficient number of dogs to increase my
pack to about twenty; but some of them died afterwards, and I was
left, finally, with two teams of seven each. With so reduced a force
I became seriously apprehensive for the success of the labors which
were to follow.

On the 20th of March I set out on my first journey. The object
of this effort was to establish a provision depot for use during the
summer, and it was successful. While absent upon this occasion I
visited Rensselaer harbor, Dr. Kane’s winter quarters. No vestige
of the ‘‘Advance’’ could be discovered. She had probably drifted
out to sea With the ice, and been subsequently crushed and sunk.

The preparations for the principal journey were completed early in
April, and on the 4th of that month I started northward with my
entire available force, comprising twelve officers and men, and four-
teen dogs. Our equipment consisted of a metallic lifeboat mounted
on runners, provisions for seven persons for five months, provisions
for six persons and fourteen dogs for six weeks, and the necessary
camp fixtures.

The open water which continued throughout the winter, within
LECTURE ON ARCTIC EXPLORATIONS. 157

sight of Port Foulke, extended northward in April in a narrow
stream nearly to the parallel of Rensselaer harbor, and I was obliged
therefore to adhere to.the eastern shore, instead of pushing over to
the north and west, as I had originally intended. In consequence
of our forced selection of this route we encountered the same condi-
tion of hummocked ice which had embarrassed the exploring parties
of Dr. Kane. The centre of the strait was crowded with ridges of
broken ice, more extensive than I had ever before seen, and through
these, after three weeks’ trial, I found it to be impracticable to trans-
port the boat which I had intended for the exploration of the Polar
sea, and I, accordingly, with much reluctance, was obliged to send the
main party back and to continue northward with two dog sledges and
three companions.

The hummocks became worse as we advanced, and, although we
-were only forty miles, in a direct line, from the west coast of the
strait, fourteen days were consumed in reaching it. We were
obliged to return several times upon our track for portions of our cargo,
and the severity of the labor rapidly reduced the strength of the
dogs.

Our track across the strait was nearly the same as that which I had
formerly made, upon my return from Grinnell Land in May, 1854,
when acting under the orders of Dr. Kane. The unfavorable circum-
stances under which my surveys were made, during that journey, oc-
casioned some errors upon the chart, which I was glad, on this occa-
sion, to have opportunity to correct. As I neared the coast of Grin-
nell Land, it. became evident that a channel or sound opened westward
from Smith strait, separating Grinnell Land from the Ellesmere Land
of Captain Inglefield. In the mouth of this sound are two large
islands, to the northernmost of which I have given the name of Pro-
essor A. Dallas Bache, superintendent of the United States Coast Sur-
yey, and to the other that of Professor Joseph Henry, secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution, to both of which gentlemen the expedition was
greatly indebted for the influence which their names gave to the sup-
port of the enterprise, and for the liberal contributions which the
former made toward my outfit.

On the 12th of May I entered Kennedy channel, and following the
coast as it trended nearly due north, I reached on the 16th the bay
which bears the name of the renowned geographer—Carl Ritter. The
roughness of the ice and the deep snow had by this time thoroughly
disabled one of my companions and a portion of the dogs ; and I was
obliged, therefore, to continue my journey with one team and a single
comrade, Mr. George F. Knorr, a young gentleman who served
throughout the expedition with remarkable fidelity and spirit. After
the termination of three days’ severe struggling through deep snow
and heavy hummocks, which were piled upon the land ice, our provi-
sions became exhausted and we were forced to return. We had
then reached latitude 81° 35’, forty miles beyond the limit of Dr.
Kane’s explorations on the opposite side of the channel, and further
north than had ever before been attained upon land. To the high-
est point attained I have given the name of my very kind friend,
158 LECTURE ON ARCTIC EXPLORATIONS.

Professor Francis Lieber, and a remarkable peak which rose above my
last camp I have named in honor of the distinguished American artist,
Mr. F. E. Church.

* To the northward of Cape Lieber opened a magnificent bay, which
I regretted that I was not able to cross. This bay bears the name of
Lady Franklin. At its head rose two bold mountain peaks, which I
named Sylvia Mount and Mount Cornelius Grinnell.

To the northward were seen Cape Beechy, another high cape be-
‘ yond it, which I called Cape Frederick VII, after his Majesty the
King of Denmark, to whose subjects in Greenland I was indebted for
many favors, and, in the far distance, I could trace the faint outlines
of a magnificent headland, the most northern known land on the
globe. This land I named Cape Union.

Returning upon the same track, we reached the vessel after an ab-
sence of fifty-nine days, during which time we had travelled in our
various goings and comings about 1,400 miles. During this period
we used for our nightly halt the snow hut of the Esquimaux.

The personal equipment of each member of the party weighed only
eight pounds. Upon my return to Port Foulke only seven of my dogs
remained alive, and these were so much broken that further explora- °
tions for the season, with dog sledge, were rendered impracticable,

The physical. conditions observed in Kennedy channel are, per-
haps, among the most important of my results. It was in that chan-
.nel, and to the northward of it, as I have before observed, that Mor-
ton discovered an open sea late in June, 1854. I did not find open
water, but the ice was everywhere much decayed, often being so thin
that it would not bear my party; and in some places pools of water
were visible. In one of these pools a flock of waterfowl, the Uria
gryllae, were discovered. My stay in Kennedy channel was from the
12th to the 23d of May, a period of the year six weeks earlier than
that at which the observations of "Morton had been made; and I en-
tertain no doubt that, could I have returned to the same locality in
the latter part of June, I would have found the sea open. Indeed,
everything indicated a speedy dissolution of the ice. There were
some indications also that the region to the northward is annually
open. I will mention one which struck me most prominently. The
coast on the west side of Kennedy channel, especially where exposed
to the northeast, was lined with a heavy ridge of ice, which had been
forced up under the influence of great pressure. Many of the masses
were as much as sixty feet in height, and they were lying high and
dry upon the beach. The pressure necessary to occasion this result
could not possibly be created by ice-fields moving over a narrow chan-
nel, and I believe the result to have been produced by ice-fields of
great extent coming down under the influence of winds and the cur-
rent from a vast open area to the northward.

The summer was passed in the conduct of such explorations and
surveys as could be made in the immediate vicinity of Port Foulke.
The established routine of observations was continued at the vessel,
and in addition a delicate tidal apparatus was constructed, the read-
ings of which were made to tenths of a foot, and at intervals of ten
LECTURE ON ARCTIC EXPLORATIONS. 159

minutes. We were joined by a tribe of Esquimaux, living on the
coast between Smith strait and Cape York, and several members
of the tribe continued with us until late in the summer. This singu-
lar people numbered about eighty souls. They lived in snow-houses
about our harbor, and maintamed themselves by hunting the walrus
and seal.

The schooner, having been prepared for sea, was broken out of the
ice on the 10th of July, and we sailed from our winter harbor on the
14th. After much difficulty and two trials, we reached the west coast,
ten miles below Cape Isabella. That cape I was unable to pass in the
vessel, but I succeeded in making its north side in a whaleboat, and
from an elevation of about six hundred feet I obtained a view to the
northward. In that direction the ice was everywhere unbroken; and
as it did not appear probable that I could obtain for the schooner a
more northern harbor, and as I had now only five dogs remaining,
without means of obtaining a new supply, I abandoned the field and
returned home, trusting to be able at an early day to renew the at-
tempt with a small steamer.

_ While crossing over from the east to the w est side of Smith strait,
I followed, during a portion of the way, nearly in the track of my
predecessor, Captain Inglefield,-and I was struck with the accuracy
with which he had exhibited upon his chart the expansion of Smith
strait; and, although the geographical positions which he has given
to many prominent places are slightly inaccurate, as I had subsequent
occasion to determine while upon shore, yet the points of the western
coast which came successively into view were so clearly his discovery,
that I have replaced upon the map the names which he appended to
the various localities discovered by him. The highest land visible
from the mouth of the strait on the west wide, which is the eastern
extremity of Bache island, bears, therefore, the name of Queen Vic-
toria. Princess Maria bay occupies the northern side of Henry
island, and Cape Albert its eastern extremity:

After leaving Whale sound I continued down the coast, and, dddet
favorable circumstances, completed the survey of the shore, including
Cadogen and Talbot inlets, as far south as Clarence Head. Here we
came upon a heavy ice pack, and were obliged to hold to the east-
ward. Entering Whale sound, I had an excellent opportunity for
delineating the shore-line of that remarkable inlet. Through a clear
atmosphere I could trace the land around from the north to the south
shore, thus proving the inlet to be a deep gulf, which, out of respect
to the enterprising navigator who first penetrated its waters, I have
designated as the Gulf of Captain Inglefield. Two prominent points
of land on the northern side of the gulf were mistaken by Inglefield
for islands, and I have applied to them the names which he has used.
We found a colony of Esquimaux on the south side of Whale sound,
and we remained long enough with them to become familiar with their
habits, and to obtain some photographs of them.

During this period of the cruise every effort was made to obtain
collections of specimens of natural history, and in this department, as
well as in many others, I had frequent occasion to regret the small-
ness of my corps of workers. We, however, succeeded in obtaining
160

some valuable collections; these embrace ites ral the .
points visited, plants from several different localities, skins and
tons of the principal mammals, skins of many of the Arctic birds
a large number of skulls of Esquimaux. Our hunters phils
wards of two hundred reindeer. The walrus and seal of diff
varieties were also abundant. During the summer several species
waterfowl swarmed upon the islands and cliffs about the mouth
Smith strait. The most numerous of these were the little auk (¢ Uric aL
alle) and the eider duck, (Somateria molissima,) several hundreds of
which were captured. From these sources I had no difficulty in con-
stantly supplying our party with fresh food, and to this I attribute a ;
a great measure our entire exemption from disease. q
Leaving Whale sound, we continued southward, and completed the
survey of the eastern coast of North Baffin bay, from Cape Alexander
to Granville bay. This survey was made independently of the chart eh
of my predecessors. The shore-line surveyed on the eastern side, a
portion of which is new discovery, equals about 600 miles, and
the western side, between Clarence Head on the south and Cape
Union on the north, about 1,300 miles. It was with regret that I
turned my back upon the scene of our year’s labors, and entercum
Melville bay. After boring through the ‘ pack’’ for 150 miles, we
entered the southern water, and reached Upernavik on the 14th of
August, and Disco island September 1. At both these places we
were kindly and hospitably received by the Danish officials. At the -
latter place I had the satisfaction to meet the royal inspector, Mr.
Olrik. Upon reaching Godhavn, I was kindly informed by Inspector - 4
Olrik that he had received orders from his government, framed in ~
accordance with.a request made by the vovernment of the United ~
States, directing him to afford such aid to the expedition as was in his —
power; and it gives me great pleasure to be able, on an occasion like ~
the present, to acknowledge the important services rendered to the
expedition by the Danish government and its officials in Greenland,
exhibiting that characteristic generosity and intelligent appreciation 7
which have uniformly marked their actions towar ds all previous ex- 7
plorations of a similar nature. My
Our voyage from Godhavn southward was very stormy, and when —
off Halifax such damages were suffered as required us to put into |
that port for repairs. Our welcome there was very cordial and highly _
grateful to us. The admiral of her Britannic Majesty’s fleet, then in ‘
Halifax harbor, generously tendered the use of the zovernment con- a
veniences for repairing my crippled vessel. To the officers of her q
Majesty’s civil government, and of the squadron and garrison, and to |
the citizens of Halifax, the expedition is indebted for attentions which ~ y
exhibited not less a friendly feeling for men who had for so long a time _ 4
been deprived of many of the comforts of civilization than respect for
the flag under which our explorations had been made. i
Having sailed from Boston, I considered that a proper respect for 4
those who gave me the vessel required that I should return to that —
port. Leaving Halifax on the 19th of October, we arrived in Boston _
on the 23d, after an absence of fifteen months and thirteen days. x
By M. FLOURENS,
PERPETUAL SECRETARY OF THE FRENCH ACADEMY OF SCIENCES.

TRAXSLATED FOR THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION BY C. A. ALEXANDER,

Tuis Academy numbered among its members, in the last century,

vo brothers, one of whom left several useful treatises on botany,

ile the other is memorable as the first chemist who conceived
a precise and practical idea respecting affinities. It was said with

‘reference to the latter, by the most spiritual of the partisans of
Descartes, Fontenelle, ‘‘that he had enunciated in 1718 a singular
system—a table of affinities or relations of different substances in
“chemistry. These affinities,’’ added Fontenelle, ‘‘ gave uneasiness to
“some, who feared lest they should turn out to be attractions* in dis-
guise, the more dangerous as persons of skill knew already too well
| how to endue them with seductive forms.’’

_ The distinction of the two brothers became a just ground of pride
to their family, one of whose branches inhabited the small town of
'Etampes. There, ina home whose habits were still patriarchal, a
| grandmother was accustomed, in the long evenings, when her numer-
ous grandchildren were grouped around her, to enchain their attention
by recitals respecting her own time, in which the names of our two
/savans, among their relatives, did not fail perpetually to recur. To
‘these recitals her simple admiration for renown, no less than her
| quality of grandmother, gave a real power ; so that, on one occasion,

a little boy, very delicate and sutiiciently light-headed, was prompted
| to exclaim: ‘‘For my part, I, too, should like to be famous; but how
| to become so?’ ‘‘ By willing it strongly,’’ replied the grandmother;
‘you bear the same name with those of whom I have been speaking;
do as they have done.’’ ‘*‘And you will help me, grandmother ?’”’
| cried the little enthusiast; an appeal which was responded to, on the
part of the excellent dame, by presenting him with a copy of Plu-
tarch’s Lives of Illustrious Men.

| It was thus that Etienne Geoffroy Saint Hilaire, born the 15th of
| April, 1772, was dreaming of future distinction, when his father an-
nounced that having obtained for him a scholarship in the college of
Navarre, he was about to place him there. Here the poor boy was
destined to find the path to fame encumbered with exercises and

* The term attraction, introduced by Newton as a fit word to designate the force which
!| produced chemical combination, was in great favor in England, where the Newtonian
philosophy was looked upon as applicable to every branch of science, while in France, on
the contrary, where Descartes still reigned triumphant, attraction, the watchword of the
enemy, was never heard but with dislike and suspicion.—TRansLator.

11
162 MEMOIR OF GEOFFROY SAINT HILAIRE.

translations which excessively wearied him. As a scholar he had
little assiduity, and manifested no taste for anything but physics. ~
On leaving college many advantages were offered to determine him
to the church, but this destination he steadfastly declined. His
father, himself an advocate, proposed jurisprudence, but a short trial
ended in disgust. From law he passed to medicine, but with no better’
result. To the adventurous spirit which already governed him it
would seem that a career more free and more remote from the beaten’
paths was necessary for satisfaction or success.
Urged by a secret impulse towards the sciences, Geoffr oy wished
to follow the higher courses of instruction, and with this view was
permitted to unite himself with the students at the college of the
Cardinal Lemoine. The professors of this establishment were eccle-
siastics. Here the good and judicious Lhomond consecrated his life
to the production of works for the instruction of youth, whose very
simplicity has maintained their superiority as models of that class of
compositions, and Hauy, a regent of the college, had just made that
celebrated discovery in mineralogy which changed the face of the
science and inscribed his own name among those of men of the highest
scientific genius. Lhomond, next to childhood, loved nothing so much
as plants, and Hay had been led, through his devotion to this ven-'
erable friend, to join in the same botanical pursuits. In their peace-
ful promenades they were now followed, though at a distance, by a
young scholar, who burned with no desire so great as that of being
permitted to associate himself with these distinguished men. Nor
was the opportunity long deferred: a casual interview occurred, in:
which Lhomond and Hawy were so much touched with the ingenuous
expressions of interest and respect on the part of their young inter-
locutor that they thenceforth admitted him to a cordial intimacy.
Under the inspiration of Haty, Geoffroy was not backward in)
conceiving a passion for mineralogy. Daubenton was then delivering a,
course in this science at the college of France, and it was his custom,
after each lecture, to interrogate his pupils. Happening one day to)
question Geoffroy on crystallography, he was surprised at the answers,
and observed, with great good nature: ‘‘ Young man, you know”
more about it than I do.’’ ‘‘I am but the echo of M. Hauy,’’ re--
plied Geoffroy. The gratitude implied in this ingenuous avowal did!
not fail to excite the interest of the professor, and that interest was j
ripened by incidents which soon followed into a lively attachment.
It was now 1792, and Geoffroy was twenty years of age ; he began)
his serious life amidst the distractions which then afflicted our coun trys.
All the instruction he had received had been derived from priests, ,
and at this deplorable epoch it was sufficient to bear that title to bes
marked for persecution. |
His former masters of the college of Navarre were arrested and
imprisoned in the church of Saint Firmin, converted into a prison.
Geoffroy succeeded in obtaining access to them, and urged upon them
a means of escape which he had devised, but which, animated by a
sentiment of common interest with their companions in misfor-
tune, they declined adopting. Later, however, he succeeded im
saving some of them, though at the peril of his own life. But

MEMOIR OF GEOFFROY SAINT HILAIRE. 163
| that which struck him with most consternation was the imprisonment
of Hawy. Hastening as soon as he heard of it to Daubenton and
other members of the Academy of Sciences, he procured in the name
of that body a petition for the release of their distinguished associate.
| The order of enlargement was signed at ten o’clock at night, and
Geoffroy instantly bore it in person to the prison. But here a new
| difficulty presented itself. ‘‘These great men,’’ said Fontenelle, in
speaking of the illustrious class of persons, whom none knew better
than himself, ‘‘these great men are children ;’’ and Haty especially
united to the most astonishing penetration of intellect the simplest
of hearts. In the midst of such dangers as threatened him, Geoffroy
found him wholly absorbed in reassorting his minerals, which had
been thrown into confusion at the time of his arrest, and which he
had succeeded in having brought to the prison. On no consideration
would he consent to their removal at such an hour, and he was fixed,
moreover, in his determination to hear mass the next morning before
hisdeparture. Accordingly, morning being come and mass duly heard,
Hauy tranquilly withdrew to his humble cell and to his friend Lho-
mond, who, in turn, had been delivered by Tallien, one of his former
pupils. But the cells they had quitted. were destined to no long
|familiarity with their occupants : it was the eve of the terrible mas-
ssacres of September.
| Exhausted by violent emotions Geoffroy became ill, and retired to
his family. The friends he left at Paris, though still overwhelmed by

the tempest, did not cease to cherish aconcern forhim. ‘‘I comimuni-
‘eated your letter to M. Lhomond,’’ Hauy writes to him, ‘‘as soon as
received, and we have never been so gay since you left us.’’ To

!Daubenton, Hauy said: ‘‘ Love and adopt my young deliverer;’’ and
the injunction was observed to the letter. On the return of Geoffroy
in 1793 he was received with marked affection by the now aged pro-
‘fessor. We are at liberty to believe that, at a time of life when per-
jsonal hopes are becoming extinguished, there may enter into the
‘attachment of age for youth something of a hope to survive in the
gratitude of a later generation. But ‘the effective services of Dau-
‘benton were soon called into requisition, for the place of superin-
‘tendent of the cabinet of zoology in the Jardin des Plantes having
‘been left vacant by M. de Lacepede, Daubenton asked and obtained
‘it for his young friend.

| The Garden of Plants, founded by Louis XIII, enlarged by Louis
XIV, and illustrated by the labors of Buffon, had hecome through
‘those labors the centre of modern natural history. In 1790 Dauben-
‘ton had presented to the Constituent Assembly the plan of a vast
and complete institution, worthy of the ideas which had been com-
municated to him by the great naturalist himself. Two years later
‘Bernardin de Saint Pierre, superintendent for a short time of the
garden, called for the establishment of a menagerie, referring to
‘the fact that Buffon had long desired to have that of Versailles, “and
jadding that ‘‘the most useful remarks of that eloquent writer were
\imspired by the animals which he had himself studied, and his best-
‘colored delineations were those of which they were the models; for
ithe thoughts of nature,’’ said Saint Pierre, ‘carry with them their

164 MEMOIR OF GEOFFROY SAINT HILAIRE.

appropriate expression.’’ In June, 1793, by a decree of the conven-
tion, the garden took the name of museum, and the instruction given
there was extended to ail branches of natural history, the number of
chairs being at the same time raised from three to twelve. Two of the
new ones were destined to zoology, one of them being given to Lamarck,
while Pallas, the celebrated naturalist of the north, was designated
by some for the other. Daubenton proposed Geoffroy. He was very
young, it is true, but had already given evidence of a passion for
labor. The paramount object with Daubenton, however, was to have
an assurance that the influence of Buffon would be maintained, and
the impulse he had given be carried out. ‘‘I take upon myself,’’ he
said, on seeing that Geoffroy hesitated, ‘‘the responsibility of your
inexperience, and I have in your case some title to the authority of
afather. Enter confidently upon the office of instruction in zoology,
and may it one day be said that you have made of it a French science.”

Thus we see Geoffroy a professor at the age of barely twenty-one.
He has ingenuously described the embarrassment which he at first
experienced: ‘‘ Obliged to create everything, I acquired,’’ he said,
‘‘the elements of natural history, in arranging and classifying the collec-
tions confided tomy care.’’ He opened, May 6, 1794, the first course
of zoology which had existed in France. A fervid activity redoubled
his success. The collections rapidly creased; but the menagerie
imagined by Saint Pierre not being soon enough realized he impro-
vised one. Word was brought him one morning that a leopard, a
white bear, several mandrills, a panther, &c., were waiting his ac-
ceptance at the gate. The police had just prohibited the public ex-
hibition of these animals. But the museum had as yet neither funds
nor receptacle for a menagerie. What matter? Geoffroy accepts all,
and establishes as he best could his coveted but terrible guests under.
his windows. He hastens to communicate his good fortune to his:
colleagues, and they, a little surprised and, it may be, alarmed, quickly,
provided the means of securely confining these formidable acquisi-
sitions.

About the time we speak of, the venerable M. Tessier, who had
sought refuge in Normandy from the violence of the revolution, an-
nounced to his friends from the place of his retreat that he had just:
made the best of his discoveries, and called upon them to open the:
career of the sciences to another Delambre. His letter was accompa-
nied by some memoirs drawn up by his protegé. These were referred
to Geoffroy, who, struck with enthusiasm at their perusal, and yield-.
ing to a generous inspiration, wrote immediately to their author:
‘Come and fulfil among us the part of a Linneus—of another law-
giver of natural history.’’ It would be impossible to characterize Cur
vier more happily.

On the arrival of the new Linneus, Geoffroy devoted himself with«
out reserve to his interests. To admire, to praise, and to enjoy the:
success of others, was one of the felicities of his life. Having a
lodge at the museum, he shared it with Cuvier, and threw open to
him all the collections. A mutual devotion to study naturally united:
their labors, among the first results of which, two may be here no-

i |
MEMOIR OF GEOFFROY SAINT HILAIRE. 165

ticed. Of one, the object was the classification of mammifers—and
here the skilfully-sustained idea of the subordination of characters,
which was the great resource of Cuvier, predominates. The other
was the history of the makis, or apes of Madagascar; and in this we
already discern traces of the wnity of composition,* to which Geoffroy
has subjected all comparative anatomy. It was easy to foresee that
two intellects, whose philosophic processes were so different, would
bok be long in finding separate paths. Meanwhile their confiding
friendship rendered them perfectly happy. Ina science till then so
‘little cultivated each result at which they arrived was new to all the
world. How often have we heard both in after years recall with
complacency that early and enchanted time when, in the words of
one of them, (Cuvier,) ‘‘ they never breakfasted without having first
made a discovery.’’ The truth is, so little was then known of the
structure’ of animals that it was almost impossible to make the dis-
section of one without perceiving some new organic details.

It was in vain that the jealous friends of Geoffroy expostulated
that he was laying himself too open, and preparing for himself a de-
signing rival, perhaps a master. The effect which these represen-
tations produced on him has been recorded by Cuvier, in terms which
will enure to the lasting honor of Geoffroy. ‘‘ They endeavored,”’
he says, ‘‘to make him believe that he ought not to befriend me,
that by and by I should have the sole credit of our labors; but this
excellent young man declared to me, with entire earnestness of heart,
that such advice made him unhappy, and that nothing would ever
have the power to change his conduct towards me.’’

The labors of Geoffroy were conducting him at a rapid pace towards
the Institute, when, at the commencement of 1798, Berthollet came
to say to him: ‘‘Come with Monge and me; we will be companions;
Bonaparte is to be our general.’? Whither were they going? It was
what no one knew. In this very mystery there was one attraction
the more for Geoffroy. He embarked, and his lucky star conducted
him to Egypt.

From the moment of his arrival Geoffroy was seized with the de-
sire of exploring everything. He rummages the soil, the tombs, the
ruins. He frequents the catacombs, those gloomy and antique mu-

seums, where the Egyptians of old collected the remains of creatures
which were their cotemporaries, and laid them up, as it were, a deposit
for the study of after times.

Geoffroy brought us from Egypt specimens of the crocodile and the
ibis, entire and perfectly preserved, skeletons of the ichneumon, the
ox, &c. These animals, which lived two or three thousand years ago,
compared with those of to-day are found in no respect to differ from
them. Thus we owe to him the strongest proof that could be given

_ = «<Tt seems that nature has shut herself up within certain limits, and has formed all
living beings on one sole plan, essentially the same in principle, but varied in a thousand
Ways in all the accessory parts. Thus, in each class of animals, the forms, however varied,
all result at bottom from organs common to all; nature has forbidden herself the employ-
ment of new ones,’’— Dissertation sur les Makis.—Magasin Encyclopédique, t. vii, p. 20, 1796.

166 MEMOIR OF GEOFFROY SAINT HILAIRE.

of the fixedness of species, an important fact, which he was destined
afterwards to dispute.

A special interest attaches to the human mummies which he col-
lected. Volney had just revived the idea that the people of ancient
Egypt belonged to the negro race, and considered the question de-
termined by one or two phrases of certain historians, who say, in effect,
that the skin of the Egyptians was black. Volney is mistaken. The
color of the skin is here not the decisive feature; it is the form of the
skull, and the skull of the mummies leaves not a doubt. Whatever
may have been their tint, the celebrated people, among whom all
tradition places the first cradle of the sciences, pertained to the same
race of men with ourselves.

Voltaire has styled Herodotus, ‘‘The father of history, who has
bequeathed us so many fables.’’ Geoffroy seems to have taken upon
himself the task of justifying, as far as the naturalist is concerned,
whatever is most marvellous in the honest statements of the first of ob-
servers. Herodotus tells us, for instance, that the crocodile is, of all
animals, that which is proportionably the smallest at first and largest
at full size; the only one whose upper jaw is moveable upon the
lower; the only one which has no tongue, &c.; and all this may be
said to be true, if due allowance be made for the inaccurate language
of a writer who is no man of science and makes no pretensions to be
so. The crocodile, which attains as much as seventeen cubits in
length, springs from an egg scarcely seventeen lines long. Its upper
jaw does not move on the skull, but this jaw and the skull, being
united, move on the lower one. It has a tongue, but so short that it
can make no use of it. The historian goes on to say that when the
crocodile lays its head on the bank of the Nile to inhale air. a small
bird enters with confidence into the redoubtable orifice of its throat and
shelters there in safety, while the crocodile does it no hurt nor makes
éven a single movement for fear of alarming its little guest. This
Geoffroy had witnessed: a minute bird (the petit pluvier of Buffon)
does, in fact, enter the throat of the crocodile, and exercises with en-
tire impunity the functions of relieving the animal of the insects
which attach themselves to its palate and which the shortness of its
tongue disables it from removing by any effort of its own.

From the time of his arrival in Egypt Geoffroy had applied himself
to anattentive study of the fishes of the Nile. Among those which he
most wished to examine was the Stlurus electricus, which the Arabs,
in their language, not unaptly call the thunderbolt. Though he had
often inquired for this fish, he was able to obtain a specimen only a
few days before the capitulation of Alexandria, and it was amidst the
perils of the siege, whilst bullets were whistling around his ears, that
he might have been seen, like another Archimedes, absorbed in the
meditation of problems of equal interest. His research was di-
rected to that secret bond which connects electricity with the prin-
ciple of life. But Geoffroy, whatever his passion for knowledge,
found, as others have done, that the impenetrable mystery of life is,
like the Isis of Egypt, covered with a veil which no mortal can raise.
It was in the midst of these preoccupations that he learned that, by
MEMOIR OF GEOFFROY SAINT HILAIRE. 167

an article of this unfortunate capitulation, the French savans were
to be despoiled of the fruits of the researches from which they pro-
mised themselves so much honor. Fired with indignation, he pro-

_ posed to his colleagues to employ the time which remained before

the execution of the treaty in burning their collections. This sacri-
fice had been determined on, when the English agent, struck with
respect, paused before so energetic a resolution and the article was
erased. *

After four years absence Geoffroy returned from Egypt, ‘‘loaded,”’
as Fontenelle said of Tournefort returning from Greece, ‘‘ with the
spoils of the Hast.’’ As if inspired with new ardor for study, we
find his re-entrance into the museum marked by even multiplied
labors in the two sciences which have occupied his life, zoology
and comparative anatomy. In the former, it is the equally accurate
and intuitive perception of the analogy of natural beings, what he
himself called the instinct of affinities, which peculiarly distinguishes
him. It was this instinct which guided him to a higher law of me-
thod, by virtue of which, in conjunction with the principle of the
subordination of organs, he established that of changeable subordina-
tions; the same characteristic which predominates in one group being
possibly but a subordinate characteristic in another. Thus the teeth,
a dominant characteristic in the group of carnivorous animals, form
but a subordinate one in the group of bats, marsupials, &c., and, if
followed out, would break up all the relations which constitute the
family in the latter group. Viewing method thus under a new aspect,
Geoffroy finds in general classification no other merit than the nega-
tive one of leaving the natural and direct relationship of species un-
broken. Thus regarded, method is no longer a series of divisions and
interruptions, but a chain of relations which mutually call for and
adapt themselves to one another. In the time of Linnzeus, it was the
wide intervals, the marked differences which engaged the attention
of naturalists, because the number of known species was then incon-
siderable. In proportion as that number increased, (and it increases
continually,) marked differences become effaced, the intermediate
shades melt into one another and the wide intervals are filled up.
The unity of the animal kingdom stands revealed, and we compre-
hend the profound expression of Buffon, that ‘‘shadings (les nuances)
are the great work of nature.”’

If, in zoology, the predominant idea of Geoffroy was the unity of
the animal kingdom, in comparative anatomy it was his constant aim
to prove that unity by the unity of composition. Thus all his re-
searches in this line tended to the discovery of analogies. Beginning
with the comparative study of the members, he passed from thence
to that of the skull. The skull of the crocodile and of fishes is com-
posed of twenty-five or twenty-six bones, while that of birds and
adult quadrupeds has but eight or ten. It was necessary to reconcile
this apparent diversity with the theory of unity, and one of those
happy inspirations which fall only to the lot of genius led Geoffroy
to examine the skull of the foetus in birds and quadrupeds. Here all
the primitive bones, which at a later period will unite to form a com-
168 MEMOIR OF GEOFFROY SAINT HILAIRE.

plex structure, are still separate, and the problem is resolved : the
number of bones is found to be everywhere the same.

These ingenious investigations, which laid the foundation of en-
tirely new views in science, date from the year 1807. It was in
that year that Geoffroy, a place having become vacant in the academy,
offered himself as a candidate. On this occasion having submitted
some of his memoirs to the celebrated geometer Lagrange, he was
asked by the latter what he thought of his competitor? ‘‘ We know
that he is an accomplished entomologist; but is he a Reaumur or
Fabricius?’’ ‘‘A Fabricius,’’ replied Geoffroy. ‘‘ Yet for my part,
young man,’’ rejoined Lagrange, ‘‘I prefer a few such pages as you
have recently read before the academy to whole volumes after the
manner of Fabricius.’’ Cuvier, in congratulating him on his nomi-
nation, which took place 14th September of the above year, remarked
to him, ‘‘I am the more gratified because I had reproached myself
with occupying a place which rightfully belonged to you.’ This
Geoffroy often pleased himself with recalling, ingenuously adding,
that the expressions of Cuvier surprised him, as the idea had never
occurred to him that his own nomination could possibly precede that
of his distinguished friend.

In 1810 Geoffroy proceeded to Portugal to execute a commission
of the emperor, who, wishing that all the remarkable objects in for-
eign museums should be represented in those of France, sent him to
visit that of Lisbon, which abounded especially in rare and valuable °
specimens from Brazil. Before setting out, he provided himself with
all that could be spared from our own galleries, and though invested
with full powers as a commissioner, in a country occupied by our
troops, he took nothing except on the terms of an exchange. This
generous proceeding smoothed all difficulties, and he had the satisfac-
tion, not only of returning with ample collections, but of having
gained for his own country a new title to the respect of foreign
nations.

In his whole scientific career, a career at once so laborious and
enthusiastic, Geoffroy may be said to have realized the idea of a cele-
brated writer, ‘‘that he who sees one truth thoroughly, sees always
an infinity of others, and that he who should see all truths would at
last see but one.’? To date from the memoir which opened to him
the doors of the academy, his whole thoughts, meditations, and re-
searches were bent on one object: the study of the wnity of composition
in animals. This led him to style himself in the words of Saint Au-
gustine: homo unius libri, the man of a single book. It was in 1818,
that he ventured finally to assign this unity of composition as the first
and supreme law of the whole animal kingdom, and that he gave to
the world the work since become so well known under the title of the
theory of analogues or anatomical philosophy.*

* The exact title of this work is: Philosophie Anatomique:—Des organes respiratoires sous le
rapport de la determination et de lV’ identité de leur pieces osseuses. It consists of four memoirs, pre-
ceded by a preliminary discourse on the author’s theory. ‘‘The views,’’ he says, ‘‘ to
which we are conducted by the presentiment that we shall always find in each family the
organic parts which we have observed in another, are what I have embraced in this work
uader the denomination of the Theory of Analogues.”’
-in the modifications.

MEMOIR OF GEOFFROY SAINT HILAIRE. 169

Buffon had already remarked that there exists a constant conformity,
a sustained design, a hidden resemblance, more wonderful than the
apparent diversities: ‘‘It would seem,’’ he eloquently said, ‘‘ that the
Supreme Being had chosen to employ but one idea, and at the same
time to vary it inall possible ways, to the end that man might equally
admire the magnificence of the execution and the simplicity of the
design.’’ This unity of plan or idea was seen, after Buffon, by Vicq-
d’ Azyr and by Camper: ‘‘Nature,’’ says the former, ‘‘seems always
to work after a primitive and general pattern, from which she never
departs without regret, and hence the two characters which appear to
be impressed on all beings, that of constancy in the type and variety
’? Geoffroy, in turn, became impressed with
these views, but in a manner so original and profound as to entitle
him to be considered the author of a new science of philosophical
anatomy, unknown to all who had preceded him.

The great and proper merit of Geoffroy is to have sought the
means of study and comparison in the primitive and constitutive ele-
ments of the organs. Before him, it was the adult state which had
been studied, where we find only the composite result: in the fetal
state, to which he directed his researches, the primitive nucleus, the
simple fact, stands revealed, destined in all cases to be the subject of
the same fixed and determinate laws of development, complication,
and relative position.* This unity of lawis the last and highest proof
of the unity of design or idea, and thus the profoundest science passes
naturally into the most elevated philosophy. When Newton, at the
close of his immortal labors, recognized the fact that each globe or
world is subjected, not to its own proper or distinctive law, but all to
one sole and common law, he recorded the expressions so worthy the
admiration of every reflective mind: ‘‘It is certain that, as all bears
the impress of one sole design, all must be subject to one only and the
same Being.”’

It was impossible that Geoffroy should have made the general idea
of the unity of composition in animals the subject of such exhaustive
meditation without having had his attention directed to those par-
ticular cases of anomalous or incomplete development which in ages

*J. Law of development. For every organ there is a maximum and a minimum of devel-
opment; and no organ passes abruptly from one of these conditions to the other. A fortiori,
no organ disappears abruptly. The ceacea, which have no hinder members, have still a
small bone, the last vestige of these members, hidden under the skin; the carnivora, which
have no clavicle, have a small bone, its last vestige, suspended in the flesh, &c.

II. Law of complication, or, more precisely, of compensation. Whena part is developed
beyond proportion, it is usually seen that some other part is diminished or even effaced.
Among reptiles, the frog, which has members, has not ribs; serpents which have many ribs,
have no members, &c.

Ill. Law of relative position, or principle of connexions. All parts always preserve, in relation
to one another, the same place: the skull in relation to the vertebr, the vertebra in
relation to the members, all parts of the members, each the same place in its relation to
other parts, &c.

The principle of connexions is the chief, and, if I may say so, the operative principle of
M. Geoffroy’s theory: it is this which enables him to recognize, which unmasks to him
each part through all the mutations of form, of volume, of use, &c. These may, and, in
effect, do all change; but one thing, the position, is invariable. ‘An organ,’’ says Geoffroy,
‘*is altered, atrophied, annihilated, sooner than transposed.”
170 MEMOIR OF GEOFFROY SAINT HILAIRE.

of total ignorance passed under the name of monstrosities. In the last
century the question regarding monsters had been the subject of a
long debate between two members of the academy, Winslow and
Lemery, of whom the first may be said to have completed in the 18th
century the anatomy of the human body, commenced by Vesalius in
the 16th; the second was the son of that Nicholas Lemery whom
Mairan styled the Descartes of chemistry. Lemery was himself a
. Cartesian, Winslow altogether a Leibnitzian: the former held that
there were no monsters except from accidental and mechanical causes;
the latter simply supposed the pre-existence of monsters, as Leibnitz
had supposed the pre-existence of beings. The dispute lasted for
ten years, until the death of Lemery in 1743; and, as was remarked
by Fontenelle, ‘‘it was not possible, as things went on, that it could
be terminated otherwise than by the death of one of the disputants,
for at every new explanation offered by Lemery, Winslow launched at
him a new monster.’’ It was reserved for Geoffroy to carry the
theory of accidental causes to a point of such clear and incontestable
evidence that itis no longer feasible to seek for any other. And this,
by virtue of two principles which suffice to explain everything, the
principle of arrest of development and that of attraction of similar parts, *
principles educed as well from his own ideas as from the concurrent
labors of the eminent anatomist, Serres, who was the friend of his
whole life. The result of the long and persistent inquiries of Geoffroy
on this subject may be summed up in the expression: there are no
monsters; there are merely accidental and secondary anomalies.

In the first volume of his Philosophie Anatomique, wherein he laid
the foundations of his system, the principle of unity of composition is
applied, in a direct manner at least, only to vertebrate animals; and,
confined within these limits, this important principle could not be

* By means of the first of these principles Geoffroy explains all monsters by defect; by
the second all double monsters. ‘The parts which are wanting, or of which there is only
a rudiment or vestige, are abortive, that is, parts arrested in their development. When
two foetuses or germs unite, so as to produce the double monatrosity, they always unite by
similar parts, by similar tissues or organs; the heart of one feetus uniting with the heart of
another, the brain with the brain, the half of the pelvis of one with the half of that of the
other, &c. This attraction of similar parts received from Geoffroy the more abstract name
of attraction of self for self, (sot pour soi,) and was regarded by him as a general law of
nature, though we here consider it only as a physiological principle. Lemery had already
said: ‘‘A reflection is forced upon us by a fact often repeated in the subjects before us, the
fact that all destructions and regenerations of parts which have there taken place have only
done so through the reciprocal action of two similar parts. The stomach, for instance,
having effected with another stomach what it could not do with a liver, is there not room
to conjecture that homogeneity of substance permits in the first case what heterogeneity
prevents in the second ?’’—(diem del’ Academie des Sciences, p. 351, 354, an. 1740. )

In 1822 Geoffroy collected his early memoirs on the subject in a volume entitled Philoso-
phie Anatomique: Des Monstrussities Humaines, and in 1827 published in the Dictionnaire Classique
@' Histoire Naturelle an article, Considerations Generales sur les Monstres, which contains the most
precise and elaborate digest of his theories. His son, Isidore Geoffroy, connecting his own
studies with those of his father, published in 1832 the most important and complete work
on this subject which there is room to desire, entitled Vraité de Teratologie, or a general and
special history of the anomalies of organization.—(See also Recherches d’ Anatomie Transcen-
dante, &c., par M. Serres—Theory of Growth and Deformity applied to explain the Organi-
zation of Ritta-Christina; Paris, 1833. Tr.)
MEMOIR OF GEOFFROY SAINT HILAIRE. aa

contested, In 1820 he proposed to extend it to articulate animals, *
and opposition at once declared itself. Cuvier let fall some expres-
sions of impatience and disapprobation. In 1830 he proceeded to
include the mollusks within the same principle, and the veil was rent
which had thus far covered the dissatisfaction of Cuvier. The first
claim of Cuvier to renown had consisted in a reformation of the entire
classification of the animal kingdom. He excelled in disentangling,
in description, in characterizing with precision both things and ideas.
Almost all the animals without vertebrae had been confounded to-
gether. It was he who separated the zoophytes from the mollusks,
the mollusks from the articulata, and these three groups established,
he had made a fourth group of all the vertebrate animals united in
one bond. He had thus four schemes or types essentially distinct,
and the classification of the animal kingdom, regarded in its great
masses, might be considered as fixed. But now this symmetrical
arrangement, the fruit of so faultless an application of method, seemed
every day more and more menaced by the progress of the ideas of
Geoffroy, who, for his part, would see but one scheme and a single
type.

The discussion was introduced into the Academy of Sciences, and
never did a keener controversy take place between two adversaries
more resolute and unyielding, better fortified with resources for a
combat long foreseen, and, if the expression may be used, more
learnedly prepared not to agree with one another. Between the two,
moreover, there was a characteristic difference: in one there was vast
capacity, guided by a cold and luminous reason; in the other glowing
enthusiasm, heightened by flashes of genius. Outside of the academy
and even of France the disturbance was propagated to all countries
where men thought upon such subjects. We might have imagined
ourselves transported to those ancient times when the sects of philos-
ophy agitated states by the shock of their opinions. The world, in
effect, took sides. The more austere and regular thinkers, those who
were disposed to regard the rigorous logic of science with more favor
than its rapid intuitions, took part with Cuvier; the hardier spirits
ranged themselves on the side of Geoffroy. From the bosom of Ger-
many the now aged Goethe sent him an applauding suffrage. Indeed,
so warmly was the interest of the question felt by Goethe that, meet-
ing a friend in July, 1830, he exclaimed, ‘*‘ You have heard the news
from Paris; what think you of this great event? The volcano has
burst forth, and all is in flames.’’ ‘‘It is, indeed, a fearful account,”’
replied the other, ‘‘and from the point which things have reached,
we may well expect the expulsion of the royal family.’’? ‘* What! talk
you of royal families?’ rejoined Goethe. ‘‘I am speaking ef the
session of the Academy of Sciences; it is there that the fact of real

* See his Memoirs sur un squelette chez les Insectes, (read before the Academy January 3, 1820;
Sur quelques Réegles Fondamentales de Philosophie Naturele, January 17, 1820; Sur une Colonne
Vertebrale, &c., dans les Crustacies, February 21, 1820.
172 . MEMOIR OF GEOFFROY SAINT HILAIRE,

importance has transpired, and the result is a revolution in the human
intellect.’’*

And in effect, though the direct discussion on this occasion might
seem to turn upon the number or relative position of certain organs,
the conflict was essentially that of two philosophies which will for-
ever dispute the ascendency: the philosophy of specific facts and
that of general ideas. In these imposing problems it will always
constitute a strong attraction to the human mind that it seems ever
on the point of arriving at a term which forever flies before it. The
strife between the two systems or methods did not commence with
Aristotle and Plato, nor will it terminate with Cuvier and Geoffroy.
Even considered by itself, the question of the resemblance or the
difference of creatures is one without limits. The more animals are
studied the more are we struck with their diversities, but at the same
time the more do we discover of their resemblances. This truth,
which did not escape the penetration of Aristotle, led him to apply
to animals the name of analogues, or beings similar but diversified.
The discussion before the academy produced the usual effect ; the
two adversaries withdrew, each somewhat more confirmed in his own
views. Geoffroy gave to the public a general view of his opinions
under the title of Principes philosophiques de U unité de composition ;
and Cuvier announced that he should publish a summary of his under
the title De la varieté de composition dans les animaux.

These two personages, by the brilliancy and force of their ideas,
by the very opposition of their doctrines, mark a new and memorable
epoch in science. When Cuvier, in the last year of the last century,
published his Legons d’ anatomie comparée, the admiration excited was
without bounds. The grandeur of the results, the comprehensiveness
of principles, equally certain and unexpected, struck every one with
astonishment. The same hand which had reared the science of com-
parative anatomy founded one still more surprising, the science of
lost existences. At the voice of genius the earth seemed once more
repeopled with its primitive inhabitants.

To these general and transcendent views succeeded the study of

* Apart from its scientific import, Goethe had both personal and national grounds for
the extraordinary interest in the subject which drew from him the manifestation here men-
tioned. Ina paper which he published in reference to the discussion in the French Aca-
demy, (Sammtliche Werke; Philadelphia, 1856: Band 6, scite 471,) he takes occasion to
relate that the appearance of the first volume of Buffon’s Hisrorre NaTuRecuEe occurred in
the same year with his own birth, 1749; and the successive volumes becoming the objects
of his earliest interest, awakened in him a love for the study of natural objects, which soon
led him into the field of controversy as well as of observation. On the other hand, while
his fellow-countrymen, Camper, Kielmeyer, Meckel, Oken, Spix, Tiedemann, &c., are cited
with respect by Geoffroy, and recognized as allies in the attempt to establish the unity of
the animal kingdom, Cuvier, as Goethe complains, had publicly asserted that ‘behind this
theory of analogies there lurked, though in a confused manner, another old and exploded
theory which certain Germans weretrying to revive in orde: to favor the pantheistical system
which they called natural philosophy.’’ This charge Goethe of course repels, alleging that
‘‘the two processes of reasoning (Denkweise) from the universal to the particular, and from
the particular to the universal, are equally indispensable; and that, notwithstanding their
habitual antagonism, the more vivaciously these menta] functions, like in and out breath-
ing, are carried on together, the better will be the result fur science and its friends.’’—
aly
MEMOIR OF GEOFFROY SAINT HILAIRE. 173

details. Facts were no more than facts, and the harvest of grand
ideas appeared to have been gathered. It was at this point that a
new genius arose, bold, original, and penetrating. The whole sci-
ence becomes at once reanimated ; the fact is vivified by the idea ;
conjecture unites itself with the most exact observation. The new
adventurer overleaps the recognized boundaries, and, beyond those
boundaries, establishes a new science, to which he communicates
something essentially and pointedly his own: his daring, his love of
abstract and hazardous combinations, his sudden and unforeseen intui-
tions. The renown of Geoffroy will consist in his having laid the
foundation of the profound science of the intimate nature of beings,
philosophic anatomy.

To his principal ideas on the laws of animal organization, Geoffroy,
towards the latter years of his life, added some others which are but
accessory in relation to the former. These were his views on the
mutability of species, on the filiation of existing species with lost ones,
and that other jiliation of zras and species which would make of all
beings only successive stages of one and the same being. These
views, in which, it must be confessed, the real does not sufficiently
disengage itself from the ideal, are not peculiar to Geoffroy. They
form no part of that noble assemblage of new and fundamental laws
which constitute his proper doctrine and to which his name will
always be attached.

From the first institution of the faculty of sciences, Geoffroy had
been called to one of its chairs of anatomy and general zoology. Here
it was that he indulged himself in the development of his philosophic
ideas. In the chair which he filled at the museum for nearly half a
century, his principal object was the study of the relations of beings,
a study which he carried so far that it is to be regretted he has left
nothing written upon it.

What gave most force to the lessons of Geoffroy was his enthusi-
astic admiration for the sciences. He would not admit that bounds
could be prescribed to their progress, but expected and required of
them the ever-renewed emotions which constituted the excitement
and charm of his life. In familiar intercourse the inspirations of a
rich and rapid imagination imparted to his conversation not only
fertility of ideas but a certain elasticity of thought, whose manifes-
tations were often as striking as unexpected. He was too much
indebted, indeed, to his imagination not to give it the rein ; at times
perhaps too freely ; for to this source might be imputed the few
moments of estrangement which shadowed the course of his friend-
ships. Yet, even at such moments, it was but necessary to address
one’s self to his heart to find all those traits of youth restored which
governed, as we have seen, his earlier intercourse with Cuvier.
‘‘The excellent young man,’’ as Cuvier then characterized him,
survived to the last ; always under the dominion of some generous
impulse, always ready to spend himself, and, what is still more rare,
to efface himself, in the service of another; always confiding and
open with his friends, as in the first stages of life. Nor were the
acts of generosity and devotion with which his life was filled always
unattended with personal danger. We have seen him risking his
174 MEMOIR OF GEOFFROY SAINT HILAIRE.

safety at St. Firmin to effect the deliverance of his former teachers,
and in 1793 he sheltered under his roof the unfortunate Roucher,
author of the poem of ‘‘The Months.’’ Again, in 1830, the same
roof became the asylum of de Quelen, archbishop of Paris, a fugitive
at the time from popular menace and pursuit. Toa friend who pointed
out to him the danger which he incurred by this new act of generosity,
he replied, ‘‘ Bear with me this one time more ; you know I am an
old offender in this way.’

He allowed himself no relaxation from his japan except in the
tender intercourse of his family. To this no one could surrender
himself with more perfect abandonment and relish. He had the
satisfaction of early recognizing in his son a noble intelligence, to
which he might securely confide the care of his fame and the main-
tenance of his doctrines. ‘‘Judge,’’ said he, one day to a friend,
‘‘whether [ought not to be happy. Behold here the most cherished
treasures of my son ;’’ and so saying he opened a closet in which the
young boy had religiously collected every thing which had been
written concerning his father’s labors.

Voltaire, in a celebrated verse, had boldly proclaimed of himself—

‘‘ Yes, I love glory, and I dare avow it.’’

With an equal love of celebrity Geoffroy was as little disposed to
dissemble it. Perhaps no one ever aspired to renown more frankly
and openly, and it has been given to few solely devoted to the sci-
ences to obtain a greater share of it. His views, his principles, even
his language, have penetrated everywhere, and left everywhere the
impress of his influence. All the celebrated academies numbered
him among their members. Learned strangers made the pilgrimage
of Paris with the sole purpose of seeing him. Our own provinces
and the neighboring nations, especially Germany, that home of
Goethe, that country of the Okens, the Caruses, and the Spixes, sent
every year a throng of young neophytes who desired to hear and to
know this chief of a great school.

In a retired corner of the museum is a little hermitage where
Daubenton, a half century before, had installed Geoffroy. It was in
this domicile, endeared to him by so many recollections, that the latter,
when advanced in years, saw himself surrounded by disciples who
ascribed to him the same infallibility which he himself accorded to
the sciences, and in this regard his belief well entitled him to be the
head of a school of believers. Towards the close of his life he was
affected with total blindness, but this was attended with many alle-
viations. His latter days were soothed by the caresses of two young
children, for whom he fondly anticipated a career like his own, and
the pious cares of a daughter, in whom his own qualities were mir-
rored, surrounded him with tender assiduities. The noble companion
of his life survived to press his faltering hands, the mother of a son
who was the solace and glory of his old age.

Geoffroy expired tranquilly June 19, 1844. This bold investigator
of nature, who had cast upon her mysteries so penetrating a glance,
in receiving the last farewell of a beloved child, said to her with
calmness : ‘‘ Be assured, my daughter, we shall meet again !’’
THE SUN: ITS CHEMICAL ANALYSIS,

ACCORDING TO
THE RECENT DISCOVERIES OF M.M. KIRCHOFF AND BUNSEN.

BY AUGUSTE LAUGEL.

’

TRANSLATED FOR THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FROM THE ‘‘ REVUE DES DEUX MONDES,’

PARIS,
gaNuaRY 15, 1862. :

ScreNncE has just succeeded in transcending one of those intervals
which scarcely the most daring cosmogony or unbridled fancy had
ventured to traverse. Astronomy had weighed and measured the
sun; chemistry, aided by physics, to-day makes an analysis of it. It
says to us, ‘‘The solar atmosphere comprises, in the state of vapor, a
great number of the substances which compose our planet, iron, the
metals which enter into the composition of our alkalies and earth,
potassium, sodium, strontium, calcium, barium; it contains chrome,
nickel, copper, and zinc; on the other hand, neither gold, nor silver,
nor mercury, nor aluminum, nor tin, nor lead, nor antimony, nor
arsenic, nor silicium, at least in notable quantities, are to be found
init. Among the metals at once telluric and solar are to be included
cesium and rubidium, metals yesterday unknown, which had escaped
all the processes of ordinary chemical analysis.’’ These affirmations
of science are so surprising that we might be tempted at first to con-
sign them, without examination, to the reveries of a Swift, a moralist
turned chemist, or the imaginings of some new Micromegas; but the
labors of M.M. Kirchoff and Bunsen present not the slightest trace
of extravagance. We have here no romance, more or less ingenious,
where the plurality of habitable worlds is discussed, where hypotheses
are unceremoniously mingled with facts, cosmic mysteries with the
realities of the sublunary world. The discoveries of the two German
savans are founded on the most rigorous observations, and deserve
to be classed among the most admirable acquisitions of the positive
sciences. Their method, at the same time that it has to some extent
given the means of exploring the sun from a distance, has furnished
to chemical analysis a process of investigation of an unheard of,
almost miraculous, delicacy. We may boldly affirm that by this
method mineralogy may be revived and renovated, that chemistry
will enlarge its domain and be able to master problems heretofore
irresolvable. Meanwhile the capital result of these admirable re-
searches—the one which most interests the philosophy of nature—is
already attained: the identity of the materials which compose the
sun and the earth has been demonstrated. The chemical unity of our
planetary system has been placed beyond dispute.

This is not a discovery to which we can be indifferent. Man had long
176 THE SUN—ITS CHEMICAL ANALYSIS.

regarded as the centre of the cosmos the little eccentric ball which
carries him; he thought that between himself and mineral or organic
nature there was no bond or relationship. We know now that ma-
terially we differ in nothing from all that surrounds us; we are living
laboratories through which circulate all terrestrial substances. At
this moment it is demonstrated that these terrestrial substances oc-
cupy our whole planetary system. We were already united with the
animal, the plant, the water, the dust, with the infinitely little; we
are now united with the sun, with the infinitely great.

The alchemists had instinctively suspected the unity of chemical
composition of the planetary system; at least, they had established,
in virtue of certain mystic ideas, relations between the different
metals and the bodies which revolve around the sun; they never for-
got the stars in studying the great problem of the transmutation of
metals. We must needs be indulgent towards these aberrations of
the human intellect, for truth itself has at times such an aspect of
strangeness and magic as to affect the mind with doubt and bewilder-
ment. The imagination must be poor, indeed, to look with indiffer-
ence on the experiments of M.M. Kirchoff and Bunsen. The ma-
terial of the sun analyzed in the light which it transmits to us! The
most subtle and most inaccessible of things subjected to the most
precise appreciation! Is there not here something to call forth as-
tonishment and admiration? Into his darkened chamber the physicist
admits a solar ray; there, tranquilly and at his ease, he compares his
artificial lights with that light which inundates the universe, which
pours life and heat to distances which thought cannot measure, and
from this comparison he succeeds in deducing a complete theory of
the physical and chemical constitution of the sun, of the grand
phenomena of which that star is the theatre, of the spots which
astronomers descry in it.

The recent labors of M.M. Kirchoff and Bunsen are based on an
analysis of the solar light. To analyze is to decompose; but we can
only decompose that which is not simple. The solar light in effect is
not a simple light; a ray, however attenuate we suppose it, traversing
the eye of a needle, or some crevice incomparably more narrow, is
not homogeneous; it is composed of an infinity of differently colored
rays, which, united in a pencil, constitute what we call white lght.
We have but to cast our eyes around to comprehend that the light of
the sun comprises all colors; the diversified world which surrounds us
is not a sketch, it is a picture. If the solar beam were simple, all
objects would appear to us with the simple contrasts of light and
shadow, as in photographs: the greatest charm of nature would be
destroyed. The color does not belong to the objects, for when the
sun has disappeared beneath the horizon all tints vanish in the same
darkness.

Is there not a means of decomposing this ray of light, which we
just now imagined as traversing an aperture, in such a way as to
separate the different rays that compose it? Nothing is easier; it
sutlices to make it traverse a prism of glass by which the different
rays are unequally refracted. This phenomenon of refraction, which
THE SUN—ITS CHEMICAL ANALYSIS. 177

is produced whenever the luminous rays pass from one substance into
another, explains all that play of light which we witness in the water,
in the atmosphere, in all transparent mediums. We owe to Newton
the first scientific explanation of it.

Let us suppose ourselves in a chamber entirely darkened, into which
light enters only by an extremely narrow slit made ina shutter. Let
a glass prism be presented in the line which the entering sheet of
rays is traversing, and aleaf of paper be placed at a distance of some
feet beyond and opposite the prism. The different rays which com-
pose the white light are not refracted in the same degree in passing
from the air into the glass, nor again in quitting the glass to traverse ©
the air anew: consequently, in place of a luminous white line, we
shall see on the paper a rectangle covered with differently colored
bands. Newton distinguished therein seven principal colors: violet,
indigo, blue, green, yellow, orange, and red; in reality, the tints
pass into one another by an insensible and harmonious transition.
To this expansion of the luminous beam has been given the name of
solar spectrum, though with little justice, for nothing spectral can
attach itself in idea to that beautiful sheet of light, whose tones the
richest pallet would fail to reproduce. The colored bands of the
rainbow are merely a solar spectrum, pale and much weakened, pro-
duced by the refraction of the rays in the minute drops of rain; the
play of light which is so fine in soap bubbles better represents the
brilliancy of the spectrum in the darkened chamber.

So long as curiosity was limited to the simple effects produced by
the interposition of the prism and the reception of the refracted rays
on a sheet of paper or other white surface, there was nothing seen in
the spectrum but the seven elementary colors, without further dis-
coveries; but the spectrum, like every luminous object, may be studied
with magnifying optical instruments, and it was by exploring it in
this way that, about 1814, the German savant Frauenhofer remarked
some singular properties, whose discovery will immortalize his name.
The spectrum, as we have seen, is formed of an infinite number of
bands of different tints united together; the flag, as it were, of nature,
not tricolore, but omnicolore; and among these colored parallel zones
Frauenhofer was the first to perceive bands or rather lines of black,
not only towards the two extremities of the spectrum, where the light
is merged in the surrounding obscurity, but in the most brilliant parts
and in all the colors. He recognized these lines as having the same
invariable place in the spectrum, and since that time they have pre-
served the alphabetic name which he assigned them: we still say the
line A, B, or C, of Frauenhofer, and in thus speaking physicists know
at once in what part of the spectrum these rays are found.

With more delicate instruments and more perfect prisms, there
have been observed in the spectrum many more dark lines than Frau-
enhofer had indicated. In 1860, the English philosopher Sir David
Brewster, to whom optics owes so many happy discoveries, presented
a drawing of the spectrum crossed by a multitude of these lines, and

_M. Kirchoff has employed, in the course of the observations just com-

pleted, so delicate an apparatus that, to use his own expression,
12
178 THE SUN—ITS CHEMICAL ANALYSIS.

several thousands of dark lines are distinguishable in the solar
spectrum.

A phenomenon having been once recognized, it remains for reason
to interpret it. How are we to understand this fact, that the hght
includes obscure spaces, and that when the white ray spreads out into
the iridescent band, there should be vacuities in the series of colored
rays? ach of these rays has a power of refraction proper to itself;
it is by virtue, indeed, of. this difference of refraction that the white
light is decomposed in the prism; but how is it that rays of a certain
refrangibility are deficient, while those whose refrangibility differs
but by an infinitely small amount, more or less, manifest themselves?
The light which we call white—would thus seem, if we might so
speak, not to be complete light? Has it not lost something in coming
from its focus to the eye, either in the sun itself, or in the terrestrial
atmosphere? It is certain that the light loses some of its rays in
traversing the erial envelope of our planet. Sir David Brewster
first brought this to notice; he showed that new black lines appear
in the solar spectrum when the sun approaches the horizon, because
the luminous rays pass through a greater space in the atmosphere
before reaching us. These dark lines, however, which are due to the
movement of the sun, are to be carefully distinguished from the in-
variable, normal lines which always show themselves, whatever may
be the altitude of the sun inthe sky. If the first are to be explained
by atmospheric absorption, the second can only be owing to an ab-
sorption which takes place at the sun itself.

The explanation of the dark lines bv an absorption of rays in the
solar atmosphere was proposed in 1847 by M. A. Mathiessen in a com-
munication made to the Academy of Sciences of Paris. MM. Brews-
ter and Gladstone both adopted it; the former suggesting at the
same time a means of verifying this hypothesis. According to the
English physicist, if the lines are due to the absorbing power of the
solar atmosphere, which would arrest certain luminous rays in pref-
erence to others, the spectrum ought to be more furrowed with the
dark lines in proportion as the rays which produce it issue from
points nearer the edge of the solar disc; admitting that the rays
from the edge traverse the solar atmosphere through a greater space
than those which emanate from the centre. M. Kirchoff points out,
with good reason, that this inference would be unavoidable if the
atmosphere of the sun were inconsiderable in comparison with the
diameter of that body; but everything leads to the belief that the
sun’s atmosphere has, on the contrary, an immense extent, and in
that case two rays, issuing one from the edge, the other from the
centre of the luminous disc, would traverse spaces nearly equal before
reaching our eye. We should not, therefore, expect to observe any
great difference between the spectrum obtained by means of one or
the other of these rays. The idea thus thrown out by M. Brewster,
has never been experimentally verified.

The phenomenon of the lines remained therefore unexplained; nor
would the mysterious reasons, doubtless, have ever been penetrated,
had not physicists thought of | tudying other spectrums than that of
THE SUN—ITS CHEMICAL ANALYSIS. 179

the solar light. Any flame may serve for this purpose. The spec-
trum of all sorts of artificial flames have been examined, as well as
that of the electric spark, of the luminous arch produced by a current
between two points of charcoal, even that of the more brilliant of the
stars. Observers have it in their power to vary indefinitely the nature
of artificial flames; nothing is easier than to place different substances
in suspension in a flame, either directly by immersing them at the end of
a wire of platina, or mixing them beforehand with the liquid which
supports the combustion. The study of artificial flames has revealed
a phenomenon at least as extraordinary as that of the dark lines of
the spectrum. When certain substances are in a state of ignition in
the flame, the spectrum is traversed by colored bands of a greater
brightness which are vividly depicted on the general ground of the
usual colors. This circumstance had not escaped Frauenhofer, who
had seen with astonishment bright lines traced in the spectrum pro-
duced by the flame of a wax candle. Different physicists, Brewster,
Miller, Schwann, submitted to analysis flames obtained by burning al-
cohol which contained various salts in solution, and they were thus
enabled to observe the bright stripes of artificial spectrums with
great distinctness. Thus it was ascertained that every flame con-
taining sodium furnishes a spectrum in which a yellow line of an ex-
traordinary brightness is delineated. Schwann even observed that it
| was sufficient to mix a very small quantity of sea salt, or chloride of
-sodium, with the combustible liquid, in order that the spectrum should
disclose its presence by the appearance of the yellow line.

In this discovery there was the germ of a new method of chemical
analysis. Hach metal in effect has bright lines of special colors,
which correspond with it, and which retain an invariable position

in the spectrum. A chemist may learn to distinguish these lines as
readily as he recognizes the precipitates obtained in the laboratory by
the ordinary reagents; but with the advantage that the lhght fur-
nishes a reaction far more delicate and perfect than any with which
chemistry was before acquainted. Arago, who accomplished so much
in behalf of optics, predicted that chemistry would some day derive
unexpected services from the progress of that science. A ray of
light proceeding froma flame discovers by its physical properties the in-
timate nature of the focus from which it emanates. . I shall cite an
example, borrowed from M. Kirchoff, well calculated to excite sur-
prise: ‘‘The following experiment,’’ writes the learned physicist,
* proves that thus far chemistry has no reagents which can be placed
even in remote comparison with that of the spectrum as regards its
sensibility. We have caused three milligrams of chlorate of soda to
detonate in a part of the hall as far removed as possible from the ap-
paratus, while we observed the spectrum of the flame of a gas-lamp
giving but slight illumination; the apartment in which the experi-
ment was made measures about sixty cubic metres. After some
minutes the flame, reflected in a tawny yellow hue, presented with
great intensity the characteristic line of sodium, and this line was not
completely effaced till after the lapse of ten minutes. From the capa-
city of the hall and the weight of the salt employed in the experi-
180 THE SUN—ITS CHEMICAL ANALYSIS.

ment, we easily deduce that the air of the apartment held in suspen-
sion but one twenty-millionth of its weight of sodium. Admitting
that a second suflices for conveniently observing the reaction, and
that during this time the flame uses fifty cubic centimetres or 0.0647
grams of air, containing only the twenty-millionth of a milligram of
salt of soda, we may calculate that the eye very distinctly perceives
the presence of less than the three-millionth of a milligram of salt of
soda. In view of such a sensibility as this, we recognize that it
must be seldom, indeed, that atmospheric air, at a high tempera-
ture, does not present the reaction of sodium. The surface of the
earth is more than two-thirds covered with a solution of chloride of
sodium, which, by the agitation of the waves, continually produces
spray; the minute drops of water thus diffused in the atmosphere
abandon in evaporating a highly attenuated dust of chloride of sodium,
which constitutes an atmospheric element, variable as regards the pro-
portion, but rarely, it would seem, deficient in the air.’’

Nothing is easier than to produce this apparition of the yellow line
of sodium in the spectrum obtained by the comparatively obscure
flame of an ordinary gas-lamp. While my eye was applied to the
glass with which I was observing the faint spectrum of such a lamp,
M. Grandeau, the chemist, who kindly repeated for me at the labora-
tory of the normal school the experiments of MM. Bunsen and Kir-
choff, struck several times with his hand on the sleeve of his coat, and
I saw the yellow line of the sodium display itself in a momentary
flash on the dim field of the eye-glass. The stroke of a hand on a
carment had sufficed to throw into the illuminating gas some of the
molecules of sodium mixed with the dust, and these scanty molecules
had instantly exerted their almost magic influence on the properties
of the light. M. Grandeau, at the time when he initiated me in the
experiments of the two German savants who had themselves given, —
at Heidelberg, an account of their extraordinary researches, was en-
gaged in analyzing the mineral water of Bourbonne-les-Bains, and
had just detected therein the two new metals which MM. Bunsen
and Kirchoff had discovered in the water of Durckheim. He took
some drops of the water of Bourbonne, introduced them into the
flame, where they were at once converted into vapor, and I had quite
enough time to distinguish on the field of the spectrum the lines which
characterize the new metals, rubidiwm and cesium, the red line of the
first and the blue of the second.

It was, in fact, solely through the inspection of different spectrums,
which they obtained by introducing divers substances into a flame, that
MM. Bunsen and Kirchoff were led to the discovery of these two new
simple bodies. Familiar with the bright lines characteristic of all the
known metals, they were warranted in attributing to new metals the
bright lines which corresponded neither with iron, nor sodium, nor
lithium, nor potassium, &c. Guided by this induction, they were en-
abled to seek directly for these metals in substances which called forth
in the spectrum the appearance of the new lines. Hence it was that
they extracted cesium from the mineral water of Diirckheim, and
rubidium from a mineral of Roxena, in Moravia, called by mineralo-
THE SUN-—ITS CHEMICAL ANALYSIS. 181

gists lepidolite. These two metals are highly alkaline, and take their
place in the chemical series by the side of potassium and sodium, of
which they partake the principal properties.

The optical analysis, by reason of its extreme delicacy, furnishes the
means of recognizing the slighest traces of the metals which possess
the property of communicating a vivid coloring to certain zones of the
spectrum. To give astriking instance: when the aspes of a cigar, a
little moistened with chlorhydric acid, are introduce into the flame
which furnishes the spectrum, we see appear the yellow line of so-
dium, the pale red line of potassium, the intensely red line of lithium,
avery deep orange line and a green one, both corresponding with
calcium; thus in an instant we have verified the presence of five
metals. By the same means we discover in mineral waters, especially
when the experiment is made with mother-waters, (eaux-meres, ) the
least traces of the numerous metals which communicate to them
these peculiar medicinal properties. The metals are not in gen-
eral characterized by a single band; that is the case only with so-
dium, whose yellow band is distinguished by very vivid outlines
and a peculiar brilliancy. It is true that we can scarcely introduce
any substance whatever into the flame without the appearance of this
line, even when that substance does not contain sodium; it is sufii-
cient that such body should have been subjected for some time to the
action of the air in order that it should give the reaction of sodium
when presented to the flame. We have seen that the dust detached
from clothes at some distance from the apparatus suffices to produce
this effect. The wire of platina, with which many substances are
suspended in the flame, also reveals, the presence ef sodium when
the wire has remained some time exposed to the air.

After the reaction of sodium, the most sensible and distinct is that
of lithium; this metal gives rise to two lines well defined, the one a
very pale yellow, the other red and brilliant. This reaction is of a
delicacy almost as great as even that of sodium. MM. Bunsen and
Kirchoff have seen the red ray appear after the detonation, at some
distance from the apparatus, of nine milligrams of carbonate of lithium.
They compute that their eye has thus been able to detect the pre-
sence of nine-millionths of the carbonate of lithium in the air. They
have discovered lithium in a multitude of substances where its pre-
sence was not suspected, in sea-water, in the fucus drifted by the
Gulf Stream on the coasts of Scotland, in the granites, in mineral
springs, in the ashes of wood growing on granitic formations, in the
ashes of tobacco and of the leaves and cuttings of the vine, in those
of cereals grown on a granitic formation, &c. Potassium is recognized
by two lines, one situated in the red, the other in the vislet, at the
two extremities of the spectrum, and by a third intermediate line
much more faint. The remoteness of the two principal lines, placed
at the two ends of the visible spectrum, render this reaction but
little sensible; the eye can only distinguish about one-millionth of a
milligram of chlorate of potash in a flame.

The alkaline metals have more simple spectrums than the metals
which enter into the composition of the alkaline earths. Strontium
182 THE SUN-—ITS CHEMICAL ANALYSIS.

gives eight remarkable lines, six red, one orange, and one blue, and
the eye is able, by means of the spectrum, to perceive even six-mil-
lionths of a milligram of this metal in the air. Calcium, a metal
which combines with oxygen to form lime, gives three lines, green,
red, and blue, which appear only in intense flames. Barium, the
metal of baryta, is distinguished by two green lines. Iron, which
produces very gumerous lines, manganese, zinc, copper, gold, all the
metals, in a word, have been tried by MM. Bunsen and Kirchoff, and
they have carefully studied the lines which each of them exhibits in
the spectrum. These bright zones remain invariable, whatever may
be the composition of the salt, in which the metal is contained; they
are still the same when the metal is directly volatilized in the flame
or in passing a strong electric current between two metallic points
placed at some distance from one another. The optical properties
which we have thus indicated are, therefore, attributes of the simple
bodies themselves, and they may be observed at all times when
these latter are raised to a high temperature.

This curious investigation of the bright lines of the artificial spee-
trum has an intimate and close connexion with the explanation of the
dark lines of the solar spectrum. This connexion, however, it is not
easy to discover at the first glance, and it even escaped so inge-
nious a physicist as M. Foucault. In 1849 M. Foucault announced
that he had observed the following fact: when we are examining In
a spectrum the yellow line of sodium, from being bright it becomes
dark if we vividly illuminate the source of artificial ight in which the
sodium is in suspension. M. Foucault.was observing the voltaic arch
which unites two points of carbon, and he saw a bright yellow line
produced on the spectrum, due to the presence of a compound of so-
dium reduced to incandescent vapor by the action of the current.
Now, when the luminous voltaic arch was traversed by the rays of
the solar light that line became dark.

This strange phenomenon was neither explained nor generalized by
the French physicist. M. Kirchoff was ignorant of it when, in 1859,
he commenced with M. Bunsen his series of fruitful experiments. He
showed that the bright line of sodium occupies in the series of ele-
mentary colors the place which, in the common solar spectrum, is
occupied by the black line which Frauenhofer designated as the line
D. To borrow his own expressions, the line D is only the bright line
of sodium reversed, (it would surely be better to say extinguished.)
But how is this line to be extinguished in a flame which holds sodium
in suspension? We have seen that it is by directing upon this flame
the rays of a flame still more vivid. If we observe the spectrum of
the sodium flame, we shall perceive at first the characteristic yellow
line; let us then allow the solar light to penetrate with increasing
intensity into this flame, and the yellow line will grow pale by de-
grees, and at length will become dark when the spectrum produced
by the sun shall have overpowered that of the artificial flame. What
occurs with sodium occurs with all the metals. M. Kirchoff has con-
verted the red line of lithium into the dark line just as he had done the
yellow line of sodium; the other metals likewise present, though with
THE SUN—ITS CHEMICAL ANALYSIS. 183

less distinctness, the phenomenon of reversal. What is proved by
these phenomena? It is, that of all the rays of natural light which
traverse the artificial flame there are absorbed in greater abundance,
the rays which this flame would emit were it alone shining; or, to
speak more scientifically, the flame has an absorptive power corres-
pondent to its emissive power.

Let us now represent to ourselves ‘hee sun consisting of a nucleus, the
focus of an incessant and intense light, and surrounded by an atmos-
phere. This envelope, which is of a temperature less elevated than
the central nucleus, will absorb in preference the rays similar to those
which it would give out in greatest number if, supposing the globe of
the sun removed, the atmosphere remained as sole focus of light and
of heat. Here the solar atmosphere fulfils the part which the pale ar-
tificial flame did in the experiments of M. Bunsen, and the solar globe
that of the more vivid flame which reverses the bright lines of the arti-
ficial flame. The solar atmosphere, isolated from that which it en-
velopes, would furnish a spectrum, crossed with bright lines, corres-
ponding to all the substances which it might contain in ignition.

The intense light of the nucleus of the sun extinguishes all these lines,
and, in place of this imaginary spectrum of dark ground covered with

colored lines, it gives a spectrum of a bright ground covered with
dark lines. The spectrum of the sun is in some sort the negative
proof of the spectrum of its atmosphere; we find a dark line in the
place which corresponds to the bright line of sodium. We may affirm,

_ then, that this bright line would be found in the spectrum of the solar

atmosphere; or, in other terms, that sodium in ignition is present in
that envelope.

The sun reverses all the bright lines which its own envelope would
furnish; or, in other words, each of the dark lines of the spectrum
reveals negatively the presence of a particular simple body in the at-
mosphere of the central star. Now we count, in fact, thousands of
dark lines in the spectrum. How rich, then, in simple bodies must
be the orb which dispenses to us light and heat! Many of these
lines occupy the places which correspond to known terrestrial metals;
We may say, without hesitation, that the line D pertains to sodium,
another to lithium; here we see sixty black lines all coinciding with
the bright ones of iron, there the lines of calcium, of magnesium, of
sodium, metals so widely diffused over the surface of the earth; we
retrace the brilliant groups of chrome as black lines in the solar
spectrum. It was highly interesting to search there for nickel and
cobalt, which are almost constant accompaniments of iron in me-
teorites. These two metals produce a very considerable number
of colored lines, less bright than those of iron. All the most vivid
lines of nickel are found reversed; that is, black, in the spectrum of
the solar light. We distinguish also a few of the lines of cobalt; but,
strange to say, not the brightest of those lines. Barium, copper, and
zinc appear to exist in small quantity in the solar atmosphere; on the
other hand, there has no distinct trace been discovered of gold, silver,
mercury, aluminium, silicium, which is so abundant among telluric
metals, cadmium, tin, lead, antimony, arsenic, strontian, and lithium.

The discoveries of MM. Bunsen and Kirchoff no longer permit us
184 THE SUN-—ITS CHEMICAL ANALYSIS.

to doubt that the sun has an atmosphere of a temperature lower than
that of the luminous nucleus, properly so called, and which holds in
suspension the greater part of the simple bodies which we find on our
planet. This grand conception accords well with the hypothesis of
Laplace, who attributed the formation of all our planetary system to
the gradual cooling of a single nebula, in which the cosmic matter at
present condensed in the sun, the planets and the satellites, was
primitively diffused through the entire space which that system oe-
cupies. The smallest bodies naturally cool most rapidly; the moon
appears frozen, without atmosphere, without water, without organic
life; there is something mournful and appalling in its aspect under —
the telescope. The earth has cooled less promptly than its satellite,
but far more rapidly than the sun, whose fervid atmosphere still cons
tains the numerous substances which on our planet have been long
since condensed and fixed in the solid rocks. Our impoverished at- _
mosphere contains nothing but the elements necessary for the support
of organic life, oxygen, azote, carbon, and water, and our understand-
ing can with difficulty accustom itself to the idea of an atmosphere
charged with iron, with alkaline metals, with bodies the most differ-
ent in a state of combustion. It would require the pen of Dante to
portray that chaotic condition of nature, that rain of metallic fire,
those luminous clouds darkened by the contrast of a still intenser
light, that incandescent ocean of the sun, with its tempests, its cur-
rents, its rushing and gigantic water-spouts; such pictures set at de-
fiance even imaginations the most enamored of the fantastic and the
strange, and our dreams evaporate as a. drop of water before that
blazing lava, that focus, that refulgence of the world, source of all
warmth, of all movement, of all life.

On such a subject nothing can be more eloquent than the precise
language of science; it derives its force from its very humility. If -
metallic vapors surround the sun in the form of an atmosphere, we
comprehend that they may be condensed in clouds, like the vapor of
water in our own atmosphere. Galileo regarded the spots of the sun
as clouds floating before the lustrous body ‘from which the light radi-
ates; but this hy pothesis has been generally abandoned by astrono-
mers. In order to understand the theories which are at present
adopted respecting the physical constitution of the sun, let us describe _
the appearance which it presents when examined under a high
magnifying power.

The entire surface appears covered with innumerable small in-
equalities, similar to marbling, or rather to the rugosities of an
orange. On the luminous ground are seen dark spots of a brownish
grey or black color, and of very irregular forms. When these
spots are observed for several days in succession we perceive that
they make their appearance on the eastern border of the disc, ad-
vance towards the centre, pass it, and disappear behind the western
‘border. Sometimes the same spots are seen to reappear after having
made an entire circuit. It is this phenomenon, indeed, which has
afforded the means of estimating the velocity of rotation of the sun.
‘The spots of the sun have very distinct outlines; they usually exhibit
THE SUN—ITS CHEMICAL ANALYSIS. 185

a black portion, nearly central, surrounded by a penumbra not so
deeply shaded and sharply defined as regards the darkest zone. The
penumbra is generally a little lighter around the central black spot.
It is quite rare to witness a spot without penumbra or a penumbra
without a spot.

When we observe a spot during several days, very curious changes
are remarked in the outlines of the black portion and the penumbra.
If the spots were adherent to the body of the sun itself and, as La
Hire and Maupertuis still believed at the close of the last century,
were species of isles or scums in the solar ocean, we should naturally
see first one part of the penumbra vanish, then the black central
nucleus, then the other side of the penumbra. . It is observed, on the
contrary, that as the spot advances towards the western border of
the solar disc, the western penumbra, instead of diminishing, in-
creases in size, the eastern penumbra shrinks and is effaced ; lastly,
the black central nucleus itself disappears before the western penum-
bra. In reference to this observation, which is due to Wilson, and
to give an explanation of it, William Herschel, in 1779, surmised
that the sun has an envelope of a nature altogether peculiar. In
the centre he supposed there might be a solid and opaque nucleus,
surrounded on all sides by a gaseous and transparent atmosphere, as
in the case of the terrestrial atmosphere; this might be composed of
two strata: an exterior luminous one, the true photosphere of the
sun; and alower stratum, obscure or feebly illuminated by reflection.
How, by this hypothesis, are we to explain the phases of the solar
spots? Imagine that a hurricane, rends the atmosphere over an-
immense expanse, (there are spots whose extent is not less than the
whole surface of the earth ;) at the bottom of the gulf thus formed,
the terrestrial observer will perceive the solid nucleus of the sun as
a dark spot, and the first atmosphere, slightly transparent and faintly
illuminated, as a penumbra encircling the central spot. It will thus
be easily comprehended that the movement of rotation of the sun
will, by presenting the object obliquely, withdraw from our view one
of the sides and the bottom of this vast chasm before withdrawing
the opposite side. All the phenomena described by Wilson are thus
very easily accounted for. But by the jnfluence of what forces is it
that the luminous veil of the sun and the second semi-diaphanous veil
are torn apart to show us the opaque nucleus? This no one has been
able to explain. Herschel supposed that the solid nucleus was cov-
ered with volcanoes, whose vapors, discharged with great force, might
break up through the solar atmosphere; but this is a supposition
wholly gratuitous, which nothing has seemed to confirm.*

A discovery made by Arago, in 1811, seemed to give a new degree
of probability to the strange hypothesis of Herschel on the consti-
tution of the sun. It had been long believed that the light emitted
by incandescent bodies was not polarized ; Arago observed, on the
contrary, that the light proceeding from an incandescent body, solid

* Phenomena lately observed indicate that the nucleus of the sun, as well as its atmo-
sphere, is subjected to violent commotions. J. He
186 THE SUN—ITS CHEMICAL ANALYSIS.

or liquid, always presents traces of polarization. The flame of a gas
in combustion alone presents the properties of normal light. This
observation furnished a very simple means of discovering the physi-
cal constitution of the sun. If it were composed of an incandescent
liquid mass it ought to transmit polarized light. If the photosphere
were gaseous, the contrary ought to take place. Now, in regarding
the sun with a polariscope, Arago found no indication of polarization;
thence he concluded that the luminous part of the sun is gaseous, and
not liquid or solid.

The two atmospheric envelopes, which, as Herschel and Arago
agree in admitting, exist around an opaque central sun, possess a
probable thickness of about 4,000 kilometres; but the singular phe-
nomena observed during the total eclipse of the sun of the 8th of July,
1842, obliged astronomers to recognize the existence of still a third
solar atmosphere above the photosphere properly so called. ‘These
phenomena were perceived anew during the eclipse of the year 1860.
At the moment when the moon has entirely covered the luminous
solar disc, the lunar screen is surrounded by a brilliant luminous
aureola, to which has been given the name of corona ; from the border
of the moon are projected elevations or protuberances, which ob-
servers compare sometimes to serrated rose-colored mountains, some-
times to masses of ice tinted red, sometimes to immovable red
flames. These protuberances are of a height which may reach to
80,000 kilometers, a distance which surpasses even the diameter of
the sun. The old theory of Herschel can render no account of these
strange appearances. If the sun had the photosphere for its exterior
envelope, the sky ought to be completely obscure at the moment
when the lunar disc entirely covers the luminous body. We have
been compelled, therefore, to admit that there exists a third atmos-
phere, of considerable transparency and vast extent, which encompasses
the photosphere itself. .

It was impossible that M. Kirchoff, in the sequel of the admirable
discoveries which he had made with M. Bunsen, should not think of
reforming the astronomical doctrines relating to the central star of our
planetary system. He has arrived at the conclusion that the visible
disc of the sun is not formed by a photosphere; he does not believe
in the two envelopes of Herschel and in the opaque central nucleus;
he regards the sun as an incandescent body of which the outlines are
those of the luminous globe itself, which our eye perceives, and which
is surrounded by an immense atmosphere rich in substances of the
greatest diversity. The old theory was entirely founded on the ap-
pearances of the spots. M. Kirchoff considers them as clouds floating
in the solar atmosphere; he admits that these clouds may be formed
at different heights, as occurs in our own atmosphere. Two super-
posed clouds, of unequal extent, appear to us far off as a dark spot
encompassed by a penumbra. It cannot be denied that in placing at
the centre of the sun an opaque nucleus, and in giving it, for a first
atmosphere, a zone half obscure, we present to the understanding an
hypothesis which strongly contravenes the instinctive inductions of
good sense. If the photosphere is the focus of solar heat and light,
THE SUN—ITS CHEMICAL ANALYSIS. 187

it is hard to comprehend why all the substances it contains have not
been gradually raised, however feeble the conductibility, to the tem-
perature of incandescence. One may keep for a time a piece of ice
in a warm chamber, but it always ends by melting. Suppose the
nucleus of the sun as cold as you please, sufficiently cold to be inhab-
itable by beings like ourselves, the radiation of that furnace which we
call the photosphere must gradually elevate the temperature of the
first atmosphere and that of the solid globe itself. I think, therefore,
that M. Kirchoff has reason to reject a theory which is opposed to
all the known laws of the diffusion of heat.

There still remains, however, the celebrated observation of Arago.
If, as M. Kirchoff contends, the luminous disc is not a gaseous photo-
sphere, how is it that it transmits to us unpolarized light? On this
point, the German savant remarks that if liquid luminous bodies emit
polarized light, it is because we observe them when at rest; if we
examined them when agitated, he thinks that the light being then
emitted under the most different angles there would be no uniformity
in the direction of the vibratory movements, consequently no polar-
ization. He conceives, therefore, that the visible surface of the sun
may very well be liquid and yet emit unpolarized or natural light,
because that vast ocean of fire has not a smooth surface like a mirror,
but is unceasingly furrowed by enormous waves and swept by tremen-
dous tempests. To form such suppositions is not to yield to the sway
of the imagination. All movement of air or water results froma
simple difference of temperature: some degrees less from the pole to
the equator on our earth, and we see the ocean traversed by currents
and counter-currents, the atmosphere open to the winds, agitated by
tempests; but the fluctuations of temperature, so comparatively shght
on our planet, must, if we reflect, be immense in the sun and around
the sun. The condensation of the metallic vapors of the atmosphere,
the vaporization from the solar ocean, are phenomena far otherwise
stupendous than our terrestrial thunder-storms. What force must
the winds have on a sphere so vast as that of the sun! What fear-
ful deluges must pour from the bosom of clouds as extensive as our
widest continents and charged with metals in ignition! The varia-
tions of temperature in the solar atmosphere may be estimated, with
great chances of probability, at many hundreds of degrees; the atmos-
pheric pressure must vary in the same proportions, while it is by
millimetres only that, in terrestrial barometers, we compute the varia-
tions of pressure in the mercurial column which forms the equilibrium
to the weight of the atmosphere. And yet, we know a rapid fall of
some millimetres in the barometric column is the certain forerunner
of a violent tempest.

After having described the sun as an incandescent liquid globe,
encompassed with a dense atmosphere pervaded by simple bodies,
which we find in our own planet, M. Kirchoff stops. He seeks not
to explain how this focus of heat has been kindled, nor how it is
maintained. This question, if it cannot be completely resolved, de-
serves, at least, to be discussed. If the sun were only a heated body
radiating in space, likea red-hot cannon ball, we must conclude that
188 THE SUN—ITS CHEMICAL ANALYSIS.

it could not long remain so bright as it appears to us and as it ap-
peared to our most remote ancestors. The heat which it loses by
radiation is truly enormous. M. Pouillet has calculated that during
each second it gives out 13,300 calories, that is to say, 13,300 times
the quantity of heat necessary to raise one gram of water from zero
to 75 degrees C. Would we have an idea more easily appreciable of
that quantity of heat? Employed to exert a mechanical effect, it
would be sufficient to raise a weight of 5,600,000 kilograms to an
altitude of one metre.

This expenditure of heat is so enormous that the surface of the
sun would, without doubt, soon become obscure if the process went
on without variation, and nothing returned to the sun the heat which
it is constantly losing. Now, whence is derived this heat thus con-
tinually renewed? Can we imagine that it results from a chemical
combination, from the combustion of different substances? If the sun
were a mass of incandescent charcoal, it has been computed that
1,200 kilograms of that body would be consumed every hour for each
square metre. If the central orb was of the same composition as our
gunpowder, during each minute a layer of powder one metre in thick-
ness would be burnt, and our present sun would disappear in nine
thousand years. On the same hypothesis the solar diameter would
eight thousand years ago have been double what it is to-day. I pre-
sent these singular suppositions only to make it apparent that the
phenomenon of the solar heat perpetually maintained cannot be com-
pared with the phenomena of combustion, with which our experience
is most familiar. We must prepare our minds for something extra-
ordinary when the question relates to that immense focus whose
activity seems never to slacken. Everything leads us to believe that
the sun does not consume itself alone, but that it receives incessantly
from without, new materials, which are preeipitated into its orbit and
there become incandescent. Let us suppose that the sun is encom-
passed by an immense cosmic ring formed of a multitude of meteorites.
Attracted by the powerful mass of the sun, these meteors will describe
spirals more and more closely approaching the centre with a velocity
always increasing. Arrived in the solar atmosphere, they will fall
upon the sun with the prodigious velocity which gravitation will com-
municate to them, a gravitation which at the surface of the sun is
twenty-eight times greater than at the surface of the earth. The
swiftness of a meteor arriving at the sun exceeds 600 kilometres a
second; supposing that it has entered the solar atmosphere with the
frozen temperature of the interplanetary spaces, we see that it must
there promptly be raised to temperatures higher than we can imagine.
M. Thomson, a learned Englishman, at once a mathematician and phys-
icist, has calculated that to maintain the actual solar heat it would
suffice that there should fall every year into the solar focus a quantity
of meteoric matter which would cover the surface of the sun to the
thickness of nine metres. Suppose, if you will, that twice as much is
necessary, that every year the level of the solar seas is raised eighteen
metres by virtue of this continual rain of incandescent meteors, it
would require four thousand years in order that the apparentdiameter
THE SUN—ITS CHEMICAL ANALYSIS. 189

of the sun should be increased by one second—forty thousand years
that it should be enlarged by one minute. At this rate, at the end
of two thousand years a terrestrial observer who should have lived
all that time would not see the sun differ more from itself than we see
it differ every year from season to season, in proportion as the earth
approaches or recedes from it. If the mass of the sun were aug-
mented by the addition of meteoric substances, we should not be in
a position to perceive it, while, in return, the constancy of the sun’s
diameter affords no argument for rejecting this hypothesis, which has
the advantage of assigning a rational cause for the development of
the solar heat. j

It will be asked, perhaps, whence come those meteors whose fiery
torrent falls incessantly on the surface of the orb which lights us.
Have you never seen, on a clear evening of March or September, at
the time of the equinoxes, a whitish gleam in the western part of the
heavens? It occupies from twenty to thirty degrees in extent and
projects itself above the horizon, following nearly the direction of the
ecliptic. This has been called the zodiacal light, because those who
first observed it conceived it to be limited to the zodiac. Under the
hazy sky of our climates this pale glimmering is perceived but rarely
after the evening twilight or before the rising of the sun at the beginning
of spring or autumn, and it is easily confounded with the gleams of
the receding or approaching day ; but under the tropics the phenome-
non displays itself in all its magnificence. On the summits of the
Cordilleras, in the prairies of Mexico, under the transparent skies of
Cumana, upon the coasts of the Sea of the South, the zodiacal light
appeared to Alexander von Humboldt more lustrous than the milky:
way. At the equinox, at the moment when the solar disc sinks be-
neath the horizon, total obscurity succeeds almost immediately to
day; and at once the zodiacal light is seen stretching up to half the
height of the heavens and only vanishing at the approach of mid-
night.

Domenico Cassini, in 1683, was the first who observed the zodiacal
light, and he considered it as a sort of luminous ring connected with
the solar equator ; he recognized in effect that this light follows the
solar equator in proportion as the latter withdraws itself from the
ecliptic. Thomson thinks that this vast luminous ring is the reser-
voir of the meteors by which the central sun is maintained. Such a
theory adapts itself readily to the great cosmogcnic conception of
Laplace : The zodiacal ring extended between the sun and the orbit
of the earth would, under that view, be a residue of the cosmic mat-
ter which, in the beginning, composed the entire nebula from whence
emerged by degrees our complex system of planets.

« However this may be, in proportion as astronomy studies with more
care the phenomena of the heavens, does it meet there with more sur-
prising marvels. What admirable discoveries have been recently
made in our own solar system which had been supposed to be entirely
explored! Among these discoveries, that of MM. Kirchoff and
Bunsen must be regarded as one of the most important. The spectral
analysis of the solar atmosphere has furnished the proof of the chemi-
190 THE SUN—ITS CHEMICAL ANALYSIS.

cal unity of our planetary system, and perhaps it will some day reveal,
when applied to the brighter stars, a physical relationship between
our own system and all those which fill the immeasurable depths of
space ; but if 1t opens to us in some degree the portals of the infi-
nitely vast, it reconducts us by another route to the idea of unity in
nature. In studying the spectrum we at present recognize each sim-
ple body held in suspension in the flame whose rays are decomposed
by the glass-prism; but what is a simple body which betrays its
presence, not by one bright stripe alone, but by two, three, some-
times by sixty stripes? In proportion as the spectrum increases in
distinctness, the number of luminous stripes increases for each sub-
stance ; shall we ever see them all? It may well bedoubted. Here,
then, there is a multiplicity and indeterminateness which accord but
ill, it must be confessed, with the theoretic idea which we entertain
of a simple body, a substance not compounded, always identical with
itself, the substratum of all chemical combinations. Must we admit,
with some resolute spirits, that the bodies which we call simple, ap-
pear so to us only because thus far we have not succeeded in decom-
posing them? Should we conclude that the different simple bodies,
if there are really such, are but formed of one and the same matter
in different states of condensation? We thus find ourselves attracted
towards the idea of unity of substance. Gas, liquids, solids, vacuum
and plenum, bodies and celestial spaces, satellites, planets, suns, &c.,
would be but transitory forms of something eternal, the ephemeral
images of something which cannot change ; in the vortex of phenom-
ena, in the eternal movement of allsubstance, the cosmic history every-
where shows us the future in the present and the present in the
future.*

* All the facts in regard to solar chemistry can be briefly stated as follows:

1. Solid and liquid bodies when highly heated give a continuous spectrum without lines.

2. Flame in which solid or liquid substances are volatilized give a spectrum crossed with
bright lines.

3. Each substance in the flame gives a line or a series of lines peculiar to itself, so that
the presence of any substance in a flame may be known by inspecting the spectrom of the
flame. Hence the value cf the spectrum in chemisal analysis.

_4, When a bright beam of light from a solid or liquid behind a flame that is producing
bright lines is sent through this flame, the bright lines disappear and dark lines take their
place. These dark lines are called the reverse or negative lines of the substance in the flame.

5. The spectrum from the sun is crossed with a large number of dark lines, many of
which are found to exactly coincide in position and magnitude with the negative lines
produced by various metals found on the earth.

6. The complex system of negative lines of iron, for example, is found in the spectrum
of the sun, and hence it is inferred from strict analogy that this and other metals exist in
a volatile state in the atmosphere of the sun.

7. The constitution of the sun to produce this result must be that of a solid or liquid
nucleus emitting light of great intensity, and surrounded by an atmosphere also emitting
light, but of less intensity.

8. The dark lines of the spectrums of the planets are the same as those of the sun.
This is what might be expected, since they shine by reflected sun light; but the lines of
the fixed stars, of Sirius, for example, are different from those of the sun.

9. The inferences drawn from the facts above stated have not been fully accepted as yet
by scientists of celebrity. Since the lines in the spectrum of the sun are very numerous,
there is a possibility that those which are found to indicate iron, for example, may be
an accidental agreement. But Kirchoff has calculated the chances of an accidental agree-
ment, and finds it to be one divided by one million of millions of millions.

SECRETARY, S. J.
PROGRESS OF ASTRONOMICAL PHOTOGRAPHY.

FROM THE MONTHLY NOTICES OF THE ROYAL ASTRONOMICAL SOCIETY, FEBRUARY 14,
1862. No. 4.

ADDRESS DELIVERED BY THE PRESIDENT, DR. LEE, ON PRESENTING THE GOLD
MEDAL OF THE SOCIETY TO MR. WARREN DE LA RUE.

GENTLEMEN : In the report which has been read to you, you have
been informed that the council have assigned the gold medal of the
society to our worthy secretary, Mr. Warren De La Rue ; and, as it
is the custom, it becomes now my duty to explain to you, in a few
words, the grounds of their decision.

You know that for many years Mr. De La Rue has devoted the
energies of his mind, a large expenditure, and such leisure as he
could abstract from the complicated cares of an extensive and well-
known commercial concern, to the earnest cultivation and systematic
pursuit of practical astronomy, and that he has been one of the most
frequent contributors to our evening meetings, upon a variety of
subjects—all requiring much knowledge, skill, and labor in their
treatment.

Discoveries in the regions of science so crowd upon us in our own
times, that valuable inventions and striking results soon fade from the
memory, and are lost in the brilliancy of those which rapidly succeed
them.

I must therefore request your indulgence whilst I lay before you
what it is that Mr. De La Rue has done to entitle him to receive, and
which justifies the council in awarding him the highest honor that it
is in the power of the Royal Astronomical Society to bestow.

Mr. De La Rue has not only conducted the usual observations
which are made at most private observatories, but he has directed
the resources of a rare mechanical genius to improvements in the
most approved methods of polishing the specula of reflecting tele-
scopes, and perfecting the mechanical arrangements by which opera-
tions of such refined nicety are performed.

On this subject there can be no higher authority than Sir John
Herschel, who, in an article on the felescope, published in the Ency-
copedia Britannica, says :

‘Such is Mr. De La Rue’s mechanism, which has afforded very
admirable results in the production of specula 13 inches in aperture
and 10 feet focal length, the perfection of which is enhanced by his
practice of bestowing the same care and precision on every step of
figuring of the speculum, from the grinding, the smoothing on a bed
of hones, or rather a slab of slate cut into squares, carefully brought
to the same figure, and to the figuring of the polisher itself, which
being thus previously rendered almost perfect, the speculum is saved

192 PROGRESS OF ASTRONOMICAL PHOTOGRAPHY.

the rough work of having to figure the polisher for itself on every
occasion of repolishing.’’

In amore private communication to myself on the same subject,
Sir John adds that ‘‘Mr. De La Rue’s machinery, though grounded
on Mr. Lassell’s rotary principle, is by no means a servile imitation
of Mr. Lassell, inasmuch as several distinct improvements have been
introduced tending to distribute the polishing action more equally
over the whole surface of the metal. One of these improvements
consists in his interposition of a plate between the supporting plate
and sliding plate of Mr. Lassell’s traversing slide, which, being made
to revolve, causes the traversing movement of the speculum to take
place, not across the same diameter of its area, but at every stroke
across a different diameter; and he also obviates the irregularity of
the motion of Mr. Lassell’s polisher on its centre, by governing that
rotation by mechanism, instead of leaving it to be determindd by the
excess of external over internal friction.’’

But it is in celestial photography that Mr. De La Rue has made his
most important discoveries, and displayed an unfailing fertility of
mechanical invention. Wisely acknowledging the growing vastness
of the several departments of the same science, he has Jatterly, na
great measure, restricted his researches to the delineation of the
various aspects of the heavenly bodies, through the medium of pho-
tography.

It is only by acknowledging and adopting the principle of the
division of labor that great results can be obtained, either in the
pursuits of commercial industry or abstract science.

The days of the admirable Crichton have long since passed away.

Indeed Lord Bacon himself, in the Novum Organum, well observes,
in anticipation of the influence of this general principle :

‘‘Then men shall begin to find out their own powers when all will
not essay to do the same things, but each man will employ himself in
the work for which he is most apt.’’ *

Mr. De La Rue’s claim to the special notice of astronomers, as a
delineator of celestial objects through the medium of photography,
does not rest on the absolute priority of his application of a well-known
art in a new direction. It is rather based on the fact that by methods
and adaptations peculiarly his own, he has been the first to obtain
automatic pictures of. the sun and moon, sufficiently delicate in their
detail to advance our knowledge regarding the physical characters of
those bodies, and admitting of measurements astronomically precise.

The late Mr. Bond, of Cambridge, in the United States, in the
year 1845, with the assistance of Messrs. Whipple and Bond, obtained
good pictures of a Lyre and of Castor ; and that, in this year, Signor
De Vico made an unsuccessful attempt to photograph the nebul in
Orion.

At about the same time, or a little later, the Rev. J. B. Reade took
photographs of a Lyre at my observatory at Hartwell, and at his
own observatory at the Vicarage of Stone.

. * Tum enim homines, vires suas nosse incipient, cum non eadem infiniti, sed alia alii ~
prestabunt ”—JLiber 1, aphor. exiii.
PROGRESS OF ASTRONOMICAL PHOTOGRAPHY. 193

Mr. Glaisher, writing in 1851, as reporter upon philosophical in-
struments in the great exhibition, Class X, and upon Mr. Bond’s
daguerreotype of the moon, taken in 1850, and which was placed in
the exhibition of 1851, says upon photography: ‘‘Let us now view
photography in its application to science: a process by which transient
actions are rendered permanent, and which enables zature to do her
own work—or, in other words, which causes facts permanently to re-
cord themselves—is too well fitted for the purpose of science to be
long overlooked; but the difficulties to be overcome in its application
have been and still are great, and the results proportionably few in
number. We consider, however, that the commencement of a sys-
tematic application of the photographic process to the purposes of
astronomy is indicated by the daguerreotype of the moon by Mr.
Whipple; and great, indeed, will be the benefit conferred upon
astronomical science when we obtain permanent representations
of the celestial bodies and their relative positions through the agency
of light.’’

Enlarged copies of Mr. Bond’s photographs were laid before the
Royal Astronomical Society in May of the same year. At the meet-
ing of the British Association of Science, held at Ipswich in July,
1851, under the presidency of the learned astronomer royal, a daguer-
reotype of the moon was shown to the members of the mathematical
section by Mr. Bond; and his royal highness the Prince Consort,
whose loss we now deeply deplore, was present on the occasion and
inspected ‘the daguerreotype.

On the subject of the connexion of photography and chemistry with
astronomy some interesting remarks appear in the admirable lecture
on the sun, delivered by the respected Professor Walker before the
British Association of Science, under the presidency of our esteemed
member Lord Wrottesley, in 1860, at Oxford.

There are several references to celestial photography in the various
volumes of the Comtes [endus, which can only be brought to your
notice in the form of notes.*

It was the sight of these very promising daguerreotypes of Mr. Bond
which, in 1851, first gave the impulse to Mr. De La Rue’s labors in
this direction. In 1852 he availed himself of the collodion process
invented by Mr. Archer in the preceding year, and succeeded in ob-

taining a good picture of the moon. In 1853 Professor Phillips ob-
tained talbotypes of the moon at York. In 1854 lunar photographs
were secured at Liverpool under the supervision of our respected

*1849.—Vol. xxxviii, p. 241. ‘* On the Observations of the Sun.’’ By M. Faye.
- 1858.—Vol. xlv, p. 705 and following pages. ‘‘On the Photographs of the Eclipse of
March 15, by MM. Porro and Quinet.’’ By M. Faye.

1859.—Vol. xlviii, p. 174. ‘‘ Report on a Memoir addressed by M. Liais on the occa-
sion of the Total Eclipse of 1858, September 7.”’

1859.—Vol. xlix. ‘‘ Second Memoir on the coming Eclipse of 18 July.’

1860.—Vol. li, p. 965. ‘On the State of Astronomical Photography in France.’’

1861.—Vol. liii, p. 997. ‘‘On the Perfecting Meridional Observations of the Sun with-
out an Observer.”’ By M. Faye.

1862.—Vol. liv, pp. 43 to 159. ‘‘On Photographs of the Sun, taken by M. Belfort
during the Eclipse of the 31st of December last.”’

13

194 PROGRESS OF ASTRONOMICAL PHOTOGRAPHY.

member Mr. Hartnup. In 1855 the Rev. J. B. Reade, who has dis-
tinguished himself by his discoveries in photography, obtained special
notice and honorable mention at the Paris exhibition for his photo-
graph of the moon. Others also have been taken at Rome by Signor
Padre Secchi, at Brighton by Mr. Fry, and in the vicinity of London
by Mr. Huggins. All these photographs possess merits of their own,
and give decided promise of future and greater success.

Admiral Smyth, in the Speculum Hartwellianum, pp. 249, 250, and

285, speaks of Mr. Bond's labor in celestial photography, particularly
sbinting out that in 1857 a photograph was sent to the astronomer
royal taking in the whole field between Mizar and Alcor, with such
exactitude as to show their angles of positions and distances.

Mr. De La Rue’s success in obtaining photographic pictures of the
moon possessing great sharpness of definition and accuracy of detail
is owing to the happy combination of a variety of causes. Possessing
a large mirror of such exquisite defining power that but few existing
telescopes equal it in accuracy of definition, and brought into figure
by his own hands, and by peculiar machinery of his own contrivance,
he was at once freed from those imperfections in the actinic image
which are of necessity inherent in the very best refractors, even when
corrected most accurately for chromatic dispersion.

Mr. De La Rue at first had no clock-work apparatus to govern the
motion of his telescope, and, after making several successful lunar
photographs with the aid of the hand-gear of the telescope, he dis-
continued his selenographical experiments until he had removed from
Canonbury to Cranford—a change of resideuce which, for the in-
terests of astronomy, he had for some time previously in contempla-
tion. He then furnished his telescope—his own in a double sense—
with a clock-work apparatus, which from time to time has passed
through numerous alterations, and which is still in course of improve-
ment. The mechanical problem before him, as the fellows of this
society well know, was one of extreme complexity; for not only must
the motion of the clock-work be perfectly smooth and equable, but it
must also be capable of acceleration and retardation, to keep pace, so
to speak, with the ever-varying velocity of the moon in the heavens—
a variation compounded of its diurnal motion and its ever-changing —
velocity in its orbit.

Lastly, by a rare and happy combination of chemical with mechani- —
eal skill, the time necessary for the exposure of the collodion film |
was materially shortened. The final result is this, that images of the —
moon have been repeatedly taken in the focus of the mirror, admit-_
ting of very considerable amplification, and exhibiting details on the
moon’s surface sufficiently clear to admit of delineation under a mi-
croscope provided with a camera lucida, and thereby furnishing ma- |
terials for a more accurate selenography than has heretofore existed. |

Neither must we altogether omit that by stereoscopically combining |
images of the moon, taken in different phases of her librations, more |
par ticularly enlarged copies, eight inches in diameter, Mr. De La Rue’
has brought to light details of dykes, and terraces, and furrows, and
undulations on the lunar surface, of which no certain knowledge had |

PROGRESS OF ASTRONOMICAL PHOTOGRAPHY. 195

previously existed, and which I have had the exquisite pleasure of
beholding in his observatory at Cranford.

** Man looks aloft, and, with erected eyes,
Beholds his own hereditary skies.”’

I must now turn to a department in celestial photography, where
Mr. De La Rue stands almost alone. I speak of heliography. In
April, 1854, Sir John Herschel, in a letter to Colonel Sabine, recom-
mended that daily photog raphic records of the sun should be obtained
at some observatory. Accordingly the Royal Society placed at the
disposal of the Kew committee a sum of money to promote that ob-
ject, and Mr. De La Rue was requested to administer the grant.

It becomes necessary to mention that Arago, in his elegant and
popular work on astronomy, translated by two eminent fellows of our
society, states that MM. Fizeau and Foucault, in 1845, obtained a
photographic image of the sun, and two spots on its disk, delineated
with much apparent sharpness and accuracy; but, however this may
be,* it is certain that no uniformly successful method of taking images
of the sun had been devised until Mr. De La Rue took up the ‘problem
for investigation.

Yet great as had been the difficulties in obtaining a really accurate
and available picture of the moon they sink into insignificance when
compared with those which had to be overcome in the photography
of the sun; for to obtain any automatic pictures of the sun’s photo-
sphere available for practical purposes it was found necessary to in-
stitute a series of preliminary experiments before actual operations
could be successfully commenced. At first nothing but burnt up and
solarized pictures could be obtained by any method that had hitherto
been devised, or with any the least sensitive of the media that could
be procured. Now, with the help of the Kew photoheliogyaph, as
devised by him, and described in vol. xv of the Monthly Notices,
heliography is the easiest and simplest kind of astronomical photo-

graphy. The method devised by Mr. De La Rue will enable any pho-
_ tographer of common average skill to take excellent heliographs.
Professor Selwyn, of Cambridge, succeeds in getting good pictures
of the sun with the apparatus made for him by Mr. Dalmeyer, after
the pattern of the Kew photoheliograph.

Mr. De La Rue announced at the last meeting of the society that
by applying the stereoscope to the examination of the sun’s disk, as
he had formerly done in the case of the moon, he had discovered
that the facule on the surface of the sun are to be found in the outer
or highest regions of the solar photosphere.

I ought not to conclude without alluding to Mr. De La Rue’s obser-
vations on the solar eclipse of 1860; but it must not be forgotten
that one daguerreotype picture was taken by Dr. Busch of the solar

* Respecting this photography of the sun, the index of the Comptes Rendus has been
searched all through, under the heads of Arago, Photography, Soleil, Fizeau, Foucault, Daguer-
reotype, and Faye, and no mention has been found whatever of the sun’s picture in 1845 ;
and there has not been found any reference to it, excepting the plate in the body of the
original work itself.
196 PROGRESS OF ASTRONOMICAL PHOTOGRAPHY.

eclipse in 1851, and of the solar eclipse in 1860 four small pictures
were also taken during the totality by Professor Monserrat, under
the direction of MM. Aguilar and Secchi, at Desierto de las Palmas,
in Spain.

Mr. De La Rue, during the progress of the same eclipse, took many
large and exquisitely defined pictures, and secured two during the
totality. I have no need to enter into details, as he has already de-
scribed at several meetings of this society the numerical results that
follow from the discussion, and the comparisons of the photographs
which he took on that occasion. A paper giving the result of his
labors during the expedition to Rivabellosa has been presented to
the Royal Society, and is to be considered in March of this year.

Mr. De La Rue has invented an ingenious micrometer, lately ex-
hibited at one of our meetings, by means of which he fully confirms
the hypothesis that the colored protuberances belong to the sun, and
renders it almost certain that the commonly received diameters both
of the sun and moon require a correction.

More recently still, photographic pictures of the sun have been
obtained by Mr. De La Rue, not only exhibiting its well-known
mottled appearance, but showing traces of Mr. Nasmyth’s ‘‘ willow
leaves,’’ and by the aid of stereoscopic pictures rendering it certain
that the facule are elevations in the sun’s photosphere.

I need not enlarge on the wonderful discoveries which have been
made and the astonishing results that have been obtained by Newton
and his successors in this the most fertile and exact of all the applied
mathematical sciences. Neither would it become me, an humble but.
zealous worshipper of science, to hazard conjectures as to the future
progress of astronomy. And yet I cannot refrain from expressing my
belief that the success already achieved by our friend warrants us in
entertaining the hope that before long he will be able, with the aid
of stereoscopic pictures, to exhibit to us the rose-colored prominences
depicted on the sensitive plates as plainly as the facule have already
been photographed. The depths and the successive strata of those
strange interlacing outliers within the solar spots may be brought
into tangible view. The different planes of Saturn’s rings* will also
come into relief, the belts of Jupiter may be manifested as portions
of his dark body, and ere long the mountains and elevated continents
of Mars will rise up into solidity before our delighted gaze.

I may also, perhaps, be permitted to remark, that while our great
national and public observatories—indeed, I ought to say those of the
civilized world as well—are day by day adding to that enduring record
of the transient phenomena of the heavens which will enable future

*If the subject of the present address were not now of necessity confined to improve-
ments in celestial photography, I should here refer at some length to those exquisite and
unequalled hand-drawings by Mr. De La Rue, of Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, and the comet of
1858, which have so often delighted and informed our society. ‘They have embodied with
micrometrical accuracy the results of years of scrupulous and skilful labor; and, as an in-
stance of the reliable nature of the results obtained, I may mention that, by placing under
the stereoscope two of Mr. De La Rue’s hand-drawings of Saturn, taken at two distant
periods, the inclinations of the planes of the rings alluded to in the text become unmistak-
ably apparent.

PROGRESS OF ASTRONOMICAL PHOTOGRAPHY. 197

ages to reach the final finish and last perfection in the calculation of
the tables of the motions of the moon and the planets, to eliminate
any element of error, however minute, and to detect any latent dis-
turbing force, however feeble its effect; yet it is to private observato-
ries and to observations made in the remoter regions of starry space |
that we are chiefly to look for new discoveries. It augurs well for
the future that there is no lack in our own day of such establishments,
or of accomplished observers to use them. It is almost, if not alto-
gether, needless to bring before you the names of Admiral Smyth, or
Lord Rosse, or Mr. Lassell, or Lord Wrottesley, or Mr. Dawes, or
Mr. Carrington, and a host of others familiar to many of you. The
elliptic motions of binary stars round their common centre of gravity,
the colors of others, the discovery of new planets, the calculation of
cometary orbits, the laws of change in the variable stars, the sudden
burst upon the sight of some stars, and the gradual evanescence of
others, will afford for many generations suitable and exhaustless sub-
jects of sustained astronomical research. The instant splendor and
gradual decay of certain stars is one of the most wonderful facts re-
corded in the history of astronomy. In 1572, Cornelius Gemma ob-
served a star in the chair of Cassiopeia, transcending Venus herself
in brightness. It was Hipparchus who first, I believe, noticed the
sudden appearance of a star of singular brilliancy before unknown.
By this strange discovery he was urged to construct a catalogue of
stars visible to the naked eye, ‘‘that posterity might know whether
time had altered the face of the heavens.’’

The art of photography is of the very highest importance in the
promotion of exact science.

It stereotypes, so to speak, for the use of all time to come, the
present aspect of the heavens.

As astronomical observations ranged in tables record the present
positions of the heavenly bodies, so photography registers their pres-
ent aspect. It may be that the pictures of the sun now taken will
enable future ages to test the prediction of the poet,

‘The stars shall fade away, the sun himself
Grow dim with age, and nature sink in years.’’

If, then, we take collective note of all Mr. De La Rue’s long and
varied labors since the 14th March, 1851, when he became one of our
members—such as the perfecting.of the figures of mirrors, the graphic
observations of the planets, the incomparable photographs of the
moon, the invention of the photoheliograph, the observations on the
solar eclipse, the invention of the new method of obtaining numerical
data, the application of the stereoscope to the examination of the sur-
face of the moon, and afterwards to that of the sw»—sure am I that
the society at large will unanimously approve of the award of their
medal made by the council.

It may, however, be said by some ingenious critic that photography
is only an art which bears but indirectly on the promotion of astron-
omy, and that the reward of its successful manipulation is rather the
province of those societies to confer which cultivate the art of pho-
198 PROGRESS OF ASTRONOMICAL PHOTOGRAPHY.

tography, or the science of chemistry. But I cannot admit the justice
of this view. Whatshould we now say of the early fellows of the Royal
Society, if they had relegated Newton, when he invented the telescope
that bears his name, to the Company of Spectacle Makers for his meed
of praise? What should we now think, had the barren honors which
grace scientific discovery been denied to such mechanical inventors
as Hadley, or Dollond, or Sir William Herschel, or Lord Rosse, or
Lassell? With them the name of De La Rue, I feel, will hold no
inferior place.

The President, then delivering the medal to "Mr. De La Rue, ad-
dressed him in the following terms:

Mr. De La Rue: In compliance with a resolution of the council, I
have the pleasing duty of placing in your hands the highest tribute
to merit which they have in their power to bestow. The instruments
made or improved by you, the important uses to which you have ap-
plied them, and the liberality with which you have communicated the
results of your discoveries to the public, all indicate, in the opinion
of the council, a mind highly cultivated, whose energy has been
directed, during many years, to the attainment of scientific perfection.

But your unceasing efforts and delicate manipulation in reducing
the new and wonderful art of photography to astronomical purposes,
and in rendering chemistry a handmaid to astronomy, supply the
more immediate motive of their approbation.

May Divine Providence continue to bestow upon you health and
intelligence, and every social blessing, enabling you still further to
illustrate the glory of the Creator, and to promote the rational enjoy-
ment of our fellow-creatures.
REMARKS ON THE SMALL PLANETS

SITUATED BETWEEN

MARS AND JUPITER.

By M. G. LESPIAULT,
PROFESSOR OF THE FACULTY OF SCIENCES OF BORDEAUX.

TRANSLATED FROM THE ‘‘ MEMOIRES DE LA SOCIETE DES SCIENCES PHYSIQUES ET NATURELLES DE
BORDEAUX,’ 1861. BY C. A. ALEXANDER.

I.

In proportion as the discovery of small planets between Mars and Ju-
piter has been multiplied, those bodies have become, especially in Ger-
many, the objects of a great number of highly interesting researches.
The powerful magnifiers of the refractors of Dorpat and Munich have
been applied to the study of their physical constitution and to the
measurement of their diameters; their elliptical elements have been
determined and rectified; their ephemerides calculated and occasion-
ally even the principal perturbations of their movements. Attempts
have been made to ascertain the law of the distribution of their orbits
in space, from the position of the nodes and the inclination of those
orbits to the ecliptic and other fixed planes, as well as from the meas-
ure and direction of their greater axes. It has been asked whether
the course of these small bodies, describing curves so singularly inter-
laced, might not some day bring about a collision, or at any rate some
approximation so considerable as to give rise to problems altogether
new in celestial mechanics. The chief results of these various re-
searches are to be found scattered through the publications of MM.
Encke, d’ Arrest, Littrow, Moedler, &c., in the Astronomische Nach-
richten, and the treatise on astronomy of Sir J. Herschel; as yet they
have not been collected, and are, in general, but: little known in
France.* This defect I have endeavored to supply in the present
notice, in which the actual state of our knowledge with regard to the
small planets will be set forth, though for this purpose it has been
found necessary to extend to seventy of these asteroids which we now
know certain calculations which had been made only with respect
to a part of them. This undertaking, in which I have been
joined by M. Burat, professor at the Lyceum of Bordeaux, has led us,
as will be afterwards seen, to modify or even to reject some of the
conclusions at which the German geometricians had arrived.

* Professor Alexander, of Princeton, has long been occupied with the subject of the rela-
tions of the asteroids, and is now preparing an account of his results for publication in the
‘* Smithsonian Contributions.”
200 REMARKS ON THE SMALL PLANETS,

Il.

Struck by the large interval which separates Mars from Jupiter,
Kepler had been led, by theoretical considerations, to interpose be-
tween those two bodies an unknown planet : ‘‘ inter Martem et Jovem
interposui planetam, (mysterium cosmographicum.)’ But of his own
accord he afterwards renounced this hypothesis, which had been un-
favorably received by learned cotemporaries. An astronomer of
Florence, named Sizzi, protested, with particular earnestness, against
such a doctrine. ‘‘There are,’’ said he, ‘‘ but seven openings in
the head, two eyes, two ears, two nostrils, and the mouth; there are
but seven metals, and but seven days in the week ; there are, there-
fore, but seven planets.’’ These, in the system of Ptolemy, were
Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, the Sun, Venus, Mercury, and the Moon.

The idea of Kepler was revived in the second half of the 18th cen-
tury. Lambert, Titius, and Bode successively called the attention of
astronomers to the void which seemed to exist between Mars and Ju-
piter; Bode especially attached extreme importance to the celebrated
law which bears his name, although, by his own acknowledgment,
that law was due to Titius. In seeking a numerical relation between
the distances of the planets from the sun, Titius had conceived the
idea of the following series, in which each term, proceeding from the
third, is double that which precedes :

OFS. tO soi2e 24s ae 06.
By adding 4 to each of these terms, we obtain a new series :

£5 TOR TG 8 28° 6 Qe OU:
In this series, 4 representing the distance of Mercury, 7 would repre-
sent the distance of Venus, 10 that of the earth, 16 that of Mars, 52
that of Jupiter, 100 the distance of Saturn; but the number 28 re-
presented nothing and seemed properly to correspond to the distance
of the Sun from an unknown planet. This hypothesis enlisted new
partisans, especially in Germany, when, in 1781, the discovery of
Uranus lent unexpected confirmation for the law of Bode. The
Baron de Zach went so far as to publish in advance, in the Almanach
of Berlin, the elements of the supposed planet, and he organized
an association of astronomers for the search after that object. The
zodiac was distributed into twenty-four zones, each of which was
assigned to the special examination of one of the members of the»
society. The discovery was indeed not long in being made, but it
proceeded from another quarter.

Piazzi, an astronomer at Palermo, had been for ten years occupied
with the correction of the catalogue of Wollaston. A false indication
in this catalogue called the attention of the observer to a certain re-
gion of the heavens and led him to examine minutely the most imper-
ceptible stars. One of these, whose position had been determined
the 1st of January, 1801, was found to be sensibly displaced the fol-
lowing day, and still more so on successive nights. Piazzi at first
took it for a comet, and followed its course till the 11th of February,
on which day his observations were interrupted by bad weather and
REMARKS ON THE SMALL PLANETS. 201

sickness. As early as the 24th of January he had sent intelligence
of his discovery to Bode and Oriani; but his letters were two months
in reaching them, at which time the new star was lost in the rays of
the sun. Bode, therefore, could not distinguish it, but he remained
convinced that this was the unknown planet, an opinion to which
Piazzi subscribed and gave the name of Ceres to the object of his
discovery.

A problem in astronomy, altogether new, now presented itself to
geometers to determine, namely, the orbit of a planet after six
weeks of observation. Many trials were made, but with results little
accordant. The illustrious Gauss, then scarcely known, arrived at a
solution by methods peculiar to himself, and it was by taking this
calculation for the basis of his researches that Olbers found the planet
anew, Ist January, 1802, a year, to a day, after its first discovery.
From that time Ceres took a definite place in our system, very nearly
at the distance from the sun indicated by the law of Bode, thus filling
the gap which Kepler had signalized.

While constructing special charts to facilitate for the future the
finding of Ceres on the celestial sphere, Olbers perceived, 28th of
March, 1802, a star not in the catalogue: he followed it for several
days and recognized, from its proper movement, a second planet
situated at the same distance from the sun as the former, but describing
a wholly different orbit. This was more than astronomers had asked for,
and Pallas was received with a greater degree of reserve than Ceres.
Some astronomers went so far as to deny its planetary character, an
opinion to which the great eccentricity and extraordinary inclination
of its orbit gave countenance by assimilating it to the comets, its re-
semblance to which was still more enhanced by the vaporous appear-
ance which it assumed through the imperfect telescopes of Schreeter.

As to Olbers, he regarded the two bodies as fragments of a more
considerable planet which some unknown force had shattered. On
this hypothesis, it resulted from the laws of mechanics that all the
projected asteroids, while describing orbits of very different eccen-
tricity and inclinations, must continue to maintain the same mean
distance from the sun, and repass, moreover, in each of their revolu-
tions, the point in space where the catastrophe had occurred. That
point was necessarily one of the nodes of the orbits of Ceres and Pal-
las, situated, the first in the constellation of Virgo, the second in
the Whale. It was in these two regions of the heavens, according to
the theory of Olbers, that the trajectories of fragments still unper-
ceived must meet, and here, above all, that an attentive examination
of telescopic stars might be expected to yield new discoveries; a con-
jecture which did not long remain unverified. The 2d of September,
1804, Harding perceived in the Whale a third planet, which he named
Juno; and Vesta, the fourth and long the last, was discovered by
Olbers himself, the 29th March, 1807, in the northern wing of Virgo.
Vesta is much less remote from the Sun than the three other aste-
roids. The difference amounts to a fourth of its mean distance, that
is, to twenty millions of leagues, a fact not calculated very strongly
202 REMARKS ON THE SMALL PLANETS.

to confirm the hypothesis of Olbers. In its oppositions, this planet
comes sufficiently near the earth to attain the sixth degree of magni-
tude and be visible to the naked eye, and owes its name to the white-
ness and purity of its hight.

Ill.

Dating from the discovery of Vesta, the researches of astronomers
remained long unfruitful, although their attention was constantly
awake. It is true that Wartmann, at Geneva, in 1832, and Caccia-
tore, at Palermo, in 1835, gave notice of telescopic stars possessing
a distinct and quite rapid movement of their own; but their observa-
tions, interrupted by unfavorable weather, were too incomplete and
uncertain to admit of their following or again finding these assumed
planets ; nor was it till 1845, thirty-eight years after the discovery of
Vesta, that a postmaster named Hencke, who occupied his leisure
moments with astronomy, perceived the fifth of these small planets,
and gave it the name of Astrea. Two years later he discoved Hebe,
and, dating from this epoch, the new asteroids have succeeded one
another so rapidly that their number at present is seventy [three. |

It is not without some surprise that we see discoveries of this kind,
after having ceased for more than the third of a century, crowd upon
us in the course of late years. This astonishing success of cotem-
porary astronomy may be explained, in great measure, by the in-
crease in the number of observers, and by the construction of more
extensive and exact charts than those of which our predecessors
could avail themselves. The charts of Berlin, especially, which give
the stars of the first ten magnitudes in the ecliptic regions, have been
of the greatest service to astronomers in this kind of researches, while
the more recent charts of the observatory of Paris are already be-
coming of signal utility. It is very rarely that the discovery of an
asteroid can be regarded as the result of a lucky casualty. It is most
frequently only in the course of laborious watchings deyoted to this
determined purpose, that a savant succeeds by means of a minute
and patient comparison of the different regions of the sky with the
charts which represent them, in detecting a disagreement, discover-
ing a star not catalogued, and verifying the existence of a proper
movement which shall assign a star to the class of planets. It may
be added that charts of the requisite completeness are as yet pro-
vided but for a small portion of the heavens, and the explorer who
would extend his search beyond this favored region must begin by
constructing a special chart of the tract which he proposes to survey.

The ill success of Olbers in the ten last years of his researches is
attributable to the fact that his examination was not extended to stars
of less than the eighth magnitude. With not more than two or three
exceptions, the planets discovered within the last fifteen years
hardly transcend the ninth degree, while the greater part are of the
tenth, and some even below the twelfth degree of magnitude. It is
not easy therefore to estimate too highly the sagacity and admirable
patience of those volunteers in astronomy who, in the strength of
REMARKS ON THE SMALL PLANETS. 203

their own resources, far from the great observatories, and often with-
out the aid of the more exact class of charts, have added new
_ worlds to our system and sometimes raised themselves, by the num-
ber and brilliancy of their discoveries, to the level of the most dis-
tinguished astronomers. Among these laymen of science the -first
rank belongs to our fellow countryman, M. Goldschmidt, who, but a
few days ago, introduced to us his fourteenth planet, the seventieth
of the group, and who has been, this year, the recipient of the gold
medal of the Astronomical Society of London. In offering this tes-
timonial, and in justification of its choice, the president of the so-
ciety took occasion to point out the scantiness of the means at M.
Goldschmidt’s disposal in comparison with the grandeur of the re-
sults which he had obtained. Lutetia, for instance, the first of his
acquisitions, has but the lustre of a star of the ninth or tenth magni-
tude, which is to say that its examination requires the closest atten-
tion on the part of astronomers who wish to observe it, even with
the help of the great meridian instruments of Paris and Greenwich.
And yet it was with a telescope, the aperture of which was but
twenty-three lines, that our cotemporary proceeded to the discovery
of this imperceptible object ; a telescope supported on the bars of a
chair and commanding but so limited a space of the heavens as might
be seen from the windows of a garret in the Pays Latin.

The most fortunate competitors of M. Goldschmidt have been
MM. Hind and Luther, who have each discovered ten planets, while
M. de Gasparis has discovered eight, M. Chacornac six, M. Pogson,
four, and M. Ferguson three.* To M. Hencke, as stated before, we
owe two, and it is to him that the honor pertains of having first re-
entered on the path of discovery which had been closed for thirty-
eight years, and of having adopted, before any one else, the charts
of Berlin as the basis of his researches. Within a space of some few
days M. Temple associated his name with two of these minute stars,
and there are seven astronomers who have severally attained a single
success: MM. Graham, Searle, Laurent, Marth, Forster, Tuttle,t
and Schiaparelli. Thus, by adding the four older planets, we have
a total of seventy [three] asteroids actually known.

i

We cannot quit this subject without calling the attention of our
readers to a singular circumstance connected with it, and which has
been repeatedly taken notice of, especially of late, by the commission
of the Academy of Sciences for prizes in astronomy. The distribu-
tion of the discoveries of small planets over the last fourteen years
is strikingly unequal, and this inequality becomes still more remark-
able if we compare months and weeks. Often, after a barren year,
astronomers seem to wake up, and, in a space of some days, perceive
three or four unknown asteroids; then they seem to relapse into slum-
ber, and again, at the end of some months, rouse themselves for a
new outbreak of discoveries. To be convinced of this extraordinary

* Of the National Observatory, Washington.
+ Mr. Tuttle, of Harvard, has discovered another.
204 REMARKS ON THE SMALL PLANETS.

fact it is but necessary to cast an eye on the table of discoveries of
asteroids. We shall there see more than one fortunate night in
which science has been enriched with two of these minute bodies,
and privileged weeks which have given us four of them. The 5th
of October, 1855, for instance, M. Luther discovers Fides, and M,
Goldschmidt, Atalanta. Erato springs into light at Berlin, and Ti-
tania in the United States, the 14th of September, 1860. The nights
of the 9th and 12th had already been signalized by discoveries made
by MM. Goldschmidt and Chacornac. April 26, 1861, Hesperia
and Latona succeed one another at two hours’ interval, and Sep-
tember 19, 1857, with a success unheard of in the annals of astron-
omy, M. Goldschmidt, for his own share, detects, very near one
another, the ¢win planets Pales and Doris. Often the same planet, in
the same night or nights but little remote, has been perceived by two
and sometimes by three astronomers, observing from widely distant
stations. It is inthis way that M. Gasparis might dispute Irene with
M. Hind, and Massilia with M. Chacornac. By a coincidence still
more surprising, the 1st of March, 1854, Amphitrite is simultane-
ously discovered by MM. Marth, Chacornac, and Pogson, while, on
his part, M. Luther discovers Bellona. There will be found in the
table concurrences not less extraordinary in connexion with the
names of Lutetia and Calliope, Themis and Phoccea, Pomona and
Polymnia, Isis and Daphne. 'To what cause are we to attrjbute facts
like these, too numerous to be fortuitous? Thus far, it must be
acknowledged, astronomers have given no satisfactory explanation.
By some it has been asked if we should not recognize herein an indi-
cation of cotemporaneous formations, and of condensation actually
taking place in the cosmic ring which gravitates between Mars and
Jupiter, and if this idea does not find its confirmation in the mysteri-
ous changes of the rings of Saturn, recently signalized by MM.
Bond and Lassell; but this hypothesis appears to us rash, and, on the
whole, unphilosophical.

V4

The observation of the small planets is so difficult, and the discov-
eries are almost all so recent, that the notions which astronomy has
gained with respect to each of these bodies in particular are still very
small, there being several whose elements are determined with so
little certainty and precision that the differences between one table
and another extend, not merely to seconds, but to minutes and some-
times to degrees. We might cite a planet, Daphne, for instance,
whose orbit is so little known, that for four years, notwithstanding as-
siduous research, astronomers have not been able to rediscover it.
Nevertheless, the results obtained up to this time, incomplete as they
are, suffice to enable us to group the asteroids according to the anal-
ogies and differences which they present, to study them collectively
and in their mutual relations. This study is founded, in great part,
on the analysis of the numerical tables which will be found at the end
of the present notice.

Humboldt has classified the planets, after certain natural charac-
